Thank you.
 Hales Fritz. Here. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to the 2 o'clock Wednesday, July 15th Portland City Council session. We have just one item on the agenda. Would you please read it? Item 779, accept the private for hire transportation innovation pilot program status report.
 Thank you. So we always have a lot of people here. I'm just going to go over a few ground rules. We're going to have a short presentation, which will go no longer than 30 minutes, and then we'll go to citizen testimony. We'll see how many people are signed up, but it'll probably be two minutes, so be prepared for that.
 We ask that while your fellow citizens are testifying, if you like something, do the jazz hands or thumbs up, or if you don't like it, thumbs down, or other polite hand gestures, as the mayor says. It's really helpful if you refrain from anything audible, either applause or yelling, cheering, booing, whatever, because we want to make sure that everybody has a turn to be heard and also that everybody feels comfortable speaking their truth.
 So that's pretty much the ground rules of the chamber. And I will turn it over to Commissioner Novick.
 Thank you, Madam President. Before introductory remarks and the presentation of the status report by staff, I need to address a procedural matter. I'd like to make a motion to substitute the report with a revised document that includes corrected trip counts for taxi WAV service. The report erroneously included medical and paratransit contract WAV trips in the last WAV count. The report has been amended at page 20 with just retail taxi WAV trips.
 So this would substitute a sentence in page 20. Do you have copies of the revised report? Because I don't think I have it. It should be on your desk marked sub. Oh, thank you. But the community hasn't seen this yet. Is that correct? Right. So is it posted on the website now? I believe it is. Hang on. Brian, where are you? There he is. There he is. I'm sorry, what was the question? Is the revised report posted on the website? Yes, it was posted yesterday about 2.30.
 And obviously, since this is an interim report, there'll be more time for folks to look at it after the hearing and to give more comments in writing. So let's take a roll call on accepting the substitute for discussion. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Thank you.
 So, colleagues, this status report on the Private for Hire Innovation Pilot Program is an initial snapshot of the market in Portland for the month of May. The report offers some interesting insights into the market as now augmented by some new players and interim new regulations. And looking at this data and as more data is received and analyzed, we'll gain a much better understanding of demand for and quality of private for hire service.
 Just my impression looking at the report is that it seems like the experiment we're running seems to be working pretty well for consumers in terms of citywide service and 24-7 service in terms of wait times, in terms of making progress on delivering service to people who need wheelchair accessible vehicles.
 I want to hear more information about the impact on and welfare of drivers. And one thing that I just want to warn people, I want to have a chance to ask drivers today, and I hope a number of drivers for both taxi cabs and TNCs are here, is what you think about the controversy over whether drivers should be classified as independent contractors or as employees.
 There was a decision recently in California that held that an Uber driver should properly be treated as an employee, which would mean that you get unemployment compensation and are guaranteed at least minimum wage and workers' comp, etc.,
 and I had a conversation the other day with Brad Avakian at the Bureau of Labor Industries, and he said that he'd taken a look at the issue in the context of the California decision, and he said that as far as TNC drivers only are concerned, he didn't expound on taxi drivers. He thought that there's a reasonably strong argument either way,
 And the only way he would resolve that issue is if a case actually came to his office. So, again, that's something I happen to be interested in. I just want to warn people that I'll be asking particularly taxi drivers for their perspective, taxi and T&C drivers for their perspective on that. So without further ado, I'll turn to the report and welcome Director Treat to the stand. Good afternoon. Thank you very much. Again, Leah Treat. I'm the director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Thank you.
 So, as you all know, there are many ways to get around in Portland. We can walk, roll, bike, streetcar, bus, max, tram, motorcycle, personal car, car sharing, car to go, zip car. And we also have private for hire that includes pedicabs, limos, taxis, and TNCs.
 These are a lot of different options for Portlanders and visitors to choose from. And with the exception of the bus and the MAX line, the Bureau of Transportation directly oversees and impacts these modes on a daily basis.
 As you recall, you directed me to promulgate rules to allow for a pilot program for the transportation network companies to operate within the City of Portland. And there was a set of guiding principles that addressed key issues of insurance, background checks, vehicle requirements, and general conduct of the companies and the drivers. Using the task force and the City Council recommendations, staff were able to generate code changes and administrative rules.
 Two TNCs have been issued permits so far, and that's Uber and Lyft, and they've been operational since April 24th. So that's 11 and a half weeks so far for our pilot. I think it's important to say in this hearing that governments everywhere, not just in Portland, are facing challenges responding to new and emerging technologies in general. Portland isn't alone. Other cities have struggled with TNCs, Airbnb, and other disruptive technologies to come.
 I'm excited that we're in this pilot phase because I believe government needs to be more nimble and quicker to respond to market-driven options. But we need code and administrative rules that allow for flexibility, but also maintain necessary safeguards for consumers. Performance-based outcomes and the necessary data to ensure those outcomes, such as equitable transportation services for wheelchair needs, are one way of allowing the government to respond more quickly.
 Staff have prepared a report for you that's mid-pilot, although it's only through May.
 that will give you a status of data we've received so far. It's going to include a summary of the data evaluation, compliance, ADA wheelchair accessibility, and the task force work and subcommittee work so far. With that, I will turn it over to Jody Yates, right? Or to go through the... Well, I got others going to come up as well. Okay. Do you want to have them come up? Yeah. Great. Thank you. Here. I'll move so you guys can...
 Good afternoon, commissioners. It feels like I was just here a few minutes ago. My name is Jody Yates. I'm the interim parking manager for the Bureau of Transportation. As Leah mentioned, we have a report for you, and we'll go through it. A little bit on the data and the data analysis. We collected – sorry –
 We had trip pattern data that we collected from the taxi cabs and the transportation network companies. I'll refer to them as TNCs from here on out. Those are Uber and Lyft. This is a snapshot in time, and it's only for the trips during May of 2015. So, again, just 31 days. Okay.
 Each taxi company has, there were some challenges in the data analysis. Each taxi company has a different dispatch and a different way of collecting their data and has different formats and capabilities. And so we did the best we could with the data provided.
 So, one thing also to note, only the, for the taxicab data, we only analyze the data that was collected through dispatch. So for those instances where the street hails or curb hails, say in a hotel zone, those aren't in the data analysis. A lot of the cab companies don't collect that data for themselves.
 Universally, the taxicab companies don't generally record their destinations. So a lot of their data is origin, we have the origin zip codes but not the destination of those trips. With the TNCs, with the app and the GPS, we clearly have both. We know where they started from and where they ended up.
 As best we could, we did do some extrapolation of the data based on the number of vehicles for the cab companies to get a better idea of overall trip patterns. Before you is a map of the city, and there are approximately 32 zip codes throughout the city. Generally speaking, on the locations of where trips originated, we did taxi cab and TNC maps.
 the top 10. Generally, Buckman and Pearl, Old Town, are high on the list, and the downtowns. Third for the cabs was originating from outside the city. You can see on the TNCs, that was 10th on the list. But generally speaking, the neighborhoods are very similar.
 The percentage of rides by originating zip code, closer to the core of the city, more trips, and as you go farther away from the city or downtown core, less percentage of rides. No surprise that kind of equates to the density of the population. Peak request time for the taxi cabs.
 Generally, it was late night and late evening. For TNCs, it was overwhelmingly late evening. The late evening hours would be 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Frequency of ride by day of week peaks on Friday and Saturday for both company formats. Just looking by the dates, you can see a very cyclical nature, and those peaks are the weekends.
 Frequency of trips by time of day, also very consistent for both company formats. I would say the cabs are a little bit more level in their
 frequency for morning and evening or overnight hours especially. Do we know that the TNCs are available during the night? They did report data that they had trips occurring at all hours. Right, but I'm wondering if the difference in whether people use a taxi during the day versus a taxi during the night could be due to the fact that maybe there aren't as many
 TNCs available during the night? Do we have any information about that? We didn't collect data that was associated with how many vehicles were on the platform at the time. It was just how many trips were taken. Did we get that?
 I'll refer to Ken. I mean, we can always ask and try to make that part of the data sharing agreement, Commissioner. I think that's important information. We know how many taxi cabs there are, so it would be nice to know how many TNC cars there are at any hour of the day or night. But I will confirm for you that there was service performed during all hours of all days. And I would just caveat, some of these things, as with the taxi companies, they may not have that information readily available, but we'll certainly ask.
 Other questions or I'll continue? Okay. What we did on this one was breaking out the orange line shows Sunday through Wednesday service and the blue line is Thursday through Saturday service. Again peaks for both company formats for the weekend service and that also by time of day. So definitely more rides are taken on the weekend or entertainment times.
 Not a big surprise for us. That would be like the 8 p.m. through 2 a.m. hours on the weekends.
 Average wait times by zip code for the taxi cabs generally closer to the core, five to ten minutes. As you get a little bit further out, the wait time extended. Generally speaking, for the TNCs, it was consistent. The five to ten minutes farther out was in the 11 to 15-minute range. And does that include pre-ordering of taxis? How does that factor into whether there's a wait time or not? Yes.
 It was a little bit more difficult to analyze for those pre-scheduled ones. Again, this was for the dispatch for immediate pickup, so we actually excluded that from the data analysis because many of the cab companies didn't record it or provide it to us.
 For the next report, it would seem helpful to compare apples and not apples. So if there's any way to get that data as to how many pre-ordered caps there are, because presumably on those the wait time is zero. Presumably. That would be helpful. Thank you. You've taken those. Thank you. Average wait times by zip code?
 Generally speaking, very consistent for most of the zip codes until you get to, as you go to the right, many of those zip codes are the farther out, farther from the city core. More consistent for the TNC, a little bit longer for taxi cab companies. Okay.
 The percentage of total trips by wait time, again, very consistent, but between both company formats. The anomaly to the right is that just under 8% of the cab rides are waiting 20 minutes or more, and I think Ray Miles is going to speak to that.
 Wait time by the time of day for both company formats. For the TNCs, it's averaging around six minutes. For the cabs, it's averaging around 10 minutes, just slightly under 10 minutes.
 Once we go into looking at the demand, so the number of service calls that they're getting, taxi cabs respond with shorter wait times, especially in the, I'll call them the entertainment hours, the 8 p.m. to, say, 2 a.m. hours. As the demand goes up, the wait time goes down. Consistent, also consistent with the TNCs, although their wait time had less variability in it.
 And then trip durations are almost mirror images for each other for both company formats. And then looking at the average ride duration, taxi cab riders fare better in that their durations tend to be a little bit less than the TNCs. Could be that those TNC drivers may not be as familiar road users. And then we'll go into compliance and Michael will take over. Thank you. I'm Michael Jacobs with the Bureau of Transportation.
 With the pilot program, staff, this is all new to staff, new to TNCs, new to all of us. On the staff side, we had to set up a new set of compliance protocols so that we could both concentrate on education and compliance. There are a number of ways that we provide compliance. The first one is that we require the TNC companies to certify their drivers and their vehicles for
 before they're allowed to be onboarded into the platform. The second method we use is for random certification audits. We can either do targeted audits where we're looking at specific information or we can do general certification audits. We're doing regular field compliance actions where we actually, our staff goes out and takes rides in both taxis and in TNCs, and they're looking at both driver requirements and vehicle requirements here.
 With the driver requirements, they're looking for a valid driver's license, identification on the app if it's a TNC driver or the permit if it's a taxi driver, looking for a business license if it's required by the driver. We're also looking at vehicle requirements, vehicle registration requirements,
 insurance requirements, looking a lot at the vehicle condition. Is the vehicle clean? Is it safe? Does it have a hands-free device? Does it have a first aid kit? Does it have a fire extinguisher? And we have developed forms that we take out to complete the audit so that staff can check things off as they're going through the list. And finally we can do complaint investigations. We've always accepted complaints from consumers and others. We continue to do that.
 And we encourage folks to file complaints with the city if there are issues. As I said at the beginning, the objective of the new protocols is both for education and for ensuring compliance. We regularly meet with both TNCs as we walk through this process. It is a lot of learning to do on both sides. Thank you.
 If there are violations found, consequences of violating the rules or regulations can range anywhere from warnings to civil penalties that escalate with the recurring offenses or ultimately could end up with permit suspension or revocation. I want to talk a little bit more about complaints. In May of this year, we received 13 complaints.
 Four of those complaints were against taxis and nine of them were against TNCs. That compares to 90 complaints that we received in all of 2014. So, you know, if you look at 90 in one year, it's about seven and a half complaints a month. So we saw an uptick in complaints which we anticipated.
 Again, I'd like to just emphasize that if there are problems, people can file complaints. They can do it through email at pdxrides at portlandoregon.gov or by calling our program administrator. They can go online. We have a complaint form that they can use to file a complaint. Or, of course, they can always give us a complaint through mail or by fax. Thanks.
 And at this time, I turn it over to Nicole to talk about accessibility issues. I apologize, I moved because I need to see the slides to prompt me. So we have many forms of accessible transportation in Portland. There are people that own their own vehicle, but note that those vehicles cost starting at $60,000.
 We have TriMet, which has very accessible public transportation, fixed route. They also have Paratransit, which is a curb-to-curb service for people with disabilities. But only a small section of the disability community are eligible for Paratransit services. We have Medicaid-funded services, and again, and these are non-medical Medicaid services.
 but only people who receive Medicaid and only a group within that Medicaid population are eligible for those services. There is medical transport and there are facilities which have shuttles and things like that that transport and then we have private for hire transportation the TNCs and the taxis. So I'm so bummed Commissioner Fish isn't here because I had this big like
 under the ADA that Commissioner Fish's dad made happen. Um, but he's not here, so. But the Americans with Disabilities Act happened in 1990, and under it, we basically created a civil rights law that said people with disabilities are eligible to receive and participate in events and services, not just government, all services and events that are open to the general public.
 So what that means for the private-for-hire industry is that, one, the fares that they charge for people with disabilities has to be equal to the fare that able-bodied people are charged. And the reason this comes up is because
 Like I mentioned, the vehicles are much more expensive, the time it takes to transport someone in a wheelchair is longer, and so it becomes a burden for the provider. But they can't put that cost back on the people with disabilities. And I should note that Portland was one of the first cities to adopt wheelchair accessible requirements for their taxi companies.
 All right, so our wave regulations to date. When all of this was happening in the 90s, we regulated that the fleets needed to be 20%.
 20% of the fleet needed to be wheelchair accessible vehicles. In 2003, they realized not all the companies were meeting that requirement, and the cab companies came together and created the Portland Accessible Cab Association, or PACA.
 Under PACA, they decided they would pool their resources. So the companies would only be responsible for having 10% of their fleet being accessible, and they would kind of piggyback on each other, taking responsibility, I believe, once a month or in a cycle of who would be the dominated one, and then they would kind of piggyback on each other to make up that 20% requirement and try to provide the service.
 In about 2012, they realized that it wasn't working very well, and they made a recommendation to end the PACA and try to find another solution, which of course has led to this, which... And then also right now, we know that 15% of all of Portland's permitted taxis are wheelchair accessible vehicles. Okay, so what's... So what are we dealing with right now?
 We know that the providers have an extra cost when they're providing wheelchair accessible transportation. The vehicle costs more, the gas costs more because these vehicles don't have a great gas to street mileage. It takes more time, so each ride takes a little bit more time and so that costs more.
 We are working, PBOT's going to get an exact number, but right now we're estimating that a wave ride for a person in a wheelchair costs the company $30 to $40 more than a non-wave ride. And they have to absorb that additional cost because, as I said, we can't ask the person with the disability to pay for it. The company absorbs it.
 So over the years, the cab companies have tried to mitigate this high cost by contracting out. So they have contracts with the school districts, with Medicaid, with medical transport, with the paratransit and TriMet. And this has been a way for them to kind of have those vehicles not be sitting around having them in use. Right.
 What happens then is they're not vehicles available for, you know, the person that's flying into Portland for vacation and they use a wheelchair and they want to get from the airport to wherever they're staying and the like. So this is why we're moving towards this idea of performance standards, the idea that.
 Yes, you can dictate a number of fleet, but that doesn't mean it regulates how that fleet is being used or that the community is being served and so performance standards really focuses on What are the outcomes we want to see and what is that kind of customer service level that feels fair? So our wave trips in May. I
 The taxis estimated about 640 for immediate pickup wave trips. 13% of them were canceled and of the wave trips reported, 44% had a 30-minute average wait time. For the TNCs, there were just over 200 wave rides. The average wait time for the vehicle was about 10 minutes.
 And we anticipate this number will increase as the TNCs are new, people don't know about them, and actually one of the TNCs isn't quite providing service 24 hours a day. Wave service. Wave service. Which one? Ken? What's that? Am I allowed to say which one? Lyft has been warned that their wave service is unacceptable.
 And actually correct me if I'm wrong, it's my understanding that Uber, although doing better, does not yet have 24-7 service in weekday mornings. They don't have wave service available for 10 in the morning? I mean, I'll ask them when they come out. And I should note that both of them have worked with city staff pretty extensively to create more wave service in getting their contracts further solidified so that there are more wave vehicles available for request. Okay.
 And I do want to say I've been on a couple of the compliance runs. And I've had my job for nine years now. So over those nine years, I've definitely gotten my fair share of complaints from community members about the taxi service. I myself have experienced issues with it. And I will say that, you know, over the last month, I've tried to use it more and be more engaged in it. And the wait time has definitely gotten better.
 Nicole, has the wait time gotten better for taxi service or for a combination of taxi and TNC? Again, you know, I've done a handful of rides, and I would say the majority of taxi rides were better. I did have one ride that there was kind of a mix-up, but I did see an increase with both companies of wait times. Do we want to have a summary on this?
 Is that the end of the panel? Unless you would like to, we can give you a brief summary of what's happening with the Private Fire Task Force. So during the month of end of May and through June, we had some subcommittees established. One focused on operations. One was market and program considerations and the accessibility subcommittee. Each of those committees met three times.
 And there were invited representatives on all of those committees from the cab industry. And I'll speak more to the accessibility. We had ride connection, TriMet. We had some other providers for these kind of services so we could get more of an idea of demand as well as cost and those sort of ideas.
 key themes were established and we're starting to focus in then, or the task force with staff representatives are starting to focus in on what the recommendations coming forward in August will be. Thank you. Thank you. Now we do have invited testimony from the Portland Commission on Disability, the Transportation Fairness Alliance and Transportation Network Company. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Could the invited panelists please come forward? Yeah, we should have. Joe Vanderbier and LaVon Hester.
 Who would like to start? I can. She's going to check with us. All right. Now we're on. I'm Joe Vander Veer and I'm the chair emeritus of the Commission on Disability and I've been on the Task Force Accessibility Subcommittee. I stepped in at that point when that subcommittee started and I've been on that through this process and I've been on that
 attended the task force meeting yesterday, so I haven't been involved in the whole process, but I've been involved up that far like Nicole I've also been involved in doing some of the The compliance checks and I've done the ride with uber twice and with two cab companies twice and I would echo what Nicole said that from my experience I kind of before this pilot project and this whole issue I
 erupted and started being addressed, I had pretty much given up on taking cabs because they were just too hard to get and it was just too much of a hassle. And so I was skeptical when I went into this. And I'll tell you, I would agree with Nicole that the service has gotten remarkably better. It takes, I think my wait times were 35 minutes and 20 minutes and then 20 minutes for a cab.
 And for Uber, it was about 15 to different areas of the city. And so that's substantially better than what it was when I used it years ago. So that's good. Now, why is that? I think it's probably attributable to three factors, one being the change in policy that was made for this pilot project
 which was to allow those vehicles that the parts of the fleet that Nicole mentioned that are used for Medicaid rides, to allow those, the extra capacity to be used for regular rides. So that freed up a lot, added a lot of capacity to the system. The second one would be simply adding more players. The TNCs do a good job.
 They don't work all hours, they don't run all hours, they have limited vehicles, but the service is good. And so that adds to the capacity. And so that really, those two things together, improved the situation quite a bit. The third thing I would say is that everyone is on their best behavior right now. And so everyone's trying to get their numbers and so
 That needs to continue and I hope it doesn't slack off when this is over, once the new regulations are in place. So there needs to be very good enforcement of whatever we put forward. MS. Thank you. LaVon? MS. Hello. Thank you for having me. I'm LaVon Heaster, the chair of the Portland Commission on Disability.
 We are really hoping to continue to be engaged as this moves forward. Having Joe serve on the accessibility subcommittee and then having Sue Stahl earlier serve on the task force has helped us to know more about what's going on.
 Because we were concerned at PCOD about the taxi situation long ago, but quite honestly, we had given up also. We heard about people who couldn't get rides with their service animals. We heard about people who had to split up because they both used wheelchairs. We knew these things, but it was one of those things where it wasn't even worth fighting for it.
 And so we're so excited that this is going on right now because we think this is an opportunity for Portland to be one of the leaders in how do we do this right, how do we make sure that people with disabilities have equity in transportation, the Pryp for Higher Transportation.
 What we would like to ask is to continue to keep us engaged, continue to make sure that there's a PCOD member involved as you move forward. And also to have people come and bring reports to us so that we're not working in reaction to and even before reports are put together to ask us what kind of data is needed. Because oftentimes...
 Data when it comes to the disability community is not the data that's needed when there, if there happens to be data collected. Nine out of ten times there's no data collected. But when there is data collected, often times it's not the data that's most of value. And so come to us beforehand so we're not working in reaction to when money has already been spent on services.
 So, thank you very much and we're really excited that Portland is moving in this direction. Thank you. Two more? I think three more. I think we should probably hear next from Ray Miles with the Transportation Fairness Alliance. Good afternoon. I'm Ray Miles with the Transportation Fairness Alliance and we appreciate the data analysis that was done by PBOT. We do have a few comments and a few areas we think you should be aware of when it comes to that data.
 I think they're passing around our handout in case I leave something out. One of our biggest concerns is that the data collection doesn't accurately capture what the TNC's unfulfilled trips really are. That's because when you use the app, if there isn't a vehicle available, it frequently will not even accept your attempt to reserve or your attempt to book a ride.
 So with the cab industry, once you get a hold of us, we have to accept every trip request within the city of Portland. So if we don't have a vehicle in the area, we have to deadhead a vehicle to the area to pick someone up. Whereas with the TNCs, if they never even capture that somebody wanted a wave vehicle at that particular time of day in that neighborhood, so it is kind of comparing apples to oranges, and we think over and over again that affects our data compared to their data, particularly when it comes to things like wait times.
 We did note in the report that taxis have a higher percentage of unfulfilled trips, and we believe that this is largely due to the fact that taxis aren't allowed to require a credit card in advance to book a trip. So we have a large number of no-shows where, you know, we get to the Lloyd Center, we get to whatever the –
 pickup location is and there Get and we aren't able to locate the passenger whereas if you've given a credit card to book that trip You're more likely to be there. They have recourse if the passenger isn't there rate forgive me for not remembering this But what's the code provision that prohibits you from requiring a credit card in advance? We have to accept all methods of payment. We have to accept cash credit and
 It is possible that's one of the areas that's not entirely clear during the pilot program. And in an abundance of caution, cab companies continue to abide by what has historically been their requirement. And that is one of the things that was put in place to ensure everybody in Portland has access to transportation. The report also doesn't touch on or contemplate the effect that surge pricing has on TNC demand and wait times.
 When a TNC implements surge pricing, this helps their response times by decreasing demand because some of the population simply drops out because they're not able to afford the surge pricing. But it also enables them to, on the fly, increase the number of drivers that are on the road. Ray, under the pilot, you could also engage in surge pricing now if you chose to, right? We could. We have the challenge of meters in our vehicles, and we had to make the choice whether or not we were going to attempt to reprogram all of our meters, which is –
 more challenging, but there is an option there. So we feel like that improvement to response time does come at a steep price to consumers in Portland. One of the other findings in the report was that there was limited data was provided by the taxicab industry regarding wave trips, so comparisons between the two could not
 was not wise at this time. We sort of disagree with that conclusion in that the three largest companies all provided WAVE data and those three companies represent 82% of the taxi market. And while we don't have exact data, we believe those three companies also probably represent 98 or 99% of the WAVE service that occurs in the City of Portland. So one of the objectives of the pilot period was to compare taxi and TNC performance serving people with disabilities
 We believe there was adequate data to at least attempt to address this, and we believe it would have largely taken the wind out of this notion that it takes hours and hours to get an accessible vehicle in Portland. It simply isn't true. There are the occasional problems. There are anomalies just like there are with all types of transportation. But for the most part, we believe the vast majority of service occurs remotely.
 within, you know, about two, it takes about twice as long on average to get an accessible vehicle in Portland. Finally, when you look at figure D1, we actually, that shows what the, sort of the, how long it takes on average to get a trip. And we believe this really shows the similarities between our two business models and Portland.
 And the fact that response times actually, once you get everything between about one minute and 14 minutes, they're very, very similar. Where the tax industry really starts looking different is when you get to longer wait times. And once again, we believe that's because we have to take a request for service, even though we don't have a vehicle in the area. And typically, these are the hard-to-cover trips, and they're the ones that are deep out at 160th and Division or something. Okay.
 So, decades ago the City of Portland decided that cherry picking of fares, meaning only taking the ones that are easy to serve, was not in the best interest of Portland's citizens and should not be allowed.
 But this distinction shows up over and over again in the data prepared by the city. And we think in order for parity to be achieved between the TNCs and taxis, you either have to leave the taxi industry of the requirement to accept every trip request, or you have to require the TNCs to take reservation requests even though they have no vehicles available.
 Um, PVOT staff has been really good to work with throughout this, and we hope to work with them even more on the next compilation of data. We think eliminating time calls is really harmful to the taxicab industry's data, in part because I think our response times are better on those, but even worse, um,
 It disproportionately eliminates WAVE requests because more people who use accessible vehicles or require an accessible vehicle want to schedule their trip in advance, which is something they simply cannot do right now with the TNCs. Thank you very much. I appreciate the testimony. Madam President, can I ask a couple of quick questions? Could we have maybe the invited panelists come back at the end of the community testimony? Sure. If you're able to wait. Thank you.
 We have representatives from Uber and Lyft, I believe, in the audience. If you could come forward. Brooks Deeger and Annabelle Chang.
 Hello, commissioners. Thank you so much for having us here today. First, I just wanted to say thank you to all of the hard work that has gone in so far with staff within PBOT and your own staff. I know that this has added an extra burden onto them, and so I appreciate all of the thoughtfulness and hard work that has gone into opening up Portland to transportation network companies, working with us, and making sure that this pilot program is as successful as it possibly can be.
 We were pleased by the report that came out, I think showing the fact that our wait times are very much acceptable, showing that we're also offering service to the entirety of Portland in a very acceptable and reliable way.
 something that we're really proud of and told you that would happen before we launched, but we're really happy that the data is able to show that. One thing I do want to clarify is that you actually can request a vehicle within the application even if there are no vehicles available and that is logged and that is a requirement that we pass that data to the City of Portland and that has been shared with the City of Portland. So if
 Any request that comes in that we cannot fulfill is requested. That is why the data coming in shows there is a 100% fulfillment rate of every trip. So that also includes some cancellations, but it will also include someone requesting and there not being a vehicle in the area available.
 Furthermore, we're pleased by the wheelchair accessible data, but we still believe that there's a long way to go, and so I don't think that that data indicates that we are done or finished with improving the service. Commissioner Novick, to answer your question, it is correct that we do not have 24-7, seven days a week service. Currently we are relying on a third party provider that we contract with.
 We do not have, there's not as much availability with wheelchair accessible vehicles as you might find with UberX, where we are partnering with personal vehicles.
 We are very excited that we are almost there with P2P wheelchair accessibility. We have partnered with a local provider to do an additional level of inspection as well as a local provider to provide additional training to offer P2P wheelchair accessible trips on our system in order to supplement the supply. It has been an extraordinarily complicated path that we have gone over over the last
 two months exploring this issue, but we hope to have that our first driver on the system next week and I believe that that will continue to grow. But I think that the work that the commission on the subcommittee on accessibility is doing is phenomenal. Some of the pathways that they're going down we're in very large support of and there does need to be some form of subsidy we believe on these trips because they are fundamentally more expensive to provide.
 Furthermore, outside of the data, we're extremely excited about what has happened over the last two months that we've been in Portland. Not only have we provided hundreds of thousands of trips, partnered with hundreds of drivers,
 and provided them with a level of opportunity. And I will note that the average driver is taking home over three times what the last Portland report indicated that for hire drivers were making in the city. So we're very pleased with that, offering that level of flexibility. We continue to see hundreds of drivers each week interested in partnering with Uber
 And we've worked very hard to ensure that every vehicle is on the road. We've done our best to ensure that they are compliant. In addition to that, we have launched three additional products on our system. Uber XL, which offers larger trip, larger vehicles for larger parties to promote sharing of that vehicle and less vehicle usage. We've also launched Uber Pedal, which allows bikers to request a vehicle and put their bike safely on a bike rack located on the car. And we've launched Uber Assist.
 Uber Assist is simply an UberX vehicle, but with a driver that has additional training, sensitivity training and help with placing a folding wheelchair in the car, sensitivity and informational training over identifying someone who may be vision impaired, someone with a walker. And we've seen huge success, even though that just launched last week. The demand for that is actually over 20 times what we see for wheelchair accessible vehicles.
 So we find that there's unmet demand in that demographic as well, and so we're very excited to have served that. We currently have four full-time employees in Portland in a permanent office space, and we will be hiring five more hopefully within the next month. So we're just very excited to be here, be in Portland, and I believe that some of our...
 promotions and partnerships that we've invested in since we've been here really speak to our commitment to the community. We launched a neighborhood love campaign last month where we. I'm going to cut you off there because I'm focusing on the report. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 It's good to be back. Thank you again. We also wanted to appreciate Thank P bot and your staff and working with us. It's been a really smooth process in our view It's been very successful As you know that the permitting process that was designed allowed us to quickly move forward and begin connecting rides all over the city so that is something that we really want to commend and
 On top of that, we've been working very hard with PBOT to comply with our auditing and reporting requirements. So that's been going very smoothly on our end. One of the things I did want to comment is about community involvement from our end. We were really excited to be part of the Rose Festival. We are going to be working on the – And I'm going to ask you to stick to the report. Yes, absolutely. No worries.
 So one of the things I do want to comment is the idea about all city coverage, right? The data report indicates that there is all city coverage, and that's hugely successful for us. For anyone wanting to get a ride, especially late at night, you want options. And this now shows that people are using these options and want these options. So that's something that we definitely want to note.
 I did also want to note a couple of logistical issues that were not specific to the data report, but are specific to the pilot that we're seeing play out. And I've addressed that into a letter to city council beforehand. One was the issue of the master mechanics, the master ASC mechanics. The second was the wave issue. And the third would be daily reporting issues.
 And why do I want to raise this? So a master mechanic is very, very highly skilled mechanic and there's only about three about 100 or so that we know are possibly available in the Portland metro region. The city has a list of about 50. These are the only mechanics available as master mechanics who do TNC inspections.
 Now that's a problem because that means that there's a limited supply, limited availability to get vehicles inspected to get onto the road, etc. All of your vehicles have been inspected, right? Yes, absolutely. But what I'm saying is that the expectation is there will be a growth, right, of more people participating with a limited number of mechanics and poses a very significant operational hurdle.
 So our strong suggestion is that the ability of vehicle inspections be expanded to ASC-certified mechanics, not just master mechanics. I don't believe we're about to make any changes in the pilot program at this point, so that would be appropriate to ask at the end. I would like to know, though, in response to my previous question, can Uber and Lyft,
 tell us how many drivers are available at all hours of the day and night? Do you have the capacity within your system to know how many drivers have their apps switched on? Yes, we would. I'd like you to report that, please.
 Because I'm wondering why there's disparate use of taxis during the wee hours of the morning versus Uber drivers. Yeah, and I would also just note... Or Lyft drivers. So one of the questions is how do we compare apples to apples and not apples to oranges, right? With this data report, it is a little bit complicated, meaning, for example, out of taxis, the information about street hails and the information about people picking up a taxi from a hotel, for example, is not accounted into, as well as they've mentioned the issue of someone...
 arranging a ride in advance. Those are things that we do not have access to, for example, meaning we do not do street hails, we do not have curb space allotted at hotels, and therefore that information is not going to be true. That would not be apples to apples, right? So I just want to make that abundantly clear that that is true.
 distinguishable. But we are working our very best to make sure that everyone that makes requests a ride can get a ride in a timely, safe, and convenient way. So moving on to wave access, you know, as has been noted before, TNCs don't have a fleet, right? And so in order for us to work during this pilot, we've had to partner with providers, wave access providers. There's a limited number in the Portland area.
 And many of them are already contracted out to do medical transport, et cetera. So what that means is we have to come up with solutions creatively. So we are in the process of moving in that direction. We've, since day one, been partnered up with Ride Connection, one of the top providers of these rides in the Portland area. We've inked another partnership with Pato Shores Transport, and it's live today. So these are all moves that we're making. This is...
 And I'm just going to flag, this is the first time in Portland's history where you can get a wave access ride at the top of a button on demand. So in our view, this is absolutely 100%, you know, raising tides like floats all boats, right? And that is unquestionably what's happening. And that's a huge success for the community. So I do want to comment on that.
 But it is still a logistical hurdle, right? The way it's being conducted right now, we're not really sure if that's sustainable for the long term. So we want to flag that as something that we need to look at very carefully for this to be a long-term sustainable solution for the community.
 Thank you. We may have some more questions for you later also. On the reporting of drivers, on the number of drivers on the road, the PBOT did provide in the report a completed to request number and ratio. And so because we are supplying
 our trip data and the number of completed requests. I don't believe that you require to get a number of account of the number of drivers actually on the platform. But you can look at... Now that I've seen the data, that's what I'm asking for for the second part of the pilot.
 Otherwise, why would there be such a difference between the taxi versus your service during the day versus during the wee hours in the morning? I can speak to that a little bit, but if you see the completed request ratio, for example, at 5 a.m.,
 as exorbitantly higher than it would be at, say, 2 p.m., then you would know that there may be a lower amount of vehicles available on the platform in relation to the amount of demand there. So the data that is currently being transmitted, you could actually back into not the exact number of drivers, but if that demand is being met. Well, that's my concern. It looks like there's not very many of your kinds of drivers available during the warehouse in the morning. I will say that...
 The completed to request ratio for the TNCs combined was 5% overall, and that would include those hours.
 Furthermore, we will see when we originally enter a market, as trends show, you will see the most demand on a Friday and Saturday night. And you will see over time a kind of movement towards those weekdays and weektimes. The purpose of the taxi regulations was to ensure that there was 24-7 coverage that people could get. So anyway, we may ask you to come back later. Thank you. We're going to get to citizen testimony now. Thank you. Thank you.
 How many do we have signed up, Carla? We have 70 people signed up. Seventy people signed up. So we're going to go with two minutes. And I think we're willing to stay till five, so we may be able to get everybody done. So what I'm going to ask is you'll hear a beep when there's 30 seconds to go, if you could make sure at that point that you said your most important thing. And then when you hear the series of four beeps, just finish your sentence and try not to make it a three-minute sentence. That would be very helpful. Thank you.
 We'll go with three people. First three, Darren Campbell, Raymond Roach, and Stephen Lovejoy. And they'll be followed by Nona Carrosco, Jonathan William Orr, and C.G. George. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioner Fritz, members of the council. My name is Darren Campbell. I am the taxi driver representative elected to the Private Highway Transportation Board when it was meeting, of course. I'm also a lobbyist for Radio Cab.
 I want to start out, first of all, at the beginning of the pilot project, Commissioner Novick issued permits of some sort to allow the TNCs to operate under the conditions that they would fall in line with the requirements
 the rules set forth by the project. I've given a packet of screenshots of the uber format showing that the wave
 availability is simply not there. I think it's something that both Uber and Lyft and you yourself, Commissioner Novick, have spoken to today. However, you know, we've had multiple people watching that, taking screenshots.
 We've seen approximately a 90% noncompliance rate for Uber, and I would say I had never once seen, up until yesterday, a wave vehicle available on the Lyft platform.
 To me, it's just absolutely unacceptable. Now, the couple hours a day that Uber did operate, I'm not quite sure how they would get to 200 trips. I'll move on since I'm running out of time.
 There's more noncompliance than that. Uber has been using a garage to do inspections that for all research that we've done, we can't find anything in regards to being a Blue Seal certified shop. Green Drop Garage is the company.
 Also, they're required under the pilot program to have a local phone number for complaints and lost and found. Neither Lyft or Uber have either done that. Thank you for your testimony. We are going to be taking written comments, too, so please send in the rest of your comments in writing. I can certainly do that. Thank you. Who's next? Want to go right there?
 My name is Steven Lovejoy. Thank you for having me here today. I just got back into town an hour, so I didn't write anything, but I just wanted to come and speak. Approximately 1230 on this last Saturday, I was pulled up to the intersection of 10th and Burnside. In front of me was a gypsy cab. Across the street was a gypsy cab. On the right-hand side was a Lyft driver. On the left-hand side were two Uber drivers. We were outnumbered four or five to one, and that's kind of how this has gone now with no cabs and zero enforcement.
 Since this pilot program started, the streets have been flooded with these drivers, but there's been nobody checking on it. It's killing our business. It's killing our morale. It's bad for our health. It's just not acceptable. I would assume that when the dispensary starts selling marijuana rec relationally that there's going to be enforcement on that. I can't understand why we would turn all of these new drivers onto the street and have zero enforcement.
 Never seen an enforcer at all and I work five now I work six sometimes seven days a week because this has cut our income thirty to fifty percent I would like to also point out that our fine mayor nine days after we started this project was at the
 the tech fest hand in hand with Uber claiming how great this was and touting Airbnb as a success in Portland. When I sat here at that vote and heard all of you talk how we didn't want another Airbnb with their, what is it, 94% noncompliant rate. So I found the hypocrisy in it with the mayor standing up there arm in arm with Uber.
 touting the Airbnb experiment when nine days before that it had all been discussed here that that wasn't a successful I found that a bit disturbing. I suggest that you know, maybe The mayor or mr. Novick I certainly will give you my phone number if you want to ride along with me at night and see how bad this is devastated our in our industry as well as how There needs to be enforcement on this. You're more than welcome to I
 Thank you. Mr. Eldridge, I have a question for you and actually for any driver who comes up, if you've got an opinion, I appreciate your answering this question if you have time, which is do you think that all drivers for TNCs or taxis would be better off if they were treated as employees and therefore entitled to minimum wage and to unemployment compensation, workers comp and those kind of things? Or do you think people would think they're better off as independent contractors, whatever the circumstance? I think that depends on the person, sir. Personally for me, no.
 I would prefer to be an independent contractor. Good afternoon, my name is Raymond Roche. Thank you for having me. I just want to say that I've been driving for about four years now. It's going on four years. I've owned part of a day cab or the day half of a cab for about a year as of yesterday.
 And my income has dropped. I started out working seven days a week for a little over a year, but then I was able to cut back to five days. And since Uber and Lyft have come to town, my income has dropped 30% to 40%, and I have had to increase my days of working to seven days again.
 There is no enforcement. There has been no enforcement that I have seen. These guys are running amok, going the wrong way down one-way streets. They can't find their way out of a wet paper bag, half of them. I don't know what state they're coming from, but they're just not following the rules. They're parking in taxi zones. They think they're entitled to whatever we're entitled to.
 And we do it for a living. It seems like a lot of these people are doing it as a novelty. I've seen a gentleman out at the airport. He's driving a late model Mercedes, which he paid twice what my yearly income is. And that's before taxes or anything else. Expenses are taken out. So the enforcement is just nil. It's about as much enforcement as your serial jaywalkers running around town.
 And I think a good idea that he just brought up is somebody needs to go on a ride-along, and that way you'll get a pretty good idea of what we go through on a daily basis. Thank you for your time. Thank you. The next three are Nona Carrasco, Jonathan William Orr, and C.G. George, and they will be followed by Chris Holmquist, Ben Schroeder, and Kelly Coates. Go ahead and get started, please. Hi, I'm Nona Carrasco. It was close.
 I work for Radio Cab. You guys know me. I just wanted to try to make this as much out as I could. I drive a wheelchair accessible van four nights a week, sometimes five or six nights a week. As Stephen was stating, I too, I'm out, you know, four to six nights a week and I'm seeing people
 TNC is everywhere. I'm also seeing a lot of these Uber and Lyft drivers with California plates, Washington plates. I live in Portland. I've lived in Portland since 1997. Every cab driver I...
 Every cab driver I know lives in Portland. We're local people in the local community. The reason why I'm having to work instead of four nights a week, five or six nights a week, is because I, too, have been hit really, really hard with the call volume going down, and we have actually more cabs on our fleet. So...
 This is just, it's really, really, really frustrating. Four nights a week is 48 hours. I drive the night half of a cab. Those are 12-hour shifts. Five nights a week is 60 hours. Six nights a week, that's 72 hours, and I'm still not making what I was last year. I had more, but...
 You've got another 20 seconds. Oh, I just was hearing the beep. I'm sorry. So these are some of the things that I've been seeing that is really frustrating as well. I'm seeing you can buy Uber and Lyft decals off of Amazon. You can also, they're being told that they don't actually have to be using their decals by the companies, even though that was part of the agreement. Right.
 I'm seeing the fake taxi top light, which I wrote to you, Steve, Mr. Novick, about the incident where I was threatened by a man named Cundin, who had the fake top light and the Uber incident.
 He had 50 he has like $50,000 in unpaid penalties to the city his license his permit was revoked He was fired from Broadway, and he actually made it onto the uber Platform because uber does their own Background checks if he would have gone through the city to see what a city would have seen that they revoke this man's Permit, and he wouldn't have made it on there. Thank you. I
 My name is Jonathan Orr, radio cab driver. Thanks for letting me come up and talk. So I think as we've been hearing from a lot of cab drivers and as the data shows, there's plenty of vehicles on the streets now to meet demand and there's also some issues with background checks and people slipping through the cracks that maybe shouldn't be on these new platforms.
 At the very least, I think it should be considered possibly the city resuming control of the background checks and the permitting process. Now that there's more than enough drivers available to meet demand, sure, there could be more growth, but if you look at other cities, both cabs and T&C drivers hurt when these companies oversaturate the markets. They hurt their own drivers. They have their own drivers go on strike because they
 When the drivers can barely make enough money, they have to do hourly guarantees just to make a small wage, and they still give referral bonuses. They're trying to flood the market as much as possible. In a flooded market, it's artificial. So when a company is operating a huge loss and still giving bonuses to oversaturate a market, that's great for response times, but...
 I mean, this is, they're taking a loss to hurt our industry and hurt the full-time working people that do this. I think 30% to 50% reduction, net probably 40% to 50% reduction is what I've seen per day that I work average. I just got the paperwork rolling to cash out my 401K for my previous job. Not every cab driver is so lucky to have that to fall back on.
 so that I can make it through these tough times and have a little bit set aside, you know, just to live off of my reduced income and then to look for other employment if in the future I need to, because this continues. Mr. Novick, you had some questions. Do you invite any driver to answer? I was just curious as to whether you think that all drivers of all kinds would be better off if you were treated as employees and therefore entitled to minimum wage, unemployment compensation, workers' compensation.
 Well, if the market gets much more saturated, that would look like an improvement, so possibly. However, I think, you know, I've been reading some articles about that, about the legal proceedings in California. And so I think it depends on how the state defines independent contractors versus employees. And it depends on how the company operates and the degree of freedom which their drivers have. Right. I mean, that's –
 I'm just asking for your opinion. Would you think privates would be better off? Again, I mean, I think that before Portland, yourself and the mayor and Mr. Saltzman voted to allow the TNCs to run rampant and flood our market, I think I was very happy as an independent contractor. I had a great degree of freedom for time off and other things.
 So I like that a lot compared to a traditional employee-employer relationship. But, again, if the money gets much less, then I'm just a wage slave trying to put food on my table. I mean, if I can't make a living at it, I'm going to have to go back to an employee-employer job doing something else. Thank you. The next three are Chris Holmquist, Ben Schroeder, and Kelly Coates.
 and they'll be followed by David Holmquist, Ashton Root, and Dennis Lavin. Chris Holmquist. Okay. I need to say that I'm a local Portland Uber driver, born and raised here. Give us your name for the record, please. I'm Chris Holmquist. I was born and raised here, and honestly...
 This whole situation can be explained very simply. Special interest in competition. The cab drivers are furious with Uber and Lyft because we're the competition. Plain and simple. And, oh, it's very true. Competition sucks. And what I'm hearing is the cab industry pays their cab drivers poorly. That's what I'm hearing. Folks, just let the person testify, please. Remember that. This way or this way. Thank you.
 So I just want to say that instead of maybe as well as hearing from the drivers, maybe you can hear from the public that takes the rides with these companies. Just as a suggestion, I mean, we're all hearing from all sides. Yeah, that's great, but what about the riders themselves? We have 70 people signed up, so perhaps we'll hear from some. Okay, I'm just saying that. Even it out. And, yeah, I'm just asking that you listen to them and move beyond the special interests of the cab companies that are –
 on these various governmental boards. And I just ask that we move past that. So heed our concerns as well as the cab companies and just listen to the public more. I mean, the public, the riders that have ridden with me, have told me that they have had to wait a long time for cab rides as well. There may be a bad driver with Uber, yes. There may be a bad driver with Lyft. Same could be said with the cab companies. It depends on the person.
 I don't zero out one company because of one bad driver. There could be bad drivers everywhere, honestly, with all companies. Just don't pinhole everybody, you know? That's what I'm saying. That's pretty much all I had in mind at the moment. Thank you. Hello, my name is Ben Schroeder. I've been a cab driver in this city for about 11 years with Radio Cab. And I have noticed a negative impact on my income. But I take solace in the fact that
 that more and more people are signing up for Uber and Lyft because with every one that does, the sooner we'll all find out that it's a scam and these drivers do not actually make any money. Everything you read about it says that the most satisfied drivers for Uber and Lyft...
 have only been doing it for less than two months. And that's about as long as it takes for them to realize that things are getting hard to make ends meet with the money that they're actually bringing in with the business. Because things like, among other things, car maintenance come into play. You gotta replace tires. I'm not talking about car washes. Taxicabs. You're interrupting. Sorry. With, I'm not talking about car washes and gas. What I'm talking about is tires.
 What I'm talking about is replacing your brakes. What I'm talking about is replacing your oil. And these are things that will actually get into your income because Uber and Lyft are taking too big of a cut to be considered anything other than a scam.
 They're taking 20% right from you. And you don't get to play with that money to put it back into the car. Whereas with a cab company, we are all pooling it together, and the cars are all maintained. If you still want to make money as a driver, you should, all of you Uber drivers and Lyft drivers, should join a cab company. Because you'll actually have a car that's well-maintained and properly insured and...
 It will always be there for you. And I can assure you, you will make more money doing that than you would with Uber and Lyft. It's a decades-old process and system that does work. And we need to actually take a view at this. Two months into this, these guys don't know what's up. I'm 11 years into it. You can trust me on this. Thank you. My name is Kelly Coates. I've been an Uber driver for just under two months.
 And I just checked and I've had 131 rides. I currently work for a nonprofit and tutor on the side. And then when tutoring goes away with the summertime, I picked up the Uber rides as a means to supplement my income.
 and have done so well for what I need. And the thing I most appreciate about being an Uber driver is the fact that it's flexible to my schedule. So I can determine when I log onto the partner's app, I can determine when I don't. And so if I get a call from a friend and wanna go grab dinner, I'm not beholden to anybody else
 to do so. I also appreciate the support that I've gotten from Uber. I'm surprised to hear that there's, I mean, I shouldn't be surprised, but that there's people not in compliance. I know that I'm getting at least two to three time a week emails from the Uber folks with reminders about the requirements, the things that they're doing to make it so that I can meet those requirements easily, whether it's picking up a fire extinguisher or a hands-free device to make sure that I'm in compliance.
 I have never seen, well, I wouldn't know, but the rides without the Uber decal, I mean, they make it very simple to be able to follow the requirements that are necessary. Commissioner Novick, in regard to your question, I quite honestly just don't have an opinion. I don't, or I'm not educated enough to make an opinion, to have a decision one way or the other. So that's all.
 Was it hard for you to get your car with a mechanical check? Not at all. The Green Drop Garage was extremely accessible, was easy to drop in, took me about a half an hour, and actually have gone back there since to get other work done when my AC went out during the heat wave. And how about the background check? No, no issues. I was getting the reports as they came in to let me know that I was passing all of the requirements. Thank you. Thank you. That's very helpful.
 Next three, please. Next three are David Holmquist, Ashton Root, and Dennis Lavin, and they'll be followed by Rick Bowler, Dan Mark, and Casey Moffitt-Cheney. Hi there. My name is Ashton Root, and I drive for both Uber and Lyft, and I have had nothing but absolutely positive experiences for myself, and my riders seem to be enjoying themselves as well. Out of five stars, because...
 You can rate your driver. I have maintained 4.84 stars as of today. Personally, I care for aging parents. I make my own hours. I can work when and where I want, and I urge that the independent contractor status remain. I could speak all day about the value of the TNCs for removing drunk drivers from behind the wheel. I give a lot of beer-cation rides to people who have a car, but they say, hey, Uber's here. It's very handy.
 We're out to drink tonight, so I appreciate Uber. One specific ride that I found very interesting, and I think it's something that's been overlooked, I gave a ride to a woman from an event management company. She was meeting a group of potential companies here to see if they would want to do their conventions here in Portland. And she said, hands down, unless Uber and Lyft were in a town, we don't go there.
 So I believe having Uber and Lyft in town is going to be getting more convention-type business here. And I heard it right from the horse's mouth. She's with an invention management company, and she talked about to the American Society of Executive Management. I wrote that down. Where they also speak about doing their conventions where there's Uber and Lyft available. Thank you. Thank you.
 I am David Holmquist, a resident of Vancouver, and I'm retired and I'm age 70. I drive for Uber in Vancouver and Portland to supplement my Social Security income and to remain independent. In my first two months of ride-sharing, I have earned $4,873 and average $23 per hour I work in earnings, not fares, but earnings. I average 5.7 hours of work per day in these days of work.
 My totals of income have been growing higher over the weeks to last week at $885 in actual income, and my goal is $1,000 per week. So that's why I work with Uber. I am independent. I work only when I want to, and I stop when I am hungry or tired or another reason. I'm going to Seaside for a couple of days this weekend. Pretty cool job.
 State Farm is my personal auto insurance carrier, and at no cost to me, Uber provides very good insurance when I go Ubering. A million dollars on me and my passengers, plus comprehensive and collision on my car when I'm Ubering. I have the details on a sheet that I could give each of you, so my car and I are fully covered, and so are my passengers all the time.
 About half my riders are from out of town. Business travelers are shocked to hear that we might not have Uber here the next time they come. They use it nearly everywhere in the world they go, except where Uber drivers and politicians are threatened with violence by taxi drivers, in Madrid and in Paris, as clear examples. My business travelers value Uber servers so highly, they use it several times a day while they're here.
 Portland has a high-tech image, and Uber is an essential part of that hip identity among tech-savvy visitors and residents. They expect to find Uber and Lyft operating. According to my 450 riders, Uber exceeds taxis. I believe that it's needed in our economy. Do you want these insurance figures? That would be great. You can give it to the council clerk. Thank you very much.
 As some of you may have come in late, we have 70 people. We cannot take time for applause. So if you like something, you can do the thumbs up or the hand waving, but no noise, please. Please go ahead. Hi, my name is Dennis Gavin. I have been an Uber driver for over two months now. I can only speak to my experiences. These guys are very eloquent in how they phrase things.
 My experience is that I am in between jobs. It's an opportunity for me to earn an income. I don't have to, I can actually work for the time and I have the ability to go to interviews as needed. So it's an opportunity for me to bridge that gap.
 As I've done Uber over the last couple months, I've realized it's an excellent source of income that I plan on continuing even once I do find full-time employment. It's an opportunity to earn a little extra money to pay for vacations or whatever comes up in the future. The experiences my riders have had have been nothing but pleasant. They've said a lot of great things about Uber. I've had the opportunity to have a lot of conversations with people all over the world, Ireland, Sweden, Germany, Israel.
 Just the opportunity that these people are coming to Portland, they want to know more about it. And I've been in Portland eight years, and so I've been able to explain some good things around here to do. And I think we're allowing for other businesses to hear and know what's available for them. And so I think we're given an opportunity, and I believe the taxis are doing the same thing, but we're giving them an opportunity to experience Portland from a different perspective,
 And so it's a great opportunity for me. I think the people I've met who have been driving for Uber have had great experiences as well. And going back to one of the previous people earlier, Kelly, had said Uber is very good about telling us what we need to do, having the decal here, having the fire extinguisher, having the first aid kit.
 Having everything that's necessary to follow compliance. And I have never seen anybody out of compliance. I have my decal up all the time when I'm driving. It's a very simple format, and they're very good about communicating with us. Thank you. Commissioner Novick, I would prefer to be classed as an independent contractor. I don't believe by IRS regulations, which I've read, we are in any way employees of Uber. Thank you.
 The next three are Dan Mark, I'm sorry, Rick Bowler, Dan Mark, and Casey Moffat Chaney, and they'll be followed by Mary Lynn Clint, Mason Loica, and Wind Dwyer. Please start. My name is Casey Moffat Chaney. I've been a Lyft driver and an Uber driver for the past little over a month, and I am a retired teacher full-time 10 years and a retired minister full-time 22 years.
 And I am experienced with having my program cut. Otherwise, I would have been a full-time teacher for 30 years. That was not fun, and I understand that, and I really do feel for the taxi drivers that are experiencing this. I can only speak from my own experience. Some of the people who just spoke said it all for me, and I'm going to keep it real simple. And that is that we decided to take this on, both my spouse and I are drivers, and we decided each of us would take it on because...
 We have a business at home that is not full time. It is, we're in a major slump right now and we needed money. We were unable to pay our home taxes and several other utilities. So we took this on. It took us about a week and a half, two weeks for all of the requirements to be met. And we started driving. We take 50% of it and put it away for taxes. We take 50% of our salaries or amounts we make driving.
 And we put it away for taxes, we put it away for repairs, and we've still been able to maintain our, we paid our taxes, we paid all of our utilities, and it's working for us. The experience that we've had has been terrific. We're some of the wee hour drivers. Okay, both of us like to drive at night, so it's kind of fun. And we found that people in general love this ride share system. The drivers, the riders that we have love it.
 They can't say enough about it. I don't hear anything from them saying, oh, we've had bad experiences. It's just been great, and we've had great experiences with them as well. I feel also that we've taken a lot of people who were inebriated home, and they have basically said, if it wasn't for you, I would be driving. And I was a little surprised at that, but they said it takes so long to get a taxi that it's not worth it. So that's it. Thank you. My name is Dan Marcione.
 company called Mark Car Service. I've been in the taxi business for 15 years in this town. I saw the Uber train coming in 2011 and I got my own town car permit in 2014 and started on my own. My income hasn't gone down, it's gone up. I am an Uber driver on the side. I use that to fill in on when I'm between reservations. I'm waiting for black car to start for phase two of this to go.
 You know, we hear about how bad people Uber is, and I want to tell you, on Christmas and New Year's fell on Thursday, which is payday. They pay us on Thursdays. I got an email from Uber that they were going to pay us a day early so that the holidays wouldn't impact us. Uber hired me to drive David Plouffe around when they had their launch and when they did the tech fest with the mayor at OMSI. It was a handshake agreement. We agreed on a price. When it was over, I sent him a bill.
 they paid me exactly as agreed no questions ass behind the scenes I've had no problems customers that I get I've run 270 rides I would say there is a good percentage of the people that I take that are not taxi customers that haven't been right customers just their new and they do over and left majority of the customers and I get great do rail on the cab company and that's to be expected you know I
 I have a fire extinguisher, two first aid kits, and $2 million worth of insurance. And your question, Mr. Novick, when I started in the cab business in 2000, after 90 days of work, you had to sign up with the Teamsters Union?
 After 90 days, they took our state and federal taxes out every day. They took money out of our pay every day for a Christmas fund. We were employees. We had workman's comp, unemployment, and we also had personal injury protection in case we were in an accident. They broke the unions at one time. They fired everybody and then rehired them back and made them subcontractors. With Uber, if I don't show up for work for three, four days,
 When I show up for work, I show up for work. I am an independent contractor. If I worked at one of the cab companies and I didn't show up for work for three, four days, there would be a problem. Thank you. Just like they treat an employee. Thank you very much. You're on that too. The next three are Mary Lynn Clint, Mason Loca, and Wendy Dwyer, and they'll be followed by John Hopkins, Justin Byington, and Sean A. Carroll. I'm Marilyn Clint from the Portland Rose Festival. Hello.
 This year, Lyft became our first official rideshare partner.
 They helped us overcome a perception or misperception that it's difficult to get to our downtown Rose Festival events. They became our partner with a brand new event that we wanted to create at the waterfront on Starlight Parade Saturday, the Starlight After Party. Not only did they help us promote it, but they helped dispel the perception that there would be no access to it.
 We were also very happy to partner with the Bureau of Transportation this year on the pilot project for Better NATO, turning a lane of NATO Parkway into better access for people who choose to ride bicycles or be pedestrians.
 The fact is, our customers are changing, and the way they want to interact with the world is changing as well. And there are consumers out there who want to connect with one another and with the world through their handheld devices, like is offered by the TNCs.
 are happy to work with the TNCs. We're happy to work with the cab companies. We're happy to work with the great transportation system we have in Portland that help people get to the Rose Festival and other great events in Portland. Thank you for the work that you've done on this pilot project, and we look forward to going forward with working with the TNCs. Thank you. Hello. My name is Mason Loica, and I am an Uber driver.
 I moved here from the East Coast, Philadelphia area to be specific, where I was a freelance photojournalist for a respected weekly newspaper. In addition, I made a living by driving because there just wasn't that much money to be made writing for a newspaper. I've also written a book. It's published. So when I take people on an Uber drive, they're going to ride with an author.
 I learned in driving a limousine that you leave plenty of following room for the car in front of you. People don't want a white knuckle ride. They don't want someone to step on it and get me there. We're not a cab, and I've done cab work. I worked in LA, so I know what these cab drivers are going through. But I can also tell you this.
 Yes, Uber is a ride-sharing service. It's what happens when technology finally, at last, meets car services and becomes ride-sharing. But more than that, it's becoming a phenomenon. We have young people taking this for the first time. They're celebrating, this is my first time doing an Uber ride or a second ride because the first one, we're really meeting interesting people.
 We get a cross-section of what I think are really good people who are willing to put their card information out there. Uber communicates very nicely and not over the top. My wife had a stroke in March. I look after her. It's important for me to be able to name my own hours, and Uber has never, never, ever tried to stretch me in any way. I'm glad to be an Uber driver.
 Hi, my name is Wendy Dyer and I'm a driver and the owner of a 2015 Ford Transit Connect wheelchair vehicle at Green Cab as well as a 2014 Prius V wagon. Your lovely court reporter is handing out some data for you. I've heard a lot about data here. I don't believe all I've heard. What I'm giving you is my hard numbers for the last month and a half and as you're looking over that,
 I'd like to do some math for you and let you know that
 My top earning driver made $3200 before expenses in the last month and a half. Not bad, but he works 60, 80 hours a week helping wheelchair clients get from point A to point B. It's hard work. It comes in around 8 to 10 an hour. My second driver who works 4 to 5 days a week has made $2400 in the last month and a half. My third driver made $1900.
 My night driver made $1,800 in the last month and a half, and I personally have only made $1,200. I'm disabled. I just work on Friday and Saturday nights.
 When you see that 1200, you think, that might not be so bad, she only works two days a week. What you don't know about that is that my car payments are $800, and that Prius V and that wheelchair is going to be off the road if I can't make them. I've cashed out my insurance deductibles of $2,000 in order to float my drivers with Free Kitty, so they can continue to serve the disadvantaged people of Portland.
 I am fortunate to have a boyfriend who makes a grand total of $1,200 to $1,400 a month working at New Seasons. God bless New Seasons for giving me good health insurance. Otherwise, I'd be back in the hospital and those cars wouldn't be working on the streets. When I first came and spoke to you all, I mentioned that I sponsor now formerly homeless individuals into our industry so they can get back up on their feet and have housing. I joked to you that I may myself return to homelessness if this
 pilot period went through. I think that's a bit more of a reality than it is just me playing with words. It's really bad out there for us, and I'm hoping that you will take the trials and tribulations your full-time taxi drivers are experiencing to heart when you consider continuing an uncapped pilot project such as this.
 They have enforced cabs elsewhere. They are effective. You can do it to Uber as well. And everybody can have their piece of the pie that supports them and their families, both TNCs and taxis alike. Actually, I would like to answer Mr. Novick's questions with regards to independent contractor and employee status. I just sent all of you an email at the beginning of the City Council meeting with a link to an article
 where the authors are discussing a unique idea that I think would help Portland balance that concern about independent contractor versus employee status, and it's one where drivers make a sub-minimum wage through their company, and if they make more than that in their rides...
 they are compensated based on their rides as opposed to their wage. That money is then taxed. Social Security comes out of it. Drivers are then entitled to workers' compensation and unemployment claims should their company go bankrupt, as mine may certainly do. And if any drivers are terminated from Uber, which we know Uber does,
 they would also be eligible for unemployment compensation to support their families. So I encourage you to look for flexible options rather than trying to squeeze square pegs into round holes with just the two options of independent contractor and employee. Thank you very much. The next three are John Hopkins, Justin Byington, and Sean A. Carroll.
 and they'll be followed by CG George, Dan Payton, and Jan Arthur Weston. Go ahead, please. Hi, I'm Justin Byington. I've been a radio cab driver for the past year, and one thing that I really like about this job is that I do get to meet all the people in the community, and it's a great job, and I can understand why Uber and Lyft drivers would also really enjoy this job, but there's a really big difference between a radio cab and big corporations like Uber and Lyft.
 I'm valued as an asset to RadioCab. They value me as an asset because that's the type of company they are and also because all the people who I work with have been drivers of RadioCab before or are friends and family of RadioCab drivers.
 Whereas a company like Uber, they publicly stated that their biggest budget, their financial burden is their drivers. They actually want to replace those drivers with automated cars. They're a partner with Google to do this. So what happens in a few years when automated cars become a reality? All the Uber and Lyft drivers get laid off. Is that what Uber and Lyft drivers think of as a company that is caring about them? I know you guys love your jobs.
 But what happens when they disappear in that way? I'm John Hopkins. I drive a radio cab at night a wheelchair van and you have to excuse me I just ran from upstairs and I'm a little out of breath I'm concerned My money is down about a little less than a thousand dollars for the month of June I was out of work the previous two months due to an accident What I'm very concerned about mostly
 is in this process. We have, we're not really talking about the demand realities of transportation. And a lot of people like to talk about what their jobs are, and I can't blame anybody for wanting to keep making a living in this town. But the truth is, there's never been enough cabs on New Year's Eve. There's way, way too many on New Year's Day. We're right into the summer months, and very, very, demand in summer goes down.
 Largely because we don't have enough rain to make people want to jump into a rolling umbrella. You couple that with 2,000 extra vehicles to service the city and at some point nobody's going to make a living. I don't know if my observations are correct, but from the April 20th meeting, it seems like we've got all new Uber and Lyft drivers here to testify. I'm wondering if some of them haven't already dropped out because the money isn't as good as it seems. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Sean Carroll. I started driving with Lyft shortly after it became available here. I hope I speak for all Lyft drivers, but I definitely speak for myself. I have nothing against any cab drivers. I was only just recently even made aware just from reading the Internet and stuff about the whole thing about the cab drivers suffering, the cab industry suffering because of the Lyft and Uber coming to town.
 So I obviously wish no ill will towards any cab driver, you know. But that being said, I lost my job due to an accident right before Lyft did come to town. And so when I found out about it, I applied and got my car checked out and did all the necessary things. I, Commissioner Novick, would prefer to be an independent contractor.
 And it just helped me out. Like, you know, I lost my job unexpectedly, and without Lyft being there, I would have been in a really bad position financially. Since then, I have found other employment positions,
 And I still do Lyft, you know, on a part-time basis because it provides me some extra money where I can, you know, actually for once in my life have a savings account, you know, actually have some money put to the side in case something goes wrong. I'm actually going to start college, you know, in the fall, which wouldn't be an option otherwise. And I just think it's a really good service. And I really think in a free market economy...
 all options should be available and the community will sort it out. The public, if we don't work for them, they'll shun us, you know. So I think there's room for everybody. Just have to work out the guidelines. Thank you. Before I move on, was there a Rick Bowler? Missed the name. Okay, so the next three will be C.G. George. Could I say one more thing?
 Actually, no, we need to get to the next set of folks. Thank you very much. I just wanted to say I'd be happy to be an employee only under the circumstances where, if I had to be. Thank you. If I'm going to be rated by my customers, then I would want to be considered a. C.G. George, Dan Payton, and Jan Arthur Weston are the next three, and they'll be followed by Roy Pascarella, Patty McHawing, and Ronald Wamala. Please. Yes.
 Hello. My name is C.G. George, and I'm a newcomer to the taxi industry. I'm one of the lucky few that have had an outstanding corporate career, and now I'm bridging that to my retirement and playing the traveling gypsy and getting to experience the cabbing industry, which I have to say has been a fantastic experience thus far.
 and I currently work for a Russian-based company, great but small, very committed to customer service and serving the public. What I've witnessed in these past 10 months with my peers is a cut in their salary by two-thirds or more, frustrated, angry, helpless, and dismissed out of hand professional cab drivers who've been committed to their careers for years.
 I think you would be angry also if there was a wand that just whacked your salaries back to two-thirds or three-fourths just in the trial period. And that's how it was presented to them, just for the trial. Both taxi drivers and the companies they work with operate by the city rules, paid by the city rules, tested by the city rules.
 Criminal background checks by the city rules and the cars they drive are maintained to city standards and rules. My query is this. Why isn't the mayor and his entourage and the task force supporting the cab companies more, visibly and verbally? Why aren't you out there seeing what's going on in your streets?
 the sting operations with cameras and videos. You have opened up a floodgate of minions. That is correct. It's more than one. This one gentleman tried to contradict me at the last meeting and say, no, there's only one, maybe two. But there's hundreds because they're running amok from here to Spokane, scooping money out of our city, and from the committed, hardworking people, professional taxi cab drivers.
 in your own backyard. All I've seen or heard is lip service and no support or backbone to the taxi industry, which is an integral part of Portland, unlike any other state. Ms. George, if you would give us the rest of your testimony in writing, that would be very helpful. Thank you. Thank you. All right. I guess I'm next. My name is Dan Payton. I'm both a driver and a passenger for Lyft.
 Just a little history real quick. I used to drive a truck years ago. I wound up doing some military contracting. A few things changed for me. I'm pretty new to this whole accessibility issue. But trying to get around and get to various places, go throughout my day has been kind of a challenge.
 I'm happy to see now more options available, more competitions better for passengers. I don't dread wanting to go somewhere now. Before, it's like, oh, how am I going to get there? It's like I could drive, but I really don't want to. It's just a lot better now with more options available. And as far as being a driver...
 I have to really control my environment. I can't work eight-hour shifts or ten-hour shifts. I can't commit to certain days a week. Things have to be pretty fluid with my ability to work and everything. So this job is great. You can sign in whenever you want, work as much or as little as you want, take breaks whenever you can, which is where also the piece of being a contractor is a really big deal. I don't think the model would work for me if I had to be an employee. I wouldn't be able to meet the hours and everything.
 all the other demands that come along with that. So personally, I'd rather take care of everything on my own and just be an independent contractor. Social aspect for me is great as a driver as well. I get to meet and talk to people I normally wouldn't see. I don't know, it's really a nice thing to have more options available and meet and talk to a lot more people that I don't normally get to.
 And I actually used the wave service to get here today. I was happy to see now it's operating during the weekdays. So hopefully everyone's just patient as things kind of get going here and we can get things smoothed out and basically just keep a focus on the important part, and that's the passengers and the community. I'm Dan Weston, and I'm really pleased that my commissioners are taking the time to view this issue.
 It can only, no matter how it comes out, it can only benefit the people of Portland. So what attracted me was work anytime. And for a semi-retired guy, that had a lot of appeal. I have several other jobs, pay $10 to $15 an hour. It's hard to find good-paying jobs.
 With Lyft and Uber, I make right around $35 an hour. Time well spent. I have to plan my time. I don't work that 10 to 4 in the morning. I want to keep my household intact. So I try to be home by 9 or 10 o'clock. To address Commissioner Novak's issue, I'm only going to be a part-timer because as a part-timer, I can spend time volunteering in the community.
 One of the things that I volunteer at is Meals on Wheels for Lyft. They have introduced me to them. So that's another one of my volunteer things. My biggest concern is that I recognize that there's something going on here that is not working well for the cab drivers. And I've looked at it in other cities also. And so if somehow, some way,
 Portland could find a way to make it a little more level playing field for the cab drivers, even though if we had to give up something. Giving up a little to keep them on and keep them employed, that would really be an accomplishment. So I hope it works that way. Thank you. The next three are Roy Pascarella, Patty McCowan, and Ronald Wamala.
 And they'll be followed by Kasem Sorrell, Juan Regino, and Scott V. Janey. Hi, my name is Roy Pascarella, and I am very happy to be a Lyft driver. It's really improved the quality of life for both my wife and I. Her work has her in California, so we support two households. And this past year has been a little tough, and we were talking about we might have to move out of Portland. Lyft came about recently.
 It was a godsend. I mean, it really was. I've never made less than $25 an hour. I've been doing it for a month, 310 rides or something, 4.95 out of 5 stars. It's just really enjoyable. It's also improved the quality of my life in terms of giving me the social interaction that I'm looking for when my wife isn't here, and also because she can only come here for weekends.
 Being an independent contractor and not an employee gives me the opportunity to take a week or two off to go down there and spend it with her to maintain our relationship. Thank you. Hi, my name is Patty McCowan and thank you for having us here today. My background is this. I came to Lyft from a little bit different perspective than a lot of other people.
 A year ago today, in fact, my dog died and I was very heartbroken. And after about a week, my oldest son who drives for Lyft full time in San Francisco called and said, you know, the rest of us are worried about you. You can't stay home crying all the time. You're an independent contractor. I am a freelancer. And you're isolated. Why don't you try Lyft? You would have fun with it. So after having the car detailed three times to get rid of the dog hair, I said, well,
 I did that and it was true. I didn't cry anymore. I was very happy with the people that I was showing around San Francisco where I lived at the time.
 And then I decided I wanted to leave the Bay Area, and I did my research and looked to see where is Lyft, because it's really good for me personally, and it's fun. And the money's great, but that wasn't my initial primary reason. It was something very good to supplement my income, but I came at it from a different point of view. So I moved to Seattle because Lyft wasn't in Portland. Okay.
 And I was only there a couple months, and a couple things happened. One, I got a phone call from a very close friend back in the Bay Area. She had just been diagnosed with stage 3 cancer, and she wanted to know if I might be able to come help with her little kids while she was going through chemo. I said, no, no, no, let me think. So I called Lyft, and I said, okay, I don't live there anymore. I'm up in Seattle. They said, yeah, you can drive in the Bay Area again. We'll make sure that everything's up to date and current. So I was able to go down there, take care of a good friend,
 for a while while she got her chemotherapy. Came home, and now I'm in Portland because my daughter needed surgery, and I was able to come down here and get licensed and inspected to meet all the Portland requirements again, which Lyft helped me do, and so I'm able to be here. And it's so important. Other people have talked about volunteer work and taking care of loved ones,
 That's a huge benefit. And if I were asked to become an employee, I don't think I would do that. The independence is terribly important. So, thank you. Ronald Wamala Thank you. Ronald Wamala Yeah, my name is Ronald Wamala, and I've been for Green Cup for the last eight years. And now I'm currently driving for Uber. The main difference between both sides is this. When I am sick, I'm not able to go to work.
 I don't have to pay something called the kitty since I'm driving for Uber. But when I was driving for Green Cup, whenever I was sick or whenever I took vacation, I had to pay something called the kitty and that was just very very unfair system. I have an example which happened last year in May 24th. I was T-boned by an inexperienced driver and then I
 For three and a half months, I was unable to work. I was going through physical therapy, going through massage and all the treatment. And yet the company that I was working for, Green Cab, was billing me $520 every week.
 or three and a half months. So when I was able to come back to work, I found about $5,000 that the owner of the company was asking me to pay. And I felt that that was very unfair. I felt that...
 The cab industry, the way it's structured in the city, it's based on fraud and exploitation and abuse. And that is why I welcome Uber. I welcome Lyft because they provide me with relief. It provides me with time with my family. I'm able to work only like eight or ten hours a week and I'm able to provide for my family adequately. And I take a day or two days off.
 and that is why I welcome Uber with two hands. Thank you. So we're going to take three more, and then we're going to take a five-minute stretch break and then come back and keep going. Okay, the next three are Kasem Sarel, Juan Regino, and Scott V. Janey. And after the break, it'll be Michael Speed, Edson Buchanan, and Mukhtar Abdaal.
 Hi, my name is Juan Regino. I moved to Portland back in 1990, about 25 years, and I moved exactly to the land of opportunity. And this is what we're up against right now. This is an opportunity for me to make money for my family. I was recently let go from my job as a junior engineer for plastic injection molding, and I'm raising four daughters
 And this gives me the opportunity to make money. I represent Uber and Lyft. And, you know, it's been great. I mean, I meet people that, you know, great people every day. I take them to places where I haven't been. Although I live in Portland for 25 years, I just, you know, recently went into the city. I see a lot of drivers every day.
 And, you know, to me it's a way to keep my family, you know, supported with money, you know, to make an extra income. I've never, I work seven days a week before at my company, and my daughter always asks me to take a day off. And with this, I can just turn off the app and, you know, enjoy time with my family. My car is brand new, 2015 Ford Fusion.
 Don't need no tires, you know, I got warranty for 100,000 miles on that. The main things I do myself, you know, and Uber, when I apply to Uber, you know, they send me to a place to get it checked and everything. It's a brand new car. I get that a lot in my rides. I get, you know, I got 9.5 stars on Lyft and 4.85 on Uber and, you know, I try to provide the best service that I can, you know, and I
 Overall, I love this job. Like I said, this is a land of opportunity, and that's where I want to take it. I want to make money for me and my family. Sir?
 Hello, my name is Scott Jean and I've been a resident here since 1989. Until 2008, I'd been a very experienced business person and entrepreneur, general contracting, real estate, distributorships with real leased out brick and mortar locations, various other business enterprises. When the economic collapse hit in 2008, our family lost everything.
 It was a sweeping wave of disappointment and acknowledgement for us that regardless of what our personal planning had done in our lives, technology happens, changes around the world happen, and you adapt and you move on and you get better at things or you don't, you die.
 So after crying in our beer for maybe a couple months, we both went back to school and did some things. Now I have a degree in alternative energy engineering. I also have a degree in advanced mathematics, and I'm a teacher at a local high school for advanced mathematics. That's a lot of student loans.
 And I have found after much investigation, because I was very, I'm cynical a bit and I was very skeptical about whether or not all this would work. I had some run-ins with Groupon before that I didn't quite like. But I went ahead and joined on with Uber. And what I can say right now is that I don't work for Uber. I work for myself.
 I press a little button when I want to take a ride, and I press the button off and I don't want to give rides to anybody. And real quick, just a little vignette, on the Starlight Parade, my family wanted to come down and sit on the corner with a bunch of other people and watch the Starlight Parade, which is an all-day affair. And you know, I had been to millions, well not millions, but plenty of Starlight Parades. I didn't really want to do that.
 So I dropped them off at the corner. I pressed the button on. I made $200 bringing other people to the Starlight Parade for the rest of the night. And then I turned the button off, and I took my family home. And you just can't turn this kind of thing off. I love it. And I would absolutely only want to be an independent contractor. Same here. Same here. We're not doing any of those. Thank you. So we're just going to take a real quick stretch break, and we'll be right back. Thank you.
 Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the July 15th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll?
 Saltzman here Novick here Fritz fish your hails here morning everyone welcome Council has a variety of things on our agenda this morning I'll talk about some procedural stuff and then some uh some other notes uh first we have some folks signed up for public testimony citizens can sign up for three minutes on the council calendar and for communication so we'll hear from them first
 If you want the opportunity to do that in the future, please let our clerk know. Secondly, we have some time-certain items on the calendar and a consent calendar. If there's an item on the consent calendar that you think should be considered in the regular agenda, again, just let the clerk know. The council meetings are open for public testimony. Obviously, we typically limit testimony to three minutes on items before the council, and it looks like from the number of people here today that that ought to be practical and that we don't have to reduce that.
 We ask that people follow the basic rules of decorum in the chamber, and that is we let our fellow citizens speak and aren't heckled. So if you agree with someone and want to indicate that, you're certainly welcome to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. And if you disagree with them, you're also free to make a polite hand gesture, but we like to make sure that everyone can be heard here and that all points of view are given their due consideration.
 Secondly, if you have anything to give to the council, just give it to the clerk and she'll distribute it. If you're a lobbyist, you're required under our code to disclose that, so please do. And if you're representing an organization, it would be nice to know who you're representing.
 Couple of particulars one we have item 776 on the council calendar which is the proposed purchase of a piece of surplus property owned by the Oregon Department of Transportation It's my intention to ask the City Council Or the Portland Development Commission to purchase all of the available property that the Oregon Department of Transportation is putting up for sale including this parcel as well as several others the
 The deliberation today is about whether or not we should buy the land. It is not about whether or not we should issue a permit for the location of Right to Dream 2 or any other particular land use on that site. So please understand, today's discussion is about should the City Council of Portland buy this piece of surplus property from ODOT.
 It does not preordain any particular land use, and I'll take testimony only on the purchase because we will, if we move ahead with locating Right to Dream 2 or any other facility there, have a public hearing at that time on that decision. On Item 763, we'll get to the procedures on that because that's a land use decision, and the Council will have to make certain disclosures then.
 Anything I've forgotten with that then let's please take communications item 757 Request of Patrick's the Cheney to address council regarding public safety and its partnership in the community. Good morning Welcome. Thank you So again, my name is Patrick Chikini. I am the director of security and safety for the Hilton Portland and executive tower I'm here today on behalf of the downtown Public Safety Advisory Committee as well as the hospitality industry
 I'm here to ask the council support for programs that are promoting public safety and a sense of tourism surety within our community. The term tourism surety is defined as when tourism security, safety, economics, and reputation merge. With my time this morning, I'd like to quickly highlight three areas that I feel can greatly benefit tourism surety within our community. The first two have to concern the Portland Police Bureau's Mounted Patrol and their walking beat.
 These programs are allowing the officers with the City of Portland to have a more unique and intimate interaction with the community and tourists who are visiting the downtown core. The walking beat has been seen as an opportunity for the Police Bureau to help mend relations with the homeless community. The mounted patrol continues to provide a unique experience for the tourists visiting the Portland metro area while still providing for their safety and security.
 The next item is community action programs. For those of us that work in the public safety field, we recognize the fact to address the community's greater issues versus simply employing incarceration. A recent topic from the advisory committee was converting Multnomah County's Wapato facility as a treatment center for people suffering from homelessness, mental illness, or substance abuse. Often the question that gets asked is what to do that hasn't already been done before.
 This is a great opportunity for the city to provide resources for those members of our community who are at risk and truly want and need services that turn their life around. I ask the council to support this initiative in the efforts to promote public safety to all who live, work and visit our city.
 In closing, it was estimated that in 2014, travelers spent approximately $4.6 billion in the Portland metro area, which generated over $1.8 billion in revenue, which also generated a combined $200 million in local and state tax dollars.
 Research has shown tourists are paying more attention to their safety when visiting communities. Research also shows when tourists feel safe, they are more inclined to spend money and more likely to return to specific locations, which is a benefit to the local communities and its economy as a whole. I'd like to thank the council for their time today. Thank you very much. Appreciate your involvement in cleaning the safe as well. So thank you. Thank you.
 Okay item 758 please request of Reverend Margaret Hephzibahn to address counsel regarding truth and justice Good morning Reverend Margaret Hephzibahn, I'm a little more than a simple or a Standard understanding of what a reverend is or a minister. I'm an apostle to the nation So I am an ambassador
 speaking the prophetic voice of God to whatever he speaks to, basically. And I happened to, how I happened here, I actually had requested an appointment with you, Mr. Mayor Hale, or one of the council members, and was told that this was the venue that was kind of, so I kind of went this route. But I happened to read an article of yours recently,
 about your perspective next term and what your vision is for Portland and the things that you would like to accomplish. And God spoke. And so that is on this. Yes, we have that. The 9613 about that. So try to be succinct here in three minutes, and this is why I wanted an appointment. Okay.
 But very much in agreeance with you and your endeavors in terms of police reform,
 I have been through a lot of police brutality. I've had a son that was killed, I believe is an extrajudicial killing, a killing without going through any procedures with permission from the courts, et cetera. I've had another son that has been derided by other authorities. So three minutes, I'm going to try to read this. And I just want to say that...
 I am here as a help, I'm not trying to divide or cause problems. The voice of God is something that we can't avoid anymore. I think we all are aware that spiritual things are
 actually confronting us in our daily lives, whether by just spiritual energy, worrying about vision, heart attacks, etc. Also, public health, delivery systems, you know, Christian rights. You know, if you go to the hospital, will you make it out of there alive if you're a Christian? You know, African-Americans, the racism problem. Right.
 Very, very bad. I've had Ku Klux Klan come out of the woodwork since I tried to get permission for a civil rights march here. I have the other pastors, mostly African American, not in agreeance with me, not wanting to recognize the authority that the Lord God has given me.
 Part of the word here this morning is saying that our God. So, again, no division. So I'm trying to encourage them not to be divisive as well. So if I might. Actually, I appreciate you speaking from the heart. I wouldn't bother to read this. We've got your real estate. You have this. Okay. So I appreciate you speaking from the heart.
 the racism, reform, not just in you began with the police reform, which is excellent, and I wish some of the other cities would follow suit. I live in Lake Oswego. I graduated from Warner Pacific. I've lived at Mount Tabor, by the way, so for four years while I was graduating there. But the water safety is very important because we have enemies here. We have Islamic Nation here. We have other people who are socially dominant
 uh... what i call social dominance theory you know they say you know do it we say do or else then that's not not okay well i really appreciate you coming to a lot of so what i'd like to do uh... mayor hill uh... uh... that excuse me for interfering is to get an appointment to speak about some of these things and maybe be helpful and i i just want to give my regards to commissioner fritz and the loss of her husband so on the second i was running to from the back
 on I-5 to Willard or Curves, and we were in a small car, and we were pushed into a truck. So I right now have a mild concussion. Oh, man. Thank you so much. Thank you for your testimony. I'm sorry about the loss of your son. We have very serious challenges that cannot be aborted, but we have the power of God and a benevolent God who is willing to not demand conformity. Don't matter if you're Christian or what. The standard is goodwill.
 It is, and I have to cut you off there. I really appreciate you coming. Do stay in touch with my office. I'm actually leaving the country this afternoon, but I'll be back in about 10 days. And I will keep you all in prayer. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thanks for coming.
 Mayor, are you leaving the country because you read the New Yorker yesterday? No, much better than that. Leaving the country to go to the Vatican, so an amazing honor for Portland. Okay, number 759, please. Request of Catherine Smith to address council regarding Portland and Tigard police. I know, we do. Yeah, it is not. I don't know how. Yes. Yeah. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Catherine Smith.
 Dear Mayor Hales and Portland City Commissioners, Well, here I am again testifying to you about some Tigard cops who still shoot me 20 to 24 hours a day with microwave, ultrasound weapons, voice-to-school command weapons, lead-a-machine sleep deprivation, etc., remotely. I understand that you don't want to talk to Portland police about these assault-attempted murder crimes to me.
 uh... mayor hills and to my son i've asked the lead investigators on my case sergeant mccormick and other cops if you've talked to them about this and they said no i ask you a few weeks ago when i testified here what is your legal reason for not making those portland cops do their legal duty to protect me and my son from these assaults those tiger cops tell me everyday they shoot him with microwave ultrasound weapons voices go weapons when he's sleeping to give him cancer you didn't answer
 to the what is your legal reason question. I don't believe you have one. You are the police commissioner with legal authority to make them do their legal duty. Unfortunately, many of your city attorneys and employees won't ask you that question either, even though I've requested that from them.
 The suggestions they and you have made to me to avoid having or making Portland Police investigate, gather evidence and arrest and prosecute some of those Tigard cops, and my ex-Tigard neighbor lady who participates in this, those suggestions don't work as I've said.
 It is not enough pressure on those Tigard cops to just call Project Respond, call the Women's Crisis Line, report to Tigard Police instead, or the City of Tigard. They mainly shoot me and my son here in Portland, so I can legally report it here. It is unacceptable and negligence to ignore these crimes.
 Since I've explained that those suggestions don't work or why they aren't effective, it is no justification to still suggest those actions and to refuse to talk to Portland Police to stop these daily assaults. I know by your responses and your city attorney's employees' responses and by what some Tigard cops told me that you do know these Tigard cops are shooting me.
 And you are choosing to not talk to Portland police about this because you've been told about the cover-up of these kinds of weapons. And you've been advised to cover up, too, by not ordering Portland police to stop these assaults and attempted murder. In that way, though, there is no accountability for these secret weapons that lots of cops have had for more than 20 years. Sincerely, Catherine Smith. Take care, Catherine. Thank you. Go ahead.
 761, request of Lightning Watchdog X to address council regarding forensic lab reform and City Hall Bureau's readjustment proposal. I think we skipped 760. Yes, you did. Sorry, Lightning. Sorry, Lightning. Yeah, you go ahead. We'll take the other one out of order. That's fine. You're here. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X.
 One of the concerns I have on the forensic labs is I want to make sure that the primary provider of DNA analytical services is the State Police Crime Lab, also known as Portland Metropolitan Forensics Laboratory, located in Clackamas. What I want to put emphasis on is to make sure that we understand their capacity and also apply for capacity grants or improvement grants at that lab. I want to have a state audit performed.
 on the DNA lab. I want to be able to review that. I want to understand what the forensic scientists need. I want to understand the type of equipment they need. I want to understand why there is a backlog of sexual assault kits. Now, as we all know, a $2 million federal grant is being applied for. Again, that grant is going to be used on a private lab and mainly not on the state lab.
 Again, they projected a cost of approximately $400 per kit, and I want to have an understanding exactly where that funding is going because we do have a personnel cost of $427,000 on that grant, fringe benefits of $204,000, and again, we're going to use a private lab. I want to focus on what are the benefits of using a private lab opposed to using the state
 And again, until we have that audit, I will not make any comments on the efficiency of that state lab. In 2014, there were 830 sex crime cases. They had total number of kits of 312. If we use a number of $400 per kit, that's $128,000. In 2013, we had 875 sex crime cases. We had 271 kits.
 Again, if we use a number, that's 108,000. I don't believe it's lack of resources that we're not able to get these kits tested. I want this to be looked at very close. Again, I'm asking for a state audit to be performed. I've asked Steve March at Multnomah County to perform an audit. And when this grant is finalized, I'd like to have the city of Portland perform an audit. I question some of these numbers, and I want to have some solid facts based upon these audits.
 Again, referring to the commissioners and the adjustment of bureaus, in my opinion, we have not fulfilled what we need to do on the transportation. I think, Commissioner Fritz, you've done an outstanding job on the parks. You got the bond, outstanding job in a lot of different areas pertaining to the parks. You're a seasoned professional, but this is what I'd like to do.
 I want to see transportation transferred to Commissioner Fritz. I want to see Commissioner Fritz to transfer the parks over to Mr. Novick. Okay. And the reason why I want to see that happen. You've got to wrap up. No, if I could finish, sir. The reason why I want to see that happen is because, basically, if you look at the performance, you are a rookie, Mr. Novick. Okay. Lightning. She is a professional. Okay.
 And I'm putting the care of transportation in the hands of the commissioner. Thank you. I'll take that under advisement. Thank you. All right. Let's take 760, please. Request of Sue Strader to address council regarding Stevenson Southwest 34th water hazard. Good morning.
 Okay. Since you're a professional, Commissioner Novick. No, I'm not. No, no, no. That's all right. We'll subscribe professionalism to everyone. I'm very nervous. Go ahead. I had a wonderful map to bring in here from Andrew Abey. I couldn't bring it in because it was too big. So I had to improvise, so I probably already used up 15 seconds. Anyway, here's my improvised map. Okay.
 I'm here to talk about a safety hazard. Southwest 34th comes off Southwest Stevenson. Southwest 34th is an unmaintained. It's a city street, but unmaintained, not up to code. The LID is prohibitive for this neighborhood. The size of the lots would average $50,000 per neighborhood. Neighbor, we can't do it. Southwest Stevenson is a safe routes to school road, primary road. Stevenson's right about a half a mile down the street. Jackson Middle School right here.
 What's happening is the stormwater runoff is coming down and it's going on to Stevenson and water is pooling. And in the winter when it's cold, we have ice. I think, did you get the pictures? Okay, I'll make sure. This is what happened last year. And it's more than just the ice. It's water too, right? This is a hazard. And you're on a route to schools.
 So the other thing that's important here is the water bureau property that's owned on our street. Two lots, the very corner lot and also the top where a cell tower is leased to sell to vendors. And we have worked with the swales team, so that's the other factor. The swales are coming in on Stevenson this summer. Work, the primary work has not started.
 We have met with them, and we have actually, we have a civil engineer on our street who's had 50 years of experience. We are recommending on the Water Bureau property right here, the water that's running down, get diverted into, we need a ditch built, we think, with perforated pipe, filter cloth, and rubble fill.
 And since they're already coming in and doing all the swales, and you're already having the contractors and the right type of people there, and you own the property, the city owns the property, that would help divert the water into the swales, which is not happening right now. We asked for this to happen, and the response from BES, which I've given the council clerk, we got on June 9th,
 They said they made some minor modifications, some modifications to their swells team to address some of the stormwater flow. But we do not think it is sufficient. And they said to monitor. I think we're going to be right back there in the winter, and I'm going to be taking photographs of ice, but I'll make sure the bus is on the ice when I do it the next time. So our recommendation is you're already in there. You got the people there. You got the contractors. How much materials is a ditch? Yes.
 and a pipe to get the water flow into the swells and hopefully eliminate a safety hazard. So that's really the request. And I guess my question to Mayor Hales and Commissioner Novick and Commissioner Fish, because this is commonplace,
 covering Water Bureau and PBOT is what are the next steps. Well, you did a great job of coming and calling us to our attention in a timely way. So obviously the commissioners in charge of the Transportation Bureau and BES and Water all have an opportunity to follow up, so we'll let them do that. But again, you've done this in a timely way with an obvious problem, so we appreciate you doing that. Administrator, thank you for communicating both with the Bureau and coming today. There's a complication because it's a private road.
 But you have, and there are limitations what we can do on private property. We understand. However, you've made a case, and we're taking a fresh look at it. So thank you. Yeah. And I think the other thing in the future is perhaps look at how the city handles. I know you have these policies on private property.
 roads that are not up to code. But when you have city-owned property on those, I think you need to reconsider what is the level of support. Yeah, that is a unique situation. Yes, it's a unique situation. And I think the city has revenue off of the leased cell tower, you know. Good. Thank you very much. Okay, thanks. Thank you.
 Okay, let's move to the consent calendar. I don't believe there are any requests. Are there two full things? Yes, we have 770 and 772. Oh, okay, sorry, 770 and 772? Yes. All right. Any others? Okay, then let's take a roll call vote, please, on the remainder of the consent calendar. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Aye.
 Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? I didn't put it on the regular agenda, but just wanted to note that in partnership with Commissioner Fritz, we're approving contracts with several different community-based organizations for our great new partnership to give teenagers opportunity for free recreation. And we've got contracts with POIC, ERCO, Latino Network.
 NIA, Boys and Girls Club, and Rosewood all packaged together here, and we're in further discussions with self-enhancement. So appreciate our community partners coming forward and giving us a lot for the money. Aye. Okay. Let's move to time certain, item 762. MR. Mayor, could we have 62 and 63 read together? MR.
 762 Establish a cooperative agreement with the Mount Tabor neighborhood Association to ensure that clean water will be maintained in the Mount Tabor Park reservoirs at the historic levels that produce the parks iconic views and to prioritize and implement the maintenance repair and preservation of the reservoirs and authorized funding for work identified in the 2009 Mount Tabor reservoirs historic structures report and
 And 763, appeal of the Portland Water Bureau and Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association against Historic Landmarks Commission's decision to approve with conditions a proposal to disconnect the Mount Tabor reservoirs from the public drinking water system at Mount Tabor Park located at 6325 Southeast Division Street, LU14-218444HREN.
 So I will turn it over to Commissioner Fish in a moment, but let's take, should we take care of the ex parte contacts issues on the land use case first?
 I think that would be fine. It's only relevant to 763, but yes, I may as well. So one of these items is a resolution. The other is a land use case. Under state law, we're required to disclose any ex parte contacts or potential conflicts of interest in a land use case. Are there any to declare? I met with Stephanie Stewart and John Larson on 762. We did not discuss 763. Okay. Anything else? Anyone have any questions or concerns about that? All right. Thank you. Those disclosures are out of the way. Commissioner Fish.
 Well, Mayor, thank you. At the risk of being accused of spinning a very bad pun, we are here today in unchartered waters talking about two matters, a land use proceeding and a resolution. And I think it's worth just going back in time and remembering that the last time that we convened as a council to hear the land use proceeding, which is an appeal.
 from the Historic Landmarks Commission decision. The council directed the parties, in this case, the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association and the Water Bureau, to get together and to see if they could hammer out an agreement. On my seven years on the council, I don't think we've ever had a procedure quite like this, and I think along the way, the most frequent question I've heard is, you know, what are the ground rules and how do we actually do this?
 Well, here's what we agreed on the last time we met. We asked you in good faith to get together and meet and see if you could come to an agreement. You did so, and you did so without any involvement of the city, and you'll have a chance to describe that.
 At the same time, we agreed that if you came to any tentative agreement, we asked you to memorialize it in a resolution, and Commissioner Fritz and I were charged with making sure it was filed and placed before the council.
 So last week I was, in fact, presented, as was Commissioner Fritz, with a fully drafted resolution, which we were asked to sign a cover sheet that places this on the agenda, and that was my sole function. It was ministerial. It was to get it on our agenda. So, Mayor and colleagues, we have two matters before us today.
 The way that we're going to try to handle this is we'll first turn to David Schaaf, Theresa Elliott, Stephanie Stewart, and John Larson, who are the four principals who have been involved in the discussions. They're going to walk us through a proposed resolution, what we have before us. They're literally going to go paragraph by paragraph and tell us that they're going to review the substance and the background to this agreement.
 When they're finished, Mayor, I would propose, Commissioner Fritz and I would propose, that if there are any amendments that any member of council wants to offer, we would do so at the time, see if there's a second, and lay them on the table. Those would be amendments to either the resolution, excuse me, to the resolution. That would be 762. At that point, we would take testimony from the public on both matters, and then the council would come back and deliberate. I do just want to...
 observe that when I opened the newspaper today, I read that the United States negotiating team and the Iranian negotiating team had reached a breakthrough agreement on Iran's nuclear stockpile. I kind of had the same feeling last week when I was handed a resolution and told to sign it because I was struck that the Water Bureau and the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association had reached a tentative agreement on the future of our reservoirs.
 And while there are different issues and different places, I think they both give us reason for hope because ultimately what's happening is the key stakeholders are sitting down and trying to guide their own destinies, and decisions are being made by the people that have the greatest stake in these issues. So with that, Mayor, I want to introduce David Schaaf to have us to tee up the discussion. Okay. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Council. Thank you.
 I'm very pleased to be here today to discuss the resolution and our proposed amendments to the Historic Landmarks Commission decision regarding the Mount Tabor disconnection project. When we met last, on June 25th, we reported to you that we felt we were very close to an agreement that would resolve the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association and Water Bureau appeals of the HLC decision.
 Since that the council's meeting on May 28th the initial hearing on this we have met eight times for approximately 16 hours in order to come to a resolution of our pending appeals the resolution before you today Reflects a concerted effort by the Water Bureau and the people empowered by the MTNA board to speak on their behalf to come to a carefully crafted and balanced agreement on
 that preserves the nature of Mount Tabor Park, its reservoirs, and commits the city to maintain, repair, and preserve its assets. We assume you've read the resolution, so we're actually not going to go through every single whereas. We do plan on touching on all of the commitments that were proposed in the Be It Resolved section of the document.
 Stephanie is going to lead off with the first few, and then we're going to alternate discussing what we believe are the important sections of this resolution. So I'm going to turn it over to Stephanie Stewart from the NTNA Board. Hi, I'm Stephanie. So, again, I'm going to attempt to summarize the intent behind the whereases as they were drafted. Okay.
 As you know, water is a defining characteristic of the historic Mount Tabor Park, and this park was designed around the now historic reservoirs and their deepwater views. Those deepwater views across the park and the city landscape, served up in Romanesque gatehouses and decorative fence rails, are the central anchor to Mount Tabor Park. Anything that happens in the historic reservoir district
 has a profound effect on all of the Tabor historic site. And this is why my organization, MTNA, has taken such care these last 18 months to review the Reservoir Disconnection Construction Plan. The Historic Landmarks Commission, through four hearings that ended in a unanimous decision, understood the community's concerns, all of them that we were able to bring up, and the importance of preserving these historic resources for generations to come.
 their decision as you know called for water to be maintained in the reservoirs and it also called for the reservoirs themselves to be repaired maintained and restored and the neighborhood association felt strongly that the requirements they imposed historic landmarks commission were appropriate and reasonable and a lot of the language in the whereas statements again goes to speak to our
 sentiment that these were important requirements.
 In this, John Larson, Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association. So in the negotiations, we've not, it's clearly a compromise what we arrived at. What you're looking at in this resolution is very much compromised. Neither side got exactly what it wanted. But we were taking very seriously your charge that we should negotiate with each other and that we should try to find some kind of common ground.
 That did not come easily. As Director Schaaf said, it took many hours of close work. Thank God we weren't trying to address nuclear capability. This was hard enough as it was. So one of the main things to come out of this resolution is our hope that there can be a working relationship going forward. So it's not just, well, we got this figured out and we're –
 done here and you'll see that a number of the pieces of this resolution call for us to work together collaboratively on things going forward. And it also asks, we're hoping that you will consider this as a charge also to the council to make sure that this relationship works going forward.
 If you have any questions about the intent behind the resolution, we would be happy to answer those at any point. I will cover the last two whereas statements on the first page and the first two on the second. In essence, these four whereas statements confirm that the City recognizes that the reservoirs are assets it has an obligation to maintain, repair, and preserve.
 The reservoirs are not only an integral part of the park, even after they're disconnected from the distribution system, they will remain as a part of a complex system of pipes, valves, and related equipment that are part of the overall utility infrastructure that we've been tasked to operate and maintain. Indeed, one of the commitments we made to Council and to the public regarding this project is that the work we're doing is not going to prevent us from using the reservoirs in the future to store drinking water.
 Because of their location and because of the elevation of the reservoirs, it's not inconceivable that Mount Tabor will eventually resume operating as a site for future drinking water storage in the decades to come as Portland grows. While it would require work and effort similar to what we're preparing to do at Washington Park, these are assets that we cannot and should not let go. That also means, though, that we have to continue investing in their maintenance, repair, and preservation.
 I'm going to skip down to the next to the last whereas on the second page. And as John said, we're perfectly prepared to talk about all of them, but we're trying to hit the highlights. We recognize, as John said, that the MTNA and the city share a mutual interest and commitment in the maintenance, repair, and preservation of these facilities, and recognize that a cooperative agreement and a cooperative relationship.
 between the city and the people we serve is in our best interests. Stephanie? And this last whereas statement here, again, articulates our hope that we can secure your continued support going forward, helping us to execute and maintain this agreement and this relationship in a workable manner.
 So we can move on now if you are ready for us to start going through the be it therefore resolved point by point, we can do that. Mr. Are there any questions? Yes, please, go ahead. Ms. Okay. So the first one, the Historic Landmarks Commission and the State Historic Preservation Office and the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association all agree that water should be maintained on this site at historic levels for the majority of the year. The applicant's current water management proposal
 represents a compromise from that goal for MTNA, but we believe if handled sensitively, the applicant's proposal can produce acceptable results, at least until the parties have a chance to come together to explore other water management strategies. So this first, be it resolved, articulates a water level management plan both parties can agree to today.
 Then the next statement goes on to create a partnership through which the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association and the Water Bureau will explore new water management strategies. So the goal here is for us to jointly craft a sustainable and efficient strategy for keeping the iconic views available at this site for as many days as possible during the year and hopefully also reduce water consumption and possibly save money.
 And then the, be it further resolved at the very bottom of that page,
 also addresses a collaborative arrangement through which the Water Bureau and the MTNA will come together in a partnership. And this time, that's about the work that is outlined in the Historic Structures Report. And just to recall to your minds what the Historic Landmarks Commission in their unanimous decision said was that the work in the Historic Structures Report from 2009 is what should be a condition E of the,
 for the issuing of the permit and this resolution
 although it addresses a compendium of issues, is intended to accomplish some of what was outlined in Condition E by the Historic Landmarks Commission because we're going to suggest that that condition itself be deleted from the land use decision and that this resolution is going to substitute for that. So the...
 What's proposed is that the MTNA and the Water Bureau will work together to prioritize which things exactly should be done in the way of historic restoration.
 restoration most of it is deferred maintenance, but just to put the structures back together and make sure that they're going to Continue to hold water into the future and that they're continuing to have the characteristics that are part of the historic district So that's that's really what that is intended and our goal is if we can work together to prioritize What gets done there then? I
 then we can relieve some of the tension and some of the contentiousness around these issues and really come to a working relationship around that. And that working relationship is really an important key part of this resolution for us.
 The next now therefore be it resolved is the actual commitment on the part of the City of Portland, the financial commitment. And that is that the City has an obligation to maintain, repair, and preserve the reservoirs and that the Council should allocate at least $4 million over the next four years starting in fiscal year 16-17. Everybody realizes that this year's budget is already in place.
 and that we would work together with the MTNA to prioritize the work that is called for in the 2009 Mount Tabor Historic Structures Report. We believe the amount should be sufficient to cover the work outlined in that report, not including lining the reservoirs or restoring the lighting, which we have a separate now therefore on.
 That sum recognizes that some of the projects anticipated may be more expensive than we're anticipating today. Remember that we give you very low-level, low-confidence planning-level numbers.
 And when we go through the process of putting out RFPs and hiring contractors, we will come back to you with contracts and ordinances to do the formal work. But we anticipate that some of those projects may be more expensive than we're estimating today because they might require historic preservation specialists or may simply be more expensive in the out years. We also know that some of the anticipated projects will require land use reviews, which could affect their costs.
 We also expect that that amount will be sufficient to address neighborhood concerns related to the chain link fence that surrounds the dam face on Reservoir 5. If you're familiar with the complex, the Water Bureau many years ago, before my time, put a chain link fence on the dam face between 5 and 6. And we're required to do that because of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission requirements. We're no longer regulated under FERC.
 We are regulated under the state dam safety office, and our chief engineer has expressed a willingness to talk to this dam safety office and determine, one, if there's still a requirement to have a fence at all on the dam face, and if there is, if we could perhaps look at something that is an attractive historical alternative as opposed to what most of us would call is a fairly unattractive chain-link fence.
 uh... in the next section we agreed that the council should consider an additional allocation of one point five million dollars to replace the non historic lighting with historic lighting reservoirs one in five to be clear the only commitment that the council's making today is to give such an allocation future consideration in a future budget cycle
 This was a very important part of our negotiation. I think it probably would not have come to an agreement if we hadn't been willing to at least promise that you will consider that as a future potential budget allocation. But we have not committed you to actually making that allocation. I think John wanted to add to that.
 Yeah, this was the thing that's kind of conditional in here because we weren't able to fully agree on that. The restoration of historic lighting as opposed to the kind of strip mall lighting that's there now is very important to a lot of people in the Mount Tabor neighborhood and a lot of people in our constituency.
 The fact is we don't actually know how much the, how much money any of this stuff will actually cost. And it's, everybody who is involved in this negotiation, all of us, are taxpayers, rate payers, so we,
 We want to be prudent about the spending of public money at the historic district, but we also recognize that these are capital assets that need to be maintained and need to be taken care of, and they require extra attention because of being on the National Historic Register. So our hope is that if we can come back to you and say that the amount of money that is called for in this resolution, the $4 million, that we have –
 thoughtfully and carefully and deliberately spent that money and that it's been well spent and that you've seen how prudent that was. At that point we might have actual figures for what it would cost to restore historic lighting around especially reservoirs one and five and that you would be willing to then consider
 making that kind of allocation. But so $1.5 million is, we don't actually know that that's what it would cost. It could be quite a bit less than that. It could be more. So this is just asking for your future consideration on that.
 Just a point of clarification. When it says the next four years, is that starting in fiscal year 16-17? That's the intent, yes. Thank you. Because obviously we haven't allocated that in the current budget. It would be a stretch to be able to find. Right, absolutely. Okay, thank you. And also I note that it doesn't specify whether it's rate dollars or general fund dollars. That's up to a future council to decide. That's correct. So your last, your very last whereas, or be it further resolved, talks about,
 these being binding financial obligations on the city. We haven't gotten there yet, Commissioner. No, I'm just trying to connect the dots here. So the $4 million is the binding city obligation. The $1.5 million is not. The only binding obligation regarding the lighting and the $1.5 million is that you consider it. That's the binding part. One is to allocate and one is to consider. So the next...
 be it resolved in the middle of the page there, is really addresses condition C in the Historic Landmarks Commission deliberations which is, which called for there to be some interpretive materials, the same kind of interpretive materials that have happened at, are going to happen at Washington Park and at Powell Butte about the, about the water system and the reservoirs.
 We thought given the fact that we're going to be working together that we could also work together on the development of those interpretive materials
 So this is really an amendment in a way or a companion to Condition C in the land use decision. It's very important to our community that the framing on this material honors the historic reservoirs from the neighborhood perspective and from the community perspective. So that's really what that paragraph is about. Commissioner Fritz's office pointed out to us that we're missing a verb in that one. Please.
 So it really should say the Water Bureau and other city bureaus are, as are necessary, are directed to collaborate with the MTA. We have been looking at this language for a long time, and we just sort of missed that one little word. I'll regard that as a scrivener's error, and it's been corrected. No, David, I'm sorry.
 The idea of directing the Bureau to do something in a collaborative setting strikes me as a bit odd since the Bureau and the Neighborhood Association have come here saying they're going to do this. What if we just said shall collaborate? I don't think the council has to direct the Water Bureau to do this. I think we are saying that you are going to continue to collaborate. I'm sure that's fine with us, Commissioner. It's what we drafted at the time. The intent...
 we're trying to get across here is that we don't do this on our own unilaterally. We work with the neighbors.
 And we were also hoping, you know, other bureaus will need to be involved from time to time. BES, to some extent, has to be involved in the matter of draining the reservoirs. Parks Bureau obviously needs to be involved because even though it's water bureau property, it's within a city park. So that direction language is other city bureaus as necessary. So that was really the intent of that part of it.
 Commissioner Fish's amendment is actually a friendly one, I believe. The shall is even more directive. Can you give me that again? I'm sorry. Instead of – sorry, go ahead. Go ahead, Commissioner Fish. So instead of are directed to, just shall collaborate.
 yes on which which I'm sorry which was all that next to last sure it's in the middle of the it's paragraph 26 it's all right the show just a number of them to keep them straight so there paragraph 26 so that we got it ok it's got it are we ready to move on yes ok so then the next be it further resolved as the third from the bottom and this is one that is
 intended to replace our previous request for a conditional use review to address the tree concerns we have. While we do believe this site would benefit from a conditional use review, this paragraph addresses our primary underlying concern that prompted us to seek that request. And that concern is about trees that can't be planted in the future in Mount Tabor Park as a result of the applicant's standard trees and pipes policy.
 So this paragraph begins a conversation about a Tabor-specific, or at least a case-by-case, review of trees and pipes policy for this park, which is characterized by its trees.
 The next to last resolution or be it resolved commits us to collaborate over the next four years and this actually will Commissioner Fritz probably begin this fall because the budgeting process for the Water Bureau begins in the fall. Over the next four years to report to Council on a semi-annual basis culminating in a final report in December of 2020 and the idea here is to
 let you know how we're doing and to report back to you and to where we I know we will work together but you know there will be bumps along the road probably and we want to make sure that you understand where they are, why we're prioritizing the work we are,
 the way we are. So the intent there is to keep you informed so that you know what we are doing. MR. So, David, just to preview, I'm going to offer an amendment to strengthen 28 because I even want it to be more prescriptive. But let's also just in light of Commissioner Fritz's early comments, I just want to be clear, the four years referenced in paragraph 24 begin with the next fiscal year.
 The requirements of consulting and planning under paragraph 28 begin as soon as this document is adopted by the council. So the preparation for the next budget cycle begins this fall. Is that correct, David? That's correct. Theresa and I have already spoken with John and Stephanie about perhaps starting to have these conversations as early as next month in August after a final decision is made.
 And my understanding is that your intent is that the report might be a written report. It wouldn't necessarily be a full public hearing before council. That's correct. Finally, it's important to recognize that this resolution is binding city policy, and it is the law of the land. It was crucial to the negotiations that the council make certain commitments before the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association was willing to state that it would not appeal a council decision on the land use review.
 Since an ordinance requires two hearings and we believed we could not have a first hearing on an ordinance without running afoul of the ex parte rules regarding land use appeals, we chose the resolution as the vehicle for that agreement. This allowed us to time the passage of this resolution with the council hearing and tentative decision on the land use appeals.
 We understand by city code that a resolution is as binding as an ordinance as long as it has a statement that says it is binding city policy. That's the purpose of that very last now, therefore, be it resolved.
 The mayor agreed when we last met on June 28th that that is certainly the case, and I asked the city attorney's office to confirm in a statement that I shared with the MTNA that a resolution that states that it is binding city policy is as binding as an ordinance. Needless to say, there is no agreement without that section.
 And that is the resolution that we have worked on. So with respect to maintaining water in the reservoirs, it's totally understood that this is not drinking water, and it's totally divorced from the current distribution system for drinking water. That's correct. That's understood. So when it talks about maintaining...
 clean water in the reservoirs. We're not talking about necessarily drinking water. Right. That's absolutely correct. It may be drinking water standards, but it will not be in the drinking water distribution system. Exactly. The intent there is that...
 if you leave those 111 million gallons, because that's what it'll end up being in the four basins at 85% full, if you leave them sit from now until the end of time with just that original amount of water, they're going to get kind of scuzzy. And so our intent is to drain them and refill them regularly.
 And we will work with the MTNA over the next four years to figure out what cycle works best. But that is the intent. It's intended to have them look clean, but nobody would be using it as drinking water. And that water in those reservoirs, because of the work we will be doing as part of the land use, as part of the project, cannot go into the distribution system. Thank you. Other questions?
 Anything else that you as a panel want to cover? Okay. And I think there's some amendments to consider. Mayor, I'd like to ask the panel to stay here for a moment, and if the clerk could hand out the packet. Okay. And then we will have an amended Condition B and Condition E when we get to the land use portion of the hearing. Carla, could you also hand out the Citizens Utility Board memo? We got it. It's here. Do the panelists have copies of these amendments? No.
 Do the panelists have copies of these amendments? No, no. What you just handed out. Okay. So, Commissioner Fish, would you like to walk us through these amendments? We don't yet. Sorry. Over there. Carla's going to do the same. Let me just set the stage for this discussion. This is an unusual case in that two members of council have filed a resolution that they did not draft. And we agreed that we would transmit what the parties had negotiated.
 So there are, based on our review, there are three issues that we want to raise at this point for discussion and then have the council decide whether these are changes worth making. And they are reflected in six amendments that are before the council. Amir, I'll just walk you through them. Amendment number one is proposed by the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon.
 And it is designed, and the accompanying memo from CUB explains their thinking, but they have proposed alternative language for paragraph 12. And the essence of their comment is that once the reservoirs are disconnected, they no longer are part of a system.
 that relates to our water distribution system, and so the language needs to make clear that they exist alongside that system, but they're not integral to the system, and the Citizens Utility Board has submitted a memo in support of their amendment. So that's amendment number one. Amendments number two, three, and four, and five are designed to make clear, if necessary,
 that the Water Bureau is committing to working with the duly constituted stakeholders for Mount Tabor Park. And where appropriate, we've included the Friends of Mount Tabor Park, since they are an officially recognized friends group by Portland Parks and Recreation, just as the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association is the duly recognized neighborhood association. And in Amendment 4, we've also included Friends.
 Portland Parks and Recreation, just to make clear in amendments four and five, that we view, that the Water Bureau views Parks and Recreation as first-tier partners in doing this, because obviously we're talking about a park. Amendment six is designed to address something that Commissioner Fritz referenced earlier and that I forecast in paragraph 28, which is the reporting requirement. And because I think
 that I operate under the theory of trust but verify. I think the reporting requirement is fundamental to this deal, and I thought the existing language could be tightened to make clear what the obligations were. So under the proposed amendment, every six months, the Water Bureau would submit to the MTNA committee,
 Friends of Mount Tabor, Parks and other stakeholders, a written report documenting compliance with the resolution. So every six months we'd be required to do that. Every year the Bureau would be required to make an annual presentation to City Council and to the Portland Utility Board. Both of those are public meetings, public hearings where anybody can testify.
 And then the final summary report would be submitted in December 31, 2020. And the intent is to be as clear as possible about what the obligations are and strengthen the reporting requirements so that the public has the maximum opportunity throughout this process to both be aware of what we're doing and to comment. Thank you.
 Mayor, I would move these six amendments. Excuse me. Actually, they're sufficiently different. Let's go through each one. I think you can move them as a package. I would move them as a package simply for discussion purposes. Okay. So I'll second that for discussion, and then we'll see if anyone wants to strip one out or consider it separately.
 I'm really concerned that I haven't seen these before and some of them seem completely helpful like adding the Friends of Mount Tabor Park, but some of the others I think are fairly
 So that's a problem for me to be able to vote on this resolution today without having seen the amendments. MR. You know, Commissioner Fritz, when we took up a large land use proceeding recently, you presented 85 amendments on the day of the hearing because the timing did not allow you to do it before the hearing. Because this was filed under the circumstances, I haven't had the chance to have that conversation. The bulk of these amendments do not make any changes to the substance of the agreement.
 The one substantive change is proposed by the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon, and because they are a partner of the Water Bureau, I am duty-bound to present that. If the Council does not support that amendment, we'll vote it down. And the Amendment 6 is designed to make as clear as possible what the reporting requirements are. And if at the end of the hearing
 our partners, including MTNA, want to officially say yay or nay on each of these, I think that will have a great sway on the council. But I want to put them before us so we have something to discuss. Yes, you please let us know when you want us to weigh in on. Okay, yeah, we will. But my recommendation is that we do what Commissioner Fish suggested, which is take action to accept these amendments, take testimony, and then if we want to return to any of them and either change them or not adopt one or the other of them, that's still the council's prerogative.
 Any objections? So let's take a roll call to accept the amendments. I have yet. Saltzman? I know, you'll get a chance to speak. Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Commissioner, when I presented all of those amendments, I believe the council voted them down on the basis of that. No. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, so the amendments are before the council as well as the rest of the draft resolution, and we'll give people a chance to comment on that.
 So, any further amendments? While you're here, let's give the Mount Tabor neighborhood association at least an initial opportunity to comment on the amendments if you find them acceptable, if there are some of them that you're concerned about or questions about. We haven't seen these before either. Same here. We're all on that vote. And so. Okay. So, we definitely have some off-the-cuff opinions right now, if you'd like those.
 First, Amendment Number 6. I absolutely appreciate anyone tightening up language. So a lot of this is great. However, it does seem like the structure has changed slightly here. We intended this report to come from, as a joint report, from Water Bureau and the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association. If you'd like to add another group to that.
 discussion in that table making that report, we could accept that. On that point, you're saying the six-month report would be a joint report? Yes. And since that's something new to me, tell me what a joint report, what does that mean? A joint report gives us a chance to check in with you and let you know how this arrangement's really working from both sides, not just from the Water Bureau side, but from the community's perspective. Is this
 relationship truly turning out to be collaborative? Are we running into hiccups? Have we had differences of opinion? Or if none of that's true then it's a pretty technical report that's just coming to you about the progress that we've made. But we
 We did intend this to be a collaborative meeting process that then produced collaborative reports. So, again, because David is about to retire, and I want to make sure that his successor has clarity about what's required, the Water Bureau has to prepare a report. Someone has to write something up and transmit it. In this relationship, they will be discussing the report and the progress with you on a regular basis.
 They will be sharing with you a draft of the report. At some point, they need to get it out. So what happens if you have an objection to what's in the report? Do you put a supplement to the report? Do you issue your report? And, again, I just want to be very clear because I want to give the maximum input on this. But we don't often do joint reports, so I want to make sure I know what it means.
 I think it's great to think this through and I myself have imagined it to look very much like this where we are collaborating, the report is made together and where we aren't we are simply sitting at the same table reporting to you but in
 different times let me make a suggestion I let me cut to the chase here and see if it works if not we can circle back I would recommend that we change the language because I think I see where this is going to say be it further resolved the Water Bureau and other city bureaus as appropriate shall coordinate and collaborate with the MTNA and other key stakeholders and and
 submit to the City Council a semiannual report. In other words, we can direct the Water Bureau and other city bureaus to do things. We can't direct you to do things, and that's a good idea that we can't. But I understand the point that you want to be included in the preparation of this report. But again, our power here, as far as it goes, is we can tell city bureaus what to do. What we can do is tell them, coordinate and collaborate with you, produce a report. But they have the...
 carrying responsibility. Well then that's what we've got in the current version. Yeah, but we've also added other stakeholders that weren't in the original language, I believe. And does the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association accept the addition of the Friends of Mount Tabor Park? I don't think we have a problem with that. The reason that the MTNA is what's called out here is because we were our appellants in the land use decision and this
 Resolution is intended to replace Condition E and so we are the ones with a legal stake in this, in the matters before you. So it wasn't meant to be exclusionary in any way. It was because that's who was in the room negotiating this and doing the heavy lifting.
 planning to be involved, we couldn't really obligate any other organization to be involved in the way that we are. And for clarity, just because we may have highlighted a flaw with our original language, I want to make sure this is clear going forward to the next director. We were, this is a jointly created report. We are imagining it's a jointly delivered report. We'd like to have speaking
 So let me just, this is why I'm raising the question. As Commissioner Fritz said earlier, it would be a six-month written report.
 and an annual hearing before council. So this is not a, we're not having a hearing before council every six months. We're issuing a report that you are helping us to craft that advises the community about where we stand. We'll have an annual hearing in which all comers will be able to come before council and comment. So now we're talking about how we draft that report. And I want
 I want you in the room why that draft is being produced. I just want the language to be clear about roles. And I have no pride of authorship. In fact, Mayor, I kind of like your change. What I might suggest is, because we have a lot of testimony,
 I'd be happy to work with my staff and with Stephanie and John to see if we can come up with proposed language that they can support. Okay. Let's leave the language issue aside for the moment. I'm just curious, if I, again, have captured your concern, you want to, one of your concerns is that you want to make sure that the MTNA and other stakeholders are involved in crafting the report. Mm-hmm.
 That was one concern. But the other concern, in my mind at least, is the reason that we opted for semiannual reports. Obviously, quarterly would have been crazy, but semiannual. It seemed like if this agreement starts to go off the rails, it seemed like you would want to know sooner rather than later. And so you could wait a year for us to jointly come back to you, but if there are concerns as we're –
 getting to the end of six months on this thing, it seems if I were in your shoes, I would want to know what was happening with this and hear from the participants, oh, this is going swimmingly or it's not. So that we were really trying to build in a kind of check in with you about this. Sure.
 Whether we would need that every six months is not entirely clear. This is uncharted territory. My advice, if you take it as the presiding officer of this council, that here's a lot of issues is, you know,
 To be able to sound a little flippant, the Mountain-Tabor Neighborhood Association is not limited to reports through the Water Bureau for how you stay in touch with us. My point would be I think this is a workable structure as long as you're involved in the crafting of the report and you always have the prerogative, obviously, and you exercise it on lots of issues to get in touch with the council and say this isn't working. I would certainly expect that you would do that.
 Again, I would recommend that we take his suggestion and let you work on the language But if the sense of it is you want to be involved you want to be able to call foul if something's not working Requiring set piece presentations every front six months in front of this City Council on things that are working Usually is not a great use of anybody's time. You have comments on amendment one I do um well
 This feels like a major change for us. And we very much have worked throughout this whole process to, as you've known, for 18 months you've heard us talk about the importance of maintaining reversibility. And part of maintaining reversibility is maintaining the very clear stated link between these disconnected reservoirs and their useful function in the water system.
 This is a major change here. This describes the reservoirs as something outside of the utility system as opposed to being a part of the utility system, and we would definitely prefer language that the original language. And this is not my amendment. So the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon is an independent outside ratepayer advocate.
 and one of the reasons we struck this relationship is to have their voice, whether we agree with their voice or not. The council has the final say. What their memo says, as I read it,
 is that unlike Washington Park, where once we bury the reservoirs, those reservoirs are connected to our water distribution system, once these reservoirs are disconnected, they are not directly connected to the system. And they believe that it's therefore more appropriate to say they exist alongside. That's just their view. And so I've offered this amendment, and they've submitted a memo explaining that. Technically, once they are disconnected, they are not part of the water distribution system. The Citizens Utility Board is right.
 Whether the language needs to be changed to reflect that is for the council to decide. I only offer the amendment, Mayor, because they have proposed this. Okay. We would strenuously disagree. We think they're part of the system. We think they're part of the future necessary capacity for the Water Bureau. They are continued to be assets held by the Water Bureau.
 that the whole complex of, as we understand it, the whole complex of pipes and infrastructure there is, although the reservoirs will be disconnected from serving the drinking water system now, the reversibility has been cited often as, we've heard
 various commissioners say that this is going to be reversible if in the future it's valuable to have the reservoirs as part of the water system, and we think it's important to keep that language in there. Could you define reversibility, or is that defined somewhere?
 What is that? Reversibility. Well, reversibility means in the original land use application, the inlet pipes were going to be filled with concrete, and it would have been really, really difficult to be able to in some future –
 possibility to even bring water into the reservoirs, let alone to be able to reconnect it to the drinking water system. What we've been assured is that the severance that needs to happen, the cut and plug that's happening now, that you can unplug and reconnect if for some reason in the future it was determined that that
 was important to be part of the drinking water system. Okay, so is it understood, in that scenario, if we use those reservoirs again to store drinking water, is it understood that open water reservoirs are not allowed anymore and that would have to be complied with LT2? No, we don't.
 still be have to be in compliance with l t two the only way you would be able to store drinking water out in the open would be if the law changed uh... you can also as i foreshadowed in my comments
 The the reservoirs are at a perfect location and a perfect elevation for the city if In the future the rules don't change but in the future we need more storage They are a place where we would be able to store water, but we would not be able to store it out in the open and
 So the cut and plug, Commissioner, is, you know, imagine this is a pipe. You're going to take about 10 feet of pipe section out, weld a flange on either end, then it is now plugged. And let me just be clear, Commissioner Saltzman, the Bureau has made a commitment without regard to the legal issues you raised that this is a reversible process. So the planning for this decommission is reversible, and that's reflected in the negotiations and in the Bureau's commitment
 And there are lots of hypotheticals in the future, but this work will be done in such a way that it's reversible. And the Bureau has made that commitment.
 I understand the issue that the Citizens Utility Board is raising is a subtle issue, but I still think they have every right to raise it, and perhaps people will want to comment on it before the council votes on it. May I add some technical details, just for your knowledge? I was just going to note, as council president, I want to time check for my colleagues. The mayor has to go see the pope at noon, and we need to get the...
 The resolution voted on, the land use voted on. We also have another crucial issue that Mayor needs to be at later on the agenda. So if we could go to public testimony, I think that would be most helpful at this time. Maybe you could work together while we're listening to public testimony.
 Can I just provide you with just some minor details? Wait a second. As the former president of the council, I'd be happy to hear the minor details. We will continue to have telemetry. We'll continue to have instrumentation. Those are critical parts of our overall distribution system. There's no question about that. We met the entire time, with the one exception of Stephanie's house, in gate house five, surrounded by equipment that will remain and will continue to operate.
 Secondly, we will still use the reservoirs on the occasion when we need to drain our conduits. And we've spent all summer dumping water into Reservoir 1 so that we could drain our conduits and do conduit work. So we will still be using them. They will still be part of our system.
 They will not contain drinking water, but they will be part of our system. All right. Understood. I think those words may be reassuring. All right. Let's thank this panel. We'll give you a chance to come back up at the end if you've had a chance to think about the language a little further, and obviously council is going to revisit the amendments themselves. Okay. Yes. Yes.
 Before you begin on the testimony, there was one part of Commissioner Fish's statement that I want to make sure we clarify, which is he'd mentioned that the testimony would be on both items. It's my understanding that the second item, the land use item, the record is closed. And I'm not clear that you intend to. That's correct. And obviously the heart of the matter, again, for folks that do want to testify, the testimony.
 the heart of the matter before the council today is do you believe that this resolution is a responsible solution to what was brought to us originally in land use appeal?
 It came to us in the land use appeal. The land use appeal is still before us, but what has been presented to the Council is a proposal by both the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association and the Bureau to say through resolution we're going to enshrine this agreement instead of continuing with the land use appeal. That's the question before us. Should we do that or not? So it would be helpful to us, again, both in terms of time and clarity if you would focus on that question, not relitigate old issues or re-litigate.
 go off into other issues. That's the question before this council. Is this the right resolution or not?
 And also comments on the amendments. And on the amendments. Do these amendments in some way change in ways that you like or don't like your opinion about whether this is a good resolution or not? And so to be super clear for the land use record, the testimony will only be on the resolution. The testimony is on the resolution on item 762. Thank you. Okay. So who do we have signed up? We have 16 people signed up. The first three, please, coming up are Steve Wax.
 Wax, Mary Kinnick and Tom Kohler, and they'll be followed by Nadine Fiedler, Brian Roeder and Laura Smith. And I'm going to ask you to be succinct. I might have to change the time limit to two minutes, but we'll give you a chance to get started and we'll see. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, councillors. I am here to support the resolution. Put your name on the record, Steve. I'm sorry, Steve Wax.
 I testified on May 28th, and we took to heart the Council's charge to attempt to negotiate. It's been a long and difficult process, but we're there. I urge the Council to accept the resolution as submitted.
 With four of the amendments submitted by Commissioner Fish, Amendment 1, I urge you to reject. I think that the comment from Mr. Schaff regarding the fact that the reservoirs do remain a part of the Water Bureau infrastructure should resolve that issue. The original language should stand. Whatever the language ultimately resolved on the Amendment 6 regarding the report,
 It needs to be joint, there needs to be collaboration. I think that the other point I want to make is in terms of going forward. It is unfortunate that Mr. Schaff is retiring at the end of the summer. It is critical to the community that the council be on record as fully supportive of these efforts and that as you hire the new water
 director, that that person be fully apprised of what has been happening and that you would include in your hiring process discussion of this issue. Thank you so much for having pushed the effort, and we hope that you now accept the effort that's been presented to you as it is.
 Mr. Wax, if we do accept the resolution with your suggested amendments, would you also agree that you would probably not appeal to LUBA?
 It seems to me that this is a wonderful compromise, that if this resolution is accepted and the council as the quasi-judicial body accepts in part and denies in part the appeals of the association and the Water Bureau, that I personally would not invest any time or money in an appeal. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, I'm Mary Kinnick and I'm here on behalf of the Friends of Mt. Tabor Park board where I serve as co-chair and also as some of you know about the Friends of Mt. Tabor Park wheat boyars and I serve as the coordinator of the habitat restoration program. I want to make a comment just about that role before I speak to the main issue here.
 We've had friends, we lawyers have worked collaboratively, increasingly well with the Bureau of Environmental Services and Portland Parks and Recreation on what has now been for the last probably four years, a well-planned coordinated habitat restoration effort in the park that did not exist before all these parties came together. We even have formal agreements both with parks and with BES.
 And I know the project has gone along better and things are improving better because of that collaboration. So the Friends Mount Tabor Park board is in full support of the joint resolution. And I've just seen these obviously we've all just seen the amendments today, this morning. And one thing I do want to speak to on that is that amendment 6.
 In my view, as you said, Commissioner Fish, how important the whole reporting, this accountability reporting, the transparency of what's going on. My experience working with the other bureaus is that that really needs to be a joint report issued by the parties and shared.
 I can't re-craft the language right now, but it doesn't make sense to me. It's just sort of Water Bureau gives a report and then it's sort of up to the other parties to comment on it. It really should be a joint report. And if they have disagreements, they can include that in that joint report. And that way everybody's having a voice and hopefully things are going as David Chaff said swimmingly or maybe you said that, Mayor.
 But I think it needs to have that kind of language. The Friends of Mount Tabor Park, I can't speak for all of my colleagues, but we'd be pleased to have a seat at the table also and contribute ideas since we're so involved in so many aspects of the park. I'm really pleased to see that those amendments have been added. Lastly, I have to say, 29, 28 seconds.
 The efforts by Stephanie Stewart and John Laurison as volunteers for so many years, they've become my heroes. I think that speaking as a volunteer myself,
 When you step up and spend that many hours as they have, I think the process has been made better, and it's testament to how important it is to continue to include public process in the deliberations of this body. So thank you very much. Thank you. Tom, pull that microphone a little closer. Okay. Tom Curler, Mount Tabor resident, and I'm supportive of the resolution as it is in front of you. Appreciate the efforts.
 that have gone into it. Appreciate the agreements that have been reached by the two parties. So I'm very hesitant to want to put or support new amendments. Certainly do not support the CUB amendment. And this resolution absolutely recognizes the importance of these reservoirs to our complete water system and the future use. So very supportive and hope you will...
 Yes, thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all Next three aren't Nadine Fiedler Brian rotor and Laura Smith and I'll be followed by Miriam Berman Eileen Brady and Rachel Doulkas Morning good morning. I'm Nadine Fiedler. I'm a longtime member of the board of the Mount Tabor neighborhood association I am representing that body today. We've been working on the reservoir issue for many many years, and we have a lot invested in it and
 We're very proud of the thoughtful work that Stephanie Stewart and John Larson have done, and we're very grateful to the Water Bureau for being willing to come to the table and compromise in support of our historic and beautiful reservoirs. The board of the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association stands united in its support of this resolution, at least as we saw it before the amendments, which I hope we can work out.
 And we hope that you will show the same unanimous support today. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Morning, my name's Brian Roeder and I'm here to ask you to support the resolution as prepared. And if any amendments are going to be accepted, I would urge you to reject Amendment 1 and Amendment 6 as written.
 I wanted to draw your attention to a couple of the whereas's. Whereas the reservoirs will continue to be an asset of the city of Portland. Whereas the reservoirs are part of a complex system of pipes, valves, other reservoirs and related equipment that will continue to be part of the overall utility infrastructure necessary for the operation of the city's water distribution system.
 Whereas the reservoir locations may be needed for additional storage in future generations. And whereas the city of Portland has an obligation to maintain, repair and preserve its assets. And the reason I bring that up is because you have as part of this resolution an obligation to allocate $4 million over four budget cycles to deal with deferred maintenance at the reservoirs. And based on
 I would suggest that that allocation of $4 million would be wise, would be timely, and would be your fiduciary responsibility to implement. So I urge you to spend that money. Additionally, relative to keeping the reservoirs as close to 85% full as possible at all times, I'm sure you're all aware that there's been a, you know, a lot of work done
 major breach of relationship between the Mount Tabor residents and many residents of Portland and the Water Bureau
 about this issue and keeping water in those reservoirs would be a major step towards repairing that breach and restoring the trust that's been lost. So I urge you to do that also. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Hi, I'm Laura Smith and 23 years ago I was married on the summit of Mount Tabor and my family, friends and out of town guests saw the iconic views of the reservoirs as a backdrop to our ceremony
 And so as part of the neighborhood for as long as we've been, I became a member of the board, Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association, a new member. And I've noted all of the work that the entire board, I mean that the board has, the two board members, Stephanie and John, have done. They've kept us, the entire board, apprised of all of the struggles as well as the successes of the neighborhood.
 And the compromise and resolution before you today is a success for both the neighborhood association and the water bureau.
 Though the park and its reservoirs are in my neighborhood, they're cherished by all Portland residents. And that's why the work that the Neighborhood Association has done is very important, along with their collaboration with the Water Bureau. So I'm here to testify that you do accept the resolution as written. Thank you. Thank you all. Next three are Miriam Berman, Eileen Brady, and Rachel Dolkus. Thank you.
 and they'll be followed by Mark Coleman, Crystal, and Paul Cienfuegos. Good morning. You first, Miriam. Good morning. How are you guys? I'm coming to say that as a resident. What's your name on the record, Miriam? Sorry. Oh, Miriam Berman, and I am a small business owner in Portland.
 and a neighbor of the Mount Tabor Reservoirs. And I'd like to please to say thank you to Stephanie and John and David Chaff and the Water Bureau for coming up with this resolution. And it took a lot of time. This is an ongoing issue. I'm glad to see that it's coming to hopefully a good resolution and that it was a reasonable, rational,
 full negotiation when you have negotiations as someone said it's a compromise not everyone gets exactly what they want and i'd like to say that i think keeping the iconic views of the reservoir with 85 filled water would be wonderful and i really urge you to vote for this resolution as it stands thank you thank you good morning good morning eileen brady i'm a mount tabor resident
 And I urge you to accept this resolution as written. And I just want to say that
 Stephanie Stewart and John Larson are also my heroes. And this hope springs eternal that the neighborhood system is alive and well. And the Water Bureau has come to the table. I think that there has been some real trust rebuilt. It's the beginning of something that I think the community can build on. Every single word of this resolution was highly discussed and negotiated.
 And so I'm concerned about the amendments, as well intended as they may be. I would encourage you for the sake of the neighbors and maybe even the parks department that there's some parties here that have not been involved in that conversation to consider passing this resolution without the amendments.
 uh... particularly one in six but i i think in general it to be fair to the collective process and commissioner fish i know your heart is well intended here that but they'll the eleventh our pieces then and maybe a little tricky for that collective
 to actually take to heart. So thank you so much for your time, and I'm hoping for a positive outcome today. Eileen, one of the amendments just specifies that the Friends of Mount Tabor Park, the duly recognized entity of the Parks Bureau, would be included in our consultations. Do you have an objection to that? I don't have an objection. I do not. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, I'm Rachel Dalkus, a Mount Tabor resident as well. And just keeping it short and sweet here, I'm here to support the resolution without the amendments. And I believe that the plan to keep water in the reservoirs will uphold the integrity of these historic structures in a much loved Portland park.
 And so I urge you and ask you to approve this and move forward, please, and thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Next three are Mark Coleman, Crystal, and Paul Cienfuegos. And they will be followed by Floyd Jones, Teresa Roberts, and Charles Johnson. Crystal here? Okay, let's go ahead and go with Paul Cienfuegos. Yes.
 I was third, not first. Yes, I think you need to call one more after that. Coach Floyd? I'm Mark. I could go. Floyd can come on up. I'll be brief. My name is Mark Coleman. I'm a citizen. I'm very concerned about the water issue, and I believe that the agreement as written before the amendments is what should be approved. Thank you. Thanks very much. Paul, good morning. I'm Paul Cienfuegos, resident of Mount Tabor.
 I don't understand how Nick Fish can put forward six amendments that are supposed to be passed today in a rushed manner when even the MTNA's negotiators have not seen them until now. I think this is just again a classic example of why the public isn't trusting the city at this point around this issue. I oppose all of the amendments until the MTNA has had a chance to review them properly.
 Thousands of us in the city understand that it's been ridiculous to disconnect our beloved reservoirs from the city water distribution system, merely because our city government has not been willing to fight for our right to keep them in open air. I'm mostly coming up here today to announce that if and when any further legal challenges to the disconnection of the reservoirs are resolved,
 through lawsuits or anything else, that there will be massive, nonviolent, ongoing civil disobedience actions planned to protect our reservoirs from disconnection and that you can expect that. And I would welcome anyone in the room today who is listening to this to get in touch with me today and to sign up for ongoing massive civil disobedience when necessary after all lawsuits are concluded. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning.
 Yes, Floyd Jones representing Friends of the Reservoirs. And Friends of the Reservoirs have examined many Water Bureau resolutions, ordinances, and land use decisions over the last 20 years.
 Leonard justified the spending of a half million dollars on a CH2M Hill constructed house at Pell Butte by saying it was locally mandated. Let's talk about the resolution. Well, it's related to this. So we support including the requirements in the land use process. We think that's important.
 And we previously, Friends of the Reservoirs, previously negotiated, co-authored the Reservoir Panel Resolution when the panel found no reason to treat or cover Portland's open reservoirs. We didn't agree with some of the language in the resolution, but the intent was to ensure that the Water Bureau cooperated with community stakeholders and did not unilaterally develop a fast-track reservoir burial plan. It was to ensure that it would be
 developed with the community to represent community interest and the water bureau defined that resolution
 You know, and now we're to accept that in this case, because we've unilaterally and co-authored, you know, because we've co-authored a resolution that it's going to be different. And I, you know, we don't have time to go into the case of after we announced that we received a variance on the treatment plant. Then within days, the Water Bureau's in Clackamas County with no announcement to any stakeholders
 pursuing a land use process that supported a treatment plant and a number of other projects.
 I'll submit this written testimony to you later, but I too, not realizing that you were going to vote today, I too have submitted amendments and they're friendly amendments and they just address the whereas issues and they were written so that, you know, it further support the intent. The whereas Mount Tabor community members and many other community organizations, that should be added. It certainly hasn't just been Mount Tabor. I submitted in the land use process a list of 30 organizations
 consistently signed on to either our letters or written letters to council and the U.S. congressional delegation opposing covering, burying the reservoirs. And you have a whereas that addresses the March 209 that council approved that. There was no resolution or ordinance then. It was simply a report to council and that report supported building a filtration plant.
 But the most important, I think, is to eliminate the whereas that supports the reservoir locations may be needed for future additional development.
 I mean, that's always been the Water Bureau's push is that they want to demolish the reservoirs at Mount Tabor and buried storage. Obviously, with the plan they've put together now, we'll have 50 million gallons less storage, demolishing at Kelly Butte, building at Washington Park, and at Powell Butte. So there's not going to be a need for a future generation building at Mount Tabor, and it would give some confidence, you know, to the community to eliminate that whereas. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. Okay. Next. Sorry. The last three are Teresa Roberts, Charles Johnson, and Steve Entwistle, Sr. Okay. Come on up, please. Hi. Good morning. My name is Teresa Roberts. I'm a voter in the 97219 District.
 There is a really high level of distrust in this room the last-minute Introduction of amendments is not helping the situation Everything is starting to feel rushed and fast-tracked again I really know that you are anxious to put this to bed, and I can well understand that but
 I think that we need more time to digest. I think we need more public input. And if you are going to approve this resolution today,
 I would urge that you not include the amendments, but if you are favoring that one change that keeps coming up about the co-reporting, that you go ahead and craft a change into the resolutions. I think that introducing amendments at this point is undermining of the trust. It makes things feel very uncomfortable. And also, there was a mention just now of friendly amendments that we haven't even heard and that you're not considering.
 I would also like to say that I do not appreciate Nick Fish's rudeness to Commissioner Fritz in council and on record. This is not the first time that it has happened. Thank you.
 And I think this is going to become a feminist issue. I have also noticed a certain level of rudeness towards Ms. Floyd and that the statement she made to councils last week, several weeks ago in the morning, in the afternoon, people were told to disregard them because they hadn't been made by a certain deadline. I think that everyone on this commission should be recognized as a professional
 And I think that the commissioner's status as a former muckety-muck has no bearing on the proceedings today. It was inappropriate, unnecessary, and Commissioner Frist was just trying to keep us on track so that you could meet with the Pope. And I am offended. Thank you. Go ahead, Steve. Good morning, Commissioner's Mayor. My name is Stephen Antwistle, Sr. I'm founder of the Oregon Healing Man Sanctuary.
 A place where people can recuperate from the trauma that they receive in the city. And also suicide prevention. This whole water deal, just as a big picture, is wrong. And we demand that you stop this. History will prove that this is the wrong thing to do. And to run this through so fast as you guys are doing the way that you're doing it is just absolutely wrong.
 And City Council, especially Nick Fish, arrogance is very apparent. If you guys want to take a good look, you need to take a really good hard look at what's happening at Pal Butte right now as far as their manufacturing this so-called underground containment vessel for water.
 and see what the problems that they're dealing with, and see if these companies and these people that are building these things actually have any kind of shining example of how one really is going to work. They don't. Not even in Washington, not in Oregon, nowhere. It's a boondoggle. The whole thing about this water is a huge boondoggle, and it makes it to where a whole bunch of maintenance folks can get a whole bunch of jobs doing maintenance. It's wrong. It's wrong.
 It's always been wrong. This is wrong from the start. I'm running for mayor, and I would never, ever in a million years, ever even consider this whole proposal. But you guys have sold out because you guys really don't care about Portland. It's apparent. It's very obvious. And you wonder why we don't trust you? You don't trust us. Why should we trust somebody that doesn't trust us? That's pretty stupid. I don't trust any of you.
 Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning, commissioners. Not so much for the record, but because it's basically respectful to the people in the audience and watching. My name is Charles Johnson. And although I frequently ride by Mount Tabor Presbyterian Church where the MTNA meets, I don't often go in to help them work on these issues, but I still think that I speak for many of the people living up on Mount Tabor when we say...
 Don't be shy to take it to the 40 plus attorneys that work in the city attorney's office. This idea of amendments, if any amendment that wasn't fully endorsed by Stephanie and Don Smallman and everybody with the MTNA, if any amendment is approved by you that was not vigorously endorsed by the MTNA,
 I hope that the neighbors will rally to litigate against you. It's disgusting behavior to have these long negotiations in Gatehouse 5 and where else, and then have these last-minute amendments to decrease the power of the people and the protection of public resources. It's incredibly ironic that now we're all, hooray, let's get the Public Utility, Citizen Utility Board people to say things. Because if they were going to say anything, I believe they would have said,
 this whole process is ridiculous the best use of city resources would have been to legally resist the lt2 that's when we should have listened to the people who do things like the citizens utility board um ms roberts comments need to be re-echoed on the issue of when humor overflows into the area of sexism and disrespect so i hope that she and other people will rally to make sure that there's no
 Sexism so blatantly displayed again on this disproportionately male body. Thank you for your hard work, Mr. President. I do believe that even the rookie is a professional. So I hope that the MTNA representatives will be called back to the table at the end of public testimony and that the record will become very clear. We do know that this is basic shenanigans to avoid
 litigation. The avoidance of litigation should never be the primary motive of human beings. I think we stopped being human at that point. The MTNA needs to fight for what is right to the extent they're willing to go. Many of us wish that they would have put more political pressure to challenge this whole boodoggle in the beginning and that they'll partner with people on the West Side to avoid the ridiculous destruction of functional reservoirs there.
 But I look forward to respectfully embracing the MTNA representatives and for the City Council to follow their guidance as to what is an acceptable result and if it's not acceptable to the MTNA, don't vote for it. Thank you very much. Thank you for listening. Thank you. Okay, is that complete, the sign-up sheet? That's all who signed up. Okay, so I think Commissioner Fish, you wanted to call the MTNA representatives back up and let's take up the question of these amendments.
 Based on the testimony and further conversations, I think we can dispose of the amendments as follows. With a colloquy and with a one-sentence addition that is proposed by the MTNA. So I propose as follows. First to withdraw amendments one through five.
 Second, to confirm with Stephanie Stewart that in the course of the consultative process, they will work closely with the Friends of Mount Tabor Park. Stephanie? Yes, we'd be happy to do that. That's natural for us. Thank you. And third, there is in paragraph 28, there is no reference currently to annual hearings before council. So I would propose a friendly amendment.
 that does not change the existing language but specifies that in addition to the six-month written reports, there shall be an annual hearing before council and before the pub with respect to these issues.
 I think that that strengthens this language, so I would support that. That, Mayor, is an addition, which I offer as a friendly amendment to paragraph 28, in lieu of Amendment 6. I'm happy to second that package. So the proposer, actually Robert's rule says the proposer of the amendments withdraws and the seconder agrees, and that was me. So...
 proposed in addition. I know, but now let's get to that. So can we get language for the new version of Amendment 6? Yes, Mayor. So I've withdrawn Amendments 1 through 5. Yes. We have just had a colloquy that with respect to Friends of Mount Tabor Park. Right. And we will add in Amendment 6 after the language concerning a joint semi-annual report a joint semi-annual written report to City Council documenting compliance
 and as well as an annual presentation to City Council and the Portland Utility Board. Just a clarification, Commissioner, is that an amendment to your amendment or to the resolution? No, it's just a resolution. Thank you. And all we're simply adding is we're clarifying that there will be, every six months, a written report that is done in conjunction with the MTNA, and every year,
 at least every year, there shall be a hearing before the council and the Portland Utility Board. Yeah, so on the second line of that, be it further resolved afterwards, semi-annual, there's the addition of the word written. And then after a final summary report submitted by December 31st,
 No, actually it would be before that, after the word resolution, as well as an annual presentation to the Citizens Utility Board and the City Council. No, we're not putting the Citizens Utility Board in there. I'm sorry. I said pub. I meant pub. Sorry. Sorry.
 Portland Utility Board. My acronym's right. I don't have the latest copy of the resolution. Was the pub in there? I view that as a friendly... He included the pub. The pub. Was the pub in the original resolution? No, the pub is something they're adding...
 And we would be fine with that. We're saying that the Bureau will present first to the City Council and then to the Portland Utility Board annually on this issue. So we have two levels. You're okay with that? Thank you. Okay. I view that as a friendly amendment. Okay. So Commissioner Fish moves and Commissioner Fritz seconds that amendment. Is there further discussion on the adoption of that amendment? Any further concerns about that amendment on your part, John? Not at all. We appreciate Commissioner Fish's comments.
 We appreciate Commissioner Fish withdrawing the amendments and changing them this way. It really shows a lot of respect for the process that we've been through, and we do appreciate that. Thank you very much. Anything else that any of you need to add before we take action on the resolution? Thank you.
 So let's take a roll call vote on the resolution as amended, unless you have something further. I did have a question for the Water Bureau. As similar to Commissioner Fisk asking the neighborhood association, would you collaborate with the Friends of Mount Tabor Park, which of course you do. I did appreciate the amendment number four and five, which specified talking to Portland Parks and Recreation. I'm assuming that the Water Bureau will continue to partner with Portland Parks and Recreation. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Okay, great. Let's take a vote on the resolution as amended. Saltzman? This is the whole thing? Yes. Just on the amendment. No, no, this is as amended. We've already adopted the amendment, I believe. Did we? Sorry, let's adopt the amendment. We're going to be amended. Sorry, just got ahead of myself. We're voting on the amendment. Okay, the amendment, aye. Six. Novick? Aye. Brits? Aye. Fish? Thank you, Stephanie and John. Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, now on the resolution. Saltzman?
 Well, I want to thank the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association and the Water Bureau and all the people who have been active on these issues for so many years. I guess that includes myself, so I should thank myself for some 12 years of involvement in this issue. I'm glad to see it finally come to a good compromise and that we'll keep water in the reservoirs, not drinking water in the reservoirs, but water.
 and will maintain the aesthetics, and the council does commit to making certain historic renovations to the reservoirs and respecting their status as historical landmarks. So this is a great process. My only lingering concern, though, is that, and that was somewhat in the questioning I was asking about the disconnection, and the applicability of the long LT2 rule is that,
 You know I just hope this isn't going to be spun as well We're just buying time till the day when the lt2 rule goes away. I mean it's been through several presidents It's been a rule. I don't makes common sense to me You shouldn't have water drinking water in an open setting so I hope this won't be spun as we're just buying time and
 And as soon as the LT2 rule goes away, we're going to fill those reservoirs back up with drinking water. I don't think that's the intent, but I just hope that's not, I really hope that's not how it gets spun either, this compromise. And I'm very pleased to support it and thank, again, all the efforts that have gone into this. All right. Novick. Please, folks, let people vote. I really appreciate everybody's hard work, but I'm concerned about making a $4 million commitment like this outside the normal budget process. So I vote nay.
 What a wonderful day to now be the commissioner in charge of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. Thank you so much for the work that both the Water Bureau and the Neighborhood Association has done on this project. I appreciate Commissioner Fish's framing in terms of the Iran agreement.
 It's great that you have worked so hard and gotten to this result. And I want to also recognize, as well as Stephanie Stewart and John Larson, Dolce Molyneux and Paul Leissner, who were involved in the discussions to get to the original land use application, which, by the way, we won't be voting on the land use application today. We'll be moving it to findings, and there'll be a vote later. So I'm going to make my comments now in case I'm out of town when the –
 Land use case comes back. But it's really significant that you were able to do this. And did you use the same mediator for this process? No mediator. You did it all by yourselves. That is really impressive. That's terrific. Thank you very much for all of your hard work. Thanks to all the community members who care so passionately about this. Friends of Mountain Table Park who work so hard with the Weed Warriors and others.
 This is a special place, and we all recognize it's a special place, and with this resolution, which doesn't specify how we're going to pay for that $4 million, so that's a conversation in the budget process, which is the appropriate place for it to have, that we need to recognize that we have historic resources, which we are required to take care of, and we need to commit this. It's actually less than the $8 million that was demanded –
 by the Historic Landmarks Commission under their proposal. So this is a really good result. I thank Commissioner Fish for his willingness to work through the amendments, and Patty Howard on my staff has worked really hard on this issue for six and a half years now. So we very much appreciate all of – I very much appreciate all of the work that's been done. Hi. Fish? Hi.
 This issue has been at the forefront of this city since the early 1990s, and I have had the honor of being the commissioner in charge of the Water Bureau now for about two years. I wasn't sure we would ever reach this day, but the reason we have reached this day is primarily because of the four people sitting before us who, when directed by the council to sit down and work through their differences and try to reach a collaborative agreement, did so.
 and they did so without being entirely clear what the ground rules were, and as Commissioner Fritz has now surfaced, without a mediator, and they tackled issues that have eluded people in this city for a long time in terms of getting to yes. And so I want to begin, John and Stephanie, to thank you profoundly for your public service, and since when David officially retires, you're still stuck with me,
 I want to be very clear on the record that the Portland Water Bureau will honor this agreement, and I will faithfully enforce the terms of this agreement, both the letter and the spirit. And this is a milestone for this council and for the relationship between the city and our friends in Mount Tabor over an issue that people are passionate about, their historic reservoirs. And so I thank you. To David Schaaf and to Teresa and to the team that have been working on this,
 You have our thanks. David, this is among the last official acts you'll be part of. And someone had said earlier that I need to make sure the next director is briefed on this. Well, as luck would have it, I will be meeting with candidates this week, and I promise you I will be making sure that they're aware of this agreement and of the council's commitment because this will endure past David's service.
 The other indispensable person in this for me has been my partner and friend, Commissioner Amanda Fritz. And it was not always the case that Commissioner Fritz and the Water Bureau were said in the same sentence in a way that brought smiles to people's face. But her collaboration and her leadership on this issue is one of the reasons we are at this point.
 And I thank her for the advice and the counsel and the support she's given me as we've worked through very difficult issues and very complicated issues. And this entire process, to the extent there are things about this we celebrate, I think reflect the values that she brings to this council and the benefit that she provides to our city through her service. So I want to thank Commissioner Fritz. And then going forward, I think this is a new day. We have an agreement.
 and now the hard part comes, we have to actually enforce it. And we're not going to do that by anything other than rolling up our sleeves and doing a lot of work together. But based on what I have seen in the last few months, I am incredibly optimistic that this relationship is going to work for the benefit not only of a park we love and a water system that we are charged with being good stewards of, but for a city that's watching to see whether we can resolve our differences in a respectful and amicable way.
 So thank you, and I want to thank my colleagues and thank everyone who's testified and participated in this process. And today I'm very proud to vote aye. Hales? Well, first, nicely done. It's not every bureau director who gets to retire with this kind of a flourish, David. So well done to you and Teresa and your team. This is the way our city bureaus ought to work with the community. And I think you heard in this room here today that some trust has been rebuilt where it had been frayed, and that's a good thing.
 And this is a good agreement and a good resolution to this concern and what was a conflict. But there's some bigger traditions at work here, and I think there are at least a couple. I know there are at least a couple of us here, Commissioner Fritz and I I was thinking about in particular, who got started in civic life by volunteering to be involved in their neighborhood associations.
 And one of the traditions that's at work here is that the neighborhood associations are influential. And, in fact, the city council has been deliberate about that over the years, even though the mayor at the time of the office, creation of the office of neighborhood associations, a guy named Frank Ivancy, voted against it and said, we're funding the opposition. I guess he was partly right about that, at least at times, but that was the point, that neighborhoods have standing.
 politically and they have standing legally that we give our neighborhood associations the right of appeal with no cost on land use cases and this Is why because every now and then it has to come to a land use appeal so this is a validation of The clout that people have when they get involved in their neighborhood association and dig into an issue and I want to thank all of you here from Mount Tabor and other neighborhoods that continue to do that because it continues to work and
 Second tradition here, and I guess I want to offer my reassurance and in addition to the two most important words that were spoken today and those were when David Schaff said part of the reassurance that I want to add is that the City Council of the City of Portland makes financial commitments and keeps them and
 And my job, part of my job as mayor is to propose a budget each year. And what the last line of this says is that the financial obligations and other commitments approved by this resolution are binding city policy. I want you to know that I take those words very seriously, and this city council, when we make a financial commitment, whether it's to a school district or to a county when they need our help building, say, a new Selwood Bridge,
 to a nonprofit when the Chinese garden has a leaking pond and it needs to be fixed or central city concern wants to keep a shelter open when we make a commitment to a government or a nonprofit we stick to it and the same thing with neighborhood associations when the Cully neighborhood and other civic groups said we want to actually get the city's help to buy a noxious strip club and turn it into something better we have been good for that commitment and when we told the Buckeye
 neighborhood and other lovers of the Buckman pool. We're done with holding that up every year as a budget target. You can count on it. We're good for that, too. So I want you to know we're good for this, that we will find the resources to make good on this commitment because that's what we should do to honor the good work that you've done. So thank you. Well done.
 So, Mayor, we have one more piece of work to do. Yes, the land use decision itself. And I believe, David, I think we should recognize you. Yes, there is an agreed-upon amendment to the HLC, the Historic Landmarks Commission, decision where we are asking that you accept in part and reject in part both appeals and adopt an amended Condition B.
 and delete condition E. And we are, and I'll let Stephanie speak for us as well, but we are in agreement that this is the appropriate language and commitment in condition B, keeping the reservoirs full and then eliminating condition E. Just to clarify it, is our intention to maintain all other conditions that were included in the decision?
 Correct. That's correct. Yeah, the only ones we change are these. That's right. So, Mayor, I have a motion to offer. So, Commissioner Fish? I move that we accept the amendments and that the Council tentatively grants in part and denies in part the appeals of the Water Bureau and the MTNA, affirms the Historic Landmark Commission's decision to approve the application for historic resource review and environmental review with modifications.
 and direct staff to prepare findings for council adoption. Is there a second? Second. Second. I need to ask the city attorney, do we have to take testimony on the amendment? The amendments reflect much of the discussion that happened at the last hearing, so there's nothing in there that's new or surprising. It's intended to reflect that testimony, so no, I do not believe you do. Thank you. Further discussion on the amendment, then roll call on adopting the amendment.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Well, it's on the whole motion. It's the whole motion, Mayor. I'm sorry. We don't have to amend the decision first, or this is an amended decision? This is an amended decision. So one vote is all you need. I stand corrected. We're voting on an amended tentative decision subject to findings. Okay. If everyone understands that, we'll continue with the roll call now that I do. Fritz?
 So thank you very much, Hilary Adam and Tim Herron, for your great staff work. It is with regret that I am no longer your commissioner in charge, and I really appreciate all of the work that you have done on this, including the most contentious findings I have ever remembered in 20-plus years of participating in land use reviews. So again, thank you to the Neighborhood Association for making this hearing and this process full of decorum. And thank you for your work on the amendment. Aye.
 I'd also like to do a shout out to the City Attorney's Office, Lindley Reese and others. This has been extremely complicated and challenging, and we get great service from the City Attorney's Office, so thank you. Thanks again. Aye. Hales. Excellent professional work and a good decision. Thank you. Aye. Thank you all. Subject to findings, so when would you like those to be back? Okay.
 Sorry, there it goes. But we don't need all five of us here. Not to adopt findings. We don't, but in terms of these are going to be fairly detailed findings. Therefore, I think August 19th works best for staff and our office. Is there, I don't know if anybody's talked about any other date. That's the only date I'd heard of. Of course, I'm still here. I don't know.
 Okay. Sounds still here. Okay. So we'll set the adoption of findings for August 19th at? 11 a.m. 11 a.m.? Okay. Okay. Let's take a two-minute recess. Two minutes. Really, really two minutes. We're going to lose the mayor. No, no. I'm just getting people out. Let people leave the room, and then we'll go. And we're going to take that item up next, assuming no one has a problem with that. All right.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 okay who are the next three please the next three please come on up are michael speed edson buchanan and makhtar abdow and they will be followed by april klein jeanette thebert and vivian catlaps commissioner saltzman will be joining us in a minute please get going okay thank you very much for having me my name is michael speed and i am a resident here in portland first and foremost i want to say that i'm definitely not against the taxi cab service
 They're very instrumental into the city as far as transportation. However, I do challenge them to do this to perhaps up their game. Maybe it's time for them to evolve. Competition in any industry is healthy. We have a rating system, so if we're not up to par, if we're not doing what we need to do, we will be taken out of the system. So it gives us an incentive to offer the best service that we possibly can on every trip.
 All of our customers, all the customers that I've had have been very excited to get into the car. We become buddies. Every day I'm meeting new friends, buddies, and they're very excited when we drop them off. I have not heard any negative reports. Unfortunately, I have heard quite a few negative reports from the taxi industry, individuals not being able to get picked up, and various other issues.
 So I just, like I said, I want to reemphasize the fact that it's time to evolve. Perhaps there's a rating system that the cab services can use to up their game and provide a better service. But I think there's plenty of room for all of us here to offer this service. Thank you. Hi, my name is Upton Buchanan. I've been a Lyft driver for about six weeks now.
 And to begin with, I just want to say that the taxi company or service was asking to give you guys an insight of what's happening out there. And they're asking you guys to go out there. I'll give you a little bit of an insight from myself. I've done about 215 lifts.
 and out of 215, around 80% says that they're very happy to, actually 100% says they're very happy to have us here. 80% says that they no longer will use a taxi service simply because the taxi service is just not run very well. They said that the average wait time is between 30 to 45 minutes. I had one gentleman that was actually ride up by radio cab. He went in and asked can I get a cab. They said it's still gonna be about 30 minute wait.
 And then he hit me up. I was right around the corner, picked him up, took him home, and he explained to me what happened. The second thing is as a Lyft driver, any time – not any time, but a majority of the time when a taxi cab sees me, they definitely give me the number one finger saying that I'm number one on their book for taking their business. So, you know, they're –
 For me, as a person who has three kids and a wife, I needed to find a job where I was going to be able to work around my schedule. So for your question, I like to be an independent contractor. With three kids and the cost of daycare and everything else, it just adds up. So it's hard to find a job that's going to cover all that. An independent contractor job definitely has helped my family. Just to clarify, you could –
 work irregular hours and work part-time and still be an employee in the sense you be guaranteed minimum wage and have your employer have to contribute to workers comp and unemployment insurance and things like that. Well I mean, if they're set hours then that really wouldn't work for me just because of my wife's schedule.
 Yeah, I'm just saying that the idea of being an employee is not inconsistent, does not require having set hours. You could have unset hours just for every hour you work, be guaranteed a certain wage. Oh, okay. Well, if that was the case, then I would be for either or. Okay. Thank you. Good evening, all of you, our commissioners. First, I want to thank you guys for last time you guys you forced us to work inside Borderline. You changed our life.
 Give us your name, please. My name is Mukhtar Abdo. I'm one of the immigrants from Somalia. So I want to tell you, since you guys, you vote for Uber to let us to work inside Portland, that is a big change to our life. So now we work everywhere, plus our life change. I never have a saving account. Now I have a saving account every week. I don't go somewhere else or asking paycheck. I see my bank, they deposit like everything.
 big check. I worked Alaska. I went to survive. I came, I worked
 translation company, I work any company, I never seen big paycheck like Uber. I can let them even take my money, 30 percent, I can let them because the way they change our life. So I never drive a nice car. Now I'm driving nice car, my life changed totally. Plus, most of VT from Somalia or Ethiopia, anywhere, they quit driving from the cab companies who they used to rip their pocket.
 and took all the money they work, but now there's only 20% and wherever we go,
 Like, let's show up everywhere, we get 15% to 20% tire change. All our wheel is new, inspection, background check, everything is great. And now since you guys let us work in Portland, we know there is too many people even moving from outside, they know Portland is the opportunity of the human. It's not only one particular ethnic, it's like a human being place.
 I was the community leader in Portland, Oregon for Somali, part of Somali then. Now we re-register our organization since for the last three years. We could not afford to work full-time. Now I wake up anytime I want, I work, I have a good paycheck, but as we register our organization called Somali American Cultural Network. So we work full-time, we work part-time.
 We have a chance, our kid. My daughter told me when she see me all the time, when she see a clean car, I'm driving, she tell me, Baba, keep it, keep it. That means even this holiday, we have holidays coming. We celebrating in good way, better than the way we used to have. And money drivers, why they quit? Because they see big money in Uber. So nobody want die while they have a big car.
 net on the top of the company owners. They're sitting and relaxing. They don't work. We are the one who is stressed in the street Portland and they're collecting while they're in the bed. And 24 hours they find us and then they took our money.
 zero working. So now... Your time is up. Thank you very much. Our life is changed. Oprah is always up. I get that. Thank you so much. I just want to remind everybody that you can also submit testimony in writing and that this is a midpoint report. We'll have another hearing in August. Next three, please. Are April Klein, Jeanette Thebert, and Vivian Katlaps...
 and they'll be followed by Becky Haggerty, Hatem Bacarby, and Joseph Vera. I'm April Klein. I'm the wife of Bert Fox, who has driven for Radio Cab, owner-operator for 30 years. He can't be here today because of a medical procedure. I am retired, so he is the sole breadwinner in our family.
 And his income, our income has been reduced greatly since Uber has come in, especially any of the credit card stuff that goes through Uber instead of coming to radio. And before Uber, he was able to work eight hours a day.
 and we were able to have a living wage, and now he has to work 10 hours a day, and he can't work extra days because of his health. He's a transplant recipient. He has a lot of health issues ongoing. And another point I'd like to make is that in the last hearing that you had, I was here, and I remember you, Ms. Fritz, were asking a lot of questions about,
 How do we know that Uber drivers are actually paying for their licenses, actually paying their taxes? Three taxes that we pay every year, a lot of them. The metro, the county and TriMet. And the answer that day, and I don't know if it's any better is,
 You don't really know because you can't trust Uber's figures. You don't trust them to be truthful and share with you. And, I lost myself. I'm sorry. Okay, so I would like to, if that continues, I would like it that we don't have to pay taxes. Let's put it that way. There's no way that you will know whether they're paying. I know what they said. They said, well,
 If we stop an Uber driver for something else and we ask them for their license and they don't have one, then we will give them two weeks to get it. If you were an Uber driver, would you volunteer to pay your taxes? Probably not. Thank you very much.
 Hi, my name is Vivian Ketlaps. So my first group of questions really are concerning the environmental impacts of Uber, and I'm wondering what methods are being taken. I saw that in the paper release that there's possibly going to be a plan that would take one to two years.
 maybe involving Portland State University to evaluate those things. But I have some questions here for the city. I'm wondering if you've spoken to DEQ about the impact of additional drivers, being Uber and Lyft, on already congested areas, considering the traffic conditions in Portland and also the effect of car exhaust in the environment.
 I'm wondering, does the addition of more than a thousand new cars on the road affect Clean Air Act attainment, vehicle trip reduction over time? Cars are now operating as independent commercial transportation vehicles and in addition to that there are many, many brand new cars that have been purchased for the purpose of driving for TNCs that have been advertised by Uber. They are now being sold to other companies.
 are often encouraging people to look into it even if they don't own a car. So that's just adding to the problem that we already have here in Portland.
 Has the city council discussed, or the city discussed impacts to current road and bridge conditions based on previously unexpected additional individual vehicle trips? Have you talked with ODOT and what they're expecting having all of these people who are under the guise of ride sharing or what is it carpooling but really they're entering their vehicles with the intention and purpose of making money by transporting individuals mostly.
 And then, does the addition of city approved additional transportation service violate local, state, or federal agreements with TriMet? Are my tax dollars going to be scuttled after all of the new additions with building a new MAX and how is that affecting transportation within the city? Are they going to be null and void?
 Would the approval of a new non-environmentally friendly transportation system change future use and growth models for mass transit systems throughout the metro area? Have we planned for this? And lastly, has the United States EPA agreed with the concept that free market growth of personal transportation options is operable within the nationally established pollution reduction strategies? They're all great questions. Thank you very much. Thank you. Commissioners, thank you for all your time and energy.
 Commissioner Salzman, you asked at the last meeting to know how this process would affect drivers. So my answer for you is this. I understand why TNC drivers love their new jobs. They love their new jobs for the same reason that cab drivers have classically, historically loved our jobs.
 great social interaction, flexibility, independence. It's a great fallback job. In fact, my career as a cab driver started as a fallback job and it's been twice as long as the career that I had prior. It's good part-time and can be a great full-time position. Unfortunately right now there's still serious systemic disparity in the process. I can list that
 later, starting with insurance. But the biggest piece is that some corporations are still acting like teenagers and others are asked to take responsibility, to step up. I drive a wave vehicle, wheelchair accessible vehicle, to give you a snapshot of the quality difference of my life in the last year. May of last year, I have a beautiful home. It is very much a refuge for me.
 I also had a space downtown because after the second or third time I got caught in huge traffic I decided I needed that. I worked three and a half days and then I put the cab in the shop on the fourth day. That was a full week. And then I took three days off. This May I have cut my I had to let go of the space that I had so my commute time has increased. I have cut my living expenses.
 30 to 50 percent and even without all of that responsibility the only way that I am surviving right now is on my savings from last year and prior and the fact that I now have four adults living in a one-bedroom home sharing the cost of living I don't know how much longer this is gonna last for me if I make it through the end of this grand experiment I will be blessed
 When I brought up that family discussion for me two weeks ago was whether or not to apply for food stamps and I happened to be at the task force meeting and the head of that meeting encouraged me to do so. I think there's a systemic problem in how we're addressing this because if rather than
 creating good solutions, we're just going to start encouraging more and more people to apply for food stamps as a solution to having a functioning transportation network. Look, I've been out working. I've been taking the orders that billion-dollar corporations told me yesterday. Oh, we have difficulty. We can't do that. Really? I figured out how.
 If a multimillion-dollar corporation can't figure out how to take care of people across this town, whether they be able-bodied or in a heavy wheelchair or in a folding wheelchair, if they can't do it, why can they take the rest of the business that supports my ability to do the work that needs to be done? I'm working for as long as I can.
 And then I may park the car, declare bankruptcy, and let some, Commissioner Hales has someplace else to be, maybe when he gets back. He wants to be a TNC driver and I'll volunteer my van and he can pick up people. Thank you very much for your testimony. Next three please. The next three are Becky Haggerty, Hatem Bukabi, and Joseph Vera.
 and they'll be followed by Steve Entler, Heather Dunn, and Jonathan Olson. Go ahead, this man. My name is Becky Haggerty, and I am an Uber driver.
 I've been driving for the past couple months and I have to say it's been a highly positive experience. I spent 17 years working for an assisted living company as a risk manager and was laid off a year ago. After exhausting all my unemployment benefits and my savings account, it came to the point where something had to happen and the work just wasn't out there.
 And that's why I drive. I have, I choose the hours I want to work. I can supplement our income. My husband works from home. We have one car. So I only can drive, you know, maybe 20 hours a week, but that's also by choice. I have utmost respect for all the cab drivers in the room.
 And I also have a newfound understanding of what it means to sit in a car for five to eight or longer hours a day. It's hard. It's hard work on the body. Driving in traffic is also very demanding. But with the freedom of being an independent contractor, which is what I would prefer to be, I know that when I'm tired and I shouldn't be on the road anymore, I tap off and I go home.
 And that means that I'm safe and everyone else is safe. I've had the most positive experience with people coming to Portland. And I would say that 90% of my passengers are not from Portland. They are here visiting this lovely city that I call home. I've been in for 20 years. And they come here from New York, from Seattle, from LA, from all over the place. And they're here and they love... They use Uber somewhere else or they use Lyft somewhere else. And they're just happy that we're here.
 And that's pretty much what I have to say. It has been, you know, I drive by choice, but I also drive because I have to. You know, it supplements our income. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, my name is Joseph Vera, and I just want to thank the council for letting me speak also. I'm a retired Marine. I've been retired since 2001. And I'm glad to be here in the Oregon area. I left California six months ago.
 But I'm happy that I finally got work with Uber. I haven't had any work until now, until last week. It's only been a short week, but I'm happy that I have money coming in. I find it difficult because other people haven't hired me, but Uber has. And what I like is the freedom that they have. And the reason I left California is because there's too many regulations there.
 Please don't California-cate Oregon. Don't California-cate Oregon, please. That's all I've got to say. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for your service. The next three are Steve Entler, Heather Dunn, I believe is the last name, and Jonathan Olson, and they'll be followed by Jeff Payne, Joseph Accord, and Mohamed Abonar. Good afternoon. So my name is Steve Entler. I'm the manager of Radio Cab.
 I've been a resident since 1944, and I think that makes me the oldest guy testifying today. I also am a combat veteran of six years, Vietnam era, just to make things equal. So I testified at the, I think it was the April 21st meeting in city council, and I brought up the issue of the fact that most of the cab companies don't gather data in exactly the same way.
 That got largely ignored and of course the task force went ahead and made the requirement exactly as spoon fed to them by the TNCs. So the report that you got to look at today kind of started out with saying there was an inequity in the way that the reporting went and the fact that they only got it from three of the cab companies.
 We're already, they should have been aware already there was going to be difficulties and instead of the report kind of made us look kind of bad. Also the fact that they weren't putting in the prearranged time calls and reservations and stuff kind of threw things off as far as response time levels.
 I think they didn't know how to deal with the fact that you know in a prearranged time call with the cab shows up Early does that count as a negative time and how does that factor into the equation? So just a few things already So I also have a little bit of a different view about the fun. That's being trying to they're trying to pursue to Help the wheelchair accessible
 availability here in Portland. You know, 25 years ago, that was never discussed. It was left up to the cab companies to find their own way of making the accessible service
 Funded you know we all have the ability to and especially right now to change the race that we charge the public Change the fees that we charge the kiddies and making it different levels and the TNC companies also have the ability to Change the percentage is that they rake off of the drivers, and they could have non accessible wheelchair customer providers ride-sharing service providers charged a different rate and
 than the ones that provide accessible service. They all have the ability to do that and to create a whole new level of bureaucracy here at the city in a PBOT collecting funds and then going through some grant process to redistribute it to the companies just doesn't make any sense. Thank you for your testimony. We're happy to take more suggestions in writing. Thank you.
 Hi, good afternoon. My name is Heather Dunn. I'm also a veteran. I'm a former military spouse. And I want to talk about the sociological stance with Uber as far as Uber has given me the ability to, as a single mom, as a single parent, be able to make my own schedule, be able to pick up my son, etc.
 It's also, you know, there's no age discrimination. There's no class discrimination. There's no discrimination whatsoever with Uber. As far as, you know, you go to a job. I moved eight times in three years with the military. Now, I don't have ten years of history of employment. I go to Uber. I apply. I get hired.
 Um, that's huge for especially military families who have been shipped around the United States for years and years. We want to talk about the, the, you know, food stamp issue. Guess what? I'm not on food stamps anymore because of Uber. Um, my son gets to see me when, when he goes on the school bus in the morning and he gets to see me when, when he gets off the bus. I can't say that there's been any other job that I've ever held that I've been able to do that.
 I'm there for my son at all times. Yes, I work for Uber, but I've done 7,000 miles with Uber since it started. I've done 553 trips and I have an average of 4.94. So I can say that if it weren't for Uber, I probably would be back on food stamps. Thank you. Thank you and thank you for your service. Next three. Oh, I'm sorry. Let me bring up my statement here.
 I'd like to start off by saying I too am also a veteran of eight years. So we're all veterans here at this table. All right. Could you introduce your name please? My name is Jonathan Olson and I have lived in and around the Portland area for over 30 years and I've been a professional driver as a courier for over eight years. I started driving for Uber in Salem over four months ago when the service became available in Portland, I started driving here. I do this as a full-time job. This is not a novelty for me.
 My passengers consistently tell me they love Uber and Lyft services. Many of them tell me that they intend to never use a traditional cab service ever again. The reasons are many, including but not limited to the general perception of poor service, rude dispatchers, and occasional no-shows. My customers praise the convenience and response time of rideshare services.
 Modern communication technology is changing the world, not just for the for-hire transportation industry. Rideshare as it stands now may not be the future. However, it has become increasingly clear that the traditional cab model also is not the future. Things will change. That change will be painful, as change always is. We must all grow and adapt to the world around us. Dinosaurs did not adapt. Where are they now?
 Thank you very much. Are you done? Sorry. I'm sorry. Commissioner Novick's question. I need to go on to the next set of folks. We've got another 30 people who want to testify. Thank you. The next three are Jeff Payne, Joseph Accord, and Mohamed Abonar, and they'll be followed by Chris McClinahan, John Birch, and John Holgate. So right now we have Jeff Payne, Joseph Accord.
 And Mohammed Abonar. What is Chris McClendon? McClenahan, sorry. Here. We'll come up now. Your name? What's your name? Okay, go ahead. Have a seat. John Birch. Come on up. That's great. Go ahead. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Joseph Accord. I've been an Uber driver since two months now. Aside from a few issues brought up by the third-party company they use for background checks, I've had no issues whatsoever.
 My customers are always telling me how Uber is a breath of fresh air in Portland. They get tired of the one, two, sometimes three hour wait times for a cab. I've had a couple of customers tell me that they've had Radio Cab or one of the other cab companies actually cancel their trips on them without any reason or giving them a call or anything, just cancel their trip.
 and then they're stuck trying to find another way to get around. They have yet to have Uber cancel on them. They really enjoy the five- to ten-minute wait periods for a ride, and generally they're just happy that there's an alternative to the rude dispatchers and drivers that are in Portland now. I don't know how many times I've had a customer tell me how they get sick and tired of having to deal with cab drivers that don't.
 have manners. They think that they're entitled because they have the cab. And I like Uber. If it weren't for Uber, my family and I would be on the streets. I got put on unpaid medical leave from work, and no other company will touch me because I'm on medical leave. And it's for my back. Driving doesn't affect my back. I can drive. And that's how I support my family right now.
 That's about all I got to say about that. Thank you for your testimony. Yes, my name is John Birch and I want to thank you for letting me speak up here. I've been self-employed for most of my adult life and the last job I had as a general contractor I had to close a year and a half ago due to some pretty serious arthritis in which I've had my knees replaced twice and I've got serious arthritis in both my feet.
 I've got a muscle disease that can't be named. And so I spent the last year and a half trying to find a job that would keep my income level where it needs to be and sustain my life and circle that around my medical issues. Pretty impossible task until somebody mentioned Uber. I've been working for Uber, or I've been driving for Uber, excuse me, for two months now.
 My wife is a school bus driver. She's off for the summer. The year and a half that I was unemployed, I've charged up $15,000 in credit cards just to maintain our lifestyle and support our two kids at home. Since driving for Uber, I've been able to pay all the house payments, pay the credit cards with no problem.
 I feel that I'm not here to slam the cab companies. They all need a job and they all need to work. But this has been a monopoly that's been going on for way too long, and they abused it. Just like this gentleman sitting next to me, every day, day in and day out, I hear horror stories about cab companies and how these folks will never ride in one again.
 Now, I agree that maybe the market may be a little saturated with drivers, and maybe there needs to be some kind of balance there. So everybody is a win-win. Thank you very much. I appreciate your testimony. My name is Chris McClenahan. I thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. I'm a new resident of Portland, seven months. I've been working for Uber for two months.
 I think that I would like to, one, confirm the statement by the gentleman in the prior group about change and change management, and I do not envy your responsibilities to resolve this. I would simply ask that you would not resolve it in the favor of anybody in particular except perhaps the City of Portland and provide an effective mechanism to allow competition to occur in this space.
 Believe that I am an independent contractor. I work independently in other pursuits and in this pursuit I would prefer not to be an employee of any company that would provide other services to me as an independent provider
 Thank you. Thank you. I'd just like to make one statement to Mr. Nolik. Actually, we need to go on to the next set of folks. Thank you very much. You're certainly welcome to send in in writing. The next three are John Holgate, Janet Weiser, and Deanne Pettit. We'll go with Timothy James Weller for here. And next up to them are Jan Hoon, Bright Phillips, and Renee Beans.
 If you're upstairs and you've signed up to testify, you might want to come on down. We do have seats downstairs now. Thank you. Please go ahead. Okay. Thank you very much for allowing me this opportunity to speak. My name is John Holgate. I've been a resident of Portland for about a year and a half and a resident of Oregon for about four years now.
 First, I wanted to address Commissioner Novick's question. I did not sign up with Uber to become a W-2 employee. I signed up to become an independent business person. I've been in business for myself already.
 since 100, you know, full time since 2006. And that was one of the things that attracted me to this model was to be able to set my own hours and be able to leverage whatever tax benefits there are working as a sole business person.
 What I wanted to also bring to your attention is that though there's been a lot of tensions in the, you know, between cab drivers and the new TNC industry here, I had an, I experienced a verbal harassment on the road by a radio cab driver on May 8th, about 4.50 in the morning as I was leaving the airport.
 That incident was reported to the Portland Bureau of Transportation and they have since taken appropriate action with that. So I do want to thank the Portland Bureau of Transportation for addressing the issue and taking it seriously. And I just want to let you know that, for myself and I think everybody else here, should take this very seriously that there is no room for harassment.
 while we're at work, especially on the roads where there's very potential dangers that could cause a lot of harm. That said, I...
 Uber has been a big help to me in helping me through a very difficult financial period where my wife had some health issues and I lost some business a couple years ago, and this has been able to help me bottom out and begin to restore some of the lost income that I had. I don't know anything more to say, so I'm going to stop right here, and I thank you again for listening. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, my name is Janet Weiser. I am a retired paramedic and a current clinical massage therapist with my own small business. I first want to thank the Council for all the time that you've put into this and the task force. This has been a daunting effect for all of you and I want to say thank you very much for your hard work. I've been driving with Uber since they first came to the area back last summer in Vancouver.
 I saw it as an opportunity and I wanted to be on board at that time. I also drive the lift platform, so I do drive for both. I live out in Beaverton and I try really hard to serve that area because it is very underserved. I do come into Portland and I do manage and work here also, so it gives me the flexibility to serve both populations.
 I've done over 500 trips on Uber, and with Lyft I'm at about 100. I run about a 4.95 at this point for a rating, so I do give good customer service also. Six months ago, my husband's job went away due to our corporate downsizing, and if it had not been for the TNC platform that I was working, our house would have probably lost our home.
 and bankrupted. I was able to increase my driving and was able to manage to balance the budget. My own small business has ups and downs and this has been able to give us the opportunity to remain a status quo and to keep my kids in school. I've got two going off to college.
 I work with a whole lot of different writers from every walk of life. The Nike employees who are going to and from meetings every day, the 20-somethings that are going out on Friday and Saturday nights, and the mothers who are going shopping at WinCo. I do a lot of grocery shopping runs every single weekend. It's so fun after church to go to WinCo and pick somebody up with 32 bags of groceries. Not a problem.
 I'm thrilled to be able to manage my schedule and see my clients when I want and to be able to drive when I want and to get the extra money into my budget. Not only do I drive, I'm also a writer. I use the service to come into town when I want to play and I am happy to say that I love it, I'm going to do it more and I'm going to stay with it. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, my name is Bright Phillips. I'm a reverseologist. I have my own business but I drive for Uber.
 One thing I like to let my TASI friends know is that the technology is here to stay and Uber is here to stay. That is my short statement. I love to drive for Uber. It gives me an opportunity to meet people from all over the world and see different perspectives of other people's culture and their experience.
 It's great. I love to drive for Uber. And I think Uber is here to stay, and technology also is here to stay. So the best thing for us to do is to have a plane level feel so that everyone will feel treated very fairly. So that's my story. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Deanne Pettit. And is there a Timothy James Weller or a Jan Hoon? Then we'll go with Renee Benz.
 abuse and Tessafe Alime and after them is dorm Matthews Eileen Brown Darcy Tillis Hi, I'm Deanne Pettit and I drive for uber and
 And just briefly, the reason I came to drive for Uber is I had some physical issues, health issues that kept me from working for almost a year. So I understand the feeling of being faced with the possibility of your, the reality of your income stopping and where are you going to make money. So...
 I understand some of the cab drivers' concerns with their income has gone down. But then again, it's like for me, this has been a lifesaver. I didn't have to borrow money to pay my mortgage in June. And as I'm starting another business, I can combine both.
 both things and it gives me some money to survive on while I'm getting something that's more long-term going. And thinking about just time, the times we live in, and it's so simple how Uber and Lyft work. It's so simple that people can't wrap their head around it.
 that it doesn't have to be over-regulated, that it can be this simple and this perfect. The drivers or the riders that I get in my car, we're all like, this is the greatest thing ever invented for everyone. It's convenient for the drivers. It's convenient for the riders and fabulous for the drivers. So I just think that as technology changes and things, I mean, you look at Blockbuster and Hollywood Video aren't here anymore, but I think there'll always be a place for cabs.
 Hi, my name is Renee Buse. I've been with Radio Cab for a decade. My rating is 10. I've trained a lot of drivers. I don't know, I've had a lot of fun doing this job. So I do also know why all the TNC drivers enjoy the job. You know, it's nice to have something flexible. It's a shame that it has to kill careers. Some people have been doing cab driving longer than I've been alive.
 I feel sorry for those guys if this all crumbles like I don't know what they're gonna do next I would probably have a pretty easy time finding another job, but I really like driving cab One of my frustrations has been with like lack of enforcement I work all night 5 p.m. To 5 a.m So I work that critical gap where you know, everyone's done making their money and there's still people need to go home So I'm there for that and it's it's it's
 I've seen Uber cars try and hustle people for cash fares. You know, I've seen them park in taxi stands. I've asked them to move, and some of them just go, I'm a taxi. I'm like, no, I'm sorry, you're not a taxi. You can't use a taxi stand. You can't do street hails. You can't negotiate for cash. But you know, there's no one overseeing it. And as long as I'm talking about oversight, I hope everyone's making sure that these people are fully, fully, fully insured to 100% for every phase of the app, because,
 One of my regular customers works at a natural food store. She was telling me how her co-worker got hit on his bicycle. He's a cyclist every day. Buying an Uber car. He got all his front teeth knocked out. And my first thought besides, oh, my God, how horrifying would that be, is, oh, jeez, I hope.
 I hope that gets covered. I hope the claim doesn't get dropped because, you know, these people just like me, we don't have a whole lot of money. So if they're having to pay out of pocket for a claim that got dropped, I don't think they got that in their bank account. That's all I have to say. My name is Tasfai. I'm from Green Cab. And the first thing I want to say is we're not a Guinness Uber or Lyft or anything.
 We're asking for the same rule and the same right. Everything has to be done the right way. That's the only thing we are asking. If that's what we're asking, we are not going to be complaining about what happened here and what happened there. To be sure, one thing that, you know, if we're asking for the same rule and same right, then we will be competing within the system.
 There are fallbacks from the regulation. Regulation and rules has to be enforced immediately.
 I can tell you because I cannot tell how much the drivers are losing, I feel the pinch and we have reduced our kitty which I have submitted report to Commissioner Novick that we've reduced the kitty so that the company and the driver can share that pain. So we have to know those kind of things. If we're not playing with the same rule and same ride, then some of us might be out of business because...
 Based on the CC rule, I have spent about $500,000 for wheelchair. If the wheelchair thing is not going to be enforced, then I'm told get out because you're not worth it. The other thing that we have to make sure is
 If a company is going and partnering with another company, there is no gain of wheelchair available because they're using already the existing company vehicles. So those kind of things has to be very carefully weighed in. That's what I want to say. But the last thing I want to say is, a driver who was sitting here was giving his car
 He has drivers driving the car, and he was generating money for himself. And that driver was paying the company insurance and all dispatching expenses. So these are the kind of drivers that are trying to slide out and accuse companies. And the other thing is... I need to stop you, thank you very much. Please send us the rest in writing. Okay, thank you.
 The next three are Dorm Matthews, Eileen Brown and Darcy Tillift, David Mosier, William Daniels. Please go ahead. Hi, my name is Eileen Brown. I drive for Uber and a little bit for Lyft. Prior to driving for Uber and Lyft, I was a contract driver already, and I think...
 that maybe we're not aware of exactly how many contract drivers are on the road in Portland today. Because we keep talking about Uber and Lyft and the taxi companies, but there are thousands of contract drivers driving in Portland every single day. I had contracts with several, with an auto parts company. And they just got new contracts with more stores, so there are more drivers.
 Contract driving's been around for a long time. I think now that we're changing into a platform where we're driving people, now everybody's paying attention. But this is an area in Portland that's, it's an issue here. It's a good issue. But we're, I'm kind of losing my train of thought about it. Anyway, I'm a professional.
 I drove as a contract driver, I still do part time. I drive Uber full time now because I like it so much better. I drive at night because I want to serve my community. And when I started doing this, I thought, there's no way I'm driving at night. I'm not driving a bunch of drunks. I'm not doing, that's the best part of it. I'm serving my community. Helping people keep from drunk driving is huge here. I never realized what the, that there was that much of a problem
 until I had people sitting in the back of my car saying, if it wasn't for you guys, we'd be driving drunk. That's important to me. So I've chosen to drive the night shift. I go out about 10 o'clock at night, and I drive until in the morning until I get tired, and I go home. I could talk about how great this is for me personally. I make more money. I can work when I want, all the things that everybody said. Right.
 But the important thing is our community and the visitors here have driven people from all over the world, from Emmy-winning documentary film producers to a kid backpacking on his mom's Uber account. We're serving more and more visitors and locals in Portland by adding transportation network companies. And it's not just us. It's Postmates delivering food to people, to hotels, to our visitors and our locals.
 We're doing so much more for this community by allowing transportation networks along with the cab companies, and I think that we can't do any better than that. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Hi, my name is Dorn Matthews. I'm a radio cab driver for about six years. I'd like to bring up that there seems to be some magical assumption that there is a disparity between the character of an Uber driver and a taxi driver. They're just these...
 Nice working people. And taxi drivers are scummy, hook-handed jerks. And that's really not, I mean, that's the whole PR angle. On top of that, a lot of the stories I've been hearing have been, I didn't do anything before this. I had such and such job unrelated to driving. And they hired me. Nobody else would hire me. And they hired me. Is that a glowing,
 That's not really, I don't see that as a particularly good thing. We have veterans driving, as in veteran drivers. Maybe once upon a time it was World War II veterans, but now people with experience driving. And...
 We could treat this like Oprah, where you get to drive an Uber, you get to drive an Uber, you get to drive an Uber, but eventually the well is going to dry up. And it's not going to affect us exactly. It could, because if they become so numerous and so dependable that they can just always be there in under 10 minutes. But we already ascertained that the numbers shown at the beginning were junk, because they're not accepting the numbers for the rides they don't accept, because they're busy or nobody's in the area, are not counted.
 So it's going to boil down to how many of them are we going to let on the road? Because I think these are going to be fantastic people driving cabs, but you're also going to get a lot of the guys that we had to get rid of. And I honestly don't want to see people getting dragged down, people who actually do their jobs well. Thank you. I don't want to see them getting screwed up by, I probably shouldn't mention any names,
 It's just it seems like the lack of standards is detrimental. And when you're out, if the business dries up because there's too many guys, you're on your own. And the cab companies were set up for continued business and self-containment in the regulatory structure. So I'm sorry if I sound a little inflammatory, but you guys are all right in my book. I just want to make sure. Thank you for your testimony. Thanks. Thank you.
 My name is David Mosier, but I go internationally by the artist named Davideo Tape. I am a DPSST licensed security guard and I'm an Eagle Scout. I'm here to talk about some funny business I've seen in the last two months since I've been trying to get a legitimate taxi job going during the free interim program. I've always wanted to drive a cab.
 I want to help people increase their mobility. I was given the option to have a sustainable wage as a spare doing guaranteed early morning rides and WIV cab rides and a handicap van. But as I found, this whole process for me has been tied up in bureaucratic red tape. It didn't help that PBOT moved buildings during this time to different offices. People were closed on vacation.
 It didn't help that when I called people, they didn't know the new procedures that have been set during the interim period, and they didn't really know how to move me through the system or do their jobs properly. Even when I made multiple phone calls to people for weeks, all I did was go around and around in utter confusion. I see this disparity here where I've been tied up in red tape, whereas Uber drivers and Lyft drivers can pretty much just start driving.
 I'd like to question what's a lobbyist in this situation? Who here is a special interest? If people are paid to be in this meeting, or at other meetings such as the interim period review workshop for the midpoint review, if they're paid to give these testimonials, be here, I think you guys should be questioning that. If they're all wearing these pink T-shirts...
 They're saying they're independent subcontractors and the t-shirts have the company logo on them. And isn't this some Orwellian doublespeak? Another issue you guys really need to tackle is the influences that are going on here. I see the Starlight Parade propaganda event as trying to influence the general public. I see the mayor in cahoots with Lyft or Uber as being questionable.
 Even the Willamette Week in the press has taken money outside of an advertising role from these companies and these sponsored events. That's questionable. Thank you for your testimony. The next three are William Daniels, Sean O'Neill, and Sameh Avaya. Keep going. Peter Morolosher, Vincent Vanneman, Dirk Warninghoff, Delilah Jones. Stop here. Thanks, Amelia. See you in a minute. Bye.
 Go ahead, please. Hi, my name is William Daniels. I drive for Radio Cab. The first thing I'd like to do is to apologize for any Radio Cab driver or other person representing Radio Cab that behaved in an unloving way to anybody else. That is not acceptable to me, and it is not acceptable to Radio Cab. That is our stand. So people that did that behaved on their own, and it's not acceptable.
 I hope you understand that when Uber reported the amount of money their drivers are making, that does not include the cost of their cars. That's a significant expense that they are not covering or telling you about. I've been driving for nine years, longer than any other work I've ever done, and I like it. I give great customer service. I work about 52 hours a week. My wife is disabled.
 With my income, we cannot own a home of our own, but we can have a decent standard of living. So point number one, if you allow TNCs, you will be chopping up full-time work into supplemental and not living wage income. Point number two, Portland has an ethic of buying local. If you allow TNCs, you are sending money to big, out of Portland and out of Oregon multinational companies.
 If we take a slightly larger view of transportation, according to Audi, they will be ready to market driverless cars by 2017 and Nissan by 2020. TNCs will replace their drivers with driverless cars. So point number three, at that point, you will be sending all the money for providing transportation services to out-of-Portland and out-of-Oregon giant multinational companies.
 And no, I do not want to be an employee. I would much prefer to be an independent contractor. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
 My name is Samaya Raya and I work for Radio Cab and I own a cab right now because I started with radio about two years ago and I got the opportunity which is to become working for them and also being an owner. Like I hear everything in here, everybody says I have a second job but driving a cab is a full job for me.
 and they taking all my income because of Uber drivers. Because there is nobody has time to call the dispatch because of the system. Okay, we can change the system, but nobody gonna have time to complain about Uber. They're not gonna call. They're not gonna do anything because they always like use,
 cell phones texting to make an appointment, that's what everybody does. But like for me is being a radio cab taxi driver is my main income source. I don't have any other income source to add extra income. It's unfair to me and any other drivers. We have to compete with other drivers that using it as people around with their own cars and an extra income. So the only thing I'm asking is,
 If any of the people take some money for Uber, they use it as a second job. Did anyone have a full job with Uber and can survive through that? And I want to have the same rule, the same to everyone, and to get my job back because I'm losing income. Thank you. Thank you. Sir?
 Hi, my name is Dirk Warninghoff. I'm a Portland native. I was born in Kaiser, North Portland in 77, graduated from Lincoln about 20 years ago, previous to cab driver. I was trained in the United States Army before their deployment to Iraq and Afghanistan. I own my own chair at the cooperative that is Radio Cab. Radio Cab helped save my life and income after returning, affording me a native PDX person to stay here with a living wage. I've been losing about 40% of my income.
 If the city would have not put caps on taxis the last 14 years, cab companies would have been able to service those orders faster. And since the TNCs have no caps, more cars on the road than all the taxis combined, they can give faster service. Some things I'd like to see the TNC cars do, let's see, labeling on all the cars, maybe like magnets like the Oregonian has. When they're working, they can put it on the sides and the front. I'd like to see caps on the amount of cars on the road so that every driver can take home money, maybe raise the caps on the weekend nights.
 Maybe I have the same enforcement fees for all. I was paying $600 a vehicle before taxis gone wild. I would love to see that on every vehicle because that's a big expense to get into. And to ask her Mr. Novak's question, the state's in the driver's seat for the independent contractor thing, just like they are for the minimum insurance requirements. You guys are kind of waiting for them to make a decision on that. Kelly, who was here and spoke, was happy to get supplementary income with 131 rides in two months. I do that many rides in a week and a half because it's my living wage job, not supplementing my income.
 I'm happy people are supplementing enough to buy themselves some dinner so I can't afford a mortgage. By allowing a competitive advantage to no wheelchair requirements and capping us before when you didn't give them a cap at all, it's called collusion. It's giving a competitive advantage to somebody. And if UnionCab doesn't sue you, the TFA doesn't sue you, then someone's going to do a GoFundMe and sue you and the city of Portland for collusion. They are the same taxi-style rides, not the same background checks, not the same wheelchair requirements, not the same enforcement trees, and not the same labeling. Please just have the same rules for all. Thank you.
 Next stop, please. I show the last two who signed up are David Gibson and Jen Maynard. Oh, yeah, if I called anybody else who got skipped. I called his name. We'll take folks. Come on up. Come on up. You're signed up. Go ahead, please. Good afternoon. I'm David Gibson. I commuted an hour and a half from Dallas, Oregon to do my job with Uber. And even at that commute, I figured out I'm throwing about $2,000 a month down the toilet in Dallas.
 Hours I could be working and and fees and I'm still making a good living I'm still doing but I lived in Portland most of my adult life and I will be coming back now because If this doesn't work out I have to go to work for Forest River that pays about ten dollars an hour So oh and I'd also like to say to the ten or twelve people that were rude to my brother marine shame on you Sorry, I had that on my mind I
 I've been doing this job now for probably the longest serving Uber driver here, almost a year. I've been here the entire time. I've been operating in Oregon. I've done Eugene, Salem, Portland, Portland Metro, and Vancouver. I've had almost 3,000 rides. It is my full time. It is how I raise my son and take care of my aging mother. It is the only thing I do. And with my disability, I can't go back to house painting.
 So, if this doesn't work out for me, I will get another job, but it won't pay half as much as this one. Thank you. Hello, my name is Peter Mortyshev and I'm a driver. I've been driving, I've been delivering in newspapers, I've been delivering pizzas. I've been driving tow trucks, I really like driving tow trucks. But then in 2008, I walked into Radio Cab and I really, really liked it because it used to be a great company and there was a lot of money to be made.
 back when it was a monopoly. But then the things started going down. Eventually I realized that I'm being told to do work, not the same way I was trained. The way I was trained is I get to pick and choose the orders I want to run because the company ran under such pressure. The demand was so high and the supply was so low that the driver was able to pick an order, what they call cherry picking, which is not a good, not very sustainable business practice.
 And it got to the point where I was like, dude, you do too many of that. Stop doing this. And I was like, okay, how many is too many? Such as TNCs have that thing called acceptance rate right now. You just cannot reject because you just get deactivated from the system. And I was like, hey, let's do something like that because you can't just single me out and say, hey, you're doing too many. Well, I know everybody else does it. Let's say five flags, ten rejects per shift. If you do more, you get deauthorized for the rest of the shift.
 We didn't want to do that, so what ended up happening is
 I just got pushed out in a really, really sick way. I'm right now considering talking to lawyers and bringing up a lawsuit against Radio Cap Company because I've been harassed there and I've been treated unfairly. I believe I've been discriminated based on my race and the way I look and the way I dress. And I'm really quite devastated. It has been more than one year and hours of therapy and counseling and my first visit to emergency room in my life, my first visit to jail in my entire life.
 And like I'm making money, okay, but I really like driving and I don't see why would this whole thing even be going on here because two adults should be able to subcontract for a ride without intervention of the government. That's just my opinion. Hey, you want a ride? Have a car. Give me the money. That's all. Thank you so much. Thank you. Go ahead, please. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Delilah Jones and I've been driving with Radio Cab for about seven years. I was born and raised here in Portland. And I just want to say upon approval of the arrival of the TNCs, my gross hourly income dropped about 30%. And so for the first time in the eight years since I graduated from Portland State University, I am behind on my student loan payments, which is really awesome.
 But the thing is I see the rise of the TNCs as part of a larger trend, siphoning money from the lower and middle classes and just generally devaluing labor and the working class, taking the taxes and income from the local economy and delivering it to rich investors.
 On the surface it sounds really great that you can just pick up a little extra money in between your two or three other part-time jobs. But the way I see it is we're taking 500 living wage jobs and turning them into thousands of on-the-side-it's-fun gigs. I'm an award-winning professional driver. I get ongoing training.
 in defense of driving and customer service. I actually have a support system and radio cab in case of emergencies, accidents or even just lost items. I have excellent reliable insurance that covers me constantly.
 And the fact is driving is the single most dangerous activity that we all engage in daily. And safety should not be taken lightly. I understand that the TNCs are here to stay, barring the hundreds of lawsuits they're facing around the country and world right now. But I wanna see the city do two things. I wanna see them strengthen the safety regulations for commercial insurance, training, signage, cameras, the same permitting process that I go through.
 24-hour phone support for drivers and customers, more than just an initial inspection, but ongoing inspections for vehicles. And I want to see, too, I want to see enforcement of these regulations that you put in place. The last time I spoke before this council, I requested that TNC drivers follow the same protocol for permitting that I do. And Commissioner Novick's response was to remove the $100 fee for taxi permits, effectively causing taxpayers to pay for my background and driving record checks.
 I assume that the next step is to require taxi companies to do their own checks, and I won't need a permit anymore, but that's the only way that the city can know that I've been vetted and that I've paid my taxes. Please enforce the rules, not just relax them, to accommodate bullies so that they can flood the market, instigating a race to the bottom. Thank you. Is that all who signed up? Did anybody get missed? Did anybody not hear their name get called who signed up?
 I think we're good. Thank you very much, everybody. That was really very effective testimony, and I appreciate everybody's being here. Colleagues, what's your pleasure for what we'd like to do now? We're through? We're through with the public testimony. We had said that there might be questions for staff or some of the parties. Actually, I would like to ask the same question of both some TNC representatives and Ray, if that's possible.
 If somebody from Radio Cab wants to come up, I'd like to ask the same question. And it's really actually the question that Commissioner Fritz asked, which is how many drivers do you have available between 2 and 6 in the morning? Okay.
 I'll take anybody's answer first, second, third, and fourth. Sure. I don't know the exact number. I can say that the data that was passed to the city is accurate and so our completed request rate is high. That includes 24 hours a day, so you will be able to see if there is a spike during that time. I believe that prior to us launching, I supplied a comparison of a taxi app
 data snapshot here versus what we see in Seattle, Washington. So we see service in a mature market 24 hours a day, and I'm happy to help paint that picture to ensure you guys are comfortable that that service is happening. The question is not how many rides are accepted. It's how many rides are available. So you'll be able to supply us with the number of people
 drivers who are available on your app on an hourly basis. Is that correct? The completed to request ratio. So the completed to request ratio will indicate how many REDs are requested versus how many are completed. So if one is requested. If you go on the app and it says nobody's available,
 Does that count as a request or not? You can request a vehicle if no one is available. But why would you request a vehicle if you get a message immediately saying no one's available? We see that happen on a daily basis multiple times a day if there is no, particularly if it's very busy. So again with the data in terms of the driver count, we have a contract with the city that dictates what data we will share with the city and so we are happy to discuss
 Changing that contract if and what changes to that contract we think needs to be made or what changes the contract you would like made moving forward Looks if you in the audience if you could be quiet while we're trying to deliberate that would be very helpful So that's something that you could negotiate or change in the contract. We'll discuss that How many drivers do you know and you have on the road between 2 and 6 in the morning I
 I think going back to the TNC model, right, it's an individual that chooses whether to turn on the app or not. How we incentivize people to do that is through primetime. So that gives incentive for them to come out and serve that period of time. So that's how we address the demand and supply. And we know that that works.
 And why do we know that it works? The TNC mid-pilot data report shows that. When there's periods of high demand, the wait times are actually reduced. So I think that's a very clear indicator of it. But we'd be happy to open up the conversation about how do we get, what kind of information is needed to answer the concern and question that you have, right? And we're happy to open up that conversation. It seems to me you're a technology company. You have the means to...
 know how many people have switched on the app. Yeah, absolutely. I think there's always a way for us to determine app opens. So yes, absolutely. That would be very helpful. And then do you, in fact, give a prime time incentive for 2 a.m. to 6 a.m.? Well, so how the prime time works is dynamic pricing, right? So if there's a lot of requests and currently low supply, then drivers see that on the app. They can see that they are now being incentivized to go turn on the app and go and...
 Visit that area right to me. Is that a yes or no?
 Do you incentivize people to drive between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m.? Yes, through dynamic pricing, it would be the case that there would be an incentive to go out and drive at that period of time. To be clear, if there is demand at that time, the dynamic pricing would incentivize people to go out and meet that demand. So if I'm having my medical emergency, but I don't want to call an ambulance at 3 o'clock in the morning,
 unless everybody else is having the same time, then there isn't going to be an incentive to have one of your drivers take you to the hospital. Well, I would say in a medical emergency situation, you should absolutely call an ambulance, right? No, no, if you have a sprained ankle, I think that's probably not a good thing to do. But I would like somebody else. Right. There won't be a bus, right? So I will note this. You now have multiple options available, right? So in the past, if you had a sprained ankle at 3 AM, you may have four options.
 available. Now you have at least six. That's what we're trying to determine, though. Do we have more options or are we in fact putting taxi cabs out of business and taxi drivers out of work so that there will be fewer taxi cab drivers to take me to the hospital at 3 a.m. with my sprained ankle? Right. And to briefly respond to that, I think the data report absolutely shores up the fact that there
 is incredible demand, right? That people are using these rides. That people are excited about it. The people of Portland, visitors to Portland, they're taking these rides. There's no doubt about it. Not at 3 AM, though. At 3 AM, the taxi, it's much more taxis than your service that people are able to get.
 This is actually a topic that the City of Portland contemplated decades ago, which is why the current taxicab code mandates that two-thirds of all vehicles have to be out at any given time. So we do monitor that. We do keep two-thirds of our vehicles on the road, even in the middle of the night. And so that number would be, I think it's around 88 or something, probably. So not all companies have the same model. Just push it once and leave it on. Okay.
 Not all cab companies are created equal and they all don't have the same model, radio cab. It's a magic touch for me. Too much technology. We don't understand. We're old school. But the radio cab, we have back-to-back 12-hour shifts, so virtually everything is available to go out 24-7.
 Portland's been embracing the ride sharing experience of RadioCat for many, many years, and we've tried to make sure that that's available to as many people as possible. This thing doesn't work. Anyway, on any given day we keep records of who's out there.
 And, you know, really it'll vary from shift to shift depending on, you know, the drivers really kind of know which days are the good days or the good nights to work. And driver availability for the vehicles will sometimes vary, but not a great deal. And just one more question actually for Ray and Steve, which is how many rides did you give in May of this year? And how many did you give in May for all kinds of rides? Yes.
 I just compiled this for you right before I went on vacation. I don't have exact numbers. I can get this for you tomorrow. Our ridership in May was down 30%. No, our ridership in June was down 30% from a year ago, our number of rides provided. And I can get you exact numbers. Thank you. State? Our dispatch ride count for May of this year, I believe, was about 110,000.
 And I think it's down, I think it was about 8% from last year. I could get the exact number for you. About what percent? Percentage, it was down, I believe the dispatch manager told me it was down 6 to 8% from the previous year. That's dispatch orders only. 6 to 8? Yes. No, for the month of May, for this year.
 and then one final piece of data that i hope you can get to commissioner novick for their final report is the number of pre-booked and taxi stand rights that are provided and how because that
 should be factored into that efficiency in that the time we we don't uh... track the stand business uh... night but doubt that any of the cap companies to pretty much on their own we could try to do that uh... and by the way in that dispatched order count was included prearranged time calls and stuff like that so uh... wasn't i think uh... the numbers probably got filtered out uh... for those numbers and also for uh... suburban uh...
 originated trips so the numbers that were reported to the city were probably 80% of the total that I just got through stating thank you thank you do I hear a motion to accept the report second please call the roll well thank everybody for their testimony it gives us a lot to lot to think about between now and when we decide after the end of the trial period what to do thank you I
 Novick. Thank you, everybody, for your testimony. I think a lesson that I get from this session is how hard things are for working people in this economy. That there are a bunch of people who are now riding for Uber and Lyft who they're not doing it in order to buy themselves a Mercedes. It's become critical to their income. And I understand that taxi drivers have taken a hit.
 And I said before when we started this experiment that I'm concerned about protecting any industry from competition. I'm also concerned about an economy which more and more consists of people doing piecework without having the guarantee of minimum wage and employment compensation and workers' comp and what we think of as part of a job.
 So that's what, I mean, a major thing that I'll be struggling with as we consider what to do next. Again, thank you all very, very much. Hi.
 Well, thank you very much, everybody, for your participation. Thank you especially to my colleagues for being here and listening to all of the testimony that was presented. I'm struck not only with the challenges of working people, as Commissioner Novick said, but also the environmental issues that we are encouraging people to drive more.
 and I was quite perturbed at hearing some of the extra commuting that's happening to come to work in Portland and the effect that that has on our air quality and on our public transit system, where I would prefer there to be more buses available for folks to catch at various hours of the day and night.
 It seems to me that we can do better than the current pilot, that there should be a win-win or at least a not lose as much, not lose as much scenario.
 scenario that could be divined. I did appreciate the one comment about anybody who made unloving comments and now that I'm council president I'll be presiding while the mayor is out of the office I'm going to start by reminding everybody that it would be helpful to not have unloving comments because we're all Portlanders and we care about each other. Thank you. You can applaud that.
 We care about each other, and it should be about how do we make this work for the most people, including the customers and also including all of the drivers. So thank you for this, Commissioner Novick. Thank you for your work on this, and there's certainly a lot more work to do. Aye. With that, we are adjourned. Please, as soon as we get a council clerk, or maybe the city attorney could read item 776 for us.
 All right, item 776, authorized acquisition of surplus property for municipal purposes at Southeast 3rd and Harrison Streets from the Oregon Department of Transportation, not to exceed $254,044. So let me make an announcement that I made earlier, but make sure everyone understands what we are doing and not doing here this morning. The Oregon Department of Transportation has a number of pieces of property in the Central East Side which will be offered for sale.
 I intend for the city of Portland to buy all of them. Some of them are now occupied by dirt processing operations, and others are empty. This is one of those pieces of property.
 The city has been discussing and continues to discuss whether or not we will grant a lease to Right to Dream 2 to move into this site as a location for a rest area. That is a separate decision. I'll say that again. That is a separate decision from the decision to buy the land. The only thing before the Portland City Council today, and the only thing on which we will take testimony, is whether or not we should buy the land.
 How we use that land, there are a variety of purposes. It could be used for parking. It could be used for development. It could be left fallow. It could be made a park. Lots of things could happen. And again, we make no decision about the use of the site today. We only make a decision about its purchase. There's an amendment that I will need to introduce that says that resources are available and appropriated to fund this transaction.
 I'll make that amendment in a moment, but again, both in the interest of time and clarity, I want to ask people that are interested in testifying today to testify only on the question of whether the City of Portland should buy this site.
 Again, there will be other ODOT properties that come to us as well for purchase, and I will intend to recommend that they all be purchased as well. Before I get to the amendment, Commissioner Fritz? Just a further clarification that the ordinance authorizes the mayor to buy it. We're still in the process of doing environmental evaluation of the site. If it turns out that it's hazardous and costs a lot to clean up, then the mayor is not forced to buy it. It's just giving him the authority to do so. Okay.
 So I want to ask that we take an amendment before we open the hearing for testimony, and that is to make this change to item number six to say resources, not cross out the words general fund. Resources are available and appropriated to fund this transaction. And then sub B, the mayor and auditor are authorized to pay the cost of acquiring the property from –
 existing city resources, replacing the words the general fund. In other words, there are a variety of funds that are available to make these kinds of transactions, and it is not limited to the general fund. Second. Further discussion on the motion? So these other resources include the $849,000 provided by Hoyt Street Properties? That's correct. They include those as well.
 Yes. Okay. So further discussion on adopting the amendment, and then we'll hear from Mr. Keita. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Morning, Mayor, Commissioners. This...
 A lot of the information I have to provide you've covered, which is very nice. This is the property located southeast 3rd and Harrison. There's not an actual address for it because it was previous right away from the state of Oregon. The state of Oregon declared this as surplus property, and they intend to dispose of it on January 27, 2015. The city provided DAS with a notice of interest in the property on February 11th.
 ODOT delivered a certified appraisal on the property to the city April 14th of 2015 with a valuation of 2,000 or two hundred fifty four thousand And forty four dollars the city began its due diligence activities mid-april which are anticipated to be completed by the end of July of this year which include the title review use zoning review site survey
 which has been conducted the phase one phase two environmental which include the soil groundwater geophysical and air quality testing again to be completed by the end of July and we will also continue to do our work to include studies for offset of loss of parking those kinds of issues to the site is to be developed our preliminary findings do not indicate that there would be significant any significant environmental issues with developing the site based on the property properties industrial zoning requirements
 As you've already covered, there are multiple uses that we could look at this site being used for, including the R2, the MPU parking, and then other site developments, whether it's parks or other things. Site development permits would be required to work on this property. The zoning for the property, it's currently zoned as an industrial IG1 property.
 Its property is currently a state-owned fee simple right of way acquired through foreclosure. BDS has reviewed the foreclosure judgment from 1963 when ODOT acquired the property and has determined it can recognize property as a lot of record through either the permit process for campgrounds and structures or other lot confirmation again for the zoning that's appropriate there.
 There are minimal development standards for the IG-1 zone. There's zero setbacks from property lines for buildings. Fences are allowed along property lines without height limit under seven foot tall. And PBOT may have some fence height limits for vehicle sight, line of sight vision, those kinds of things. So we'll have to watch that as we're developing this. There's zoning code screening requirements
 for this particular industrial zone. Using less than, using, I'm sorry, buildings less than 10 feet from the property line will require a one-hour rated wall.
 deed to be recorded after due diligence and completed and of course that we move forward with this procurement and we found that the Conditions are acceptable for us moving forward to purchase this site The deed includes restrictions of both the city and persons with whom the city allowed to use property must not breach without risking triggering Odot to remedy problems and charge the city for the failure that Concludes what we really have on the property to date and we expect to have the rest of our
 environmental studies done by, actually in two weeks. Okay, great. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. Anything to add? Nothing to add, no. Okay, questions? Is it...
 that we would not buy this until we received a letter from DEQ of no further action required? The current information we have on the Phase 1 and Phase 2, actually for the zoning of the property, we have no significant issues, so it could be used for multiple things as it is today currently. So depending on what the city's proposed use of the property, it's actually a good property to acquire. So there's no...
 significant subsurface contamination? There's some contamination about nine feet down, but it's very minor as compared to some of the things that we've encountered on other properties, and it could be remedied easily. Other questions?
 You may have more later. Thank you. Okay. Okay. We have people signed up to speak? Yes, we have 13 people signed up. The first three, please, coming up are Terry Parker, Lightning Watchdog X, and Barry Joe Stull. Again, we just want to remind everybody the question is the purchase of the property. And they'll be followed by Crystal, if she's here, Charles Johnson, and Debbie Kitchen. Thank you.
 And I'm going to ask you to try to limit your comments to two minutes, please. Go ahead. Yes, my name's Terry Parker. I'm here speaking as an individual. And I'm not going to read what I'm handing out based on your comments. However, I'm going to give you a little bit of background.
 Monday, I looked at the city council hearing and I didn't see anything that I was going to come down and testify on. Monday evening, all over the media, it was talking about what you're going to do with the property, move a homeless camp into the property.
 I'll relocate a homeless camp into the property. I again yesterday went back and looked at the council agenda, and this seemed to be the connection. Terry, again, we're going to hold a hearing in the future if the council moves forward with putting a homeless camp. I understand that. I was just giving you the background of why I was here. But what I believe is that before you purchase this property...
 You have to give the purpose and the intent and the disclosure. That's transparent. You can't just say I'm going to buy this property because it's available. Nobody does that. You're going to develop it. You're going to have an idea of what you're going to use it for. I think that you're missing the transparency here. You're losing the trust.
 by not doing that. And I have a concern as an individual of what's going to happen to that property and how it reflects some of the area around. In particular, the Rail Heritage Center, where there is historic equipment that is irreplaceable that is stored. And in the past, people have broken into some of this. Your time's up. So let me clarify this again for future speakers. And that is...
 The Oregon Department of Transportation has at least five parcels in the Central East Side, which they are planning to surplus and sell. I plan to recommend to the Portland City Council that we purchase all of them
 and that we figure out in each case the appropriate use. There will be public discussions, including discussions that we're having with Southeast Uplift and others, about what those public uses should be or private uses if we choose to sell those properties because the Portland Development Commission might choose to purchase some of those properties and market them for development. So it's not an unusual event.
 event for one government to sell a piece of property to another. Of course, there has been extensive discussion about allocating right to dream 2 on this site and that is still a very real possibility, but we're not deciding that today. I understand that. I'm just saying that I think you need to be transparent and and propose, you know, look at what the use is going to be and say what you're proposing to use there. Thank you. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X.
 On this agreement, I have some real concerns on some of the restrictions. My understanding you'll be paying all cash for this property. I'm very surprised on the deed that on number three, that they would require that no junk, scrap, garbage or anything be on this property once you take ownership of it. These deed restrictions I think are overreaching from them selling the property and requiring you with them the right to come back
 and enforce that, enter the property, and do what they want to do by these restrictions. I think they're overreaching, and I think the attorneys need to look at this and understand this is an all-cash sale. These restrictions don't need to be on this property upon transfer. Another issue I have on the Phase 2 environmental, if there is currently a concern at nine feet down, on the Phase 2, you normally drill down in certain locations of the property.
 How many areas have they drilled on this property? That needs to be looked at very close on the overall property itself to determine the environmental issues and the total cost to the city. As you know, you can acquire a property at said value, which seems to be a very reasonable price by the appraisal, and your environmental issue can cost you three to four times to clean this property up. So if the city is looking at this from an investment perspective,
 from their position to be used for public good, I highly recommend that that environmental phase two is looked at very close. That's my position at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Helpful. Appreciate that. Thank you. Good morning, Council. Barry Joe Stull. I have a little bit of history with how the city manages its property. I'm going to reference the undeveloped right-of-way of North Hancock Street.
 On the world we live in, it dead ends at the guardrail and continues as the right of way. And as we speak, the neighbors who are supposed to, under the city code, maintain that undeveloped right of ways are the public entities, including the Water Bureau. And right now, I could go over next door to the Bureau of Environmental Services and I could get the map that says, or the poster that says remove invasive species plants.
 And that's what Commissioner Fish is growing on that undeveloped right-of-way. And one of the plants that's on the property that's not on the list is hemlock. It's so toxic that we're not even supposed to allow it. And the city is growing it, Commissioner Fish, on city property. So when you're growing poisonous plants on the city-owned property, and I've talked about this for years...
 Five years. I've been talking about this for five years and you're still growing toxic plants on the city-owned property. Does that encourage us to allow you to do anything? Frankly, no. I don't have anything more to say. You can't follow your own agency's recommendations. I don't know what we're going to do with a city like that. Thank you. Okay, next. The next three are Crystal, Charles Johnson, and Debbie Kitchen.
 And they will be followed by Nancy Stuber, Brainerd Brower, and Ibrahim Mubarak. Crystal, go ahead. Hello, Councilman Mayer. My name is Crystal Elinsky. I represent 10,000. And I am surprised to come here today to find that there's no aim for this purchasing. I don't understand why it's become so vague all of a sudden.
 that you want to purchase land, but you don't know what for, and you're not making promises, where the media and the word on the street is that this is the final solution. I hate to use that. After all of these, I'll just say, kind of half-ass attempts to work with R2-D2, and now it seems like they're being closed off. So I don't understand...
 really what the purpose is, if you could answer that in my remaining time. I'd like to see that whole area, especially around Ross Island, I'd like to see an environmental impact statement done. This very, I mean, even the waterfront down with the OHSU tram, there's never really been work on the brownfields, and so I'd really like to see that as well, if you're going to make this purchase. Thank you.
 Could you answer my question? Again, I'll try to explain. The council has considered this parcel for a site to locate Right to Dream 2. That's a separate decision, which we will make after a public hearing. But before we can even think about that or any other use here on this property with anything, we're going to do anything about that. We have to own it.
 So the decision to purchase doesn't automatically decide that Right to Dream 2 is going there, but it does give the city the opportunity to do that at a later time. Is there a deadline to purchase it? Yes. I don't know if there's a deadline, but ODOT wants us to say whether we're going to buy it or not. Or they're selling it to someone else. Or they'll sell it to someone else.
 The city has a right to purchase from ODOT when they offer properties for sale. Yeah, and we all have a right to dream, and we shouldn't be put in Wapato jail. Thank you. Debbie, you're next.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales and Commissioners, for the opportunity to speak. I'm Debbie Kitchen, president of the Central Eastside Industrial Council. We are opposed to the City Council authorizing purchase of this property at this time. We think it is premature and not responsible when you haven't determined the use for it. I was also going to talk about just issues we have with homeless camps. You did link that with the
 press releases that went out and so now we're not allowed to testify about it. We feel there hasn't been a process that involved the whole community in terms of bringing in experts,
 public planners and the community at large to do a legitimate planning process that's the basis of a lot of our planning so we feel that it's very premature and we've been told the purchase at the property is not being proposed prior to determining if it will be the site for R2D2 and we don't think it's prudent if R2D2 does not want to move to this site is the city still obligated to find them another site
 I think you should answer that question for their sake. The City of Portland should not purchase a site that comes with the risk of a potential environmental liability. Taxpayers should not be exposed to a potentially costly environmental cleanup. This property is an industrial sanctuary adjacent to other industrial and wholesale businesses. We have spent the last two years evaluating changes to our comprehensive plan to protect and enhance this vital employment district.
 The public purposes for which this property is being acquired have not been understood or evaluated. And even though you say you're going to do that process at a later time, I would like to know more about what that process is. Because so far there's been very little information. We heard about this, you know, on Thursday. Okay.
 Is that going to happen the same way? You haven't really been very open about what your decision-making is. We haven't had a legitimate planning process about the purposes for this property. So we are opposed to that, to the purchase. Okay, thank you. It seems like they follow EPA regulation. Crystal, please. Go ahead, Charles.
 Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Charles Johnson and definitely carpe diem, carpe terra, seize the land. Don't see that pay, well actually I think, I wish there was a mechanism where it was just public land transferred without any financial shenanigans from the people to the people. I'm more enthusiastic about this in hearing that there may be four or five additional parcels of ODOT land
 We're not trying to make Blade Runner a reality. Yes, the Central East Side is an industrial workspace, a maker space. Those people are not robots. They need public areas and green spaces. St. Francis Park is going away. Find me some grass between the river and Washington High School. None. So don't think of giving this land to the PDC or any of those parcels. Acquire this land.
 Put green space in. I kind of wish this could be a park close to the Orange Line, but R2-D2 needs to go somewhere. We'll have that conversation in the future. But I definitely respect Debbie's position that we need to have a good working environment for people who go into the inner east side as a maker space. But I think that that can be done with buying this parcel, buying the other ones when they're available, and having a vigorous public discussion. Thank you. Thank you.
 The next three are Nancy Stuber, Brainerd Brower, and Ibrahim Mubarak, and they'll be followed by Trillium Shannon, Leo Rhodes, and Trish Reed. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales, commissioners. I'm Nancy Stuber, the president at the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry, OMSI. And I'm not here to talk about the relocation of Right to Dream 2 because you have indicated that there will be another time to do that. And I appreciate your commitment to have a public process and a thorough hearing about that use.
 I would ask council to commit to create a collaborative process involving stakeholders around the planning issues related to the purchase of this property. And much like the issue we just heard before this one and the southeast quad plan process that we went through for two years. I'm convinced that we have people who are
 willing to look at common good and find uses, multiple uses, including a public use in the heart of the industrial east side if it meets the other conditions that are necessary for the whole district. So I would ask that you would move forward with a commitment to opening that discussion prior to the purchase of this property. Thank you.
 Good morning. Yes, good morning. Hello, this is Brainerd Brower. I'm a resident. I did come down because of the use. So I guess I picked a very interesting day to observe council. It's been many years. I might suggest that perhaps the proposed use should be stricken from the proposal at this time, but that's just a thought. There was one comment regarding the purchase of the property that there's some restrictions in place.
 from ODOT and I would be in support of restrictions and conditions that encourage that the property be maintained in a orderly manner that protects ODOT and protects city and residents in the community so thank you thank you. Mr. Mubarak. Ibrahim Mubarak from Right to Survive, Right to Dream 2 and I'll
 Also, I won't comment on the use, what the land use is going to be for. However, I would like to make some things I observed here. I don't agree in sexist statement that was made earlier against Amanda, Commissioner Amanda Fritz.
 I don't agree with the way the houseless community was treated when they tried to come in here. They were told to stand out when they let people in who lived in houses and wore suits. I think that's showing targeting, profiling and discrimination. And you should learn to respect us because we are humans.
 I also would like to see you go one foot down more because I think regulations, you have to dig 10 feet down to see if any toxic or any historical stuff is down. That's what happened at the land where we're at now. I just want to make sure that you're not going to...
 If you're going, whatever you're going to use that land for, people is not going to be subject to an uprise of toxic waste coming in on them. So that's all I have to say. Thank you. So I'm going to turn the gavel over to Commissioner Fritz as president of the council to continue the hearing. You'll have the option to either continue this to the 29th or make the decision today with the quorum of the council that's here, depending on what you see fit. Thank you. Thank you all. See you. Thank you very much.
 Next three please. Next three are Trillium Shannon, Leo Rhodes, and Trish Reed.
 Good morning. I don't have a lot to say, but I would like to say we've been, my name's Trillium Shannon, I'm a co-founder and board member of Right to Dream 2. We've been in negotiations to find a place that is safe, where we can continue doing what we're doing. Understand this particular hearing is about whether the city can buy this piece of land or not. I support the city buying the piece of land. We still, as a board, have to decide where we're going based on the needs of the houseless community.
 But I would like to echo that every time the houseless community, as we've done, has shown that we can self-organize in a safe manner. We have toilets. We have garbage disposal. We've been doing a great job for almost four years. And, you know, our neighbors like us. Charlie's Deli loves us.
 So, you know, we actually do have support in the neighborhood we're in now. And I find it a little disconcerting that we've offered to, you know, I personally offer that we meet with the Central Eastside Industrial Council. We've been meeting with neighbors. We are in a process. We're in a process with the city. We're in a process with the neighbors. We have nothing to hide. We're completely transparent.
 We have, we'd like to share what our model is, and in fact we do. We have people all over the state and coming from all over the nation to look at our model and to use it in their communities because it works.
 And so I just, it's difficult to come to a hearing and find that people who I think do support Right to Dream 2 haven't come to necessarily ask us our position on this. And then people who don't support it don't support it just because of a homeless phobia, it looks like, you know. And I'd like people to just, again, open their hearts and their minds to the fact that
 people need a safe place to rest. And, you know, getting a spot on the inner southeast side is very different than what happened to Dignity Village, which I also supported Dignity Village, but Dignity Village got moved out really far, and I think that's what a lot of people would like to see. That does not serve the needs of people who need to move out of
 a situation that is very difficult and into a better situation we are we are successful and transitional so i know there's going to be a hearing on this later but let's just say um yes without seeing the proposal i support it and if i could just remind uh later testifies we're talking about whether to buy the property so if you could keep your remarks to that that would be really helpful thank you
 No, I'm sorry. I thought you were next. Yeah, my name is Leo Rhodes. I'm a homeless advocate. Also...
 one of the founders of Right to Dream 2, board member of Right to Dream 2, and just a lot of other stuff. But yeah, so I do would like for you to propose or buy these properties. One of the things that I always hear as a homeless advocate is why are these empty spaces out there when we have homeless people out on the streets? You know, one of the things we can do is
 work together and get some creative minds together of how to utilize these proposed lands. Just in the one-night count, which they do every year or every other year, you'll see the numbers of the homeless people out there. But yes, I would propose that you do accept these properties and use them for creative reasons of helping the less fortunate out there. So thank you.
 Hi, I'm Trish Reid. I am also a board member of Right to Dream 2, and I am obviously in support of buying these properties. I think that it is a good way to deal with a very sad situation that the city has as far as a homeless community goes, and that's really all I have to say. Thank you very much.
 The last person who signed up is Sarah Carlton, but we've had requests for others to speak. Okay. Anybody else want to come up right now? Don Gardner. Go ahead and speak. Okay. Is Sarah Carlton here? Anybody else would like to testify as well as Sarah, and please come on up. Hi. Good morning. My name is Don Gardner. I'm the Vice President of Southeast Uplift.
 We understand that we're not to be talking about the purpose or the use of this land, but I want to make it clear that Southeast Uplift feels that the Central East Side is a vital part of our total community.
 And what we are concerned about is if there is a plan to buy up all of these state properties, we would like to see an open process that talks about what do we intend to do with them. Some of the big issues for central east, or for southeast Upland have been access to the river, development along the river, all these type of community-based things, and the industrial growth and manufacturing employment that happens in the east side.
 So what we would be most interested in is all the, a listing of all of the properties that are potentially for sale and some idea of what you're going to do. And I worked for the, the, the city for a number of years as commissioners know. And this is the first time I've ever heard that we're going to buy a piece of property and we haven't theoretically have a use for that property, at least in mine. So...
 I find it a little disingenuous to say, oh, but we're going to have a hearing about this other use at a future date, but we don't know what that future use will be, but that will be about X. So, again, we would like to see some concern or some addressing of what all these properties are and what we would do with all of them. So, thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. How are you? Good morning, City Council Members. Good morning, Amanda, my favorite fellow nurse.
 Good morning, Commissioner Steve Novick. It's good to see you. Put your name in the record, please. Yes, Veronica Vernier. I'm a MICU retired nurse and public health worker out in the field. The reason I came to talk specifically today was to address Southeast. I wanted to recognize also Commissioner Dan Saltzman and his Trust for Public Land
 Without his incredible help and responsibility, our members of our fire department and police department wouldn't be Johnny on the spot in those areas of the Southeast that we want so well served. Also, Commissioner Nick Fish, you're doing a great job as usual. He gets their seconds ahead of Dan all the time. They're running neck and neck like football players.
 quarterback or running back. But I just want to speak to the issue and say that you guys are doing a great job. And also I noticed our mayor stepped out. I want to say kudos to the mayor for pulling off that beautiful party in the park in front of Lloyd Center. That was wonderful. And it keeps the neighborhoods going. Whatever work you're doing now is always supported by us ladies out here, our retired nurses.
 And also I want to say for those women in the Women's Air Corps, in the Navy, people like just a lot of our Navy nurses and Army nurses, we support them in Silvercrest, the Salvation Army. And I know that you guys, there's a lot of Salvation Army retired ladies in the Southeast too. So thanks a lot for your time, and good luck. Have a wonderful summer. Thank you.
 Commissioner, I'm ready to vote. Can I ask a question of the sponsor? Certainly. What's the next milestone that you would anticipate engaging the council around? The next milestone that will come back to council for a public hearing is likely later in the fall once we've decided what might be a good use for the site.
 Obviously, as the mayor said, the first thing is to continue the environmental assessment to make sure that it's a site that we do want to purchase, as some of the testifiers pointed out. If that happens, then we would, once the site is purchased, I would work with the mayor and Right to Dream 2 and the community on a good neighbor agreement. If Right to Dream 2's board decides that, yes, indeed, they think that's a viable site for them to move to,
 So then later in the summer, we would probably come to council with a proposed use and have a public hearing on that. Thank you. Is it an emergency? Good. So with that, it's an emergency ordinance roll call, please. Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? I'm sorry, Fish? Aye. Fritz? Oh, I'm so glad I get to be last. I'm Madam President now. I've informed my children that they need to call me Madam President all the time.
 I'm very happy that we've taken another step forward. It's a long way to go, and we will definitely work with Southeast Uplift, Central East Side Community, and Right to Dream 2, as well as PDC and others, depending on what the use turns out to be. Hi.
 Just real quick, I just want to make sure, there was an amendment, did I miss that? Was the amendment passed? Oh, right. We voted on that. We voted on it. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you for your diligence. Thank you for being vigilant. Okay. So we just have a few more items, colleagues, a couple of which are emergency ordinances, so we need to do those. But first, let's go back to consent, and if you could please read the title for pulled item 770. Mm-hmm.
 770 authorize a competitive solicitation for the purchase of a mobile parking payment system at an estimated amount of 6,000,000 $200,000 we know who pulled this commissioner fish did Hold item let me pull yeah Working mobile parking I understand I was going to go to the restroom, but I'm happy to be called out You wanted to show your concerns as to why you pulled it yeah
 So we could have a very brief presentation. So basically, colleagues, we're talking here about making it possible for people to pay for parking meters by phone. And I'll now turn it over to Jody Yates and Melissa McCready to elaborate. Thank you. My name is Jody Yates. I'm the interim parking group manager with the Bureau of Transportation. With me today is also Melissa McCready, who is our new parking operations division manager.
 The Bureau is bringing forward an ordinance which would allow the Bureau to solicit for services related to mobile pay for parking services or metered parking. This would also be known as pay by sell. This item is within the Bureau's two year work plan. It has also been an item requested by the public to add additional payment methods that don't require physically walking to a meter. This is a benefit especially to those who have limited mobility.
 How it works in a very simplistic manner is that an individual parks in a metered area and then has a choice to either pay at the meter or to pay by phone. Of course, that would probably require a smartphone, and they'd have to download an app. But it's not a requirement to pay by phone, but it's an option.
 If they choose to pay by the phone, they pay the parking fee plus a convenience fee. The city collects both the parking fee and the convenience fee, and then we would distribute the convenience fee to the vendor. Any agreement that we'd enter into would be a cost neutral to the Bureau. Okay.
 What we did was estimate the value over five years to be about $6.2 million, but really the cost is not truly known at this time. We based that on an expected number of transactions to go through the phone and then also an average fee. We assessed what other cities have paid, and it's a wide range. So it's just an estimate at this time. I have two questions. Okay. The first is how much of the cost would we recoup from the convenience fee?
 The convenience fee is a direct, say if it were 25 cents, we would recoup nothing. That's a pass-through cost. We would absorb the cost of the initial installation through our parking operations, but the convenience fee would be directly to the vendor. Okay. And currently if you buy parking on the street, you get a little sticker, you put it in your car, and that's how you avoid it. Assuming you put it in the right window, that's how you avoid getting a ticket. How would this work?
 Most likely the options we've seen right now are you enter your license plate in. And so the way that's been explained to me is that the mobile app,
 comes and tells our parking enforcement software. It uploads up into the YEM for the parking enforcement officers, and they see that your license plate has been paid and you're current on your payment. So you would not display a little piece of paper in your window. But we don't know all the details at this time because we don't have a vendor in place. This may be a dumb question, Commissioner Novick, but currently if there's no sticker, then you would automatically –
 charge that vehicle. If there is a sticker, you would just look at it to see whether there's sufficient time left. What's the impact on our staff resources of a system that operates in this manner?
 I think that if the technology works right, it should not be significant. I'll defer to Jody. He's correct. As the parking enforcement officers do go down the street, they're already entering the license plates into their handhelds, so they're already doing that kind of process. It would just be able to communicate back that the individual has already paid. I'm just curious. Are there any privacy issues that are unique to this system? No.
 I mean, if I have a, you're not putting my driver's license, excuse me, my license, my car license in the system if I have a sticker, right? No, we do actually evaluate that because we're also evaluating time stays. Yeah. Thank you.
 Any other questions? Any other questions? I'm not even sure if I can articulate this correctly, but just something maybe to look at. But I realize in San Francisco there's some startup company that's in the business now of basically secondary sales of parking spaces. So somebody's parked in a space,
 and they want to make that space available to somebody else to park there, that they're collecting some sort of a fee. And I guess that's certainly something we don't want to encourage through the system. I'm not even sure it would be. Just something to look at when you're doing your analysis. There is an app that exists for what you're talking about, and I don't think that would be any part of this technology. It's a separate issue altogether. Okay. Thank you.
 This may take the sharing economy into areas we don't want to go. Thank you. I'm not exactly sure how the cost recovery comes. If the convenience fee doesn't go towards the $6.2 million, how are we expecting to get that back? The 6.2 is over a five-year, so it's about a million a year is what we're anticipating. That's the value of all of those convenience fees each year is $1 million, and so that would be the value to a vendor.
 So basically, Commissioner, the $6.2 million is essentially the amount that we do expect people who use this option to basically pay to the vendor. So basically, if people are using this option, we will charge $0.35 to whoever it winds up being, and that will go to the vendor. So we're not paying anything for the system? No. Correct. Okay. Thank you. I appreciate that clarification. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Does anybody want to testify on this item? No.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. Now, my understanding, you currently do not have a vendor picked out. Have we done studies in other areas that show the results of what this might do? Also on that $0.25 fee that goes back to the vendor, could we negotiate that even after the amount of that $6-plus million is paid off, utilizing that fee...
 that we can continue to receive that fee to the city? Does that have to end? Because once you end up paying that $6 million off for the equipment,
 Does that just end and go back to the vendor, or can we continue to have it go back to the city? Mr. Lailing, it's not $6 million. The $6 million doesn't pay for the equipment. That's just an estimate of the fee that people who choose to pay by phone will wind up paying to the vendor directly. So it's not a matter of we're buying equipment and then we're covering the cost. It's a matter of we're basically setting up an arrangement where people will be able to pay that fee to the vendor that's operating the system.
 Okay, but to determine that overall fee and the payment back, my understanding would have to be some type of a cost calculated on some form of equipment or something to the vendor. And that's what I'm just asking you to say at a certain point.
 can that money, that additional amount, go back to the city and not to the vendor? No, because the idea here is that we're giving people the option of basically paying a vendor a certain number of cents in order to be able to pay by phone. So it's almost a pass-through. Okay, thank you. Thank you. This is Nemertian's Holdings. Please call the roll. Seltzman? Hi. Novick? Hi. Hi.
 I appreciate this hearing. When we were reviewing the agenda on Monday, it wasn't clear what this is and Steve, we wanted some additional information. I think the questions that we've asked and the dialogue here has been helpful.
 Also, I think just in terms of good practice, my preference is that for items, even for solicitations of this amount, they be on the regular agenda and not the consent. And I know we're in the process of tweaking our policies, but I would encourage us to do that. I think that's quite reasonable. Thank you for the discussion. Aye.
 It's a discussion. Aye. Thank you. Just a time check, folks. We all need to stay here because we've got a couple more things to do. Similarly to my colleagues, Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Novick, this afternoon there will just be three of us, so we'll have to take a recess if anybody needs to take a break. So just be aware of that. Could you read the title to 772, please? No.
 Amend fee schedule for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement Noise Control Program. I'm going to pull this back to my office, and just so you know, I'm not going to be bringing the other noise issues on July 29th, as we had previously discussed. We'll have a little more community process and then bring back a package. 777, please. Thank you.
 Accept bid of Brown Contracting Inc. for the East Portland Rapid Flash Beacon project for $698,526. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to Brown Contracting. The engineer's estimate on this project was $893,672. Thank you.
 On May 21, 2015, five bids were received, and Brown Contracting is the low bidder at $698,526. The Portland Bureau of Transportation has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing at 28% under the engineer's estimate.
 The city identified seven divisions of work for potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities, and MWESB subcontracting participation on this project is at 7.6%, with work being performed by a women-owned business for traffic control. I will turn this back over to council if you have any questions about the bidding process, and there are representatives from the contractor and the Bureau of Transportation here. So the minority and women number is not good.
 That's correct. Is there anything we can do about that? I'll ask Sean from Brown Contracting to come up here. Morning or afternoon. I'm Sean Emmerich with Brown Contracting. To address your question, we've worked on numerous projects with the city of Portland. They have these type of requirements, MWSB requirements.
 not just the female, but the minority also. This project in particular is real heavy. It's a rapid flash transportation issue. It's real heavy and electrical. So a good 45, 50% of the work is electrical. The remaining work is what we do ourselves, which is like excavation, concrete and asphalt patching type stuff. So the opportunities for minority and female participation is pretty minimal other than the electrical scope. We tried real hard to get electrical subcontractors to work on it.
 Five or six different companies we solicited. None of them would bid on it. Too busy doing other stuff. We got five or six bids with other electricians. None of them met those qualifications. So we tried. Thank you for your efforts, and thanks for that explanation. That's helpful. Thank you. Does anybody want to testify on this? This is a non-emergency ordinance, so it moves to second reading. It's a report. It's a report. Thank you very much. Move to accept the report. Second. Thank you. Roll call. Saltzman. Aye. Novick.
 We're very excited about getting these beacons installed and making life safer for people in East Portland. Aye. Fish. Aye. Fritz. And thanks to Representative Shamia Fagan for securing money to help with this and other safety improvements in East Portland. Aye. Now we can move to 778, which is our final item this morning. Thank you.
 amend transportation code for designated parking management plan districts and procedures for towing vehicles mission novick Colleagues this item is technical as all get out. So I'm not gonna say a darn thing. Just turn it over to Jody. Thank you commissioners My name is Jody Yates. I'm the interim parking group manager with me today is mark Friedman who is the parking enforcement? division manager
 In front of you are some code amendments to help assist the Bureau with our implementation of the Northwest Parking Plan and the Central East Side Parking Management Plan. As a reminder, City Council adopted the Central East Side Plan in June of 2012 and the Northwest Parking Plan in July of 2013.
 In order to implement the plans as adopted, some code amendments are necessary. And before you, basically there are three main items that they address. The first one allows persons who are parking to repark in these two parking management districts. That's currently not allowed. These are large area parking permit areas and this applies to those people who would not have parking permits.
 So, again, northwest is rather large. I don't remember the entire boundary, but if you were visiting in one area and you stayed for two hours up in that area and physically moved your vehicle, you would be allowed to repark.
 Also in Northwest, people will be allowed to extend their stay without moving their car. That's if they're at a meter. And then also in Northwest, we are creating hybrid districts of meters and parking permits, and the current code doesn't allow that to occur. So these code amendments allow everything to be put in place per the adopted plans. And they've been through city attorney review. Questions? Yes.
 Thank you very much. Does anybody want to testify on this? Nice job. Roll call, please. Zaltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fish? Aye. Fritz? I want to highlight something that some of my staff were not aware of, that if you're in a permit parking area, you have to move to a different block face, not just move your car one spot along. I know that from bitter experience. Thank you very much for your work. I hope this works out well, and thanks to the community who worked so hard on this. Aye.
 We are recessed till two o'clock.