All right, Carla, you ready? Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the July 13th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Fish? Here. Here. Hales? Here. Good morning, everyone. Welcome. We have a relatively light council agenda this morning. We have communications items up front. We'll take those shortly, and then we'll move into our regular agenda. Good morning.
 um if you're here to testify on one of the items on the calendar please let our clerk know and she'll make sure you get a chance to speak we typically allow three minutes per person doesn't look like that will be a difficult rule to follow today given that we have a relatively light agenda and a few people here but not a
 An overwhelming number. If you're here to speak, you just need to give only your name unless you're representing an organization. If you represent an organization, let us know that. We practice the rules of decorum in this room, so we like to make sure that everyone's voices are heard. So if you agree with someone, feel free to give them a wave of the hand or a thumbs up. And if you disagree with them and you want to show that, a polite hand gesture to the negative is also okay. Okay.
 but we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view so that everyone can be heard. Disruptive conduct is not allowed, and you'll be warned and excluded from the council chambers if you are disruptive. If you are a lobbyist representing an organization, the code requires that you disclose that.
 So those are the procedural matters at hand. Are there any items to be removed from the consent calendar to the regular calendar? We only have three, so okay. So with that, then let's please take communications item 812. Request of Nicholas Caleb to address council regarding potential for city action on air quality regulation. Come on up. Good morning.
 So I actually am going to talk more about fossil fuel policy than air quality regulation today, so I'll switch a little bit. So I'm Nick Caleb. I'm the staff attorney at Neighbors for Clean Air over the last four months. And before I start talking about fossil fuel issues, I want to say thank you for the vote on the marijuana tax recently, especially Commissioner Novick for making that issue and Commissioner Saltzman for pushing that forward. That was important information.
 precedent for the city to make. I think the more investments we make in air quality, the easier it is for the state to follow suit and do solid regulation for us. So regarding the fossil fuel infrastructure policy, city planners recently released the discussion draft for proposed bulk fossil fuel terminals in Portland, Land Use Code. In my opinion, the initial proposal runs afoul of what thousands of Portlanders believed they would get out of the resolution when they submitted comments, attended hearings, and ultimately celebrated council for its historic vote in November.
 As you'll recall, the resolution was a declaration that all fossil fuels are inherently dangerous throughout the entire life cycle from extraction to transport, storage and combustion. And that citing new fossil fuel infrastructure in our city is wholly unreasonable because of the compounding risk of a major seismic event. We recently got a taste of how dangerous fossil fuel infrastructure is when an oil train derailed and caught fire in Mosier, Oregon. It's a miracle that no one was killed and that our Columbia River wasn't irreparably harmed.
 This council showed wisdom and prescience in recognizing the dangers of fossil fuel infrastructure before we had to experience a disaster at home. But as your resolution is being translated into code, we are quickly moving back to business as usual, a proposal that would not ban new fossil fuel terminals, nor would it halt the expansion of existing fossil fuel infrastructure. In addition, the discussion draft contains nothing that even begins to mitigate the risk to the public from existing fossil fuel infrastructure and the other tank farms in the Northwest industrial area.
 Instead, we're being asked to accept an increase in overall risk to the health and safety of the public and an assumption that expansion of infrastructure will equal seismic upgrades for some facilities with absolutely no mechanism to guarantee it. Of course, there are no guarantees of 100% safety in this world, but we can be a city that doesn't compound the risks of the public by allowing a dying industry to dominate our politics and dictate public policy that puts our people and environment at unnecessary risk.
 After accident upon accident, it's beyond naive to take claims from fossil fuel companies or railroads at face value. After all, these are the same companies that knowingly engaged in disinformation campaigns around climate change for decades to protect short-term profits at the expense of the future. Many of these same multinationals were part of the city stakeholder process around this draft discussion that by my count included 30 representatives from the port and fossil fuel interests and only 10 representatives of community, environmental, and public health organizations.
 Unsurprisingly, the discussion draft uncritically accepts their assertions and protects their interests. Whether intended or not, caveats in the resolution that were introduced as last second amendments are being seized upon by city staff as a rationale to allow an increase in fossil fuel storage and transport in our city.
 Our new comprehensive plan encourages us to regulate fossil fuel infrastructure in line with regional demand, which must continually decrease if we are to meet our climate goals. It also contains general prescriptions to regulate industrial areas to protect public health and ensure seismic safety.
 Last paragraph here. There's still time to rescue the spirit of the fossil fuel infrastructure resolution and create policy that responds to the brute facts of climate and seismic danger while paving the way for 100% renewable energy-powered Portland. This is what we expect of council, and we're eager to support your continued leadership in this. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks. Now, it's timely that you're here with this communication day because it is coming forward. And you're an experienced activist, but I just want to make sure everybody understands this. When the planning staff or the Planning and Sustainability Commission produces a draft, it's just a draft. And so you've been here enough to know this, but often we will make significant changes in policies that are brought forward either by our volunteers on the commission or by our staff. So no one should feel that an early proposal is an indication that the
 the Council's on board with the draft. Yeah, absolutely. And we understand that. I think our goal here today was just to show that there's a significant amount of public interest still in this policy and that probably you can expect us to be involved every step of the way from here on out. Yeah, please do. Thank you very much. Thank you. Actually, Nick, I would just like to make a pitch to climate activists to weigh in on land use type issues that affect
 our own use of fossil fuels. Like last week we had a hearing on whether to adopt minimum parking regulations in Northwest requiring a certain amount of parking to be built with new buildings and the affordable housing activists were out in force saying that these minimums would lead to increased housing prices. There were fewer people from the environmental movement saying, wait a minute, we shouldn't be building more parking because that encourages people to drive and that helps to kill the plant.
 So these land use type issues come up fairly often, and I really encourage folks, particularly active on climate issues, to show up and be heard. Yeah, and I think many of our comrades and different movements subscribe to similar ideas, and it's tough to be everywhere at once all the time, but I think a lot of the folks that were here for the parking issue, we supported them as well and pushed their messages around as well, and we thank you for taking that up. And just a second push with the sort of local
 climate action, which I totally agree on. And you've been vocal in the past about pointing out that, hey, if we're going to be doing this large-scale international stuff, then we should be doing stuff at home. I think there's starting to be a groundswell in Portland, and we've seen several mayoral and city council candidates start to talk about what 100% renewable Portland might look like, and we should begin to maybe open that discussion up about what our energy policy could be. And so we're looking for champions currently to carry that type of policy forward as well. So thanks very much. Thanks very much. Appreciate it.
 Okay, let's take the next person, please. 8-13, a request of Mia Reback to address council regarding local climate action and fossil fuel policy. Good morning. Never know where this woman is going to show up. Introducing presidential candidates coming to city council is just what she does. So my name is Mia, and I'm the staff organizer with 350 PDX. And we, along with many of our partners, have reviewed the discussion draft put out by BPS
 And unfortunately, we believe that this draft falls short of the intent and the intended impact of the resolution passed in November. In the few minutes that I have here today, I want to touch on three main points regarding the policy. The first is that the community is expecting a full ban on new fossil fuel development and expansion, not limitations to growth and limitations to new terminals, but a full ban.
 Second, climate change is worse than we thought. We now have a new scientific understanding than we did in November about the magnitude of the crisis, the impacts we're facing, and the need for bolder action. And third, that we have everything that we need to begin an immediate transition to a 100% renewable economy, both globally and here at home, creating a massive amount of economic stimulus. Thank you.
 I think that the opposition we saw to Pembina, the thousands of public comments, as well as the continued following of this issue through last fall, shows that the public is really engaged on climate. We have folks here today just coming out in the morning, and people are really ready to see Portland take the lead on a strict ban and moving away from these bulk fossil fuel terminals.
 Despite the fact that the resolution is firmly rooted in our opposition to fossil fuels, the proposed discussion draft is actually allowing more fossil fuels. By defining bulk fossil fuels and then allowing them, we're not opposing them anymore.
 And I think also it's important just to note that the amount of fossil fuels that we are allowing, if the discussion draft were to move forward, flies in the face of so many of our local policies. For example, the current proposal would allow new oil terminals up to 500,000 barrels per day. That would take about seven oil trains, mile-long crew trains, coming through Portland to fill a terminal like that.
 In the wake of Mosher, we have a resolution against oil trains, as well as our local and state goals for carbon reduction. We can't be building new terminals of that magnitude.
 let alone the risk that they provide to immediate health and safety, because there is not a requirement in this proposal for seismic resilience. There is an assumption in the current proposal that allowing companies to increase their terminal storage size will lead to a benevolent increase in seismic resilience. However, we're looking for council to take strong leadership on requiring these terminals to upgrade for the health and safety and not allow sacrifice zones in our community.
 By burning fossil fuels at any stage, we're turning the world into a sacrifice zone. In Paris, world leaders set a goal to cap global warming at 1.5 degrees Celsius. We've likely locked ourselves into that amount of warming and really need an immediate transition away from fossil fuel use at every level around the world in order to cap global warming to a safe limit for humanity.
 It's already a life and death issue for many people around the world, and including in the U.S., where we had 23 people die from flooding already.
 this spring, and that's something that we cannot allow. Just to wrap up really quickly, I've submitted a report for you all today that was released last week by the Labor Network for Sustainability, and it shows that more jobs can be generated through investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency than the same dollar investments in oil, coal, and natural gas infrastructure. And just to read a paragraph in the report as my closing words are,
 This transition will not happen by itself.
 Because energy infrastructure is based on long-term investment and planning, it must be guided by economic strategies that are sustainable in the long term. The transition to worker and community-friendly clean energy will require deliberate decisions at every level of government. We, the community, hope to work with the council, as well as staff at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, to ensure that we do take that deliberate step to ban fossil fuels.
 Thanks, Mia. You know, you mentioned the Paris agreement, and I just got a report back that's kind of interesting to hear because I went along with 500 other mayors. Mayor Hidalgo invited us to be there to try to help put pressure on the process. And one of the sort of after-action reports from that whole event was that actually the community voice that came through the 500 of us that were there was very influential. Thank you.
 I mean, a lot of people put a lot of work into that conference. But the fact that 500 local communities had done something and were standing up for something was quite emboldening to the negotiators, apparently. So we were hoping that was the effect, but it turned out that it really was influential. So the fact that we're doing things at the community level is having an impact beyond Portland. So that makes it even more important. So thank you. Definitely. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all for being here and supporting it.
 your colleagues. Thank you. Okay, let's move on to 814. Request of Lightning Watchdog PDX to address counsel regarding Clinton Foundation versus Trump University. Good morning. Oh, you've got something on the PowerPoint there? That's classified because if we get out into the public, there are nefarious actors, nation states, others that want to do harm to this country. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX.
 committee on oversight and government reform will come to order without objection the chairs authorized to declare a recess at any time I want to thank director Comey for being here and doing so on on short notice my I have the greatest admiration for the FBI my grandfather was a career FBI agent I tell you I'm here because we're mystified and confused by the fact pattern that you laid out and the conclusions that you reached
 It seems that there are two standards, and there's no consequence for these types of activities and dealing in a careless way with classified information. It seems to a lot of us that the average Joe, the average American, that if they had done what you laid out in your statement, that they'd be in handcuffs, and they might be on their way to jail, and they probably should. And I think there is a legitimate concern
 there is a double standard. If your name isn't Clinton, or you're not part of the powerful elite, that Lady Justice will act differently. It's a concern that Lady Justice will take off that blindfold and come to a different conclusion. Hillary Clinton created this mess. Wasn't Republicans, it wasn't anybody else. She made a very conscious decision. On the very day that she started her Senate confirmation, she set up and got a domain name and set up a system.
 to avoid and bypass the safety, security, and the protocol of the State Department. Just real fast, I'm focusing on the Clinton Foundation, on the investigation, and Hillary Clinton tarnishing the reputations of Loretta Lynch and Director FBI James Comey is shameful.
 Absolutely shameful. Thanks for your point of view. And I hope that the voters out there will look at this very close and understand she is not suitable to be the next president of the United States. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Next person, please. Let's hold one sec so we can get the screen back to the feed from here. Okay.
 Charles, can you just stop it? We don't want you to be upstaged by a Republican congressman, Charles. Impossible. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, as most of you know, my name is Charles Johnson. Black lives matter. And...
 It's important to note that there aren't really any such thing as blue lives. There is a duty as a police officer. Many good, noble, brave people volunteer to be police officers, but that is not the same as being born into a country that still struggles with racism and having a high level of melanin. So all we need to say is black lives matter.
 And that means everybody is going to work together to ensure equal justice for everybody, regardless of skin color. We're going to dismantle systems of oppression which lead to the murder of innocent, unarmed black men and women. When the previous presenter was giving us the FBI's – the director of the FBI being summoned to Congress –
 We talked about different standards. The discussion was about different standards of justice. And although here in Portland we've been very fortunate that it hasn't gone to a deadly level in the very recent past, we know that a police chief...
 who did not exercise proper discipline, a former police chief, who did not exercise proper discipline with his firearms on his private time, is still collecting a healthy paycheck. That is a different standard of justice than normal Portlanders experience. In this chamber, two weeks ago, four people were removed, were not removed. Four people voluntarily left this chamber, were not informed that they needed to leave the building,
 and then the police came and arrested four people in City Hall on dubious pretenses that probably will not stand up in court. How can I say that? Because we know that Ms. Teresa Rayford, who led a huge protest on 7-7 after the murder of Philando Castile and Alton Sterling, was drugged by our government, not specifically you, specifically District Attorney Underhill himself,
 and he wasted the time of six jurors and two district attorneys on a futile and pointless prosecution, which is the tradition in Portland. The previous district attorney...
 And DA shrunk in Underhill, had dozens of defendants go up to the Supreme Court, come back down, and then, oh, we didn't really mean it. We dropped the charges. So this city needs to seriously think about how it handles nonviolent civil disobedience and justice for people of color. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Okay, let's move to our consent calendar, please. There are only three items, so let's take a vote, please, on the consent calendar. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. All right. We are to our regular agenda, item 819. Thank you.
 Amend Title 33, Planning and Zoning, to allow limited commercial use of accessory parking within the Northwest Plan District. Before we vote, Commissioner. Okay, let's take a vote, please. It's a second reading. Ready for council action? Feltzman? Aye. Novick?
 I really appreciated the discussion last week about the issue we're not voting on today, which is minimum parking requirements. We are at PBOT going to do some more outreach to the community about what kinds of sideboards we might put on parking permit district tools that we might authorize neighborhoods to adopt, and that's going to be a lively discussion. We've spent a lot of time reaching out to stakeholders in the past year, but I think it's time now for a broader community discussion.
 And we are looking at possible ways to maybe in a sort of a pilot manner address the concerns the Northwest community raised in a different manner than adopting minimum parking requirements. Really appreciate my colleagues' engagement on the issue, and I'm really excited that on the apparently non-controversial issue of shared parking, we're going to be able to move ahead. I think that'll make a big difference. Aye. Steve, thank you. And I agree with you. It was a great discussion last week.
 I'm particularly interested in the follow-up discussion about how this new toolkit is working, and I hope we consider a work session in the fall to sort of talk about the various pieces. And to me, shared parking has a big upside. I know that there was one concern raised by –
 our friends at the Episcopal Cathedral about how they would use shared parking, which I want to follow up with you on, because I thought their letter raised an interesting technical problem, which we may be able to work out. But I appreciate all the testimony, and I appreciate that we're going to try to do something different here. And time will tell. Hi. Hey, Els. Hi.
 That was a very good hearing and one of those thoughtful, maybe only in Portland moments, when you could have that many citizen activists speaking in that great detail about land use and transportation policy. But I thought it was a great outcome and look forward to the next days of the work. Thank you, Commissioner. Aye. A-820, please. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Metro for regional illegal dumping patrol services. If there's no objection, I want to reschedule this to the 27th of this month.
 821. Amend contract with Portland Opportunities Industrialization Center Inc. to increase the not to exceed amount to $119,992 to continue to employ the gang impacted family team coordinator to provide support for program stakeholders,
 Serving gang-impacted youth and families. So we have some presenters here for this. This morning I'm very pleased to see this here. We're experiencing some record high gang violence in our city. It's happening across the country, but it's happening here too. And we're doing some things that we believe are the right approach. They don't necessarily all show results right away.
 but they do, I think, move us in the right direction. One is our community center's initiative. Commissioner Fritz and I were out at Dishman Community Center last week, and the kids are signing up for free passes, and it's a wonderful thing to see, and it's a wonderful thing for our city to do to give positive opportunities to young people. We put five new gang outreach workers in our budget, so we're now providing coverage out in the community on the street where young people are hanging out seven days a week.
 and we have some great work being done in the community by groups like enough is enough that are campaigning to end violence neighbor to neighbor and friend to friend so the gang impacted family team is an important part of this effort and We have some presenters here to talk to us about this proposal. Tom Peavy is here I think Antoinette Edwards may be here. I'm not sure if she is or not, but she's hot
 uncharacteristically hiding behind something if she is Marcy Jackson is coming so da under Hills here so come on up please and we'll get this underway and appreciate you being here this morning good morning good morning to have you here you want to leave it off
 Well, I sure can, although I think we've set it up for Tom Peavy to give us a background and experience. So let me, if I can, segue, kick it over to him. We'll have Tom queue it up for you. Okay. Well, thank you very much. Good morning, Mayor and members of City Council. I am Tom Peavy, the Policy Manager for the Office of Youth Violence Prevention and a member of the Gang Impacted Family Team, or GIFT.
 I am seated with other GIFT team members who will shortly offer information in brief as to the nature of the GIFT program and the GIFT coordinator's role and importance. Today we are requesting City Council approval to amend grant funding for the gang-impacted family team coordinator position to be continued through the 2016-2017 fiscal year. GIFT was initiated in 2012 through the joint vision of the Portland Police Bureau and the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office.
 The intended use of the gift program was to stop intergenerational gang affiliation and violence. The gift is comprised of members or individuals from the Portland Police Bureau, the City of Portland Mayor's Office of Youth Violence Prevention, Multnomah County Department of Human Services, Multnomah County Department of Criminal Justice, Multnomah County District Attorney's Office, the Local Public Safety Coordinating Council, and several private nonprofit organizations offering reentry programming and trauma counseling services.
 The GIF program vision is to identify and to link high-risk gang-impacted individuals to include family members with needed services. Once service needs have been established, the GIF team communicates with at-risk individuals and families and offers direct or referral service assistance. The desired outcome is to promote pro-social behavior and to break the cycle of gang affiliation and violence.
 Discovered in 2012 was a need for a full-time coordinator position to connect stakeholder service organizations with gift client needs and to provide follow-up information on service history and client status. The gift coordinator position was established in 2013 based on a noted best practice program in Cincinnati, Ohio entitled Cincinnati Initiative to Reduce Violence.
 Since 2013, the funding for the gift coordinator position has been provided through a two-year grant awarded to the City of Portland by the State of Oregon Youth Development Council. After the State of Oregon grant concluded in 2014, continued one-time funding was applied to the gift coordinator position approved by City Council provided through the Portland Police Bureau 2015-2016 fiscal year budget. Thank you.
 Since 2013, the Gift Coordinator Position Grant funding has been awarded to Portland Opportunities Industrialization Center, or POIC, a local private nonprofit organization that specializes in service to gang-impacted youth and their families.
 PYC currently staffs the following programs which coordinate referral services with the GIF program. The Street Level Gang Outreach Program, which serves to build relationships with other programs in the community for the purposes of connecting gang members, associates, and or their families to educational, social, medical, and employment-related services. PYC's
 and the Community Healing Initiative, or CHI, which utilizes a culturally specific whole family program model to provide wraparound services to gang-involved, primarily adjudicated youth and their families. Currently, the GIF program is actively serving 21 clients and their families. Members of the GIF team are here with me today to provide input into the nature and importance of the GIF services supplied to clients and the essential nature of the GIF program coordinator position.
 I'll turn it over to Rod. Well, good morning again, Mayor Hales and members of the city commissioners. I couldn't be more supportive of the gift-based program. The gift program began as a very organic, what do we need, what's missing in our efforts to help reduce gang violence and intergenerational gang violence. What we were seeing, quite literally, boots on the ground, was second, third, and fourth.
 moving towards potentially a fourth generation of ongoing gang violence within families. We also knew that we had a tremendous amount of resources in this community, but were we effectively organizing our resources and were we using those resources on the most important gang-impacted families possible? And so with those kind of general kernels of ideas, the Portland Police Bureau members, specifically it was then-Lieutenant Tom McGranahan, myself and others, got together and started having conversations about,
 Commissioner Saltzman, this may ring a bell with you. We used some of the models, if you will, from the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence. It was Tom McGranahan and I back in the 90s that worked on domestic violence cases, and we had worked together in identifying families that were most impacted by domestic violence, and could we organize and do better in that area, and the answer was yes, and we did it. So in 2012, we took some of that work,
 We moved it into the gang conversation and began to have ideas about we need to bring people who have not always historically sat around the table and talked about specific individuals, specific families. What are we doing? Are we having redundancy? And if so, let's spread out those resources, use them more effectively. But more importantly, what are we missing? What services are we not giving not just to the individual who's maybe involved in gang-involved activity, but
 but they're family members, they're sons, daughters, mothers, fathers. What can we do from a holistic approach? And so out of that organic conversation began really just members of your community in the public safety conversations getting together and coming up with these good ideas. We quickly realized we were on to something. So as a result of that, we needed coordination. We needed somebody to really help us do this work in a more organized fashion because we were doing it out of already existing resources. Right.
 That's where the gift coordinator idea just became almost critical right out of the gate because we knew we were on to something and we needed some additional help. So we reached out. We got some funding early on. You've heard about that from Tom here, about that first year's worth of work. And, boy, did we hit a home run. We just really realized that this was critically important to us.
 one of the areas in our efforts to help reduce gang-involved activity and their connected family members. We were very fortunate in seeing that when the initial grant funding expired,
 the city was more than willing to recognize the value of this program, step up and fund it, and work with an obviously tremendous organization in POIC. And so I couldn't be more enthusiastic about encouraging you to continue that partnership, that good work, and continue the funding of the coordinator position. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. And I'd like to pass this off to the gift coordinator, who is Deborah Kim. Good morning, Deborah. Good morning. My name is Deborah Kim and I am the gang impacted family team coordinator. I would like to give Mayor and Council an idea of the amount of people being served through gifts. The information being presented is data collected beginning April.
 GIFT has made contact with a total of 21 people, ranging from the ages of 17 to 37. Total number of people actively seeking services is 16, and this is a combination of both gang members as well as impacted family members. To clarify, impacted family members would include both intermediate family members, relatives, and others, such as significant others. Of the 16 actively seeking services, 10 have successfully been connected to services.
 Such services range from connecting clients to jobs, helping them to re-enroll back in school and connecting them to any housing resources and more.
 The total number of people in GIFT group currently is 13, which age range is from 20 to 29. GIFT group consists of gang members that are currently on probation and parole. And it is the group that is formed through the Department of Community Justice, facilitated by Volunteers of America, the Community Partners Reinvestment, as well as GIFT.
 So now that I've covered a couple of statistics, I just wanted to share a success story that I believe highlights the importance of gifts and gift strength.
 Recently, a young lady who was released from being incarcerated for two years seeks support in developing job readiness skills as well as finding employment. Upon building rapport and being in consistent contact, she followed a job lead and found a job. One day she randomly texted me a photo of her uniform saying how excited she was to be employed at a fast food restaurant.
 Though this may seem like a very, very small gesture to all of us, I think this speaks to Pauline Umash. She is one who is open to speaking to a service provider and somebody in a social service field, and she is an example of somebody who is excited and willing to share news, where oftentimes in this specific population they are very guarded and they keep to themselves.
 It's actually, and the question comes to mind, which is actually good to have D.A. Underhill here to help answer it, but I think somebody seeing this contract or hearing this presentation might say, well, gosh, $120,000 and you're only dealing with a few dozen people at a time. Is that cost effective? I don't know if you keep this statistic in your head, but I'm wondering what the typical cost of prosecution for a Measure 11 crime might be.
 You know, Mayor, I don't have that statistic in my head, but I can say it's expensive. We've got the cost, obviously, of not just the prosecution function, the law enforcement function,
 we've got the impact of the community and the crime victims themselves. It's, what, $50,000 a year to keep somebody in state prison? Yes. I mean, you add it all up, it's probably $100,000 a case, right? We're spending $100,000 for dozens of people. It's expensive, and it's not what we want to do. I mean, you have a district attorney's office that I think is very capable and very good at needing to prosecute offenders who engage in behavior such that they need to be sent to prison.
 But we'd like to do things differently. We'd like to actually not have that be the end result of each and every one of these cases. And that's really at the core of this. That's what the gift program is all about is giving.
 We want to stop that intergenerational, you know, what's occurring. A person getting a job, you know, that's a small thing, as you said, Deborah, but no, it's not. Compared to what? Yeah, and local jail is expensive. It is $200 a day, very close to that in most recent calculations to keep somebody even here in our local jail.
 Prison, you're close to your knock on the door of about $100 a day. But those are just tangible expenses that we can actually put a dollar figure to, but there are so many intangibles that this program is extremely valuable to. And that's why we made it the family-based program is we've been working for years and years and years with just the individual, right, and that prosecution effort and that probation effort.
 But we lifted our chin up a little bit. We looked around, and we saw each and every one of these individuals, oftentimes young men, they've got children. They've got siblings. They've got mothers and fathers that are oftentimes impacted by what we're talking about. And can we reach out to them? And that's really where we're making the difference, I think. Rod, I'm just curious in terms of the profile of the gang activity that you're seeing. We've got –
 young people that have deep roots in our community, but we also have people, gangs that are moving here or expanding their presence here. Could you speak to that? Well, we started seeing the most prolific kind of involvement in gang activity in the mid-'80s. And those of us who were doing this work remember mostly what we saw was an infusion of California-based gangs moving up quite literally I-5 and setting up stakes here.
 We've since then had a meaningful presence of gangs. Now, we have gangs of all diversities. We have black gangs, Hispanic gangs. We have white gangs. Quite literally, my gang prosecutor is in a murder bail hearing prosecuting behavior associated with a motorcycle gang who we allege committed a murder as part of what they do. We're seeing a lot of different things. We're seeing violence.
 these multi-generational gangs that I've talked about, but we're also seeing gangs coming in from outside of our jurisdiction. They engage in criminal behavior to include many things, such as human trafficking, for example. We're seeing gangs that are moving victims of trafficking our
 around up and down I-5, over to Las Vegas, down to Sacramento, Los Angeles, up to Seattle, sometimes Vancouver, B.C. Those are often gang-involved. They're not homegrown gang-involved members. They come from another jurisdiction, but we're part of how they make their money, what they do. They come, they leave, some stay. We just see a lot of different things in this area. And to what extent, Rod, is the –
 the explosion in cheap heroin and drugs like that aggravating the situation? Well, for years and years, we saw a lot of gang-involved trafficking of controlled substances as a large methodology for revenue and such for gang-involved members. And certainly, we still see that.
 Um, and for some of the reasons that you've just remarked on, but I should also add, and I think it's very important that the gang members are organized. They're, uh, creative. They've moved into areas such as trafficking in firearms. And as I mentioned just a few minutes ago, human trafficking, they're making a significant, they've, they've,
 They've diversified their business efforts to historically be things along the lines of drug trafficking, but now to include other behaviors as well. Final question, Rod. And by the way, it's a pleasure to have you here. We should do this more often because you're at the front lines, your front line partner in many of these challenges. So I'm making some changes in my life that have resulted in more walking, less driving.
 So I'm seeing at the street level more of the impacts of what seems to be a big spike in drug use, people that are sort of whose behavior is sort of out of control. And that has huge ripple effects. To feed a habit, you've got to engage in – you've got to break into cars, break into homes. You've got to feed the habit. The likelihood that you're following basic rules of society begin to sort of fall apart.
 So we look to these innovative programs to use unconventional ways of addressing behavior, but we also need jail beds for some people and we need treatment beds for others. If the mayor offered you a dollar and you had to prioritize how you would spend that dollar among those three things, how would you rank them? I'm going to rank it with prevention, number one. I'm going to spend most of that dollar on prevention and treatment.
 In fact, I've had conversations with most of you about a program that we're working very aggressively on, the LEAD program, Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion. It's a program that was piloted out of Seattle in 2011. It came about as a long conversation surrounding many of the things, Commissioner Fish, that I think you've summarized in what you said relative to walking around parts of our city today.
 We're seeing addiction-based issues. When we're talking about traffickers of controlled substance who are not trafficking to satisfy their addiction but instead trafficking for profit, we're going to look at that person differently than most of what we see. And I think most of what you're probably thinking of as you made those comments. And that is a person who –
 is challenged by addiction relative to a controlled substance, whether that be heroin, methamphetamine, cocaine, or some other types of controlled substances. The LEAD program showed a marked success in Seattle. They've been studied by an independent research analysis done by the University of Washington. They've seen several remarkable kind of changes relative to that program,
 They focused on the Belltown region of Seattle, which, as I generally understand it, is kind of downtown core but a little bit north, but not unlike our downtown core area where they had open drug trafficking and open drug use. It was just happening in an open area. And one of the things that they did is they implemented this harm reduction model. It's recognizing that addiction is not a you can't just turn off that switch and require that person necessarily to stop cold turkey, but instead –
 recognize that small, meaningful advancements in a person's life are valuable as well. And so what they've seen is some remarkable results as part of that program. The individuals within that program, and at any given time, they tend to have about 250 to 300 individuals in that program, not unlike what we might experience in our downtown core area.
 They work with case managers, and they've seen statistics. I didn't come totally equipped, so I don't want to get this wrong, but I think I've got a decent command. In the neighborhood of in excess of 50%, the number 58 comes to mind, reduction in recidivism in a two-year window of time based on individuals that are part of that lead program. It's really taken a totally different approach to drug addiction scenarios. It's really putting that dollar...
 before jails and prosecution. You do have to have the law enforcement component because that's where LEAD comes from. It's law enforcement assisted diversion. You do have to have your police. They are involved in that front end. But where it changes is, should we send this case to the district attorney's office for classic court-involved criminal prosecution, or can we do something different? So there's where I spend the dollar. Last question. I got a briefing from Steve's team on Vision Zero yesterday.
 And we were talking about, obviously, education and outreach, but we're also talking about enforcement of the law. Yes. And I'm going to push in our next legislative agenda for us to get tougher on DUI. And when we read about someone who stopped for the 30th and they're on the street, the person that carries a loaded gun around and is arrested 30 times, the public at some point would say, why are we so lenient?
 The person that gets into a car, which is a loaded gun, impaired and puts people at risk, to me is no different. And I understand there's some politics around this in terms of the liquor industry and people's concerns about the law. But I think my own view is we have to get tougher on DUI. And I think that's an area we would welcome your feedback as we craft our legislative proposal. Obviously, there are big obstacles to getting DUI.
 reform on this issue in the short term. I'd like to play for the longer term. But I think some of the recent stories about people who have repeat DUIs and are still on the road just don't make sense to the average person. And I think our laws need to be updated.
 I look forward to continuing those conversations, and I think you'll find myself and other members of my office a useful tool to help analyze, assess, look at the laws, look at where we might suggest some adjustments, improvements, and look forward to those continued conversations, Commissioner. On a related note...
 In addition to strong enforcement, one way to reduce DUIs and also a variety of other criminal behavior is to simply raise the price of alcohol. So I hope that you will join us in once again asking the legislature to raise the beer and wine tax or at least authorize local governments to adopt such taxes.
 So I was curious, getting back to the gift program. Yes, Commissioner. How do you – what are the criteria for an individual to be in the program? They have to be on parole and probation, have a family that's extensively involved in gang involvement. Is that correct? And it's 21-year capacity or –
 Or is that just the number you're serving right now? We have Brian from DCJ. I'm going to let him take my seat and explain to you, you know, answer your questions. So, Brian. What's up, Brian? Thanks, Tom. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm Brian Smith. I'm the supervisor in the Department of Community Justice gang unit. So just to answer your question, so what we do is we identify inside the gang unit in the Department of Community Justice those active gang members who have generational issues as far as gangs go. And so generally we would say that they have to have at least...
 one other family member who has been involved in gang violence or been involved in gangs, either their father or their cousin or their brothers. In most of these cases that we have, it's more than one family member. It's multiple family members. In the majority of the cases, it's father to son to
 grandson is the type of gang member that we're trying to serve and we're trying to focus on so that we can kind of really get to the core of some of these active gangs in our community which generally the core of these gangs are ran and operated by generational gang members. Those are usually the leadership of these organizations and so we're really trying to target those people and their families.
 around. Is 21 an artificial cap just based on how many you can serve or is that it? Is that the number of individuals with intergenerational gang involvement in our community? That isn't necessarily the cap. That's just currently what we have. We go through things.
 We've screened people before, and we go through a screening process through Deborah, and then we have two mentors that are on contract with the Department of Community Justice who specifically are mentors for the gang members inside the gift program, and we screen them. And some are not appropriate. Some are doing other positive things in their life and not.
 You know, the gift program is not for them, and others may be appropriate, but they, you know, they're in refusal, and they refuse to participate, or they refuse to get services, and so there's other avenues that we have to go and try to supervise and rehabilitate those individuals. Commissioner, another comment on that point, because I'll go back a little bit to 2012 when we first started. All right, what are we going to try and tackle? Sure.
 And quite literally, it was, again, one of those organic conversations. But it was, and I'll use Commissioner Fish's kind of, if we had a dollar, meaning if you had some resources, what would you do with it? How would you prioritize it? And at that time, we, all right, let's everybody at the table bring together your most deeply involved, just anecdotal, right, in your head, who are the most deeply involved gang-impacted families in our community? And so everybody came with some, quite literally, some names.
 It was not just 21. It was not just 25. My memory goes back to we had 40. We had 50. But we had to spend that dollar-wise. So we had to recognize that we have resource implications. So let's cull it down and let's hyper-focus on, at that time, it started with the top 25, if you will.
 So there's some flexibility with respect to it. There still is, as there always is, some resource implications to most everything we do. While at the same time, I'd like to think that we touch everybody that we possibly can in some way. Thank you. Thank you. Anything else you want to add, Brian? No, let me just give a brief overview of what the Department of Community Justice does with the GIVE program. We're a partner along with other agencies that we've heard about. And so inside the Department of Community Justice, what we do is we identify individuals
 These core are the most significant generational gang members, and we run a group weekly. And we have mentors through Volunteers of America as well as a counselor through Volunteers of America who facilitate that group as well as myself, who does some facilitation. And what we're doing now is we recently purchased a curriculum that is culturally specific to the population that we're dealing with.
 And we're about to install this nine-month curriculum for these individuals to go through, which includes not only rehabilitation efforts, cognitive restructuring type of assignments, but community service, advocacy, you know, those kinds of things to where it's a pretty wide stretch of things that these guys have to do. And so we're about to install that into our groups. And so how...
 The gift coordinator fits into this is that we have so many individuals who have so many needs, and whether it be substance abuse or employment or even mental health, we're dealing with a lot of individuals who have been traumatized and need trauma-informed care because of the violence that they've experienced because of all of the problems that exist in gang life, shootings, those kinds of things. And so we're trying to provide some trauma-informed care through the coordination of the gift.
 coordinator, setting some of these services up so these individuals can have some therapy because of what they've been through and because I think they have to address those issues before they can move forward. Not to mention...
 We deal with the gang member inside the Department of Community Justice, and we do the best we can to try to deal with victims and family members. But a lot of times our focus has to be on the safety and the rehabilitation, safety of the community and the rehabilitation of the gang member. And we need to have the families and the victims safe.
 and the witnesses also address to provide services for them, and that's where the gift coordinator comes in to try to really provide services for those individuals, helping them maybe even relocate if they've been a witness or a victim, helping them provide services to their children. The parents of these...
 the gang members and their children, the mothers. Some of the children of these gang members need services like daycare and camps for their kids and diapers and basic needs. And so she does an outstanding job on trying to really provide services for the entire family in collaboration with us, who are trying to provide services for the gang member itself. That's kind of in a nutshell what we got.
 Thank you. Mayor, just one other comment with our friends here. Last year I did a police ride-along with members of the GET team, and by 10 o'clock at night it was a routine night. By 1 o'clock it was the bloodiest night in history, in recent history. And I've got to appreciate how hard those jobs are, just being around people that are dead and dying and grieving. But the thing that struck me the most was when we stopped by Jefferson, their football game.
 and the number of relationships the officers had with young people. And I'm not so old that I don't remember when I was younger and the impact of having people know my name and have eyes and ears, you know, watching me. And all of us during those, you know, difficult years need people looking out for us. And the fact that the officers knew so many people by first name, knew the families, could engage people, was very impressive.
 And to be able to balance that with the other part of the job, which is really unspeakable when you're at a crime scene and there's some of the things we observed, I had a deep appreciation for the work that they did and for the value of maintaining those human connections and building those relationships, the community policing part.
 And I think this point you make about upstream investments and prevention, I wish we almost every year had a gathering of people here where we talked about collectively what are those upstream things. Because the thing the public, I think, is on our side on upstream investments. And I think what is less clear to the public is how the costs of not doing enough upstream are distributed among everybody.
 we externalize those costs and we impose them across society. If people actually understood how much money we were spending dealing with the wrong end of the problem, I think they would be demanding more investments upstream. And so I appreciate your good work. Thank you very much. Thanks for being here this morning.
 We have some of the other partners in this effort, Antoinette, Julia, I'm not sure if you're planning, and folks from Volunteers for America are here. So we've got other participants in this partnership. Actually, speaking of that conversation that happens among people about upstream, that happens every two weeks under your leadership. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners.
 Not really a lot to add to that. I just want to thank you. Put your name on the record, Antoinette. Antoinette Edwards, Director of the Office of Youth Violence Prevention, Mayor Hills. The GIVE program is holistic. It really provides an opportunity for folks to say, if I've chosen wrongly, I get to choose again. And there is support for them. And what I'm really impressed with, the partnerships. Imagine, police officers sitting at the table, I'm tired of arresting.
 I want to support you to help lead this, as Rod said, with the DA sitting here trying to do something different and new, and it's working.
 And I just have an example of young people will come into the office, give clients, go across the street at Popeye's and feel like our office is a welcome place for them to be. Young men will come and sit at the table and how can I support you in making right choices and really share what they need. We help them to get back into PCC. One of the gang members...
 most notorious, was willing to go to mental health to get assistance. He'd ask that I go with him. And the counselor said he could come every day. The trauma was so deep. But to provide an opportunity for people to get healing, and there's another gang member that's well known, he's in jail. He reached out to the probation officer and said, please reach
 the mother of my six children. I don't want them to be like me. So that's what GIF does, to stop that generational cycle of giving people hope and sometimes teaching them how to hope again. And even with working with employers that would give them that opportunity and scheduling their hours so that they can have an excuse, man, I can't roll with you because I've got to go to work tonight. That's what GIF does. And the partnerships, it really brings us together in a way. We have DHS...
 We've had Portland Public Schools, therapy, and we had a list of our most, really most impacted gang members' names. And when DHS came to the table, of those 20 names, 18 were on her list. So as people, we're all serving the same folks, so how do we collectively do that? So I just want to thank you for this opportunity to share that it's an awesome program of giving hope.
 to give opportunity for folks to make different choices and to be successful and give back because they want to. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Julia Mitchell, POIC. I'm the Director of Community Outreach at that organization, and I supervise our gang outreach contracts and the gift coordinator contract. And I'd like to say that throughout the past three, four years that we've had this contract with POIC,
 in different variations with the city and now with Portland Police Bureau that this position continues to grow. The work that the gift coordinator does continues to grow. It's not that the...
 problems are like growing crazy and out of control. It's that we're figuring out what types of services to bring to the table, who needs to be at the table to help make sure that the services are distributed to these gang-impacted families, not just the young men. But as Brian said, to the mothers, and there's many who don't want to speak up or don't know who to go and talk to to figure out where these services are,
 But the gift coordinator has done an exceptional job with locating the services, establishing relationships with the providers, and making sure that when these families come to the table or make that phone call and say, I need help, that help can be given to them. So I am really enjoying watching how we all work together with the Office of Youth Violence Prevention, the District Attorney's Office, DCJ.
 DHS and everyone else that comes to the table to make sure that we look at the family as a whole unit, whether they're one complete unit or if they have different branches of the family, but we're making sure that the family gets the attention that they need in the hopes to end gang violence. Thank you both. Any questions? Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item before we take action? Come on up, please. Yeah, I'm Cedric Wilkins, and...
 Just to add a little bit what Commissioner Fish was saying, I just heard that John Kitzhofer's son, Logan, coming back from Lincoln City, my ex-wife was there and she saw the accident. I guess he smoked marijuana, drank some alcohol in the morning, crossed the center line in an RV. Most of the damage was done to him.
 This is the issue about how even, and we generally say gangs are basically minorities with knives and guns. You can also do the same thing. If you're drunk behind a car, equal amount of damage to people. He jeopardized the lives of two people in their sixties in the RV. And my daughter said, she's 18, same age and said something like, is he all right? And I get, well, this is all his fault. You know, it's not, he's the one that did this stuff. And, um,
 It's funny too that sometimes it's a son of a governor who has been elected four times that can have a son that does that. And I had a wayward youth myself. I mean, for four years I wasn't very constructive. But one thing that's important though, sometimes the honoredness of youth is why I come here, because I think I can change things. You know, people tend to get docile when they're civilized. They don't want to change anything. So it's funny how the youthful spirit allows me to talk.
 Maybe I should say I don't know anything, but I think there is something concurrent with what's going on with Kitsop or Son Logan. That's an example where I suggest that my daughter even try to date him and go to court and make sure he doesn't do that again. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And to the smaller item of making this expenditure, obviously, yes. But I think that...
 We need to look
 on an even broader holistic scope. As this area grows, we need to make sure that we're having conversations about growing the budget for these programs, and if they're not having the effect we want, do they need to be enhanced in scope? Mostly my focus, as I advocate for civil rights and human rights, is on places where the police have gone overboard. So I'm not as familiar with what is actually being done, boots on the ground,
 to not just stop gang violence, but to help people who have a high risk of getting involved in gang violence switch paths to productive, satisfying lives. And I hope that any time we find surplus money in the budget, I know we have trouble balancing priorities because we have a homeless and housing crisis, but also to put city money into getting yourselves and student leaders from all the schools involved
 meeting with people who, you know, we know that in our lives as adults, it happens just as much as with children, that there are cliques and polarizations. And those things also contribute to gang affiliation. And so if we can put some money and time into getting a broad spectrum of youth to meet at Rosewood, to meet around Jefferson, to have facilitated conversations so that
 the people that are on the outside and make those choices to go into a gang have a new chance before they're even put on supervision or before they encounter, uh, you know, the GIF program to, uh, you know, to just be encouraged that no, it's so tragic to be involved in a situation where you increase the level of violence in your community. And, uh,
 The fact that we only have a limited amount of resources to help people see another way is sad. So I just hope that in addition to approving support and expansion for GIF, we'll also always be mindful of ways that we can make opportunities and spaces for people to change a bad choice. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay, let's take a vote, please. This is an emergency ordinance. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank everybody who's working in the GIF program. It sounds like it's very...
 Well, I know it's very necessary. Tackling issues around intergenerational poverty, intergenerational gang involvement, intergenerational failure to achieve educational outcomes or employment are problems that we wrestle with every day. So I think by taking this intergenerational perspective and focusing on people who really want to make a difference, not only for themselves, but for their families, is right on. So thank you very much. Hi. Milvik?
 really appreciate the work and appreciate everybody's testimony and i also just wanted to tell brian smith in particular that my wife rachel says hi and she really appreciates your work too hi yes thank you for a very uh constructive uh of hearing and thank you uh district attorney underhill for all your great work in our community uh thank you mayor and to your team for the work that you're doing here and um
 The numbers are discouraging, but it does seem like we have some approaches that are promising. Hi.
 yeah every two weeks uh antoinette and tom lead a meeting of often more than 100 people who are in this work together and i just want to report back i don't think i really had a chance to do that with the council but this particular item is one of those things but you know we've made some investments in getting upstream as you were talking about commissioner fish not just in what we're doing in the parks bureau but also in this program and in hiring those five more gang outreach workers
 I'll tell you that the spirit in that room you know goes up and down based on what's happened in the last week whether we're avoiding incidents or cleaning up after terrible incidents of gang violence or some of each in a typical two-week period but the encouragement that the council's investment in the
 in these programs has given to the people doing the work is huge. I could just sense it in the room that the folks really appreciate the fact that this council gets it, that getting upstream is better. Not only is it less expensive on sort of a cold financial basis, but on the human level, of course, it's better, but that it actually works.
 and that the people that are out there doing the work, whether they're at VOA or POIC or one of our other nonprofit partners or whether it's one of the public agencies that are obviously working well together, for those folks that are out there doing the work and for the folks on our much-stressed gang enforcement team,
 to hear that the council gets it and wants to spend some more money on doing this kind of work and avoiding arresting people and sending them to jail. It's hugely encouraging to the people that are doing the work. So I just wanted to take this moment to report back to, to you as budgeters that, um, the folks that are out there trying to make a difference and actually making a difference in doing this work. We're really given a lot of heart by that. And this is,
 putting money where our mouths are. So I'm glad that we get to do that today. Thank you all for good work. Aye. Keep it up, please. Thank you all. Okay. Let's move on to 822. Authorize a contract with Serum Network, Inc. for telephone communication systems for a total not to exceed amount of $1,112,042. Good morning, Ms. Moody. I understand we have to make an amendment here too, right? Yes.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales. Christine Moody from Procurement Services. Yes, we substituted the report with a new report to award the contract to Avaya rather than Serium. Oh, okay. So I'll move that we adopt the substitute that has the contractor's name as Avaya Incorporated. Second. Discussion on adopting the substitute? Roll call.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Bish? Aye. Hale? Aye. Kate? Thank you.
 The Bureau of Technology Services provides telephony services via the Lucent electronic switching system and Avaya cost manager systems. Converting telephone services from legacy analog lines to voice over internet protocol will simplify the movement of end users and eliminate the need for vendor costs for employee moves. For the Portland building renovation, this would save significant labor costs when moving or shifting building residents.
 As allowed for in the City Code 5.33, the City may participate in an interstate cooperative procurement after posting a public notice of intent to use the cooperative contract. A notice was posted on June 10, 2016, and no response was received.
 You have before you a procurement report recommending the authorization of a cooperative contract with Avaya for a not-to-exceed amount of $1,112,041.56. I will turn this back over to counsel if you have any questions. And Beth Fox, Communications Manager, is here to answer questions about the project. So you advertised this, you got no responses, and then you negotiated it?
 Do I understand that correctly? It is actually a cooperative contract. The King County, Washington has a contract with Avaya, and we are allowed by city code if we post a notice over $250,000 to enter into a direct contract. And we post that notice to allow other vendors to let us know if they can provide the service or are interested in bidding, and we didn't hear anything from anybody. Okay.
 So it's a quicker procurement process for us. They basically get to say, don't do that negotiated contract. You can choose us instead and no one steps forward. Right, and there's some really good pricing on this contract. Okay, well, that's validation for that then. Okay, questions? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay, motion to accept the report, please. So moved. Second. Roll call. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fish? Aye. Okay.
 Thank you, Christine. Aye. Okay, 823. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the state of Oregon on behalf of Portland State University to provide selected students with the opportunity to earn scholarships and stipends while working at the Bureau of Development Services for $51,885. Second reading. Roll call vote, please. Saltzman.
 Well, I want to thank Portland State University and the Bureau of Development Services for coming up with this innovative way to get young people exposed to the work that goes on in the Bureau of Development Services and the career opportunities there and the opportunity for these students who are struggling often to meet tuition to earn money to pay their tuition. Hi. Novick? You know, I went to a law school that had a co-op program.
 And it meant that you did one semester in school and a semester out in the field. And they doubled the number of co-ops, or if you think law schools, internships.
 What it essentially allowed was a lot of nontraditional students to go to law school because they could continually be out in the field earning money to pay for the next semester. And I think it's a brilliant model. And I think this is a worthy approach, too. And if this is a success, Dan, perhaps it will migrate to other bureaus. So we'll look forward to hearing how it actually works. Aye. Good work. Aye. 824. Aye.
 Amend fee schedule associated with fire regulations. Second reading roll call vote also. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. 825? No.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Lentz Park Clay Area Improvements Project. Mr. Fritz is not here today, but our irreplaceable replacement bond manager is. That's my version of your title. I'm sticking with it. I'll take it.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and members of the council. I am Mary Ann Kasson, Parks Bond Manager, and I am here today to talk to you about something you know well, our replacement bond next project.
 As you know, the context for this is that this is part of a bond that passed almost 18 months ago, and that this is traditionally how we fund parks. We had a 74% yes vote when we took that before the voters. There are seven focus areas within the bond, and this one has to do with playgrounds. Yay, it's our first playground that we're taking to you.
 This playground is Lentz Park, and there are two areas of focus within the project. Of course, the first area is the play equipment. The play equipment there dates from the 1970s. It lacks a lot of imaginative play area spaces. It does not have any inclusivity or accessible play features. It does not meet current safety codes, and the surfacing is not up to par. It's the old wood fiber.
 In addition to the play equipment itself, we'll be addressing our ADA program by removing, you can see there the playground is built in two tiers, so you can't move from one to the other. We'll also be providing accessible parking and connecting the playground to the most important areas of paths of travel. So we'll be starting to address those ADA issues there.
 This is a pretty dramatic before and after. Obviously, the after is still in sketch form, but it will be a big, big upgrade visually and in terms of all those other things that I already mentioned. It will go out to bid next month, and we anticipate starting in the fall so that it's ready in very early 2017. Thank you.
 And we'll be seeing lots more construction in the near future. The first opening grant pool, we are having our soft opening, we hope, if things continue on the same trend line. The last week in July, we'll actually have kids in that pool again with a big grand opening in August.
 We're also starting construction at Wilkes and Park Lane. We used the Prime Contractor Development Program to get contractors in those locations. Dishman Pool is also starting in August. And then we're going out to bid on a number of things. Both Selwood and St. John's are rebids. We got none first time out on Selwood and only one that we had to reject on St. John's. So we're delaying a little bit, hoping to get better bids on those two locations.
 And then finally, Washington Park Rose Garden will go out to bid in the early fall. What questions can I answer? Marianne, where does the accessibility part of this playground fall? Sort of if you go with the most accessible playgrounds, if we built it to the sort of highest specification to the spectrum, where would this one fall?
 If it was a 10-point grade, I would put it at 7 or 8. We've done everything we could without impacting the trees. There are some big trees that we don't want to impact, so it'll be as far as we can without really just tearing everything up. Other questions? Marianne, thank you very much. You're welcome. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, come on up, please. I'm Cedric Wilkins, and I like to grant park my students
 son's 21 but 10 years ago i used to live in selwood and i like going to the grand park it was fun and i my kids learned to swim and my son joined the sea scouts he didn't join the navy but you know if you want to join the navy or the coast guard you better learn to swim and and i was prepping him for that so uh also he could have been a lifeguard but again it's one of the reasons why uh but it's a fun experience and i like to the fact that uh when we were there there are
 People of other races, for example, in the pool, which 50 years ago or more, that wasn't allowed, really, or Shunapa. You know, but it's open to different people. And summertime, it's fun. Then they used to have, Selwood used to have movies in the park, and that's another fun thing. So fun time 10 years ago. Selwood's kind of nice. And even though it's kind of...
 Upper class kind of a little bit a lot of people merge in there from other areas just to go to that pool Exactly. Thank you very much. Okay, this item passes the second reading next week and 826, please
 Authorized a contract with Dangermon Keene Architecture LLC to provide planning, design, and construction administration services for improvements to Forest Park Entry and Nature Center at a not-to-exceed amount of $1,653,240. Okay, more good news from the Parks Bureau. Good morning. Exactly. Good morning. Oh, you've got a PowerPoint. Yes. Yep. Okay.
 thank you mayor hills and members of council my name is Laura McGuire I'm the capital projects team manager for Portland person recreation and yes we have more good news with me is Britta her wig the capital project manager for Forest Park entry and Nature Center we're here today to provide you with background information on an exciting new project that is developed out of our parks renew Forest Park initiative and to request council approval for the design contract
 with Dangerman Keene Architects in the amount of $1,653,240. That's for the design of the entrance to Forest Park.
 its force park is considered the crown jewel of portland's park system since it forms a green backbone of the city the 5200 acre park provides habitat for over 180 species of birds and mammals it offers portlanders respite from the busing city and it serves as an outdoor classroom for environmental education and research with its massive tree canopy substantial undergrowth and extensive waterways
 The park serves as a natural air purifier and also water collector. It offers 100 miles of recreational trails, including the 30-mile Wildwood Trail, which is part of the region's 40-mile loop system that links the forest park to pedestrian trail routes throughout the region.
 Parks recognizes the need for a multi-pronged strategic investment vision to ensure the legacy of Forest Park, so that holistic vision is called Renew Forest Park. It consists of Restore Forest Park, which is an effort to transform the park's ecological health by removing invasive plant species and restoring native plantings in their place.
 It includes Rebuild Forest Park, which is an effort to rebuild several of the bridges and the culverts in the park. And then the reason we're here today, which is the third prong, the Reconnect Forest Park. And that's an effort to create a recognizable entry point for the visitors to discover information about the park's rich ecology, to access the trails, and to provide opportunities to engage in stewardship and educational programs.
 Parks has acquired key pieces of property near the intersection of Northwest Yon, Highway 30, and Northwest Kittredge. The site is north of downtown and just southeast of the St. John's Bridge. It's a site that was identified in the 1995 Forest Park Natural Resources Management Plan as a potential park entrance. This approximately four-acre site is located adjacent to Forest Park to the west and the Guild's Lake Industrial Sanctuary to the east.
 offers a trail connection to fire lane and the leaf Erickson trail the goals for the Forest Park entry design contract are to create a new entry design and program that offers superlative contemporary design Complementing the parks natural beauty and linking it with the new entries urban and industrial location to provide a rich and inviting visitor experience to develop a
 Flexible Design Priority and Phasing Plan that facilitates implementation in phases as funding becomes available.
 to define mechanisms and identify partnerships with a business plan that will ensure that the entire project can be realized, and then to complete a significant construction project, including as many of the proposed site and program elements as possible. Can you hold this slide for a second? I can. Is that the entrance in the middle part on the bottom, or is that a work of art, or both? That's just a concept of what it could be.
 At this point, we have not designed the entrance, but these are some of the images from Danger Man Keen's proposal of what it could be. So Britta Herwig, working with Danger Man Keen Architects and their design team, will create a forward-looking design for the introduction and entrance to Forest Park that showcases the park's special character and its importance to Portland and the greater region.
 The elements for the park include a new park site entrance, visitor amenities such as a bicycle and pedestrian trailhead, accessible circulation and trails, parking, a scenic overlook and gathering space, perhaps an amphitheater, a structure housing and nature center, office and maintenance facilities, a restroom, and natural and landscape and wetland plantings. The project funding is through SDCs as well as substantial funding provided by the state.
 We will complete a public process, and the design team will reach out to the public in creative and different ways to engage traditional as well as new users for our park. We hope to fully explore opportunities for a visionary entrance to the park and an exciting space for education and interpretation.
 Parks has prioritized developing lasting relationships with those potential new users, and they include people of the immigrant, refugee, low-income, and diverse communities, as well as the residents of North and East Portland, and those just across the St. John's Bridge. So our purpose today is to ask Council to approve the Professional Technical Expert Services Contract with Danger and Keen Architects in the amount of $1 million.
 653,240 for the design of the Forest Park Entry and Nature Center project. The contract amount assumes a full service design for the construction project of the $10 to $15 million, which will include all of the desired program elements I just talked about. The design contract can be reassessed and scaled down after the completion of the initial schematic design phase, which we anticipate will be at the end of the year.
 If the actual phase one construction project includes fewer elements, we'll scale down their contract accordingly. Any unused fees at that point will be put towards the construction of the project. So now we're anticipating design 2016-2017, start of construction in 2018, and completion in 2019. Thank you.
 thank you for your time we'd be happy to take any questions so i've got one question and that is maybe you could go back to your slide that shows that the site in the area um so i this may already be settled yeah there you go the one with the circle
 So we own the four acres that you've circled there, right? Right, correct. We don't own the property to the north that would extend to Highway 20. Highway 30. Sorry, Highway 30. Okay.
 This question may already be settled, but if it's not settled, is it a potential element of the scope of work or a potential amendment to the scope of work? And that is that we're going to spend a million and a half dollars to design this facility, and we're going to spend...
 $10 million to build it. And Forest Park is finally going to have a definable entrance, right? Because that's been the problem with Forest Park, which you're trying to solve. It's a great park, but it's surrounded by neighborhoods and there are dead-end streets and anecdotal entrances that people know about, but there's no there there for most people. So this is the chance to finally create a there. But it doesn't quite reach to Highway 30.
 So, is acquisition of the adjacent site to the north a potential element of the project and in the scope of work for the design architects or are we saying, la, la, la, we're only dealing with the land we own? It's not in the scope of work currently. We had done our natural resources plan and identified this particular site, but I'll let Britta speak further about that.
 So I do think that we will keep looking for other entrances, but we have to start somewhere, and this site is actually a fairly good-sized site. I know there have been some negotiations with the neighbors on either side, and so far as I understand...
 Right now there isn't the opportunity to purchase additional land. And I can't remember what that business is to the north there. I don't even remember what it is. But, you know, there's industrial stuff here, there, and everywhere. Right, right. It's an industrial neighborhood. So, of course, there's industrial stuff. But there's industrial stuff here and there everywhere around this site. Right.
 I guess I just wanted to raise the question of, you know, go big or go home. That if we're going to finally do this, let's do it right. If that requires spending a little more money and acquiring some property, I don't – I, for one, am not scared off by that prospect. I suspect others wouldn't be either. The first phase of the project is a feasibility study, essentially, and we'll identify the constraints and the opportunities of the site and of the area and –
 we'll definitely explore some bigger picture way beyond the site um ideas to get people to come to the site and there are as the entrance there are for example parks with strange in holdings in our system you know them very well um if at some point in the past some other city council has said we're going to fight the bullet and buy that property you'd have a better park to work with today um
 So, I guess I just want to flag that every now and then, you know, there's an opportunity
 get it right the second time or the third time i don't know if that if that applies to this situation or not but just looking at your site plan it raised the question for me as a former parks commissioner boy it's too bad we didn't and we just settled a crazy issue like this with the police bureau having an inholding inside of one of our precincts um so you know it was expensive but in the long run it's worth thank you for that comment how many parking spaces will this have
 good question we're not 100 sure at the moment i think our target you want to so our target is pretty rough it's between 20 and 40 and we'd like bus parking also but it's a very hilly site so we'll have to just take a look at the site analysis and see what we can fit and if we can't fit 40 plus buses what our alternatives might be did you say between 20 and 40 spaces spaces so a four acre four acre piece of property
 The entrance to Forest Park, 20 to 40 spaces sounds really, really low. That's correct. What's the potential? I mean, what is the potential for parking there? Well, like I said, so physically the site is on a very steep slope, and we have any number of other issues that we have to explore, wetlands and tree canopy, and we're going to be exploring those, and we'll see what the maximum envelope is that we can allocate for parking. If we can't allocate parking on the site, we'll look at other places,
 ways to get people to the site. It may include, I mean, it has a really good bus connection. It has a bicycle connection that goes directly there. So we have options and we'll be looking at all of this. We're just starting the design process. So unfortunately, I don't have all the answers. I do hope this will not be governed by sort of the, you know, the fashionable anti-parking chic. Okay.
 Because you're trying to design something that's really going to work for people who want to use Forest Park. And everybody knows every entrance to Forest Park is jam-packed with people parked accessing the park. Correct. So I really hope it's not going to be governed by this anti-parking sheet. No. Okay. Initially, we're... I guess I'd like a report back as the design evolves. We certainly can do that. I guess the other thing I wanted to suggest is how about looking at lock boxes so people could...
 leave their valuables in a lockbox because otherwise we're going to have cars clotted or or security cameras it seems there's ways you can do that just like you know for a day use only type thing absolutely i'd like to see that looked at and in court and get a report back how that fits into the design good we can do a little bit about the the public involvement process um
 first of all, what's the budget for the public involvement process? So we have internal staff at Parks and Rec who's going to handle a substantial amount of the outreach process. And then Danger Mankeen has an outreach consultant, sub-consultant, who we will be working with, and their budget is $78,000, I believe. So I guess it begs the question, if you're building an entrance to Forest Park,
 and I'm looking at page 14 of your stakeholder list, it looks like the most comprehensive list of city organizations, nonprofit groups, people. What's the value you've identified by having 50 stakeholders helping you define the entrance at this particular location, and what's the precedent? Thank you.
 I'm not sure I understand the question. Well, you've got the Slavic Coalition, you've got NEA, you've got APANO. You're going to be managing a lot of different organizations. What's the goal since you're designing an entrance to Forest Park? What's the goal to have all these people engaged, and what will success look like?
 So in our mind, this is both a destination site as well as a gateway site, and Portland consists of many different users. And it's a site that sits on one side in an industrial area, and on the other hand, we have a great natural resource, and each of these areas come with their own...
 stakeholder groups. So one of our goals is to bring those groups together as much as we can to find a commonality, both for destination as well as for gateway. We also think that we have a lot of users that don't even know that they would like to use.
 So we're reaching out to other groups. The list that you have is a very comprehensive list of everyone that we can think of, and we're working on, or once we start the design contract, we'll be working on paring down the questions to the individual groups. Our goal is to make this as accessible to as many people as we can. Right. Here's my experience in housing and parks. If you bring a stakeholder group of 50 to 100 organizations,
 you're going to get 50 to 100 different visions. Who's driving the vision for the design? Do you intend to hire a designer who presents a vision and gets feedback, or is this going to be a vision by committee?
 So typically the way our design process works is we have the designer come up with different ideas based on an initial meeting with the larger community where we ask for their input about the kind of elements they want. And then we have the designer go back and do several different arrangements of what that might look like. Then we bring that to the community or the groups and say, what's your opinion of these
 concepts, and then we go from there. And the most popular concept that hits the most features that we would like to incorporate, then we take that information and reform the design. So is this part of the design component or part of a broader outreach to engage people around Forest Park? Oh, that's a good question.
 So we don't have, for this project, we don't have a master plan. The most recent document we have is the 1995 Natural Resources Management Plan. And that gave us a very broad...
 spectrum of things that should be accomplished on this site in order to meet Forest Park goals. And so we're taking a very broad approach to outreach to see, A, are these goals still current? Are there new goals that we don't know about that have come up in the past 20 years? With respect to the Forest Park management plan? No, with respect to Forest Park and the goals that were outlined in that plan for this particular site and for Forest Park, yes. Well, that's an entirely different proposition.
 I mean, I'm all for updating the management plan, but not through the back door of a gateway to Forest Park. So to the extent you're bringing two or three different things together into one, I can't support that. And the management plan is a very carefully calibrated document, which, as you know, is under a lot of stress right now around off-road cycling. Right.
 If we're going to update the management plan, that has to be totally separate, in my mind, from any process around a new entrance. So that's not the purpose of this project at all. I think what Britta was referring to was the goals that are relative to the entry that are in the management plan, not the management plan itself. We're not updating the management plan. So it's not spilling over to the management plan? No, not at all. I still have the scars. No, not at all. And I understand...
 There's a lot of people who deeply are committed to that plan. And if we're going to open up the plan. No. You're not opening up the plan? No, no, no. But the plan did say that. Every parks commissioner up here knows what I'm talking about. Right. No, we're not talking about that at all. So I misunderstood you. Okay. You're not reopening the management plan. You're trying to interpret it. Further it. Exactly. With a broad group of stakeholders. Correct. That raises another question. And I'm sure APANO has strong views about this entrance.
 But I know the Forest Park Conservancy has stronger views. Why aren't they listed as a stakeholder? They are. The Forest Park Conservancy is like our number one stakeholder. If they're not on your list, then that's a gross omission on our part. Well, you have a whole page on 14, and they're not listed. I'm not sure exactly what you're referring to. In the ordinance cover sheet on number five, the citizen participation, Forest Park Conservancy is the first item, the first group that we listed.
 I'm not sure exactly what you're looking at. I'm looking at Exhibit A, the work plan. Oh, the work plan. They are in there as well. They have a specific – I didn't know that that's what you were looking at. I'm just looking at stakeholder list, target, stakeholder outreach. If you look further in Task 1 in the work plan, there's outreach efforts, and there's its own very own bullet point, Forest Park Conservancy outreach efforts.
 I confess I haven't digested all 20 pages. That's fine. But on the one page of stakeholders, they're not listed. Right. Yeah, they're listed earlier. That's because they have a separate bullet. Right.
 they're super stakeholders yes they are they are i'm not trying to be flipped there are there are people who who have long history with the park who care more on groups you're going to bring in to be in a focus group no question all those voices are important i want to make sure that the people that have the history with the park have a particular seat at the table because they're the ones
 with institutional memory about all of these struggles we've had with the plan, interpreting the plan, and other things. And since you're here, can I just ask you a related question? Because I've been getting a ton of e-mails about Forest Park, but it will come as no surprise to you that they have nothing to do with your presentation today. Okay. They have to do with people's concerns that we're about to open up Forest Park to off-road cycling. And why is the council getting those e-mails? Do you know?
 I don't know exactly, except that our off-road cycling river view, you know, we had off-road cycling and then we closed that natural area to off-road cycling. And so we're trying to form right now an off-road cycling slash bicycling plan for the whole city. And one of the areas that we talked about, we might be adding future trails, is in Forest Park someplace, not in this particular area.
 site, but possibly in Forest Park. So maybe that's the reason. So could you furnish the council with a one-pager on that in the next interview? We're getting lots of emails, and again, having gone through those, we're
 I think it's very important that the council as a whole know where we are in that process. And also what kinds of things are on the table. As you know, there's a difference between taking some fire lanes and adapting them and taking some other cherished hiking opportunities and trying to create a co-use. So I think that's important.
 I'm a little out of date from when I had Parks, but in order to respond to those emails, if I could get an update, we could all get an update on where you are, what's being considered. And if possible, could we also see the emails? Is that possible, so we can see the types of topics? Commissioner Fritz has been getting the same ones we're getting. Okay, great. And I...
 I normally look to her answers in these areas for my answers, but because I don't know the substance of what's being considered, I'd like an out-forward on a couple of, because they're form emails, and we're getting a lot of them. Okay, thank you. Other comments? Anything else you want to add? I don't think so. So I'm glad we had a light agenda this morning and had a chance to have this discussion, because I want to return to a couple of points that my colleagues made here. First, I completely agree with you, Commissioner Fish, that we shouldn't revisit the master plan,
 ad hoc backdoor through this. Don't even say that word, Mayor. I'm starting to break down the promise. Yeah, well, that's right. It would do what a Multnomah County Commissioner with a gift for garbled syntax once described as really opening Pandora's can of worms.
 Mr. Barra. We don't want to do that. We don't want to open Pandora's can of worms. I don't even want to do it indirectly. Yeah, I agree. I don't want to sort of do it piecemeal and open it up on a corner and say, well, that's now the framework for our journey. That's a bad idea. And then, although I'm, along with a couple other people up here, Mr. –
 transit bike and walk most people are going to get to forest park by car for the foreseeable future they do now and they will at this visitor center as well so i want to second commissioner salzman's concerns there to flog my own point a bit further that audacious site looks pretty flat to me um so uh if you need more parking i think i know where you can find it um and and i guess what you're hearing i think what you're hearing here uh from us one is you've got a
 that cares a lot about this park. We work for people who do. So that's where we should be. But, you know, two, we're a big city now. This is a big deal to finally develop a signature entrance to our signature park.
 And no criticism of you or any of the former parks commissioners up here, much less the current one who's not here to defend herself. But if you look back at the history of Forest Park, which if the story is apocryphal, it's so good we should even keep telling it if it's not true. Apparently we got the first 2,500 acres 40 years after the Olmstead plan because the developer went broke and somebody over at Multnomah County Assessor
 Called somebody at the Portland Parks Bureau and said we've got this 2,500 acres that is going on the auction block Because the developer went broke, but I thought there was a plan for that to be a park. Do you want this and The person on the other end of the phone at the city whose name I don't know Maybe he's unknown to history had the good sense to say yes and
 But actually, that story illustrates my point, which is that if you were going to come up with a cynical slogan for Parks Bureau's management of Forest Park over the last 60 years, it would be developing a world-class landmark on the cheap.
 Because that's what we've done. We've relied on volunteers to pull ivy. We rely on the indulgence of neighbors to allow people to park at entrances. We've gotten property by deeds and acquisitions and gifts. We haven't really gone out and bought very much of it, if any. And so now we've got a world-class landmark, biggest urban natural area in city limits, blah, blah, blah. And we're finally going to spend some real money. Let's do it right.
 So again, if you have to spend more to do more in this case I think you probably have a City Council that would help you find a way to do that and maybe a parks foundation that Would too because we have a world-class landmark where you have to because we haven't built the Barbara Walker bridge yet Get down to Burnside look both ways Hope that nobody's speeding and make it across before the car comes around the corner we have ad hoc entrances on gravel here there and everywhere and not a real one and
 So, please, I hope there's a consistent theme here, which is, you know, really do this right and let your designer do their job. I take Commissioner Fisher's points about public involvement. We're all for it. But this is for the next hundred years, not for those of us who are showing up at meetings. Mayor, can I add a point to your comments? Please. Recently, my daughter ran a half marathon at Sophie's Island, so we drove on the industrial road to get there. Thank you.
 One thing that I'm always struck by when I'm down there is it's a working industrial area. It is not the most hospitable place for bikers and walkers. Right. And there's a lot of heavy trucks and other things. Right.
 Now, my guess is if this is a wild success and you're going to have school buses bringing kids, you're going to have people, it's going to become a destination. And because it's not as accessible as some other locations, like doing it up on Thurman or something, people are going to drive. So I concur with you. And because it is a relatively challenged area for driving and a place of active industrial use,
 I think we have to have the access by car, bike, and pedestrian worked out. Because if we build an entrance and we don't have that worked out, we're doing a disservice to people. Yeah, good point. And with all due respect, I think that PBOT should be brought in to do an assessment of how we do get people there. That's a good idea. And we should have that worked out in advance. Okay.
 The mayor has signaled pretty strongly that he's happy to spend some of your excess SDC money to acquire the site across the street for some parking. And I'm going to support that. But let's do it right. Okay. And let's make sure. And we may even have to go down the street a little bit and condemn Saltzman Road. As long as we don't change the name. Don't change the name. But let's figure that out because it isn't the most accessible location. And I think...
 my colleagues make a good point we got to have the the parking and the access things worked out before great thank you for the comments the comments for guidance again it's nice we've had a chance to have this discussion because it's a big deal and it's an important project for you but for a lot of other people too so thank you okay does anyone else want to speak on this item if not then it's an emergency ordinance we can approve them and getting to work and do so so roll call please well thank you for the presentation and this is an exciting opportunity but i will say flat out
 20 to 40 spaces is inadequate parking. So I hope when you bring back a construction contract, it's got more parking than 20 to 40. Otherwise, I won't support it. And this is a good...
 Good effort. There's a lot of things going on here, but it is very important to make sure that people who want to use Forest Park can access Forest Park safely, and that's why I really seriously urge you to take a look at lockboxes too so we don't have people's cars being broken into while they're accessing our wonderful park. So thank you. Hi. No, thank you.
 I appreciate the lively discussion. And Commissioner Fish, yes, PBOT doesn't have nearly enough parking issues to occupy us. So we'll be happy to engage. Especially in Northwest. Hi. Thanks for the presentation. And Forest Park is a crown jewel, and we haven't had the resources to invest in it. And having an iconic entrance is important.
 I hope you'll engage RAC in the design. I was very excited to see the concept design. And when I asked if it was art, I guess I was reacting to the fact that it's very sculptural. And you're looking for an iconic image at the gateway of an iconic park. And there's an opportunity here to do something beautiful and functional. And so I hope you'll bring the RAC family into the conversation. And also...
 Because it abuts an industrial area, I hope we look for those elements that are unique to that industrial area that we incorporate. I think sometimes the mistake we make is we try to import all kinds of other well-intentioned themes and symbols from parts of the city that don't quite fit. And this faces an industrial area. And just like the greenway along in South Waterfront echoes a working harbor in that history –
 let's try to capture that history of that proud tradition of of an industrial district at that entrance and bring old and new together but um it's very exciting and i'm delighted that with the building boom we have the sdc revenues to be able to do projects like this thank you hi well one plan we did revisit was the city's comprehensive plan we just finished
 One phase of work on that. And I guess one other thing just we should all keep in mind, and you and our designer as well, and that is we're not designing this entrance in this park for the 630,000 people who live here today. We're designing it for the 850,000 people who will live here 25 years from now.
 So capacity and scale have to be different now that we're a big city. So again, I hope you've gotten that message clearly from all of us this morning. This is an exciting opportunity to do it right for the long run. Good luck. Aye. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, item 827. Thank you.
 Authorized grant agreements or intergovernmental agreements with 13 community groups and native plant mini-grants related to the community watershed stewardship program up to $100,000 total. Second reading. Roll call. Saltzman. This is a great program, and it supports a lot of important activities and great groups. Aye. Novick.
 I remember in the tough 2013 budget season, the Quisp program was on the chopping block, and we figured out how to save it, and I'm really glad that we did, and not only because Quisp was my favorite sugar cereal when I was six years old. Hi. One thing I've come to appreciate about this program is it has broad and deep community support, way out of proportion to the amount of money we're investing. And while we've had some persistent critics say
 When we speak to the people in the community, they appreciate this program. And for those of us charged with looking for innovative ways to get stormwater out of our system, these often are small programs which help us accomplish those goals. So I am pleased to support these recommendations. Aye. Heels. Good stuff. Aye. 828. Mayor, I'm going to ask that 828 be set over until next week. Okay. So what? 829. 829.
 Authorize contract with TRC Pipeline Services, LLC, not to exceed $400,000 for condition, survey, and assessment services of the Bull Run Supply Conduits. Second reading. Roll call. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Ish? I just want to acknowledge that our conduits do all the hard work of our system. They are aging, but they are mighty. Aye. Ish?
 aye and it's summertime at last so we have no further business this week we're adjourned