This is the Wednesday, July 22nd, 2020 morning session of the Portland City Council. Good morning, Carla. Could you please call the roll? Yes. Good morning, Mayor. Hardesty? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. Here.
 Under Portland City Code and state law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending remotely by video and teleconference, and the City has made several avenues available for them to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting.
 The meeting is available to the public on the city's YouTube channel, eGov PDX, www.portlandoregon.gov video, and channel 30. The public can also provide written testimony to the council by emailing the council clerk at cctestimony at portlandoregon.gov. And when you email her, please let her know she cannot retire.
 The council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and promote physical distancing.
 The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety, and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. Thank you all for your patience, flexibility, and understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do the city's business. And thank you, Carla, for agreeing not to retire. First up, oh wait, no, we have to hear from legal counsel.
 How could I deprive them of that opportunity? Lindley, are you reading today? I am, and you would deprive me of my morning joy, so let me get started. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. The published council agenda at PortlandOregon.gov backslash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record.
 Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated.
 When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others' testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that all council meetings are recorded. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. And first up after that, Lindley is communications. Carla, if you could first call the first person, please, for communications this morning. Yes, item 586, a request of John S. Captain III to address council regarding Freedom of Information Act requests. Hello, morning. How are you? Thank you for having me talk. Thank you.
 I had made several applications in the FOIA request system for the Portland Police Bureau, and it was extremely difficult to get the items I was requesting that all had to do with the murder at Blue Lake Park. Now, what the thing was is that they would actually say that you can't have them for a period of time, which I could understand for a portion for investigative purposes,
 After like four or five, six years, and then later they come and say that it's expired and I'm not able to look at it because it's too late.
 So I would recommend that the commissioners look into this and ask them why wouldn't it toll beginning when it's available for the number of years that you guys see appropriate. For me, the police reports that were written that I did finally get all were containing lies. And there's no mechanism really to correct that. And the officers that write the lies are...
 are trying to build a false narrative in terms of the Tiffany Jenks murder. The fact that the police are able to lie in police reports and still get their purrs and savings is beyond me.
 And regardless of Joanne Hardesty or you being in charge of the police bureau, they're highly corrupt and it involves the courts as well. And the sad part about that is, is that lives get ruined. And as a native American, especially at the end of the trail of tears was a promise, a promise of justice. And when you're dealing with a murder, I shouldn't have to ask three or four times. In addition, they were able to send, um,
 the mental health evaluators to me to find out if I was mental. And they came here, you know, with guns and whatever they have, guns and police cars and health health advisors. And they asked if I had health insurance. I said, that's weird. I used to have it till Obamacare came, but why are you asking me that when I'm trying to ask you why you're not telling the truth in this murder case? So multiple police reports were written. They're containing lies and I don't know how to fix that.
 So if you're going to kick the feds out, we can get some free labor and maybe they could help in the three state murder where the girl that murdered Tiffany got out in 11 days. And I have to believe that if it was three black men in that car, there's no chance in heck that they would be out of jail in 11 days, period. In addition to that, the police claimed.
 that Tiffany had left bags at my Montevilla home. If they did leave bag, if she did leave bags here, like they claimed, why didn't they get a warrant? It was actually a lie. They did. She didn't leave any bags here, but when they're able to do what they want, it's really dangerous for the public because her killers are still on the street. No matter what anybody says, yes, the shooters in jail, but the killers are on the street. So, um,
 I just, that's my request is that the FOIA request system doesn't work well for people who are set up and I don't know how to fix that. And Joanna Hardesty, I love your comments about rocks. And thank you very much, both of you. And sorry about your mother passing away. Mine did too. And during that time, she was breathing through an oxygen tube and the police were lying. So it was a very difficult time.
 Thank you, John, for your testimony. I appreciate it. And it absolutely warrants looking into, and I appreciate you giving us that information. Thank you both. And thank you for your kindness. Appreciate it. Next item is 587, a request of John Carter to address council regarding Portland's economic recovery. Good morning, John.
 Good morning. I was recently rereading Commissioner Eugali's reading frenzy closure letter from when she first joined the council in 2017. How opening such an establishment would be nearly impossible in today's Portland. And I think of all the people of color facing systemic oppression for which that opportunity would have been impossible even then. And I keep thinking to today.
 Where white supremacy echoes and capital supremacy reigns, it's easy to see how policing falls into the economic plan because the financialized corporate investment demands increased police support to protect and guard its capital assets, ones that are disconnected from community ownership.
 We can see this trend here in Portland as the police budget has ballooned while the city's economy has become increasingly financialized and disconnected from community equity. I saw the same process unfold at warp speed while living in New York City. Increased investment in policing, decreased investment in community, followed by waves of corporate cash, transforming the city into something hardly recognizable.
 Portland's communities, stories across the spectrum, a fabric torn first by white supremacy, then by capital supremacy. Even as we face an awakening and correction of historical injustice, the bar continues to be risen for all but concentrated wealth. Why does the city continue to invest in police and disinvest in the community? Why is it that police budgets increase but park budgets decrease?
 Why are opportunities created for large investment firms but blocked from the direct community on the ground? What conditions are we creating? Coronavirus has crippled the conditions even further. So I ask you, what is your vision as a council for a truly equitable bottoms-up recovery? Is it even possible? Is it even something you want when it's easier to just keep turning and tuning into the trend?
 Each morning, wake up and think, please, how do we help the people for which opportunity is set to be out of reach? How do we correct these conditions, the conditions of capital supremacy, the conditions set by white supremacy? Thank you. Thank you, John. We appreciate your being here this morning. Thanks for hanging with us during some difficult technical situations. Thank you very much.
 Carla, our third individual please. Item 588, request of Travis Athujis to address council regarding racist signs posted on public property in the Irvington area. Travis contacted us. He has canceled his communications. All right, I'm sorry because I actually wanted to hear about that. Thank you. Does that complete communications?
 Yes, Mayor. That's all who signed up. All right. Has any item been pulled off of the consent agenda, Carla? Yes, we had a request from the Hardest Use Office to pull 593. 593 is pulled. Let's see. That's Garages, Okito. Then with that, let's move into our... We can't quite get there, so let's go to a second reading, please. Are we going to vote on the other...
 Consent items now? Good point, Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you for reminding me. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Carla, can we move to item 596 for a little bit early for our first time serve? Mm-hmm.
 596, accept and appropriate $128,401,261 in 2020 Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act funds and authority to the program bureau directors to execute contracts and agreements funded under the program. Colleagues, we had a lengthy presentation and
 extensive public testimony on this item last week. This is the second reading. Is there any further business on it before we call the roll? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Courtesy. I think I made my statements last week about why I find it
 necessary for me not to support the proposal that we are voting on at the moment. I want to be clear. In my mind, we have people that are in desperate need of resources, and I don't believe we did the best job we could of making sure that people would benefit from these limited dollars that we have. So with sadness, I cast my vote as no. Thank you, Daly.
 I am also having some technical difficulties at home, and I'm going to keep my remarks very brief. I just want to thank the numerous people and organizations that participated in the conversations about our relief and recovery. I think we've come to a reasonable agreement on the allocation.
 We do not have sufficient funds to help everyone. But I want to point out that 55% of our workers are employed by small businesses. And that while you might not consider relief to a business direct support,
 It is that person's livelihood, and we have thousands of small business owners who are on the verge of losing their businesses, losing their livelihood, losing their homes. So I would just argue that it's a wise investment to try to help people avert financial catastrophe, whether they are small business owners.
 or individual workers. The bottom line is we need the state and feds to step up and do more. And in the meantime, we have to invest our scant dollars in the smartest way possible. So I'm happy to support this. I want to thank the PDX CARES Task Force, Director Kimberly Branham, Director Callahan, Director Durbin, Director Myers,
 Tom Reinhart, Dr. Markeisha Smith, and Director Chris Warner, and finally Marshall Runkle, who represented my office during these important discussions. I vote aye. Fritz?
 Well, first, thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for listing all of the staff that were involved. And I thank Tim Crail and my office for participating, as well as Dr. Markeisha Smith. I'm also grateful that the more of Oregon's tax dollars are coming back from the federal government. And I thank you, thanks to the congressional delegation and the leadership of the House Democrats for...
 pushing for this. I don't know that they've decided how they're going to make up the difference, but perhaps they could cut the defense budget and eliminate the Department of Homeland Security. In the meantime, it's good that we've got these dollars coming back to Oregon, and I particularly appreciate that we are doing the right thing and sending some of them to our partners in East County to make sure that they are safe.
 helped as well. More particularly, we've been very careful to centre
 Black, Indigenous and people of colour as we make these decisions and as we continue to navigate these uncertain times it's imperative we do not return to business as usual. The distribution of CARES Act funding gives us the opportunity to implement a new model that values the lived experience and expertise of Black, Indigenous and people of colour in our Portland community. This new model understands that while it is important to nurture existing partnerships in the city it is also crucially important to create
 to find a path forward that creates new partnerships with culturally specific community-based organizations that do not currently have a connection with the city. To that end, we are committed to providing grant funding in new and innovative ways. And again, thank you to the leadership group who were very centered on community. And thanks also to Dr. Smith and the Portland Housing Bureau's information from the project proposal for their help in helping
 in getting me to understand how they are continuously improving the process and the criteria. Their rent assistance and household assistance are using the following mission. Create an emergency rent assistance household assistance intervention to support BIPOC households financially impacted by COVID-19 to prevent them from being evicted and falling into homelessness and to support the culturally specific organizations who effectively serve BIPOC communities.
 And the guiding principles from the COVID Equity Toolkit, which the council adopted, are the foundation of the process and have been. And the intention for both Rental and Household Assistance Fund is to support providers and networks that have rent assistance infrastructure and demonstrated outcomes in providing rent assistance and affordable housing to low-income BIPOC households, as well as culturally specific communities.
 providers serving BIPOC communities who are not included in the networks, but who directly serve BIPOC households in need of rent assistance and household support. So I'm pleased that a lot of the money is being dedicated to that. I'm also grateful that we're dedicating money to help bridge the digital divide.
 divide now more than ever. We all understand how crucial technology is as we're finding out this morning with some of our technical glitches and have been. So we are challenged by the technology we have that sometimes doesn't work. A lot of people just don't have the technology and are at a severe disadvantage. I'm also grateful that we're investing money in the Portland Five. I know Commissioner Fish would be very appreciative of that particular allocation. And we're
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for your leadership in this. It's been a process. We once always all agree on things of this magnitude, and I'm grateful that the discussions have happened in a constructive and collaborative manner. Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 Well, thank you very much. And I want to thank all the people that commissioned you daily. I want to thank Sonia Shemansky on my team, as well as Sam Diaz, who worked very hard. I want to thank all of our collaborative community partners who worked on this. This was really an extensive project.
 process with tremendous community outreach. And as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, we emphasize BIPOC communities throughout the planning process and ultimately through the allocation that we settled on. The vast majority of the resources goes directly to households and small business support and has been noted.
 Households are really struggling right now. And I'm very proud of the fact that days after we declared a COVID emergency in the city of Portland, we began sending resources directly to households, both for rent support, as well as key household expenditures. We have doubled down on that through the direction of a significant portion of our COVID funds to that same type of support. In addition to that,
 Small businesses remain the best long-term economic prosperity generator in this city, and it's critical that we get them through this phase of the COVID crisis. We have also worked very hard to make sure that Multnomah County can actually...
 Meet the standards that are required under phase one of the governor's reopening reopening Guidelines that was a 20 million dollar allocation to Multnomah County directly to make sure we're addressing the immediate public health Consequences of kovat as well as meeting those phase one criteria. I saw that is absolutely essential and
 And as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, we have sent a allocation to our east Multnomah County cities so that they could also do the work they need to do around public health to meet the phase one reopening requirements. And since the state chose not to fund those east county jurisdictions directly, I believe that left us with a moral problem.
 obligation as well as a practical obligation to support those cities in their efforts. And I'm glad that we're doing that. I also want to make note of the fact, as others have mentioned, the funds we have here are not sufficient. We are not solving the problems. This is truly emergency support that will get us through this crisis.
 phase of the COVID crisis, but this can't be the end. And I'm glad that our city bureaus are now working closely in alignment and trying to figure out how they can leverage resources. We're leveraging economic prosperity and business support through prosper Portland. The housing bureau has been significantly engaged in allocating resources towards rent support and housing support. There's a significant increase,
 level of support going to the Joint Office of Homeless Services to make sure that the most vulnerable people on our streets get the resources they need. We had a spirited discussion about the question as to whether or not funding should go towards the digital divide. I think it's essential that we fund the digital divide, given the reality that right now, in order to gain access to either educational or economic opportunity,
 opportunities in this COVID crisis, you must have access to digital tools like the one that we're using to conduct
 our democratic process here at Portland City Hall. And I think about the children in the public schools who are being told that they probably will not come back to school, or at least won't come back to school fully in the fall. That means any young people who do not have access to those digital tools will not have access to their core educational opportunities.
 And so I think it was critically important that we supported the digital divide efforts. And last but not least, the arts venues are important not only because arts will help see us through this crisis and it's important for the social fabric of this community and the psychological fabric.
 fabric of this community, but there's pragmatic reasons to do it too. If we don't support, for example, the Portland Five, that contract comes back to us. We own those facilities. Metro manages them on our behalf. And if we don't support them, there's no reason why Metro would continue to agree to operate those facilities on behalf of the City of Portland.
 So I think that's a good pragmatic decision that we made there. It was not a substantial outlay. It's a relatively small thing in the overall package, but I think it was critically important.
 And the next step for us is, since we all acknowledge that this level of funding in and of itself is not sufficient, is collective advocacy to our state and to our federal governments for both legislative and financial support for renters and for others who are struggling economically during this crisis. There is an opportunity for all of us on the Portland City Council to come together and help.
 push for and lead that advocacy. And I look forward to doing that collectively as a unified team. Proud to vote aye and the ordinance is adopted. Thank you everybody for your hard work on that.
 We will go back to our first time certain, Carla. Time certain number 589, please. Authorized grant agreement with CASA of Oregon for the Oregon Worker Relief Fund in amount of $250,000. Commissioner Udaly, you're up. Thank you, Mayor. This contract approves the $250,000 from Civic Life's fiscal year 1920 budget for the Oregon Worker Relief Fund.
 Civic Life proposed directing its cost savings. Oh, I'm going to move on. Sorry, a little discombobulated this morning. Colleagues, you'll recall that during the spring bump, Civic Life proposed reallocating $250,000 from its budget to the Oregon Workers Relief Fund, an assistance program designed by community to provide financial relief to Oregonians who can't access established unemployment assistance systems, namely undocumented Oregonians.
 Today we have Andrea Williams from Civic Life to present the contract that will award city funds to the Oregon Workers Relief Fund. Welcome, Andrea. Good morning, Council. Can you hear me okay? Excellent. Loud and clear. You're good. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners Udailey, Fritz, and Hardesty. I'm Andrea Williams, Partnerships Manager for the Office of Community and Civic Life.
 I'm going to provide a little bit of background on the ordinance, and then I'm actually joined by a representative of the Oregon Worker Relief Fund, Ricardo Lujan Valerio, who is the policy director of Latino Network, and he's going to provide more in-depth presentation about the fund itself. Thank you.
 So as Commissioner Udaly just said, this ordinance authorizes a grant agreement with COUSA of Oregon for the Oregon Worker Relief Fund in the amount of $250,000.
 Council of Oregon serves as the fiscal sponsor of the Oregon Worker Relief Fund. During the spring budget monitoring process, City Council unanimously approved reallocating $250,000 from the Office of Community and Civic Life's fiscal year 19-20 budget to the Oregon Relief Fund. Contributing city resources to this fund has been a recommendation from
 From several groups, including the undocumented Portlanders work group of the Portland COVID-19 economic impact and intervention task force, which was convened by Prosper Portland. In addition to the new Portlanders policy commission who presented to council on June 24th.
 along with various community organizations that our Bureau partners with through our diversity and civic leadership and immigrant and refugee programs. And I would just like to add that I think these recommendations come for very good reason.
 Some information for council, the city of Portland is home to over 86,000 immigrant residents, making up about 13.5% of the city's population. And this is according to research done by the New American Economy, which uses 2018 American Survey, Community Survey data. Okay.
 And notably, over 20,000 immigrant Portlanders, or nearly a quarter of the city's immigrant population,
 could face extreme hardship if they lose their jobs because they are ineligible for unemployment benefits and have been excluded from federal economic relief due to their citizenship status. And yet at the same time, immigrant Portlanders experience a disproportionate amount of exposure to COVID-19 and its economic and health impacts.
 According to this research done by the New American Economy, immigrant Portlanders are working in frontline and essential industries during this crisis. They represent 21% of the workforce in the restaurant and food service industry, 20% in transportation warehousing, 16% in grocery stores and supermarkets, and just about 15% in the healthcare industry.
 So with this grant, the city will join the state of Oregon and Oregon philanthropic foundations, in addition to dozens of community-based organizations, in contributing to the Oregon Worker Relief Fund. And I would now like to invite Ricardo to share more details about the fund itself. Thank you, Andrea. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. For the record, my name is Ricardo Dujan Valerio.
 I am the Director of Advocacy at Latino Network. And before I begin with my presentation, I do want to extend my thanks to Commissionary Daly and the leadership at Civic Life, Suk and Andrea for making this possible for our communities. I'll be very quick and brief.
 in my presentation, but you'll see why this support is dire for our communities. So again, with the Oregon Work Relief Fund, we're actually composed of multiple organizations.
 And we have an executive committee that leads the crucial aspects of the operation. You'll see the representatives of that executive committee on the screen, and all of them range from organizations across the state. For Portland, most notably, are
 Latino Network, APANO, and then CALSA as well for some of the work that they do here in the city. Innovation Law Lab as well is a huge partner located in Portland that's been helping and is one of the essential partners when it comes to the software and infrastructure of the actual support to the individuals that we serve. But I want to give you all also just a little overview of what the Oregon Work Relief Fund is in the first place.
 When COVID-19 first hit, we realized a high degree of advocacy happening at the state level, at the local level, on a multitude of public benefits for our communities. And at the same time, organizations like the Kuhn Council and the Tune Network were seeing very unique challenges to our communities, and specifically our immigrant communities.
 One area that we didn't really see a high degree of advocacy on and didn't really see a solution for was unemployment insurance for undocumented immigrants or immigrants that are just ineligible for your traditional means tested benefits or unemployment insurance. And so that caused Latino Network, Acuna, and Causa to get together and try to create a new approach that would serve as this population, essentially with two drastic missions, right? The first one was...
 Our top priority being providing direct cash support and assistance to those that are in financial crisis because of COVID-19 and giving them disaster reliefs. And then the second one is building community power and building infrastructure within our communities so that our recovery in the long term because of COVID-19 can actually be maneuvered in an easier manner than potentially without this program.
 And so again, the purpose is actually very wide. We also wanted to recognize the impact that immigrants have in our community, both in the local and the state level. One in 10 Oregon families have a child and then immigrants contribute immensely to the economy through taxes.
 the workforce itself. Again, as some of the numbers that Andres stated in the city, there's very specific statistics on how impactful the immigrant community has been. And we've been working closely with the Oregon Center of Public Policy to truly get a huge picture
 statewide on how that impact has been instrumental to the response of COVID-19. The fact that undocumented immigrants pay over, I believe the $81 million figure was actually from 2017. It's now over that amount. That has a drastic impact to the way in which the state, the city, local governments respond to COVID-19. So the fact that many of our communities are
 put into the system but are not able to benefit in times of need was a huge, huge concern for our organizations. So the need. There is an estimate of about 27,000 Portlanders that are UI ineligible and that won't be able to receive the traditional support on COVID-19.
 I do want to emphasize that that's, again, only the Portland number. The number that we estimate statewide is about 74,000 individuals that would be impacted by COVID-19 and their work abilities, and therefore financially impacted individuals.
 And then, you know, we're seeing an influx of hundreds of individuals per week applying for this. At Latino Network alone, within the span of the past two weeks, we got over 400 applications.
 coming into our organization to get some of this relief that we've been able to establish. Now, more than 87% of applicants have been waiting for five weeks in total to just get any kind of support. We ask a variety of questions when we do our navigations. One of them is, how long have you been unemployed? Right?
 And a lot of them, the majority of them have expressed that they've been unemployed for over five weeks. And that was the first time that our conversation with them was the first time that they've been able to get any hope and opportunity of relief, financial relief.
 Now, Oregon Work and Relief Fund has gotten $10 million out the door to immigrants. That means that we've been able to provide over 5,000 individuals and families with support that ranged from $1,200 to $1,720, which is the max that someone can receive in a one-time payment. We do calculations to try to support individuals.
 on what would be worth a month's worth of support, but we do a one-time payment for that. And one of the wonderful parts about it too is that we're serving three major components of the community. Those are banked, underbanked, non-banked. A wonderful thing that we've been able to see, and this is to the point that Mayor Wheeler made earlier today, that digital divide, we've been able to empower about 29% of our community members to do digital payments through PayPal, which we've partnered with.
 to get money in the hands of our community without having to expose them physically to go into a bank and getting those payments. So we've been trying to be as innovative as possible during the time of COVID as well.
 It's also very important to realize who's been the most impacted in our community and the areas that they worked in. Food service being the highest, 37% of the folks that we've provided assistance to have been in the food service. The second one being agriculture, janitorial services, construction, childcare, and then others. But you can see a pretty drastic difference in disproportionality between the food service industry and other areas of the economy. I continue to say, and I said from the beginning.
 specifically for the food industry, the immigrant community and the undocumented immigrant community are not often just the employees of those organizations that are the backbone. Without the kitchen staff, there is no restaurant. With a lot of the staff that support those businesses, there is no business. So that was a huge number and a huge impact, not just to our community, but to the state.
 We've had over 100 organizations support the Oregon Work and Relief Fund at a state level, at the local level. We've been also very fortunate to build a really strong system and coalitions ranging from BIPOC organizations to ally organizations that have truly made this a reality. But out of all these organizations, there have been significant players that are navigators that I'll get to in just a bit. Okay.
 I do want to run for you all a little bit of the updates on the funding. As I stated, we got $10 million from the emergency board at the state level. Those were state dollars, which allowed a lot of flexibility. On June 5th, we got an additional $20 million from the state, 10 of them to continue the work of the Oregon Work Relief Fund, the other 10 to do a new program called Quarantine Fund to provide specific support to agricultural workers that would face quarantine due to COVID-19 exposure.
 We've also been able to get funding from philanthropic partners and some individual donors. And we're also reflecting the $250,000 from the city of Portland here. So we're looking at a total of about $33 million to date of committed and actual investments that have been made to the fund.
 This is the infrastructure need that we've been building. As I stated to council members, the mayor's office, and Civic Live, our duty from day number one was to provide 100% of the public dollars to the community for the first round of investments. And we were going to put the onus of funding infrastructure and operations on ourselves.
 So far, we've been successful in that. We haven't met our official goal of fundraising. So we still are about $400,000 shy of doing that. But we've been able to raise enough to actually make the operations feasible and workable. So we're very proud of that. And we'll continue to do that fundraising on our own as well.
 Just a quick snapshot that I wanted to show you all as well. As of July 7th, 2020, we have provided, again, about $10.5 million to individuals, and that's statewide. You'll see the map on the screen. The lighter blue are areas where we've been providing.
 serving folks at a lighter rate and when it gets darker that's the higher density of applications we've been approving but you'll see that this is truly a statewide operation and an operation that we intend to continue as best as we can so long as the funds are available.
 And then again, these are the 20 organizations that are providing specific navigations to individuals out in the community. I want to thank every single one of them for stepping up to the plate in such a difficult time. Just for the council's knowledge, we've been able to turn out these $10.5 million within the span of three months. And we were able to get infrastructure up and running within one month and a half.
 Again, big shout out to Innovation Law Lab for being able to provide a lot of that software infrastructure and the legal processes. But you'll see the five-step process in which a navigator goes through. The first one is that a community member, again, seeks the assistance from one of these participating CBOs. The CBO navigator assists them in filling out the CBO-facing application. And it's about a 35-minute process once they're able to get a hold of a navigator.
 Once it's filled out, it goes through our clearinghouse. It's a single system approval process that is reviewed by attorneys as well at the end of the day. Once the review process is approved, the Oregon Work Relief Fund Coalition reviews that final approval to make sure that there's no discrepancies, that we're actually meeting our mission and serving the people correctly, and then approves.
 approved applications, then the individuals get the money either again through electronic means or if necessary through checks and we mail those out. And so what's next? Again, I mentioned the $20 million that we received. We intend to start those operations fairly soon.
 Um, and so once we get those operations up and running, we'll be able to, to continue to, to, uh, support as many, um, folks as we can. Hopefully we'll be able to, um, break that 10%, um,
 service of the 74,000 statewide that I mentioned. But in Portland, we've been out of the $10.5 million, we were able to serve about 22% of Portlanders. That's not enough. As I mentioned, the need here locally is about 27,000 and we were only able to serve statewide a little bit north of 5,000. So that is all I have for the council. I'm available for any questions should you all have any. Thank you.
 Thank you, Ricardo, for your great work and presentation. With that, we would like to invite counsel to ask any questions. Otherwise, that concludes our presentation. Very good. Excellent. Thank you. We have a question from Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you. Unfortunately, I got bumped off by the technology right towards the end of the presentation. So you may have answered this question. And could you just put the slide back up showing the distribution of where you've been funding people, please. Is this the one you're talking about, Commissioner Fitz? Yes, thank you. So, um,
 So obviously the city of Portland's funding is a fraction of the total funding. I am wondering how do we ensure that the city's dollars help employees within the city? Yeah, thank you, Commissioner Fritz. That's a very good question. We've been able to build our internal infrastructure to really keep pace and track of every dollar that we receive to the dollar. And so...
 On the way in which we report back to the council on the expenditures of the $250,000, we'll be able to give you a direct number of how many Portlanders were served because of that investment and be able to ensure, again, that it's Portlanders that are being served by those dollars. Great. Thank you very much. It's a great program. I appreciate all your work. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you. Thank you very much for the presentation. It raised a question for me. Of the people who can take advantage of this fund, do you know what percentage is unbanked and what challenges they are having actually being able to access money that they're actually entitled to?
 Yeah, Commissioner Hartsey, thank you. It's a pretty large amount. I don't have the percentage in front of me, but it's actually the majority of folks that have requested checks rather than electronic payments. A lot of that, again, is because our immigrant community usually does not have the technological accessibility that most folks have.
 And we've been trying to empower them as best as we can to be able to not just use this as a means to support them, but also to grow the capacity within the community. But the percentage is pretty high on the unbanked population. Our hope is that we continue to address that. We've actually partnered up with a few credit unions across the state to be able to waive any kind of processing fees when it comes to...
 the withdrawal of cash on these checks. So again, the operations are fairly new. And so we're trying to grow and evolve as best as we can and trying to address that specific issue too. Thank you, Ricardo. I would recommend that you keep really good data around that because it's not okay that people are gonna have to spend a percentage of these limited resources to actually cash a check.
 if they are not a banked individual. And so it would be really helpful as we start rebuilding coming out of this pandemic to really think about how we can use our clout to actually help unbanked people be able to access those resources.
 And I hope that we are able to identify some credit unions that we can hold up as models of folks that actually provide banking resources for everyone in our community, because almost no bank does. And so I'm grateful for your work and thank you very much.
 Great presentation. Thank you, Commissioner. Yes, and we're actually, you know, as I mentioned, the 35-minute process actually is pretty thorough in the questions that we ask, and we're actually extremely excited to be able to show you all, once we report back on the success of distributing the dollars, on the information we've been able to gather. It's pretty remarkable what we've been able to see. Also very heartbreaking, and I think it will help guide a lot of the decisions moving forward for this community.
 Good. Thank you. Are there any other questions, colleagues? Carla, do we have anybody signed up for public testimony? No one signed up for this item, Mayor. All right. Very good. This is an emergency ordinance. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty, Udaly.
 Since COVID began, this issue has been a priority for me. The Oregon Worker Relief Fund proposal estimated that 74,000 Oregonians are ineligible for employment insurance or federal stimulus because of their documentation status, despite paying into this system.
 I want to extend my appreciation to Latino Network, Causa, PICUNE, and other organizations advocating for undocumented Oregonians throughout this crisis. As you heard earlier and you heard in this presentation, we are coming up short in every arena with relief dollars. But this is an impressive start, which has helped stabilize thousands of Oregonians and their families.
 I feel it's very important that the city supports this fund and continues to prioritize immigrant and BIPOC communities throughout our COVID response. I want to thank Andrea Williams and Sukri and Civic Life for identifying these dollars for the relief fund.
 The funds will provide stability to households that have been excluded from other forms of assistance, which is critically important to our COVID response and our recovery. I happily vote aye. Fritz?
 Thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for your steadfast support for undocumented people throughout your time on the council. And this is just the latest in a series of practical support to show those Portlanders that we do care about them, that they are part of our community and we appreciate their contributions to our community. I'm very happy to vote. Thank you very much to all the community organizations. It's really great that so much of the work is being done today.
 Right there in the community. I want to thank the Latino network, all of the people that we've heard from today. I thought this was a fantastic presentation and I not only learned from it, but I think the public at large learned from it. It was a really good presentation commission daily. Thank you for bringing this forward to our city council. It's a,
 support like this that we are giving to an important group of people in our community that makes me really proud to serve on this council with all of you. I'm really very pleased with this and I'm happy to vote aye. The ordinance is approved. Thank you. Thanks, Andrew. Next up, Carla, can you read items 590 and 591 together, please?
 590, authorize contract with Lyft Inc. to operate, procure, and install system components of a bike share system in an amount not to exceed $11,300,000. And 591, authorize agreement with Nike Inc. to extend its sponsorship of Portland's bike share system. Commissioner Daly. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 As Transportation Commissioner, I'm excited to announce the next five years of our Biketown program. The proposal before Council this morning provides several enhancements to our existing program. It expands the service area, with Biketown coming to parts of East Portland for the first time this September. It will increase the number of bikes in the program. It will replace our entire fleet with electric assist bikes.
 and it will continue and expand upon our equity programs, Biketown for All, which is a low-income program, and Adaptive Biketown, which serves people with disabilities. Nike's partnership and investment in Biketown has been essential to the program's success.
 The reach of the Nike brand has introduced many new audiences to bike share and bicycling in general. And Nike's support enables us to provide this world-class system to Portland. So I want to thank Nike for its ongoing partnership with Biketown. I'm going to turn it over to PBOT Director Chris Warner. Welcome, Chris. Thank you, Chris.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. For the record, Chris Warner, Director of the Portland View of Transportation. Again, thank you, Commissioner Udeli. Very excited to bring the extension of the Nike sponsorship agreement and expansion of Bike Town to Council this morning. And as Commissioner said,
 Nike has been such a wonderful partner in this, particularly during this period of health and economic crisis. To bring this enhanced transportation service to Portlanders is something that we at PBOT are so excited about, and I know the community is. So, Biketown has become an important part of our transportation network. Over 200,000 locals, commuters, and visitors have used Biketown. To date, they've given over 1.3 million trips,
 In the first three years of our operations, ridership grew consistently in our Bike Town for All and our Adaptive Bike Town program, which we'll be talking about a little bit later. I'm also pleased to be here with Lyft, who is really the industry leader in bike share. Lyft and Motivate have been strong operating partners for the past four years, and I'm very excited about moving forward with that partnership.
 So today we are asking council to take two actions. First is authorize the extension of our Nike title sponsorship agreement to 2025 for a grand total of $18.3 million. And that contract dates all the way back to 2016. And the second council action will be to authorize a new operator contract for Lyft, which is our provider and has been.
 So these two actions really allow us to do three major things as Commissioner Haley said. Expand the bike count service to more parts of East Portland, increase the number of bicycles from 1,000 to 1,500 with additional increases of up to 2,500 by the end of 2021, and we'll also replace the entire fleet with the electric assist bikes. Next slide please.
 What this really means, it will mean that Bightown will be more accessible and the work share system will work for more neighborhoods. The expansion of the service area will include 13 additional square miles in East Portland and also 2.5 miles in North and Northeast Portland.
 And also with the pedal assist bikes, it'll make biking more accessible to people with different abilities, people that are new to biking, and also to our BIPOC communities who live further out.
 So staff from PBI will be here to have more details in a moment, and we'll also hear from our partners in this work. But first, I'd like to introduce Scott Schneider from the city's procurement office. Scott will discuss the RFP solicitation that led to the LIFT contract, which is before you today. Scott? Okay. Thanks, Chris. Good morning. For the record, I'm Scott Schneider with Procurement Services.
 As Chris mentioned, you have two items before you this morning. The first is an ordinance seeking authorization to execute a contract with Lyft Inc. for the ongoing operation of the bike share system, which resulted from a request for proposals. I'm going to provide a brief overview of that solicitation effort, and then I'll hand it back to the project team to tell you more about Portland Bike Share and where that program is going.
 On September 16, 2019, Procurement Services advertised RFP 1328 for a bike share system, and on October 21, two proposals were received. Both proposals were responsive to the requirements of the solicitation. The City's evaluation included the scoring of the written proposals, a physical evaluation of the proposed bike share system hardware, and oral interviews with both proposers.
 On May 15, 2020, the city issued a notice of intent to award the contract to Lyft Inc. No protests were received. Lyft has a current City of Portland business tax account and is in compliance with the city's contracting requirements. Lyft is not a certified minority-owned, women-owned, service-disabled, veteran-owned, or emerging small business.
 3% of the value of this contract will be subcontracted to local businesses certified by the Certification Office for Business Inclusion and Diversity. Based on the historical data on the cost to operate the bike share system, the confidence level for this procurement is high. If the Council has any questions regarding the solicitation process, I'll be here to answer those. And otherwise, I'll hand it over to Steve Hoyt-McBeth and the Biketown Project team. Thank you, colleagues. Any questions at this point? Very good.
 Hello, I'm Catherine Charleaux, Active Transportation and Safety Division Manager at PBOT. And I'm going to just frame up the presentation today by starting with some information about our Nike partnership. And I guess before I do that, I really want to thank our procurement partners, Scott, for your support, and especially our buyer, Teresa Green, who helped walk us through this process.
 So, everything that we are here to present this morning, Biketown's ridership successes to date, the expansion to East Portland with more bikes, the transition to an e-bike system, none of it could happen without Nike's financial commitment.
 But beyond that funding, at a national level, what makes Nike special as a bike share sponsor is what they have brought us as a partner and a participant in our system. And so I'm going to talk just a little bit about that. As a global leader in design, they've really given Portland's bike town our distinctive branding, which captured the city's imagination, helped make bike share cool, and
 for existing riders but also for new audiences and helped us use Biketown to celebrate the richness of the Portland community. As an example here on this slide there's a shot of the Black History Month bike which is part of our culture collection. I want to say a little bit more about the culture collection since it's such a shining example of how the Nike partnership uses the bicycle to express our cultural identity through design
 Many of you may remember the bikes on the screen here and the celebrations that accompanied their release over the last few years. You see the Native American Heritage bikes, there's two of them. The Ability bike, which celebrates our community of people with a disability.
 the Latino Heritage Month bike, the Ascend bike, which celebrates the Asian Pacific Islander and Middle Eastern communities. Here's a photo taken at the unveiling of the Women's History Month bike at City Hall. Special thanks to Commissioner Udaele for hosting and Commissioner Fritz for her presence there.
 And we've heard clearly from local veterans that Commissioner Hardesty's representation at the celebration for the Military Awareness and Appreciation Month meant a lot. And then, yeah.
 But separately, there has been a focus on design and bringing design into the community and the neighborhoods. And these are pictures of some of our neighborhood bike designers. Mayor Wheeler was one of the selection judges for that effort.
 What's in front of you today is technically an extension of the existing Nike contract, but in reality it represents a strong renewed commitment moving forward at a time when it's not easy to make that kind of commitment. The amendment provides for an additional $8.3 million in sponsorship investments.
 And in addition to that 8.3 million, the city has the opportunity for up to 2 million more if key milestones are met relating to equity and system expansion. The amendment also extends the agreement through 2025, and that extension date is tied to the term of the lift operator contract, which my colleague Steve will talk about in just a moment.
 During invited testimony, we have Julia Edwards from Nike. She'll talk a little bit about the Nike perspective on this partnership. And unless you all have questions, I'd like to turn it over to the Biketown program manager, Steve Hoyt-McBeth. Very good. Colleagues, any questions at this point? Seeing none, go ahead and turn it over. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Kathy. So before I talk about the contract, I wanted to just give an overview of the bike itself and how people would use the system.
 So there's a number of similarities to our current bikes. You can lock them to a Biketown station rack or to a normal rack like you can with our bikes right now. They'll have built-in front and rear headlights, and the basket will be able to carry about 25 pounds. So what's new is in the name. These are electric pedal assist bikes.
 And the reason we call them electric pedal assist is because the motor is only engaged when you're actually pedaling. If you're not pedaling, the motor disengages. There's no throttle like there are on some classes of e-bikes. But when you pedal, you really feel the boost. It's like once you start pedaling, you feel like a superhero. And what that superhero status, once you get on the bike, will do for you is make it a lot easier for you to make trips faster.
 especially longer trips, by bike instead of car. And we think that's going to be a real assistance as we try to battle our very serious problems in terms of climate change and congestion. Next slide, please. But the thing that I really love about e-bikes is that they bring access and the joy of bicycling to more people. And I think it bears repeating what our director, Chris Warner, said at the beginning here. E-bikes open up bicycling to more people
 And because of that electric assist motor, it may be because someone has a different physical ability, such as a senior or a person who experiences some level of disability, a lack of confidence about biking, maybe a sense within a person that they don't have the fitness to ride or about riding in traffic. And the special sauce is really that they're fun to ride. And I think that's really our secret weapon against climate change with Biketown is that fun factor.
 Because we do things that we like, not things that we know we should do. And if it's fun to ride by town, I think you're more likely to do that instead of driving.
 And, you know, we really learned something from our electric scooter pilots. And, you know, people often have disparagingly remarked about the scooters that they're toys. And I think that that's a fair concern that we want to make sure that a shared mobility vehicle is really ready for urban conditions and the e-bike will be.
 But what that idea of something just being kind of fun and playful actually brought people, um, to a small mode of transport that we hadn't had. We found from the survey data that, um,
 Very, very high numbers of folks that never buy or never used Biketown before. So we're bringing this is that if scooters were our gateway, Biketown is the place we really hope that people will find that they have like something where they can carry items and really use it for a lot of their needs. Next slide, please.
 So there are three ways that you'll be able to check out a bike with our new Biketown system. One will be through the Biketown app. So through the app, you'll be able to just open it. If you have a smartphone, to open that Biketown app and then take a photo or just open up the camera, and it will actually allow you to open up the bike directly from the app.
 itself, you'd also be able to do that through the Lyft app. So when, when anyone who is looking for a trip within the Lyft app will actually see the bike town bikes near them, like they would, like they will the vehicles that are circling. And, you know, in, in Portland Lyft is the major player in our, in terms of ride share, the ride share market in terms of, excuse me,
 in terms of the number of trips that they take. So we think this is another way that we're actually frankly
 And because of our partnership with Lyft, we'll actually be reducing car trips because we know that a lot of people will open that app who may not already experience Biketown and actually give Biketown a try. And then thirdly, for folks who are Biketown for all members, people living on low incomes, they'll have the opportunity to have a Biketown member card that they'll be able to tap on the back of the fender to unlock the bike. Next slide, please.
 So there's some things that will be changing about our pricing with our new membership with eBikeTown.
 The main difference is that right now, excuse me, I'll just say the main difference is that with each type of our membership, you will pay a small per minute fee, ride fee for using the system. So for our users who are intending to use by town a lot, the annual membership is going to be really the way to go. That will be a $99 annual fee. And then you'll pay just 10 cents per minute for the actual trip itself.
 And then they're also for folks who may be interested in using ByteTown, but just don't tend to use it as much or don't want to have that upfront commitment. There is the pay as you go plan, which is a dollar to begin the trip and the 20 cents per minute. And then for our people living on low incomes, our neighbors there, the ByteTown for all program, there's a $5 a month charge plus a five cent per minute left for the first several months. We'll be providing every ByteTown for all member with a $20 monthly
 per month ride credit that they'll be able to use toward trips and then later in this first six or so months of the program, they'll be transitioning to a program where Bike Town for All members will be able to bring bikes back to stations and receive ride credit that will create kind of like a budget for them to use the system that they won't have to pay for. Next slide please.
 So now I just wanted to talk about the major business points of the lift contract. So,
 Similar to our current system with our contract with, originally with Motivate that was acquired by Lyft, there are no city funds required for the day-to-day operation or for any of this expansion or of the transition to electric bikes. That is all covered through our sponsorship agreement, primarily with Nike as our title sponsor and then the revenue that is generated from the system.
 Lift manufactures and owns these bikes. And so we will continue to own the existing equipment, which will be the bike tent racks that you see in this photo and the station map panels, but all of the new stations and all of the new bikes will be owned by lift.
 I think I already mentioned this, but actually I already said this last one. And then I think Catherine mentioned this or Chris mentioned this earlier, but the contract will be synced just with the Nike sponsorship agreement. So the terms of those two agreements are kind of tied together. Next slide, please.
 So one of the things that we're really proud of has been the leadership that Biketown has provided nationally in terms of our equity hiring and requirements that were part of our original contract that we've continued in our new contract. Those are referred to as the high road standards contract.
 And before I mention them, I just want to say that one of the additional benefits of the Lyft contract is Lyft's subcontractor for operations is Motivate.
 And so the staff that have been with us from the beginning have the opportunity to continue it since they will still be one of the main contractors with Lyft.
 And then the high road standards themselves have a number of different provisions in them, some of them dealing with minimum pay, some of them dealing with providing health care to full-time workers. And then one of the pieces that's been really unique to Portland, and I really tip my hat to the Coalition for Communities of Color, and specifically Alan Hippolito with Bear Day back in 2000.
 Goodness 12 when we worked with them on creating these standards for the original contract on having this very unique sort of recruitment Frame where all of the recruitment happens in partnership with workforce and community based organizations to ensure that we really get The richness and the diversity in that workforce that represents the city as a whole.
 And then there are specific hiring equity thresholds in the contract as well. And I'll just call out that 20% of employee hours must be filled by people who identify as black or indigenous. Next slide, please. And then we spoke about this when we were in front of council this spring, but bike time is really an important part, we believe, of our COVID-19 recovery, especially for folks who have limited access or no access to an automobile vehicle.
 Byte Town provides them that ability to travel in a physically distant mode, to be outdoors, which we know is the kind of way that we have the
 lowest level of transmission. And I'll just note that Lyft has seen other cities with e-bikes that especially during COVID, they've seen an increase in trips, and especially an increase in trips among women. And we have seen in our scooter pilot, currently Biketown doesn't serve East Portland, but our scooter pilot does. During our scooter pilot, we've seen the percentage of trips in East Portland
 as a percentage of the whole citywide trips increase. And we think again that that speaks to people's desire, especially for people who are essential workers, to have a transportation option that does not require them to be in close proximity to other folks to make that choice. Next slide, please.
 And then this is my turn over to my coworker on the project, Roshan Korean, who is our manager for our equity outreach and engagement work. So I'll turn it over to Roshan. Thank you.
 Thanks Steve. Thanks to everyone for having me here. My name is Roshan Kurian. I'm part of the Biketown team. I manage the Biketown for All and Adaptive Biketown programs as well as our outreach. I've been charged specifically to lead outreach in our new East Portland neighborhoods. And as we change and expand a transportation system that includes changes to our city in the midst of a lot of change, I've also been self-charged to monitor and work to rectify when we are doing harm in the streets for our most vulnerable in our communities.
 Our outreach work is being centered in the results-based accountability process, centering race, which I know the council has had some training in. Evaluating our performative measures of success is part of our iterative process where we will continue to identify and dismantle the root cause of some of the barriers that folks face around using bike share and center our limited resources and engagement efforts on some of our most precious in the community right now, which is our youth.
 our businesses, especially our BIPOC-owned ones, those living on low incomes and with different abilities, our immigrant community, and thinking about a whole new group of folks that have become extremely vulnerable in the midst of a racial and viral pandemic.
 Thankfully, Lyft and Nike are the kind of partners that have consistently shown up for that work, for those conversations, for finding solutions outside of the box and connecting people and resources. The Lyft local team especially has gone above and beyond a contract in the past in supporting Bike Town for All and forging new partnerships.
 They simultaneously nurture the many programs we throw at them, including a transportation wallet pilot program I led in affordable housing, which helped us sign up 100 by-town users in a sweep of transportation fares that connected residents to all of the transportation services around Portland. It taught residents how to use their service and the tech involved and gave an opportunity for a household to move freely around Portland without having to think about cost. Thank you.
 Lyft is also the kind of partner that can create Biketown partnerships that extend the reach of our affordable access program. So one huge and exciting change for Biketown is that the age to ride will be changed from 18 to 16 and thus be accessible for high schoolers. In early 2020, Lyft launched a Lyft Up Bike Share Access Program for youth with LeBron James and their bike share partners in Chicago and New York City.
 This program provided free bike share access to low-income youth through a sign-up program with the YMCA. Lyft has mentioned they're interested in working with PBOT to extend this lift-up program to bike town youth in 2021. Additionally, to connect to our youth, we hope to use our existing robust program.
 Safe Rasta School programming within PBOT to help develop our youth voice and reach. We'll be working with our Summer Works interns to develop youth education as well as programming around some of our business outreach. They'll be connected to our new and improved Transportation Ambassador Program, which is a volunteer wing of PBOT with a BIPOC and youth focus to connect people, jobs, and new workforce and career development opportunities, especially in transportation and transportation justice focus.
 Because we have seen it's important that the systems that we put in place are represented by those affected at all levels. And so we'll also be working on some business outreach in East Portland with a focus on our BIPOC-owned businesses. We will be working alongside our Safe Streets Healthy Businesses team as another touch point on their messaging, but also announcing the new and exciting changes that are coming this fall.
 Through this outreach, before launch, we hope to announce any changes they might see in September, provide resources for more education and feedback, demonstrate another way for clients, patrons, and staff to get to their businesses, gauge interest in employer programs or eligible discounts, and provide space to express other ways that Biketown, as well as Peabod, can better support their businesses right now.
 I was also fortunate to be part of the contract negotiation team and feel extremely grateful for the windy road that led us to this point and with the continuation and growth of our strong partnerships with Lyft and Nike.
 It's making the transition to our new and improved system that much easier. And while our resources are absolutely limited for the enriching and expansive equity work involved with successful expansion, our team finds creative solutions and sources of support along every step of the way. As Steve mentioned, we are able to continue our Bike Town for All program.
 And he mentioned how much it will cost, $5 a month, 5 cents a minute. Each member will receive $20 a bonus ride time. That's equivalent to 20, 20 minute rides per month.
 Another example on the power of partnership is with our adaptive Biketown partners who are currently stepping up and providing a location for folks to sign up for Biketown for All as a trial during this season. During COVID, we had stopped our general public and partner in-person workshops, decreasing access for our cash paying unbanked or underbanked members who are required to attend a workshop to sign up. I'll let Craig Roche here representing Albertina Kerr speak more to our
 joint plans to engage the adaptive community in 2021 after our successful adaptive pilots in 2017 and 2018. I'm also going to cede some of my moments to Charlene from
 Multnomah County Health, who will be speaking shortly about the intersection of public health and transportation. And so I'll just wind up with saying our team acknowledges that bytown's potential to engage around transportation justice, connect to jobs and businesses, provide an outlet for physical and mental well-being, speak across different levels of incomes and abilities, connect our Portlanders that have been pushed out.
 to old and new people and places. We've already done so much work around keeping and building genuine relationships that connect right down to many programs across our bureau and beyond. And we're continuing to seek out unlikely partners and build upon the ones that we have right now. So with that, I'll turn it back to Steve. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thanks Roshan. I just have this is just our last slide for our presentation. This Sunday we celebrated our fourth birthday for oops I'm sorry my video's on our fourth birthday for for Biketown on July 19th. The four years has gone very fast. We're incredibly proud of the work of our community and partners both Mikey and Lyft
 and all of the community partners we have on Biketown for All and our affordable housing partners in getting us here. And we're really, really excited about something we've really wanted to do since we began this program, which is to expand into East Portland where we know the need for bicycle access and transportation access is great and to bring e-bikes, which is the fact that the first day that we have e-bikes, they'll be available in significant parts of East Portland. It's something that we're really excited about.
 But I just want to say that one of the hallmarks of our partnership has been not resting on our laurels and really always trying to find, always expecting more of ourselves and what we can do. A number of the innovations that we brought nationally to bike share, even though we were the 65th city to actually launch a bike share system, I think speaks to that. And a big area of our focus is going to be on continuing to reduce barriers to bicycling and to bike town, especially with our BIPOC communities.
 And also just seeing how we can really use Bright Town more as an instrument of climate to reduce climate change and our congestion problems. So that concludes the end of our staff presentation. We do have a number of members that have invited public testimony besides our actual besides public testimony as well. So I will turn it back to the mayor. Very, very good. Thank you. Excellent presentation. And before we get to that, to the invited testimony, Commissioner Fritz has a question. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for the presentation. There's lots of really good things going on. You're not going to be surprised by this question. And the question is about helmets. I...
 Was concerned when we first started Bike Town about the lack of availability of people, of helmets for people who don't have them. And was particularly concerned in the good old days when we were in City Hall and I saw so many people riding around without them. And I was assured that that wasn't a problem because the bikes were clunky and they didn't go very fast. And now they're going to go 20 miles an hour. So what's the plan for helmets? Yeah.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. And I actually had it in my remarks and I forgot to say it. So I know I and I'm not trying to sidestep this question. So I want to be sure of that. But I believe this will be though. I don't think we have any more presentation scheduled for this year for by town in front of council and I just you are you were there with that during that first vote. And even though you expressed
 some concerns about that and priorities for that in terms of the funding. You were, played a very instrumental behind the scenes role and actually creating the partnership that we have with Nike. So I just want to, at this being the last time, I think you've probably seen about eight or nine bike members' presentations say thank you for that support.
 even as you've continued to be very certain, be really precious to make sure that this is the best thing for the city. And so I did, I did want to speak to your piece about, about helmets. And we spoke, we've both in meetings with briefings with you and, and with council talked about our, our attempts to try to bring a helmet rental or kind of like a helmet on demand system to Portland. And unfortunately that company was,
 went out of business and didn't actually, wasn't able to execute on that. It was something that I personally, as somebody who always wears a helmet, I look forward to doing. But I wanted to get specifically to your question because you brought this up when we presented in April about with the addition of e-bikes. And I want to say that the safety record of bike share nationally and with bike town locally has been very, very high.
 We have very, just if you look at the chances of being seriously injured on a bike share bike in the data, it's incredibly low. And I do want to underscore your point about just that bikes will be able to go faster. And we actually, after that, we worked with Lyft to kind of do some research on this question.
 because of your inquiry about that. Professor Chris Cherry, who's actually one of the, he's at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville, along with John MacArthur with Portland State University, one of the national experts in e-bike share from the academic community. And he did a study looking at e-bike speeds and speed,
 found that actually the speeds of e-bikes were only, uh, less on average, less than two miles an hour, um, faster than, than pedal bikes. So that the, the difference in the speeds, um, isn't as high, um, as one might expect when we're thinking about e-bikes. And again, the bike is only goes fast when you're pedaling. So you're, you're, um, you're very engaged in that, um,
 and in his um i'm just reading from his study he said there is no definitive answer regarding whether e-bikes are more or less safe than conventional bicycling so um given that i want to say that helmet access is incredibly important to us all of our signage um and in the app encourages users to wear helmets i'm sorry i'm going to read from my notes because i'll make sure i get through this and i'll try to be faster we'll continue to give away free helmets at all of
 of our bike town for all workshops that ensure people will have helmet access.
 We, in our youth-related programming, as we go down to 16, we'll provide free helmets at all of those events. We have a partnership with Nutcase, a local bike helmet manufacturer, to offer bike town riders a discount on helmets. And that's, I think that's all I'll say on that. Thank you. Very good. Commissioner? Thank you. Could I just have a follow-up?
 I appreciate the response. I remember when the scooters came out, there was a big giveaway in Pioneer Courthouse Square. And just for the record and for people's information, I found when one of my staff had a crash on a bike, a regular bike, a while ago, their helmets wear out. And if you've had your helmet for five years or so, then you need to get another one. So,
 to the extent that we can help people understand that. And that's even if you haven't had a crash, just the padding inside or whatever it's called disintegrates. So that was news to me. And I just want people to know that we do want them to wear helmets whenever they're riding on city bikes and city scooters. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Hardesty has her hand raised.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for that fabulous testimony. And I think you should probably put that picture of the commissioner on the bike and some art collection somewhere. Seriously, though, I noticed that we're going to lower the age of consent from 18 to 16.
 And what I know is that when the age requirement was 18, there were a lot of under 18-year-olds that were using bike share. And so now that we're going to lower it to 16, I'm expecting 12, 13, 14-year-olds who believe they are 16 in their mind to be also utilizing this bike share.
 And so that creates more opportunity for accidents and injury. And so I would like to know what was the reasoning to go from 18 to 16?
 And how are we going to make sure that we don't have 12, 13 and 14 year olds with mommy and daddy's credit card actually using bike share? And let me just say before you answer that, I am absolutely thrilled that bike share is moving to an electric bike option that will put old people like me on bikes forever.
 Much more readily than I would do otherwise. And so I am thrilled with the direction of program is going. So I want to be really clear about that. But just knowing how the real world operates. We did not have compliance at 18 and we're not going to have compliance at 16 and so
 Would you tell me how you perceive that working out and what you will do when we find out that there's a lot of little darlings that are pretending to be 16? Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, and thank you for the input that you've given to staff, both at previous hearings and during the briefings that we've done with you over the past couple of years. And for the record, I want it to be known that I have never, ever thought of you as an old person, and neither do I think anybody else on staff does. You were the...
 I'm getting older by the moment, trust me. Well, I think that when you became a Biketown model, I think we obviously know that you missed one of your callings in life.
 Um, but to your question, which is serious, I mean, I think that, you know, one of the things is, is that to us, it was very important to try to reduce the age to 16. And I'll just say that there's a couple of pieces of that. One is, is just equity and access, you know, moving to East Portland. We know that our East Portland high school students have lower transfer levels of transportation access than parts of the other, um, other parts of the, um,
 other parts of the city and also just in terms of climate and really trying to create a culture among our youth who tend to be really some of our climate justice leaders to make sure that they have access to that system. We will be requiring to get to your question. I want to be honest with you that it is always challenging when we have any shared vehicle where
 Where a credit card and a mobile phone is kind of a remote way to qualify, folks. There is a parental guardian sign-off that will happen as part of that. And I can provide you as part of that registration flow. I would like to, as opposed to trying to answer this only half right,
 get back to you and your staff with a written answer. And then if you desire a briefing, but just to make sure that I actually talked to you about that process in a more accurate fashion. Thank you. I appreciate that. Yeah, but that is, I think, go ahead.
 Yes. So that is our, that, I mean, that is a, I mean, that is, I think that's a very reasonable and smart concern for you to have. And I, and I will say that with your direction, we will both get back to you with more information on that and be sure to monitor that and, and work with our lift operator team.
 to do this and i would just will say that we're always and we deal with this with fraud on the fraud side with by town for all there's always you're always on this continuum between if you're trying to prevent fraud then reducing access or access or making it harder for people to get in by creating more layers of verification and providing more access and have more
 opportunities for fraud. So with ByteTime for All, just to be perfectly frank, we've gone really hard on the access side of making sure we have a lot of people. We have lost a number of bikes, um,
 because of that, creating that access that we've, um, but it's just something that we're always trying to, it's just always trying to find this balance. But I, um, we're talking about public safety here and not about just a capital asset. So I think that your questions were taken. Thank you. You know, Steve, I just want to say, I appreciate you being thoughtful in that answer because it, I didn't expect you to be able to pull a complete answer out of the air, but it means a lot when, um,
 when city employees actually help us understand the process that you're going through to make a decision, right, because I know that that's a question I'm sure a lot of parents would have. And so I really appreciate it and my office is here to help you and us figure out how we can make this accessible and safe and make sure that we are not putting young people in danger, thank you.
 Might I add something? Commissioner Hardesty's question. Also, to the point of the programming that we do with Safe for Us to School, we're really hoping to develop an e-bike education and bike town specific education program where they have to go through the rules and fill out
 a test and then maybe potentially get a discount. So somehow working to incentivize that would hopefully bring more youth through that pathway where they have to learn the rules and get signed off and the appropriate channels. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Commissioner Daly.
 Thank you, Mayor. Well, this is an interesting conversation. I want to say that I do support lowering the age to 16. We allow 16-year-olds to get behind the wheel of an automobile, so I would find it hard to justify continuing to not allow them to legally use our bike chair system. But I do have questions for Steve about...
 Liability for underage users, does that parental write-off include some explanation of their liability for, one, allowing their 16 and 17-year-olds to use bikes? But two, if someone under 16 is using the bike, what's the liability there, whether they allow it or not?
 And what's the penalty? Yeah. Thank you, Commissioner Daly, for that question. And I will just say that we tried to lower in our negotiations with Motivate originally on this contract. We tried to get the age lowered. And at that point, they had a concern about this issue of liability on their end of things.
 things and we and we pushed on this and actually made it a condition of the request for proposal because it was very important to us to kind of provide the access and it seems to have those both things um i'm getting a chat through one of another channel of the image that was sent and i'm afraid if i try to see if i can bring it up um for myself i'm not sure i can but i just
 I would, again, I just don't want to give an answer that's not completely accurate. So I'd like to just actually get back to all of counsel with this since we've had two questions on it. But we worked with our city attorney's office. They were intimately involved with every negotiation of this contract. And so the primary duty of our attorneys is to make sure to
 protect the city in terms of liability and just exposure of risk and also protect our citizens. I am fairly confident that this and using the bike that there is a, that there is something that protects at least the city. Of course, there's a question of the user itself, but let me get back. I would prefer if you would allow me to get back to you just to make sure that we provide an accurate answer.
 accurate information. Thank you. Sure, no problem, and I'm, I mean, I am interested in the question, you know, sometimes youth will find a workaround on their own, and sometimes parents are actually enabling the unlawful behavior, as we've seen with scooters, with adults riding around with children on our scooters, or adults, um,
 activating a scooter and letting their younger child use them. So, you know, we can't control for every kind of bad or irresponsible behavior, but I am interested in what we do have in place. I have a question about a completely different topic, and I'm going to put Catherine and
 and hope I don't make people too uncomfortable, but I think it's an important conversation. So you hear a lot about public-private partnerships and on one side how necessary and vital they are and on the other side a lot of skepticism from the public about those partnerships and about
 how corporations may be benefiting from them. I am a shop local, small business advocate. I am a vocal critic of the sharing economy, but I'm also the transportation commissioner that's very happily bringing forward the bike share program with Lyft and Nike. So I was hoping that you and or Catherine could talk a little bit about how important those partnerships are,
 and why the city of Portland is choosing to go with very, you know, large corporate entities to partner with on our bike share program. Because I think that's a question out there in the public. We definitely saw some criticism when the program first rolled out, and I think we should talk about it.
 Great, thank you Commissioner Daly.
 Steve, can I take a stab at it and then turn it over to you? I always defer to you, Catherine. Thank you very much. I would just like to take a 10,000 foot answer and then hand it over to Steve, who has just so much more exhaustive knowledge of the field in general. But just from the 10,000 foot answer that relates to scooters as well.
 What we're seeing throughout the country as time goes on is that scooters and bike share, like public transit, do provide an important public service and in almost no situation can they support themselves without some sort of public investment or some sort of public subsidy.
 And so that given Portland's history of wanting bike share and moving forward a bike share system without a lot of public investment and our current situation in which we don't have a lot of extra money lying around. We find ourselves in a situation where that kind of public private partnership dramatically extends the.
 type and reach of services we can offer to them. And we didn't take it lightly. We thought a lot about the kind of RFP we could put out there that might have been drawn more local providers, but there is no way we could have gotten a system of this reach.
 without that type of RFP and without the type of sponsorship we see from Nike. So I'm going to stop there. And Catherine, I'll just say, you know, sometimes it does feel like, and I'm not talking about this situation in particular, but that we're giving away more than we get. But our partnership with Nike in particular is somewhat extraordinary on bike town. Do you want to speak to that? Yeah.
 for Ken absolutely um I will in fact I'll speak to that for both Nike and Lyft and I would like Steve to weigh in on this as well but the the Nike partnership um
 They are giving us a level of sponsorship, and I am quite sure that Julia will speak to this as well, that goes above, significantly above and beyond the types of investments they make in many programs. And they have pushed us hard over the past years to connect very closely with Portland culture. They've pushed us hard on the equity front.
 And they've made it clear that the value of the sponsorship to them is the connections to the city of Portland and the community and the benefit that it provides because there is such a strong investment in this community. That's meant that we, it's a level of generous sponsorship that we haven't seen in other parts of the transportation work that we do as people.
 So that's been, it's also been a powerful connector with Portlanders, which has provided tremendous benefit to us, just in terms of brand and vitality and excitement about the system. But Lyft also is really stepping up here in terms of the level of commitment, the four or five months that we have spent negotiating this contract,
 Whether I wanted this to be the case or not has made it crystal clear that Lyft's costs are not covered for providing this level of system, that it is a passion project in many ways for them too, and a building toward a suite of micromobility options.
 that sense they are giving the city a very strong benefit as well. So I'm going to have Steve add that if you have additional things. Hey Catherine, this is Chris. One other thing I would like to add is just in terms of all the things that Roshan talked about, those are things that aren't happening a lot of other bike share systems and it's because of the sponsorship but
 But it's because of the community-oriented work that we're doing with Nike and Liv. So I don't think this is your garden variety type of sponsorship. This is really more of a partnership that's, I think, deeply rooted in the community. So thank you for the question because it really does talk about the ethos of the program that we set up.
 All right. All excellent points. This is a really important conversation, and I think we could continue this. But I have to point out that we have a really busy agenda today, and we still haven't even gotten to the invited testimony. So I would encourage us to move along unless anybody has a very significant question they'd like to ask at this particular moment.
 I am happy with the response and I am done with my questions. Good, that was a great question. Thank you, Commissioner. All right, invited testimony. Who do you have? Julia, I think you're up first. Welcome. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. I'm Julia Abram Edwards, Nike Senior Director for Global Government and Public Affairs. Oregon's been our home for more than 40 years and our roots run deep in the state and here in the city of Portland.
 I want to thank you all for the invitation to participate in this morning's council meeting to speak in support both of the next phase of Biketown and to the partnership we've developed with the city, Portland's Bureau of Transportation, and Biketown Riders.
 Before I say a couple of points, I just want to pivot back to the earlier conversation because this might be my last opportunity to thank Commissioner Fritz on this particular topic for the support and partnership. And always, I thought of her this morning when I pulled out my bike town.
 Helmet, because I knew that this topic would come up and I really appreciated her advocacy over the years for the safety of bike town riders. So we're going to miss your voice, but I know we all will be remembering that as we move ahead.
 So I want to start this morning by expressing our appreciation to Commissioner Eudaly and the PBOT leadership and staff for the partnership we've experienced the last four years. It has been strong and deep, and it's been grounded in a common vision, in innovation, and in a commitment to work together to create a bike town accessible to all of our community.
 Leveling the playing field for all as part of Nike's purpose to create active communities and increase access for all, while also embracing sustainability. When it began in 2016, Nike was the founding partner and title sponsor for Biketown. And as part of our continued investment to uplift communities and advance purpose in our home state, Nike will be extending its sponsorship pending approval of the council of Biketown through summer of 2025.
 In our four years of Biketown, we co-created multiple collections of limited edition bike wraps to live alongside the vibrant orange bikes. Now we love the orange bikes, but we were especially honored to elevate the limited edition collections that have been referenced earlier this morning. These included the locally inspired Community Design Challenge and Awareness Raising Culture Collection, which were highlighted in this morning's presentation.
 I loved all the pictures, it just brought back lots of memories of the rollout and the launches and the designers and local communities we worked with. The culture collection was inspired actually by Be True bikes that were launched in Pride Month of 2017 and I know Mayor Wheeler participated in that launch of the first bike.
 In winter of 2018, Nike sponsored the Bite Town Design Challenge, inviting artists and community members to create designs celebrating Portland's five regions and neighborhoods, incorporating both iconic Portland elements and creative concepts. As a Southeast Portlander, I loved riding the Southeast Bike, celebrating images and iconic art from my community. And I know others around the city did as well.
 Those five winning designs graced 50 of the fleet's bicycles. We also provided financial support to PBOT's adaptive bike town program, which in partnership with Albertina Kerr aims to increase bicycle access to people with disabilities. And in 2019, Nike partnered with PBOT to engage and celebrate Portland's rich and diverse communities through a series of bicycle design wraps known as the Culture Collection.
 All of these designs celebrate the diversity of Portland's bicycling culture and our broader community. We appreciated the mayor and individual commissioners' participation in elevation of these bikes as they were launched into the fleet. We plan to continue the legacy of giving voice to Portland's neighborhoods and communities in Phase 2, Phase 3.
 of Biketown. Our goal moving forward is to continue the legacy of Biketown, of giving even more people in our community, and I think this proposal that you have before you this morning does that, in more of our neighborhoods, so there's access to affordable, active, and sustainable transportation options, and that we do that in strong partnership with the city. So thank you again for the opportunity to participate this morning. I know Nike's been honored to
 partner with the city and rolling out what I think is really an iconic and special version of bike share in Portland. And I'll just close by saying we're going to be, we're looking forward to the ride ahead. Thank you. Thank you, Julian. Thank you for Nike's support. This is outstanding. And we really appreciate your leadership on this. Great. I think we have a representative from Opano. Hopefully they're here. Hi.
 Good morning. Hi, good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioner. Thank you, people are bringing me here. My name is Wanlei. I have worked at APANO as a Chinese community organizer for five years and I have managed transportation projects for the last two years. When we moved into our new office, the archers of 82nd APANO staff only have three parking spots.
 The 48-unit residents who live upstairs only have 10 parking spots. The traffic is getting worse on divisions and 82nd. There are more residential apartments, affordable housing, and small business in the J District. Transportation is really important in our flowing community. As a PONOS community development program, we want to make sure all the residents, workers, and students have a safe, convenient,
 easy options to travel to work, to school and to everywhere daily. On December 2019, PBOD staff and I solicited a micro-mobility focus group with East Portland residents at the panel. The focus group was conducted in English, Chinese and Vietnamese with 10 residents.
 and none of them have ever ridden an electric bike before. As part of the event, participants try out the electric bike and give feedback on what they like and dislike. And participants were really excited to try the bikes, even for seniors residents. I also have continued to fill questions from the residents and community members about supporting e-bikes in our community.
 I'm also part of the Baitan aberration committee. I'm so excited that we've overcome the two big difficult problems e-bites face in J District. Fast-pass car access and the power's reliable batteries will be the big steps for electric bikes used with people who have language barriers.
 We want to advocate the residents in J Districts have access to all transportation options. Our mission is cooperation with all partners and transit providers to be able to provide easier ways to help support and educate residents all access the new transportation options. Thank you so much for the opportunity. Let me speak for our community. Thank you so much.
 Thank you. Appreciate it. Great. Next we have Ada Antonio from Hacienda, CDC.
 Hi everybody, can you all hear me? Loud and clear. Great. Well, good morning to you all. My name is Aira Antonio. I am representing Hacienda CDC in the Cooley neighborhood. I'm so happy to be here to talk to you all about my experience and the experience of the community, especially the Cooley neighborhood, when it comes to Brighttown. I think the talk about expansion and all of this great work
 upgrade basically it's so exciting it's something to really look forward to um there is there has been a lot that has been said about biketown that i would like to add to um you know i think one thing that really big for me is that you know i was born and raised in poland um i actually
 actually was a resident in low-income housing. I'm about how Biketown has made a presence in the Cooley neighborhood has been so thrilling for me because it wasn't there, you know, 10, 12 years ago when I was, you know, 15, 16 years old. And I'm seeing our residents are so interested. They're engaged with the idea of Biketown being in the Cooley neighborhood.
 As Korean had mentioned earlier, we were involved with the pilot for the transportation wallet in the Koli neighborhood this past year. And we have seen such a huge spike in interest for bike town. We have residents that come to us and ask us, you know, how can I use the app? Like, how do I, you know, how do I use a bike? You know, are there classes that I can take? And they are very eager to just get their hands on and just become more experienced with using bike town.
 So, you know, this whole conversation around, you know, expansion and adding more bicycles, it's just really...
 Thrilling. I'm excited about where the students are excited. We've got lots of different students that need to commute to Madison High School, Grant High School, Jefferson High School, and you know, the Somalia Latino community that, you know, need to get to work. We have Columbia, Lombard, Killingsworth, and Sandy, all very important intersections there.
 That, you know, I think biking definitely needs to continue to be a part of the conversation. We talk about other transportation options in the Cully neighborhood because currently we only have one bus and it's the bus 72. So, you know, I think if we're going to want to encourage our community to think about other other transportation options.
 you know, Biketown is it. And, you know, what other better way than to keep, you know, people active, to create community, to encourage people to engage, to think outside of driving. You know, I think there's a lot here and definitely want to make sure that we are part of that conversation. And I know when I'm speaking on part of the Cully neighborhood, when I say seeing Biketown and PBOT
 outside in those intersections. So, you know, Killingsworth and Sandy, it means a lot to us. It truly does. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Next up is Charlene McGee from REACH and Monoma County Health. Great. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and members of the Portland City Council. My name is Charlene McGee, and I have the privilege of working as Monoma County's
 RACIAL AND REACH PROGRAM MANAGER. REACH STANDS FOR RACIAL AND ETHNIC APPROACHES TO COMMUNITY HEALTH. WE ARE ONE OF 31 GRANTEES FUNDED NATIONALLY BY THE CENTER FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION TO ADDRESS THE RACIAL AND ETHNIC HEALTH DISPARITIES WITHIN WALNUMA COUNTY'S BLACK AND AFRICAN IMMIGRANT POPULATIONS. WITHIN OUR GRANT, WE HAVE THREE DIFFERENT STRATEGIC AREAS.
 nutrition, community clinical linkage, and for this conversation, physical activity and build environment. Additionally, we have three cutting themes, social cohesion and economic development. With that work, we work to ensure, and we work in partnership with our community to ensure that we're leading with the strength and wisdom of our community.
 preserving the culture, and ensuring that disparities are being addressed. Within our physical activity buckets,
 Our work really works to bridge public health and transportation in the built environment, recognizing the intersectionality of transportation, both as a social determinants of health and at times a necessity to get to and from school, to access healthy food, to transport safely to everyday destinations, including park, housing, and to walk around the neighborhood.
 So for the current grant that we have, this is actually our second round of funding. One of the demonstrated success from the REACH 1.0 work that we did in partnership with our partners at the city of Gresham, we supported their first active transportation plan. And through that research, we learned that
 For every dollar spent to achieve their 2040 active transportation targets included in their transportation plan. There was a $2 and 48 benefit $2 and 48 cents benefit. So two times the investment
 We also know that with access to active transportation, we know that it reduces healthcare costs, both for the new pedestrians and the bicyclists. We also recognize the positive impact on our environment as well.
 In Multnomah County, when we look at our 10 leading causes of death, eight of those are chronic disease. And we see connection between transportation related measures to those different health disparities. So that includes, you know, we think about our community members who may have asthma or experiencing chronic disease. Definitely improving the environment have health benefits to them as well.
 Within the economic benefit, we know that, um,
 household transportation saving is a benefit as well as external cost of vehicle travel. Additionally with the introduction of the e-bike through this partnership with Biketown, we know that e-bike will allow community members who may be experiencing health ailments to be able to ride bikes and engage in active transportation. As part of our REACH work, we are
 We are also part of a national effort through a program that's been launched called Healthy People Active Nation. And that effort is a national campaign that's looking at increasing the number of physical activity of residents throughout the country to 60 minutes per day. So this is another opportunity that we are excited about, knowing that it will promote increased physical activity within the community.
 So it would be remiss as a public health professional to not acknowledge that, you know, in the midst of COVID, biking is definitely a travel mode that provides low exposure, a relatively low exposure, once an individual who is engaging in that activity is adhering to public health guidelines. So that includes wearing the mask, practicing physical distancing, and certainly wearing your helmet. Okay.
 With our continual and growing partnership with PBOT, we're definitely intentional really about advocating and ensuring that the Black experience is centered in the active transportation policy, programs, and investments. Part of our reach deliverable for this round is that we developed a transportation safety report within that report.
 We recognize another stark disparities around black and brown bodies being injured, fatalities, and citation. So this is definitely a very important part of the conversation to ensure that with this support that we ensure that that work continues to be brought forth.
 We do ask that you also consider allocating resources to support infrastructure development and maintenance that are equity focused, that promote safety and the use of public space and roadways. Especially with the expansion out into East County, we know that there are parts of our city that have infrastructure that could benefit from maintenance and additional development efforts.
 We welcome the opportunity to co-develop a transportation safety campaign that is focused on eliminating disparities and inequities. That certainly promotes the health benefits of biking and engaging in active transportation. We are excited about the opportunity to expand the Biketown program.
 Biketown for All Partnership to explore a prescription bike program where we would love to partner with our community clinical staff that includes community health workers where our doctors and REACH partners can prescribe bicycle use to promote health benefits and improve the health of our community. Additionally and lastly,
 We do want to encourage and welcome ongoing partnership with Biketown and PBOTS so that we can maximize the benefits of this program and opportunity. And it would actually be remiss also just to share last year we sponsored the City of Gresham's first Juneteenth celebration and working in partnership with PBOTS staff and Biketown we were able to secure I believe it was more than 50 bikes.
 and engage the community in bike riding out in East County. So thank you for your partnership, and we look forward to the work that's ahead. Thank you. Thank you, Charlene. And our last speaker is Craig Rush from Albertina Curb, which will talk about adaptive biking. Before we do that, Commissioner Udaly has her hand raised. Commissioner Udaly? No. Oh, no. That's a leftover. Sorry. It's okay. Okay. Should I go ahead? Yeah. Please go ahead.
 All right, well, good morning commissioners, mayor, and guests. My name is Craig Rush and I'm the founder and director of Curbikes, which operates the Adaptive Biketown program. I'm here on behalf of Albertina Curr Centers and the Curbikes manager, Ryan Ross, who could not attend today's hearing. Curbikes is a program of Albertina Curr Centers, which is an organization that serves children with mental health concerns and children and adults with developmental disabilities.
 We feel incredibly grateful to be part of this amazing program. And I think at this point we'd just like to share what has been happening since we were last here. I think Ryan presented a couple of years ago after the pilot program had ended. So this is our fourth summer and we've seen growth in the program every year.
 Last summer, in 2019, we had over almost 200 rides with over a thousand hours of riding time. 90% of those rides were by people who identified as having a disability. 80% of those were first-time unique users.
 We've grown the fleet over the years with generous donations from Portland Parks as well as private organizations, giving us a total of 26 bikes right now, including two recumbent e-trikes provided through a Nike grant in 2018. Given the success of the program, we're eager to discuss how we can continue to improve and potentially expand the adaptive bike town program.
 To that end, I think at this point we propose that we reconvene the work group that we originally engaged with prior to the initial pilot. The goal being to reach more adaptive riders in more parts of the city and be able to meet their needs with the highest standard of service. Some ideas we might want to include, we might want to explore include
 Should there be a more programmatic approach to what we're doing? Do we consider docking stations for point-to-point trips? Should we expand to include other centralized hubs or kiosks at transportation centers? Do we expand to other parts of the city that are underserved? And how do we incorporate additional adaptive electric bikes into our fleet?
 And what do we do to continue coordinating between Adaptive Biketown and efforts with the direction of the Biketown program? We're really looking forward to knowing the best way to serve our communities going forward. You know, it's been a difficult year with the coronavirus, of course. And, you know, to date, curb bikes were down 87% less revenue than we saw at the same time last year.
 And right now because of the coronavirus, we've only had 12 riders this year. Of course, many of our riders being part of the vulnerable population who would be most impacted by what's going on with COVID-19. Fortunately, we're able to continue operating the Adaptive Biketown program given the generous grants and the contractual funding that we have with PBOT. However, if we want to improve and expand this program over the coming years,
 We're going to need additional resources to help with outreach, public research, additional partnerships, and to offer more hours, more riding times, scholarships, and to explore new equipment that might increase ridership or add to the rider experience.
 We'd love to be able to serve previously underserved communities of East and North Portland and offer them the same recreation opportunities, but without additional resources, it's going to be hard to figure out how to make this possible. So just as you hear other testimonies, keep these things in mind as we think about the Adaptive Biketown program. Again, we're incredibly grateful to the City of Portland, to PBOT, and to Nike for making this possible.
 And we know our riders feel the same way that we do. So thank you. Thank you, Craig. And that concludes our testimony. Very good. Thank you, Director Warner. Carla, how many people do we have signed up for public testimony? We have five, Mayor. Okay, we're going to, due to the lateness of the hour, and we are barely into our agenda this morning, we will limit public testimony to two minutes each, please.
 The first person is... I'm sorry, Carla. Again, I'll point out the council rules that were read at the beginning. Testimony must pertain to the two ordinances that are before us today or we'll have to ask you to stop. Thank you. The first person is Ian McKenzie. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Ian McKenzie. I'm a member of the Bicycle Advisory Committee. I'm only speaking on my own behalf, however, because the committee was never consulted or informed about the changes that you're being asked to vote on today. I think that's unfortunate because there are issues that should have been vetted before this came to Council, especially as an emergency ordinance.
 I'm really excited about the introduction of e-bikes, and I will probably try them out on the day they launch. The expansion of the service area is welcome if insufficient. I also support lowering the age so that people old enough to drive cars can ride a bike. What I'm concerned about is the cost of the new system. Today, you can buy an annual membership to Biketown for $99, which covers 90 minutes of riding a day. Soon, every minute will cost 10 cents over and above the $99 membership.
 The 90 minutes that are currently included will instead cost $9, almost twice the price of a TriMet day pass. Most people probably don't use Biketown that much, but the fact remains that every spontaneous trip that's currently free for members will come with a new cost. For pay-as-you-go members, the cost will go from $0.08 a minute to $1 to unlock plus $0.20 a minute. Someone I know mentioned that it will triple the cost of his commute.
 We should remember that people who use bike time to commute are more likely to be people who work jobs with early or late hours and who can't necessarily rely on TriMet at the end of their working day. People are quoted as saying they think this cost increase will be worth it. Maybe to some people it will be, but there is no public engagement done to back that up. If we were simply adding e-bikes to the existing system as an option, I would have no problem with there being a premium cost associated with it.
 That's not what's happening, though. We're scrapping all the bikes that the city bought four years ago and replacing them with e-bikes owned by Lyft that will cost more to use. Other cities, such as DC and San Francisco, have kept lower-priced traditional bikes when they've added electric bikes to their bike share system.
 If TriMet or the Portland Streetcar were proposing such a large fare increase, or indeed any fare increase, we wouldn't expect it to be announced on a Thursday morning with a final vote happening the following Wednesday. That shouldn't happen for Biketown either. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Next is Paul Fraser. Morning, Paul. Morning, Paul.
 Good morning. Thank you, Commissioners and Mayor. I want to start out just saying I really appreciate this alternative testimony format. It's allowed me to be more engaged. I would not be able to testify if this was a regularly scheduled council meeting. So I would encourage us to take this trying time of COVID and apply it to how we can boost engagement generally.
 I share Ian's excitement for e-bikes and also share his cost concerns. I really do think, you know, I've testified for RIP and talked about things being on the margins of we can use economics to shift behavior. And I think it's a pretty big economic change that no longer does an annual membership get you free rides like...
 There's been models in New York where you get free rides up to a certain amount of minutes with an annual membership. And so I would really just encourage us to look at that. I'm also concerned about the bike town for everyone becoming bike town for some people with increasing the cost for that program as well. I think if we're going to look at price, you know, helping with pricing, I think we should look there first. And I think...
 I welcome the $20 grants, but what happens after that? I welcome returning bikes to stations to earn credit. I would ask that those be generous, so we're not placing undue burden on those with already hard situations to earn transportation credit. I appreciate all of the commissioner's concerns around helmets. I sent a link to a street blog article to the county clerk. Helmets, I believe, are a red herring. Look at the data. There was actually a study done where
 The hypothesis was bikes without helmets would lead to an increase in injuries. It led to a decrease because when there are more people out there, it creates a better sense of safety. Drivers have to pay attention and injuries go down. I'd also argue we need to look at safety by design, offering protection for bikers. It's abhorrent to me. The city has already had to pay out millions in a wrongful death suit on North Lombard. It is labeled the same on the city bike route.
 as North Vancouver, you have a 45 mile an hour arterial. That's the same on the bike map. So just would look at us to get creative, push the boundaries, lower the cost. I know that we have to go, last sentence, I know that we, as people, staff testified, thank you. We are going as fast as we can, but I think we've seen lately that perhaps the old speed isn't fast enough. Thank you, Paul.
 Next is Clint Culpepper. Welcome. Thank you, council, for hearing from us today. My name is Clint Culpepper. I'm the Transportation Options Manager at Portland State University and early partner of Biketown. Biketown has been an amazing resource for the city and for the Portland State community. And I'm excited to see the adoption of electric bikes, the service area expansion, and I'm especially excited to see the lowering of the age requirement.
 As Commissioner E. Daley mentioned, certainly if we are allowing 16 year olds to drive automobiles, we can trust them to ride bicycles. Portland State has been a huge proponent of bike share, and that's been shown by the nearly 1,800 students that are Bikedown members. Even with classes being held remotely since March, our students still took over 21,000 trips in the past year, traveling nearly 40,000 miles.
 With COVID's huge impact on public transportation, it has been clear that bicycles are a necessary part of any resilient transportation system. Biketown has provided safe transportation to thousands of users during this time and not pushing those folks into automobiles.
 To Commissioner Fritz's comment about helmets, and as Paul mentioned, research continues to show that the danger to people riding bicycles shows that the danger is not a lack of helmet use, but rather automobile speed and size and a lack of safe infrastructure. I expect Council to support all efforts to improve the bicycling network if they are truly concerned about safety.
 I strongly encourage Council to consider devoting funds to lower the user costs of Biketown. As Ian mentioned, we have huge concerns about how these usage fees will cut off access to many Portlanders and are dismayed that there was no public input in this large change. Bike share is a vital piece of the city's transportation network, and if we want to take our climate emergency seriously, we need to remove barriers to sustainable transportation, not create them.
 Current events in our city have provided us with a few ideas of where you might be able to find those funds. I yield my time. Thank you. Thank you, Clint. Next is Katie Gould. Good morning, Katie. Katie, are you unmuted? Hi, can you hear me now? Yes, thank you. All right. My name is Katie Gould, and I'm testifying on behalf of BikeLoud PDX. We have long awaited the arrival of e-bikes in Portland, but we're concerned about several elements in the contract announced last week.
 While we support the contract overall, most importantly the conversion to e-bikes and geographic expansion, we do so with the following reservations. We're disappointed that prices to use the system rose significantly in every category, even for the Biketown For All program for low-income riders. Biketown's 2018 report stated these members only make up 7% of Biketown users, but take 20% of all trips.
 We have no doubt that Portlanders will find greater value in e-bikes, but we're concerned that these fair hikes will have a chilling effect on ridership and decrease access among people who use this service the most.
 Better alternatives to across-the-board rate hikes could have been reducing instead of eliminating free ride minutes for members, increasing annual membership rates instead of per-minute rates, price caps on bike town for all rides, or including non-electric bikes at lower rates. Discussion of these kind of alternatives should have been brought to the public beforehand with feedback from users and affected communities.
 The proposed geographic expansion is badly needed but still comes up insufficient. Last year PBOT testified before this council that the goal in the RFP would be for citywide access but it seems that even at the end of this five-year contract citywide access still might not exist. We also support expanding adaptive bike town and adding widely available trikes which could carry bulkier items and provide more options for people who cannot use two-wheeled bikes.
 As a whole, we're disappointed this was the best the city could do. We're in the midst of a pandemic that has devastated transit ridership and are falling further behind in meeting adopted emission reduction goals, particularly in transportation. We urge council to make this process more transparent before entering into future negotiations. If our current negotiation process doesn't allow us to do so or the limitation against using any city funds is acting as a barrier to achieving our goals for this program, it's time to rethink how bike share is implemented in the future.
 Thank you. And Commissioner Fritz has her hand up. Do you want to wait till the end of public testimony, Commissioner Fritz, or would you like to go now? No, whatever. When I'm told to be testimony. Thank you. Yeah, I think we only have, if I remember Carla correctly, I think we only have two other folks signed up. So why don't we get through those two individuals. Thank you for the testimony. It was just provided. Katie, appreciate it. We have one more. Michael Harrison. Good morning, Michael.
 Good morning. My name is Michael Harrison. I'm director of local relations at OHSU. Thank you for the opportunity to speak in support of PBOT's proposal today. As the state of Oregon's public academic health center, we take public health very seriously, and as Charlene McGee from the county pointed out all too well, how people commute to work is very much a public health issue.
 OHSU has developed a significant transportation options program, including paying our employees to bike to work, for example. And our efforts are paying off. According to a 2019 employee survey, 17% of our employees bike commute. This is particularly impressive when our main campus is located at an elevation of 500 feet. This steep terrain prevents all but the most physically capable bikers from directly reaching our main campus.
 With all this in mind, OHSU fully supports PBOT's proposal to expand the geographical service area of Biketown and to convert the fleet to electric bikes. Electric bikes would make cycling an accessible option for more of our employees as well as the larger public, and we applaud the effort. All right. Thank you very much. And Carla, that completes public testimony. Is that correct? That's correct, Mayor. Great. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, and I appreciate the testimony. I have a couple of further questions. Number one, why wasn't there any public engagement on this? I'd like to ask Director Warner to address that. Yeah, absolutely, and I was just... Do you want to do that, Chris, or do you want me to do that? Yeah, go ahead, Catherine. Okay, I was just unmuting myself. My apologies. So thank you, Commissioner, for the question. We have...
 spoken indirectly with the bicycle advisory committee about the fact that e-bikes were coming and we have presented to council that the contract was coming. It is true that we have not presented the details
 of the contract to the public and really that's been about the contract negotiation process and us working through it under our contract limitations and contracting requirements. And then also looking at the resource constraints and doing what we can to get the most
 bikes and the most area for the city. Our intention is to do significant outreach this summer as we roll out the system and that outreach will include a great deal of incentives and partnerships through our frontline community partnerships effort with non-profit organizations
 as well as just reaching out to system writers to help them understand the change and ask what's working for them and what's not. We did put out a map for year one, but that map for year two will change undoubtedly based on what we hear back from system users, from our organizational partners, and from the public.
 So, you know, it's what you're seeing is that balancing process between negotiating a contract and needing to get public input once we have the pieces on the ground and we can really help shape the next steps based on how those pieces are being used. Thank you for that answer. This is a five-year contract, right? Yes, it is.
 And is there any particular urgency to have it passed today rather than having some community input? Because in particular, I thought the testimony about why are we having all e-bikes rather than allowing people the option of having a lesser expensive one and the concerns about the cost for users.
 Is there an urgency we pass this today? I will speak to the urgency and then I would like Steve to talk about the why all e-bikes because in his role as the North American Bike Share Association Chair, he can really speak to what has happened in other communities. But in terms of passing today,
 What we are hoping is for continuity in system ridership. We have set up a schedule that would allow us to bring online the new system
 as we phase out the old system and do so while there's still time to have good weather, good riding weather. So there is urgency here in terms of sort of moving it forward with respect to the contract. But obviously, we also need to hear that council is comfortable with that. Thank you, Catherine. Commissioner Udeli has her hand raised.
 And I didn't quite answer Commissioner Fritz's questions that I also hope Steve would raise, but Commissioner Udaly, please, maybe you could add in and then... No, go ahead and finish. Steve, will you answer the question about pricing and then the answer the question about why non-e-bikes as part of the system? Sure, so in terms of our existing bicycles, so
 It's not financially feasible for us to continue to use those bicycles with the new electric bicycles. They operate on a different back-end system by a company that's not affiliated with Lyft. So to do that would mean we would need to remove the controllers that are on the back of each one of those bicycles, put new ones on, which would be a cost of several hundred dollars per bike,
 um more probably than the bikes are are worth um and it would be very very difficult and costly for us to do and would require us to renegotiate the contract to do that um and then secondly the reason that other systems have that have done that that um one of the um
 people in the public who testified is that they had the same operator and the same supplier from, from one contract together. So that, that would be the first part. Um, the second piece about, about the, the cost of the system, um,
 I think Catherine talked about this a little bit. For one, e-bikes are a much higher value in terms of how many people we can bring onto them and how many trips we can shift. We see ridership in other systems. Lyft sees about a three to one ridership level on their electric bikes than their pedal-only bikes. Yeah.
 In aggregate, we get a lot more bang for our buck with e-bikes in terms of the investment and the number of people that are able to use them and we're able to choose them.
 And so that's part of the reason for us to go to a fully electric bike fleet is just to kind of really expand the access to that piece. The pricing piece is something that, you know, we're certainly not champions on the program team of higher costs. It's a product of, I would say, two things. One, electric bike share systems are more expensive to operate. And so the cost, which is in line with other e-bike share systems across the country, it
 is comparable to that. And then secondly, you know, we really asked a lot of, of in this proposal and that's, you know, back to, I think, when commissioner Udaly's question of, you know, why, why we have an operator who is a large publicly traded company. When you ask for a lot, you really need a company with the financial resources to be able to deliver on that.
 And we also asked for a lot in terms of going into East Portland for this, for at this first phase, it's a very large expansion of our service area. We've talked before about just like transit, the, the, as density goes down, the cost of operating a system goes up because there's just not as many people at any one particular point to use that bike. So, you know, we, it's kind of like pushing a balloon. I mean, we,
 we wanted that. And part of that is going to increase the cost of actually operating the system for our operator because of the large system. And we have further expansions that we are planning in the next years, next, next year to be, to be exact. So the cost of operating it goes up and,
 And I think that what I just want to come back to is our commitment on the staff side, because we want everyone, whether that's on ByteTown for All or just anybody, that a barrier not be to using ByteTown be the cost. We have never turned anybody away on ByteTown for All because of cost and have covered the cost of people all...
 All the way I am committed as a program manager to make sure that nobody ever is not able to use Blacktown for all because of cost. And we, you know, one of the things we didn't talk about as part of this proposal is in our negotiation with Lyft, we were, we were able to secure a portion of the sponsorship money for, for PBOT. It's a small portion, but we expect it to grow significantly.
 Over the coming years. And, you know, one of our big targets for that besides making sure that we can cover the staff, you know, staffing costs of the program is to look at how we can use the remaining money toward buying down the cost for people who really need that. And I think that our two focus areas are by our by town for all users. And then what I would just call our workforce users who are folks who do not qualify for
 for public assistance, but still are really, could be considered part of the working core. And those are the folks we really wanna make sure have access to the system. Thank you. Mayor. Okay, very good. Any further discussion? Commissioner Fritz, did you have more questions or did you get your questions answered? I did not. I appreciate the answers and I'll support the ordinance because of my respect for the staff in the Bureau.
 Very good. That brings us then to Commissioner Neely. So I want to thank everyone who came and presented today, especially those that gave public testimony. I'm surprised to hear that this wasn't brought to the Bicycle Advisory Committee. I'm disappointed that we're hearing anything but complete enthusiasm from the community advocates.
 I have a lot of questions now. I don't feel like I can get them answered in this session, so I'm going to move to remove the emergency clause so that we have a week.
 to get these questions answered and bring them back. And Catherine, I'm going to assume that one week delay is not going to... We will make that work, thank you. ...prevent us from rolling it out. Yeah, we will absolutely. I'm accepting your motion. Thank you. Could I just suggest that instead of removing the emergency, you just set it over to next week? Because then if you can get your questions answered, it can still be an emergency next week.
 Sure. Thank you, Commissioner. All right. Very good. I withdraw my second. I withdraw my motion. I move this item to next week's agenda. All right. That's teamwork. Commissioner Udalli is going to have this continued to next week. Correct, Lindley? Correct.
 Okay, good. So this is this item, both item number 590 and 591 are continued to next week's session. Thank you, everybody. That was a really good discussion. I appreciated that very much. Now we will move back to the regular agenda. Item number 597, please, Carla. Sorry, 597. Oops, sorry.
 appoint Zachary Slycher as a new member to the Plumbing Code Board of Appeal for the term to expire July 21, 2023.
 Very good. Colleagues, today I'm requesting Council confirmation to appoint a new member to the Plumbing Code Board of Appeal, Zach Silscher. It's a privilege to recommend such a qualified member in our community to provide guidance on Plumbing Code appeals to the Bureau of Development Services. Zach has lived in Portland for the majority of his life. He
 He is a small business owner and operator, and he has experience both in residential and light commercial projects. Zach's specialty is residential service repair and remodel. He takes pride in providing exceptional customer service and lasting plumbing solutions. Terry Whitehill with the Bureau of Development Services is here to answer any additional questions.
 Thank you to Terry, Rebecca, and BDS for a very successful recruitment process. Good morning, Terry. Good morning. And actually, I think Zach is here with us also. Good morning. Morning, Zach. Good morning. Thank you for being here. I don't know if my colleagues don't have any immediate questions. Zach, can you just tell us a little bit about yourself and your interest in this important plumbing code appeals board? Sure.
 Yeah, forgive me. This is my first Zoom conference, so I'll do my best here. Thanks for giving me the time and the opportunity. I've been in Portland for 36 of my 38 years of life. I started plumbing in the Portland metro area about 15 years ago.
 Since then, I've been involved in working. I was actually a part of the union. And then I went off on my own to start my own business. And yeah, I mean, that's pretty much it. I'm just excited to have this opportunity to be a part of the appeals process.
 and Chief Plumbing Inspector Mackenzie James was who referred me to this. And so I'm just grateful to him as well. Thanks, Zach, and we really appreciate your stepping forward. We know there's a lot of technical aspects to this. This is a really important Board of Appeals. You've got exactly the right experience, so I'm very happy to recommend you. Colleagues, any further questions of Zach or of Terry?
 Mayor, I'll make a motion to accept your report. Thank you. And can I get a second? Second. So Commissioner Hardesty moves the acceptance of the appointment. Commissioner Fritz seconds. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Thank you. Zachariah, is that how you say your name? Zachari. Zachari. What a beautiful name. I like your name. Thank you for your willingness to serve. I vote aye.
 Thank you. You, Daily? Thank you. Aye. Fritz? Zakaria, I can assure you that my first Zoom session was not nearly as smooth as that. Thank you very much for your willingness to serve. Aye. All right. Take your word for it. Thanks. Wheeler? Aye.
 Well, first of all, let me concur with my colleagues. I think it took me the first 10 Zoom meetings before I got to the point where you are right now. So I appreciate the speed with which you learned. I would expect that from a qualified plumber. Somebody needs out quickly. I am very, very happy to accept this appointment. And I thank you for stepping forward. I vote aye. The report is accepted. The appointment's approved. Welcome aboard.
 Thank you all. Appreciate it. Next up, Carla, please, is item number 598. Authorize a competitive solicitation for and for on-call construction services at Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant, and associated pump stations for up
 three separate construction contracts for $18 million for an estimated annual construction cost of $6 million for each selected contractor. Colleagues, I'm looking forward to bringing this to council, but there's some additional information we'd like to gather before we bring it to the council, so I'm pulling this item back to my office. Carla, if you could read 599, a second reading.
 amend contract with Brown and Caldwell Inc. for professional engineering services for the Forest Avenue wastewater pump station remodel project number E10611 in the amount of $317,072. Colleagues, this is the second reading. We've heard a presentation and public testimony has been provided. Is there any further discussion on this item? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Hardesty.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you very much. Next item, Carlos. Actually, before we move on, sorry, there is a logistics item.
 I neglected to add. Commissioner Udaily, I would like to suspend the rules at this moment. And I would like to acknowledge you to add two four-fifths items to the end of this morning's regular agenda. Commissioner Hardesty. I'm Commissioner Udaily. Somebody smarter than me. Keeping us on our toes. So I believe I am to read
 an official statement, right? Right. Portland City Charter Section 2-113 and City Code Section 3.02.03.C.5 provide that matters not appearing on the agenda may be considered by Council
 under suspension of the rules at any session. I move to suspend the rules for the purpose of considering the two resolutions I filed with the council clerk at the end of this morning's agenda. We have a second. Carla, call the roll on the suspension of rules. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The rules are suspended. Commissioner Udaly. Do we need a motion, Lindley, to bring each of these items to the agenda?
 So is the intent to have these happen now rather than at the end of the agendas? No, they're to happen at the end of the agenda, but do we need to actually make a motion to put them on the agenda or not? No. By suspending the rules, they are now on the agenda and Carla has assigned numbers to them at the end, so you're good. Excellent. Okay, we're good to go. Thank you all very much for that. Thank you, Commissioner Udalli. We're on item number 600.
 the contract with Environmental Systems Research Institute for geographic information system software to increase it by $1,996,000 for a not to exceed total of $4,357,275. Thank you, Carla. Colleagues, this ordinance will amend the contract for the city's enterprise licensing agreement sometimes called the ELA.
 with Environmental Systems Research Institute Incorporated, sometimes called ESRI, and it sets pricing for use of the ESRI software suite for a four-year period through the fiscal year 2024. We have Matt Freid, GIS Program Manager here to present. Welcome, Matt.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners, for it's hard to see you daily. I'm actually Dan Bauer, the Deputy Chief Technology Officer for the City of Portland, and Matt and I have joined you today to present this topic. Great, thanks, Dan. We are here today seeking authorization to amend our existing agreement with Environmental Systems Research Institute, ESRI,
 for geographic information system software, and to increase that agreement by a total of $1,996,000 cumulative for a four year term, which extends the agreement through June 30th of 2024. The city has a longstanding history with ESRI and it is a key technology in our GIS program, which is relied upon by many bureaus such as PBOT, Water, BPS, BOAC, FIRE, OMF, Police and others.
 Included in the packet that was submitted to Council for this ordinance is a letter of support signed by the directors of six of these bureaus, demonstrating how important this technology is to their operations. ESRI is the industry standard and leader in geospatial mapping and provides a complete set of desktop, server, and web-based GIS applications, which are all widely used to support critical city functions.
 If you're not familiar with ESRI, you may be familiar with some of their software on a daily basis if you use things like the John Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center or our city's own PortlandMaps.com. Currently, over 2,000 city staff members have software covered by this contract on their computers, and it provides the mapping engine for many services, including PortlandMaps.com, which are extensively used by the public.
 Everyday ESRI GIS applications are used across the city for functions such as support for our first responders, keeping city utilities running, processing permits, and implementing planning policies. These applications can be expanded in the use of data even more so with new products added under this amendment, including web-based scenario planning tools, data visualization applications, and web-based applications for public engagement.
 I will now introduce Matt Freed, the City's Corporate GIS Manager, to describe recent examples of the value the City has received from this Enterprise License Agreement. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council. I'm Matthew Freed, and I manage the Corporate GIS Program in the Bureau of Technology Services.
 My program manages the contract with ESRI and provides GIS applications, data, and support to city staff and to the public through PortlandMaps.com. I'd like to just share a few recent examples of how the ESRI applications are used by the city. Mayor Wheeler recently sent out an email announcing that the city was named to the 2020 What Works City Certification Honor Roll.
 You mentioned several examples of projects that helped us to qualify which used these ESRI applications, including the planning of the distribution of the COVID-19 grocery store poster to specific language group areas and also the distribution of open data.
 A South Portland Addressing Project, which recently concluded, used ESRI GIS tools to plan and update over 7,000 addresses and street centerlines as part of this project, as well as helped us communicate the changes out to other agencies and the public. They're already in use for planning the Columbia Lombard Wayfinding Project that you are going to consider at today's council meetings.
 Also, the POPs Amanda permit system upgrade, which was recently concluded, uses Esri applications, which are directly integrated into the new version of the Amanda application, now that they've upgraded to this recent version. All of the licensing needed for this project is included in this contract, and many other city systems integrate directly with the Esri platform. Thank you.
 Thank you Matt. Lastly, Council, I'd like to call out that funding for this is included in the BTS five-year budget plan and there are no additional unbudgeted costs needed. I would like to also mention that in light of the current budget situation, we have renegotiated this contract with ESRI over the last few months and have reduced the cost for the first two years by 5% and the total contract cost by 3%. We're now happy to go over any questions you may have. Ollies, any questions?
 Seeing none, Carla, is there any public testimony on this item? Sorry. I believe we do. Sorry. One moment. No, Mayor. No one registered for this item. Very good. This is an emergency item. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Fritz? Aye.
 Yeah, sorry, I had difficulty there. You had me convinced when you said portlandmaps.com. I think that that app by itself is well worth the price, and I'm glad we're getting other stuff as well. Thank you for your work. Wheeler. All right. Thank you for the presentation. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please, Carla, is 601, a second reading.
 Approve findings to authorize an exemption for a class of public improvement contracts from the competitive bidding requirements and authorize the use of the alternative contracting method of job order contracting for alterations construction services. Colleagues, this is the second reading of an emergency item. We've already heard a presentation. There's been opportunity for public testimony. Any further business on this item?
 Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thanks for everybody who worked on that item 602, please, Carla. Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for Prov 3 apartments located at 5505 Northeast Gleason Street. Colleagues, you're well familiar.
 With the format of these particular items, we'll turn it right over to Dory VanBakkel. Good morning, Dory. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you. My name is Dory VanBakkel. I'm the manager of the development incentives team with the Portland Housing Bureau. So again, we have before you an application for the multiple unit limited tax exemption program through inclusionary housing program.
 So as you remember, any buildings with 20 or more units are subject to inclusionary housing as of February of 2017, and developers have different options in order to fulfill those requirements in otherwise market-rate buildings. So this particular project is going to be restricting 15% of the units at 80% of median family income for the 99-year duration,
 And with a 22-unit building that's fully residential, that amounts to just three units that will have restricted affordability.
 And so the units that are affordable are representative of the total units in the building, so of what would already be built. And so that's 15% of each of the bedroom types resulting in one studio, one one-bedroom unit, and then one two-bedroom unit. The multi, so as a tax exemption, is one of the financial incentives provided to this project through Inclusionary Housing.
 for those who opt to actually provide units rather than paying a fee in lieu. And each multi-application, as it's called, does come to city council for approval. And in this situation, because the building is outside of the Central City Plan District, only the units that are affordable receive the tax exemption, and the other 19 market rate units and the land will be fully taxable.
 And so that amounts to, for this particular project, a total tax exemption of around $40,000 over the 10-year period. If you're looking at it over 99 years of the affordability restriction period, that's about a monthly tax exemption benefit per unit of $11.00.
 And there's an average difference in the rents over that, you know, if we're extrapolating out from current rents compared to the market rents and affordable rents of about $135 a month that the rent would be reduced year after year. So I'm trying to keep it brief for you, but this is adding to our pipeline of affordable units. We have another, this is the 86th project.
 And we've got about 650 units now that are coming on the market as a result of the Inclusionary Housing Program. And I'm happy to address any questions. Thank you, Dori. Anybody have any questions for Dori? Seeing none, Carla, is there any testimony on this item? Yes, Mayor, we have one person sign up. All right, two minutes. Name for the record. Hung Nam. Hi, this is Young Nam. I'm a representative of Portland Metro People's Coalition.
 And I just want to bring up, you know, as we're dealing with all this police violence, you know, whose city is this and who do we serve? This is such a low bar for inclusionary zoning. We should be demanding 50% of the units be affordable, not at 80% MFI. 80% MFI, MFI is $87,000, almost $90,000 a year. 80% MFI would mean people making $70,000 a year.
 And very few people I know make that much money. We are gentrifying this city. And no wonder the police are brutalizing people and arresting unhoused people. This is what they protect. And just like we were talking about earlier with these public-private partnerships, we are just giving away way too much.
 You have the power as the leaders of the city. We should be re-municipalizing and creating land banks and expanding our public resources instead of giving away all these kinds of things to private developers. I mean, WDC properties, Mark Madden donated $5,000 to Mayor Wheeler when he ran for...
 as mayor, along with many other developers. You know, people, the Oregonian did that series about Polluted by Money,
 I can't breathe because we are polluted by money in the city. We need to reimagine how we do politics and run the city. Not only rethink public safety, but reimagine how we do things. This kind of neoliberal system does not work for us. We should think about what Martin Luther King Jr. said about the giant triplets of racism, materialism, and militarism. Who do we serve? Thank you. Thank you. Carlos, is there any more public testimony on this item?
 No one else signed up. Very good. Any further questions, colleagues? Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? I absolutely couldn't agree more. I continue to ask questions about whether we're getting the right return on investment with this program. I will look forward to next year when we do a study to determine whether or not the city has gained anything from having this inclusionary zoning process.
 I absolutely think that we are getting a lot less than we could.
 I will vote for this because, as you all know, I'm waiting for the study. And we do need the study. And we need to do better. We will never, ever, ever reach our housing goals of affordability if we keep doing this nickel and dime thing. And I absolutely agree. 80% at $70,000, not even close to providing housing people can afford to live in in Portland. Aye, vote aye. Udaili. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 I believe the parameters for the program are set in state law, so we probably need to get a state law change in order to be able to address the concerns. So that's where hopefully that will be on our legislative agenda for next year. In the meantime, thank you for implementing the program as set by state law and by the City Council.
 Wheeler. I support this. Prop 3 apartments and other buildings brought before the council today brings the total number of otherwise private sector market rate buildings to
 in the inclusionary housing permit approval pipeline to 86 buildings, making a minimum of 648 units affordable. And I want to underscore this again, these are otherwise market rate units. So I agree with you, this is not supportive housing, this is not low-income housing, but in my opinion, it still fills a niche that would otherwise not be filled in the absence of this program.
 Could this program be better? Yes. I've actually believed that it could be. Does it need an analysis? Of course it does. That's why I've advocated for it. That's why I've supported it. But I think we've agreed as a council that trying to do a market rate analysis in the
 middle of the pandemic is not going to give us good information. And so we have reached a consensus to delay the study until we have the opportunity to do this, hopefully sooner rather than later in a more realistic market environment. I'm happy to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thanks, Dori.
 Next item is 603. And folks, I know we have a long list of items ahead of us, but they're actually going to go really quickly. 603 is next. It's the second reading. Excuse me, Matt. Yeah, sure. Commissioner Fritz. Yes.
 If we were in City Hall, I would be taking a walk to go get to you right now because I didn't review the record for any of the second readings. So I'm wondering, I'm going to step away from the computer and you could tell me when you're ready for me to come back. I'm sorry. On which items would you like us to have you come back on the four fifths items at the end? Is that correct?
 There are two regular agenda items which perhaps we could hear first and then I could take a walk so that I don't vote on items that I haven't reviewed the record on all of the second readings on the renaming and they um how the issues. Well this this will be easy because I believe you're referring both to items 605 and 615 both of which I believe are going to be pulled are those the two items you're referring to? Yes but mine isn't pulled.
 615 is not pulled. 615 is not going to be pulled. Correct. Okay, so why don't we read 605 first, then we'll go to 615. 605 first, Carla. Amend Title 17 and Transportation Administrative Rules to update and add clarification for the permitting and condition of driveways. Commissioner Udaly. I'm baffled why we just jumped ahead. Okay.
 Is this the second reading or not? 605. What are we on? 605. Amend Title 17. Okay. I thought you said 615. Can I jump in? This is the city attorney. I think the confusion is we skipped 603 and 604. Yes. Because I just did that at the request of Commissioner Fritz. Okay. So we're on 605. Correct.
 I'm pulling this item back to my office and I'll bring it back as part of a large packet of Title 17 changes. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. And then Commissioner Fritz, you're saying you do want to hear 615 today, correct? The resolution? Yes, please. 615 please, Carla. 615, refer amendment to the city charter regarding public use of city lands for permissive secondary purposes. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, Mayor and Commissioner Udali and Commissioner Hardesty. I apologise for the confusion. If we were in City Hall, I'd be able to take a walk and not vote on the second readings. But because we're online, that makes it more difficult if they're in and out. So anyway, I'm very happy to bring this.
 resolution to the City Council to refer a city charter amendment to Portland voters for the November 3rd 2020 ballot. The charter amendment will authorize incidental public use of Water Bureau properties outside of the Bull Run watershed. This would
 Wait a minute, I'm not doing it. This would be allowed only after approval by the City Council following a public process led by the Water Bureau in partnership with the Portland Utility Board to determine and set in city code and in stone the appropriate secondary uses of public property managed by the Water Bureau outside of the Bull Run Watershed.
 This amendment builds on the work that Commissioner Fish initiated while the Bureau was under his leadership and that I later supported to assure that Water Bureau funds are used for the purposes that they are intended. It is important to me that this work is completed before I leave office at the end of this year and that's why I'm bringing the amendment now rather than waiting for the Charter Commission.
 As you know, last year I led successfully the passage of two Charter Amendments to clarify the sanctity of the Bull Run Watershed and the authority to enter into mutual aid agreements with other jurisdictions. This was in response to the troubling court ruling that questioned the Council's authority to make decisions in the public interest for uses of the water fund. I'm excited to bring before you today this resolution which aligns with Council's shared values and which would benefit the public.
 First, I need to introduce amended versions of the resolution, the explanatory statement and the impact statement. My staff and I experienced numerous citywide technology challenges while we filed, resulting in incorrect language being filed in the resolution. The title referred to in the ballot measure is incidental uses, which we believe is more understandable than permissive secondary uses. And that's what was posted in the council agenda item.
 Since filing, we also refined the explanatory statement language to better reflect the
 requirements of Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Thanks to Jonathan Simeone in the Office of Equity and Human Rights, Susan Miamber in the Water Bureau, and Maya Haum and Lynnie Rees in the City Attorney's Office for their expert advice. And the impact statement is revised to be more explicit on equity considerations, community engagement, and fiscal implications. So I'd like to move the amendments to the Resolution Exhibit B and impact statement as a package, unless anybody would like to discuss them separately.
 Commissioner Fritz, this is Lindley Reese. May I just clarify some terminology you used? The Exhibit B substitute is the ballot title, not the explanatory statement. So just to be clear there. Am I correct about that? I thought Exhibit A was the Charter Amendment language and Exhibit B was the explanatory statement to be posted with the
 amendment language? I believe it is the ballot title, Commissioner. So am I moving to change it at Exhibit A, Lynley? No, Commissioner, you are. In fact, your amendments were to Exhibit B, but Exhibit B is the ballot title, not the explanatory statement.
 Oh, I apologize. Thank you for the clarification. Yes. So I move the amendment to the resolution, the ballot title, and the impact statement. Second. Thank you. Now, could we take a vote on that to put them on the table? Yeah, if I can find my mute button. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Thank you, colleagues, for being patient with me. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Motion's on the table. Thank you.
 Thank you. So, Council may recall that I considered moving this measure to the ballot last year with the other two amendments. Based on community input, I decided to focus on the first two. We didn't hear opposition in public testimony, rather encouragement to focus on the amendments that we passed last year.
 Because we did considerable public outreach last year, I took the proposed amendment to the Portland Utility Board rather than starting over on community engagement. The pub enthusiastically endorsed sending the question to voters. As one member said, the public should decide the appropriate uses of public lands and ratepayer dollars, not affluent lawyers setting their own agenda. My senior policy advisor, Astrid de Grooy, liaison to the Water Bureau, will now walk us through the charter amendments.
 Good morning council members. My name is Austrie Dragois, senior policy advisor to Commissioner Fritz. I'm here before you all today to review the resolution referenced by Commissioner Fritz. The Water Bureau provides excellent water every minute of every day to Portlanders. This resolution, if approved, would add another community benefit.
 It would allow limited public use of some properties outside the Bull Run watershed closure area. These are properties owned by the City of Portland, managed by the Water Bureau, and could include community gardens, picnic benches on grass areas near water tanks, or other public uses to connect neighbors with their water utility.
 In 2014, a ruling in Multnomah County Court decided that the city charter does not clearly provide authority to the city council to designate these lands for public use using ratepayer money for maintenance.
 Currently, general fund money is needed to allow the public to use these public lands for green spaces, food cultivation, and picnic areas or picnic areas. General fund money is also needed to comply with accessibility standards required by Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act when public access is allowed. General fund money is often not available for these uses as there are many other competing city needs.
 This charter amendment would clarify the Council's authority to allow public access to use these city-owned lands. If the measure passes, the resolution sets binding city policy requiring a public process to discuss allowed public uses and set parameters and limitations in code.
 It also requires annual reporting of all expenditures authorized by the amendment to both Portland Utility Board and the City Council. The public's incidental use under this amendment may result in associated costs to the Water Fund. For maintenance and accessibility, ADA improvements required when public access is allowed.
 The impact on rates will not be determined until the public, the Portland Utility Board, and the Council decide what is allowed and what isn't. Also, the timeline to be set for making ADA improvements could affect the rates.
 The fiscal year 2021 budget prior to COVID-19 included a request for $1.5 million for ADA improvements spread over five years. That amount spread over five years would not result in rate increases.
 If passed, the proposed amendment would clarify council authority to permit or prohibit incidental uses by the general public of city lands controlled by the Water Bureau, provided the lands are outside of the Bull Run watershed closure area. Karen Spencer, a Portland Utility Board member, will provide public comment. This concludes my staff presentation and we welcome questions. Very good. Colleagues, any questions?
 I don't see any asterisk. That's always a good sign. Carla, is there any public testimony on this item? CARLA BEYER SMOLINER- We have two people. The first one is Karen Spencer. GARY GENSLER- Very good. Karen, two minutes, please. Hi, I'm Karen Spencer. I'm a member of the Portland Utility Board, which, as you know, is the community oversight committee for the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services. I am delighted that the pub voted on July 7 to support moving this ballot measure forward to the voters.
 The remarks that I am about to give represent the individual views of myself and Ted Labbe, the Executive Director of the Urban Green Spaces Institute and my colleague on the Pub. To save time, Ted and I have coordinated our remarks for presentation to you. Again, we are speaking as individual city residents today. And I thank you for your service on this issue.
 As we grapple with the impacts of the growth in our population, we should also consider our needs for natural areas and access to nature, such as community gardens, park spaces, and campsites that do not interfere with the water system. During this pandemic, we've seen the importance of having natural open spaces available for our residents. These spaces should meet ADA compliance standards so that they are physically accessible for everyone.
 Access to nature benefits physical health, cognitive performance, psychological well-being, and spiritual connections. Also, there are societal benefits to fostering a sense of community well-being and providing avenues for having high-quality interactions with one's neighbors. Reclaiming spaces for access to nature is very expensive, and allowing the incidental use of existing natural spaces is a much more affordable way of providing natural areas that our communities need.
 Additionally, when it comes to public land, there is an expectation that government works in a coordinated fashion for the benefit of its residents. During the water filtration hearings we had last year, a number of Sandy residents testified about the closure of the Dodge Park campsite. I mention this solely to relay the substantial distrust these actions created within the local community.
 Although the Water Bureau had not managed to park for quite some time, the local residents blamed the Water Bureau for that closure. Some residents would have been fervently against the filtration plant project moving forward no matter what. However, I believe that the distrust created by the closure only served to heighten tensions. For this reason, I believe that the Water Bureau should be the steward for its relationship involving the use of these lands.
 Thank you for considering the views of Ted Labbe and myself today in support of this ballot measure moving forward. Thank you. Thank you, Karen. Appreciate your testimony. Carla, next individual, please. Floyd Jones. Good afternoon, Floyd.
 Good morning. Yes, Floyd Jones and today I am representing Water Accountability Trust and Reform. We are the organization that supported Commissioner Lloyd Anderson's lawsuit and just to educate a little bit on the historical perspective, when Commissioner Anderson agreed to support this lawsuit, he told us of the history that when
 The city first began creating debt for its water and sewer users. The commissioner wanted to make sure that that money was only being spent on water, sewer, and stormwater,
 unrelated items. And so, you know, we are proud that we succeeded on many, many items of misspending and that money was returned to rate payers. Commissioner
 Fish, you know, had argued that the remodel of the Rose Festival building using rate payer dollars would be a great deal for water users. Of course, not a great deal for water users. And in light of the lawsuit, money was returned from the general fund to the water fund.
 So, you know, this obviously is designed to be able to allow City Council to use water funds as a blank check, which will make, of course, will add, you just cite the 1.5 million, not the tens of millions that have been spent on unrelated projects. Yes, Dodge Park.
 That was remodeled and it's a great party place for the Water Bureau. It just so happened in 17 years I've been out to Dodge Park twice when I used to be there a lot as a child and on one of those occasions the Water Bureau and busloads of Water Bureau employees they sent the caretaker away and they were there for their party. What's the chance that out of
 Going there twice in 17 years. You went there on the day the Water Bureau was having a party for themselves. And the same with Pal Butte, all that tens of millions of dollars. The court case didn't rule that there was no incidental use of Water Bureau property allowed. It was the use of Water Bureau funds for that that was disallowed. That's two minutes. Okay.
 Thank you very much. All right, that completes public testimony. Are there any further questions? Very good. Thank you for the testimony. Thank you for the presentation. Carla, please call the roll on the resolution as amended. Hardesty? Aye. Udalli? Aye. Fritz? Thank you, colleagues. And thanks to Commissioner Fish, who did such good work in making sure that the Water Bureau funds are spent on public
 public purposes related to water and indeed we believe that this expenditure would connect neighbors to their utility and provide them the benefits that Karen Spencer mentioned. So thanks to Director Mike Stewart who's going to be retiring very shortly, incoming director Gabe Fulmer, Cecilia Huynh, the Water Bureau finance manager, for her amazing support on this measure.
 I'm also grateful to Jonathan Simeone, the ADA Title II Policy Coordinator within the Office of Equity and Human Rights for his careful review of the ADA access that we are attempting to address. Also, Maya Hamm and Lenley Rees, two of our city attorneys who have helped provide me and council with this charter amendment to accomplish what we intend for it to accomplish and to stress that a future council that I won't be on will have to approve
 every expenditure under this charter change should it pass. They would, in terms of setting the parameters and getting an annual report each year as to what was spent on this function should it pass. So I do believe that there's the appropriate checks and balances, the fact that the Portland Utility Board unanimously recommended strongly that we send it to the voters, because as I said in my opening, the voters should decide this question, not lawyers.
 Thank you very much everybody and thank you my senior policy advisor, Astrid Joukoy, and my chief of staff, Tim Creagh. Wheeler. Good teamwork. Thanks for the hard work, Commissioner Fredson, to your entire team as well as the Bureau team. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended.
 And Commissioner Fritz, just to clarify, do you want me to text you when we're getting close to the four-fifths items, or are you going to just be listening in the background? I'm going to take a walk, and I will be listening in the background, but I will be muted and remain muted. So I hope that the City Attorney agrees that that counts as not being present. Lindley? I think that'll work, Commissioner. Good. Sounds like she'll get some exercise in the process.
 Take a few laps for me. All right, good. So then with that, we will go back. We now have a bunch of second readings. We'll go back to item 603. Amend evaluation applicants for dwelling units to make technical clarifications. All of the items that we are about to read are second readings. They have all had public testimony and presentations. Is there any further business on 603? Seeing none, call the roll.
 Heartesty. Udaylee? I want to thank my colleagues for their support and the work that went into making these technical revisions. Adrienne Delgado and Mallory Beeb in the city's attorney's office, Nikki Gillespie and Matthew Schabel at the Housing Bureau, and Andreas Oswell, my senior policy advisor for the Williams together. I vote aye. Wheeler? I vote aye. Thank you for your hard work on this. The ordinance is adopted. 604, please. Thank you.
 Amend security deposits, prepaid rent, to make technical clarifications. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Second reading. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Colleagues, now we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8...
 Nine ordinances in a row. We cannot vote on them as a package. We'll have to vote on them independently. These are all relating to the renaming that we discussed last week. We'll start with item 606, please. Thank you.
 Rename a portion of North Lombard Street to North Columbia Boulevard between North Burgard Road and North Kelly Point Park Road to improve wayfinding in the Columbia-Lombard Corridor. Just like all of the following ones or second readings, we've heard the presentation as well as public testimony. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Well, these very small and technical name changes may seem boring to some, but they're exciting for people who live, work, and play in these parts of the city. As we heard, it creates confusion for emergency services, delivery, etc. So I want to thank Andrew Abbey and Zef Wagner again for proactively fixing a confusing wayfinding program.
 and for seeing it through. Thank you as well to community members for coming out to support the changes I vote aye. Wheeler.
 I really appreciated the testimony and the presentation last week. In particular, I think they did a great job, the Bureau did a great job of it, of making it clear that in an age of GPS navigation, how complex it could get very, very quickly on these particular streets, particularly for first responders where minutes make the difference between life and death.
 So I'm glad that the time was taken by you, Commissioner Daly, and by the Bureau to go through and really sort this out and come up with a common sense solution with the support of the community. I'm happy to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. 607, please. Also a second reading. Rename North Burgard Road to North Lombard Street to improve wayfinding in the Columbia-Lombard Corridor. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. 608, second reading. Rename a portion of North Columbia Boulevard to North Johnswood Drive from west of North Oswego Avenue to east of North Buchanan Avenue to improve wayfinding in the Columbia-Lombard Corridor. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 609 please.
 Rename Northeast Lombard Place to Northeast Lombard Court to improve wayfinding in the Columbia Lombard Corridor. Second reading. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Ordinance is adopted 6-10. Second reading. Rename Northeast Portland Highway to Northeast Lombard Street to improve wayfinding in the Columbia Lombard Corridor. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye.
 Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? This sounds like music. It's great. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 6-11. Rename North Columbia Parkway to Northeast Columbia Boulevard to improve wayfinding in the Columbia Lombard Corridor. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 6-12. Second reading.
 Rename a portion of Northeast Columbia Boulevard to Northeast Columbia Court between Northeast Columbia Parkway and Northeast 92nd Drive to improve wayfinding in the Columbia Lombard Corridor. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted 6-13. Second reading.
 Rename a portion of Northeast Columbia Boulevard to Northeast 92nd Drive between Northeast 92nd Drive and Northeast Killingsworth Street to improve wayfinding in the Columbia Lombard Corridor. Also a second reading, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. The last one is 614. Second reading.
 Rename a portion of Northeast Killingsworth Street to Northeast Lombard Street from east of Northeast Cully Boulevard to east of Interstate 205 to improve wayfinding in the Columbia-Lombard Corridor. This is the second reading. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. That brings us to our four-fifths agenda. If you could read the first of our two four-fifths agenda items. Yes.
 And we also have that pulled item 593. Why don't we do that last? I was just going to ask about that. Thank you. We'll do it last. Do it last. Okay. Suspension of the rules is 615-1. Immediately cease cooperation between Portland Police Bureau and militarized federal forces. Thanks for your daily. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 The items coming in before us now were introduced on the fourth fifth's agenda, meaning that all my colleagues agreed to bring these two resolutions forward today on short notice. Thank you colleagues for your willingness to bring these forward quickly. Given the urgency there and the time frame in which they were developed, there's no presentation today. I'm going to introduce the first resolution, we'll discuss it, and then we'll vote on it, and then we'll follow the same process for the second resolution.
 Here is a summary of the first resolution. This resolution resolves that all members of the Portland Police Bureau shall not provide, request, or willingly receive operational support which includes but is not limited to embedding in a federal incident command center, sharing or receiving information from above defined federal forces, engaging in policing or crowd control measures with above federal forces. From any agent
 or employee representing or constituting part of deployment under executive order from the President, be they from Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Marshals Service, the Federal Protective Service, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, or any other service. I'm bringing this resolution forward today because we're in the midst of a global pandemic
 and an ec- because in the midst of a global pandemic and an economic crisis, our city is now enduring a violent federal paramilitary occupation. While there are many elements of this situation beyond city council's control, we must take every action available to us to combat violations of both constitutional and human rights of our residents.
 As this resolution says, the Portland Police Bureau exists for the protection of Portland residents and is fully accountable to the elected city council as specified in Portland City Code 3.20.020. In short, this means that any coordination or collaboration between the PPB and the federal occupiers needs to end immediately. Thank you, colleagues, and I'll open the resolution up to council discussion.
 Thank you, Commissioner Udailey. Commissioner Fritz has her hand raised. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for bringing the resolution. Thank you all of the colleagues for collaborating on this. I'd like to move a friendly amendment to add the final bit further resolved that this resolution is binding city policy. Second.
 We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Udalli. Carla, please call the roll on the amendment. Hardesty? Aye. Udalli? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? The amendment's adopted. Commissioner Hardesty? Thank you. Let me just say thank you very much, Commissioner Udalli, for working on this resolution and bringing it to us today.
 It is really clear that we as a council must take a strong stand against Portland Police Bureau collaborating and cooperating with this federal goon squad that has been sent to Portland to stymie people who are demanding changes in our policing efforts. It's been absolutely appalling seeing what has happened in this city over the last week.
 It is appalling to find out that the Portland Police Association Union president continues to lie to the public on a daily basis about the lack of cooperation by Portland police personnel. And every night on the street in the city of Portland, it is the federal goons that start throwing the military grade tear gas during a time of a pandemic.
 And it is Portland police officers that are continuing to abuse community members on the street.
 And it just makes me crazy when I see people who are sworn to protect and serve continuing to lie to the public about their involvement. It is clear that the missionaries sent here by 45 were sent here to silence people who wanted to exercise their First Amendment rights.
 It is clear, I read in the article yesterday, that this so-called acting director of Homeland Security actually targeted Portland because of us pulling out of the Joint Terrorism Task Force and because we did not provide aid at the detention center when ICE was arresting children and putting them in cages and Portlanders stood up.
 If Portland does not stand up now, and if we as the city council don't hold our own police officers accountable for this egregious behavior, we will be...
 We will go down in history as having failed in our obligation to protect community members. I still have the question, why was Portland police not protecting Portlanders when these federal goons came in and started attacking us, rather than joining the federal goons who were attacking peaceful protesters? I want to make sure it's on the record.
 There are no riots. There are not people tearing things up downtown Portland. The little acts of resistance should never be responded to with the excessive force we see every night on our street.
 We are failing miserably at protecting the people in the city of Portland. And though we didn't bring in the federal people, it is clear that Portland Police Association welcomed their involvement, as well as the Portland Police Bureau.
 And as well as the mayor, because I've heard the mayor say he also welcomed their involvement. This is not the city I want to live in. This is not a city that will accept intimidation by people who are paid by taxpayers.
 I want to make sure that we are absolutely clear that I will make sure that any Portland police officer that I see participating in this activity that I can identify, and since none of them have name tags and none of them have numbers, that will be a little difficult to do. And they are hiding behind these federal goons and pretending that they are not abusing community members. Let me be clear. The opening came...
 for 45 to send in this malicious squad because of the over-aggressive actions of Portland Police. We cannot...
 put the blame totally on this federal secret police force, the blame should rest entirely on Portland Police Bureau and their lack of de-escalation skills, their lack of ability to engage communities where they are, and their lack of desire to protect Portlanders who are under fire every single night.
 I am just appalled at the police bureau we have today, and hopefully I will be able to manage the police bureau so we have a better police bureau tomorrow. I'm done. Could I clarify, are we in closing statements or are we still in discussion? Do people have questions? Commissioner Udaly, discussion? Discussion, yeah. Mayor, can I speak?
 Yeah, Commissioner, you did. You got the floor. I'm trying to get in the habit of lowering my hand as soon as I'm acknowledged. There we go. I want to take this opportunity to counter the narrative being driven by the president and some media about our city being under siege forever.
 from protesters being on fire or torn apart. And I want to thank the many, many community members all over the city posting on social media to counter that narrative. I'm going to read a report from a reliable source of what happened last night.
 At least 2,000 protesters were out last night. This is in downtown Portland, near the federal building in the Justice Center. They were peaceful. It was a block party and a way for the community to unite around these issues. With little provocation, the feds came out, shooting and flash-banging all around the area with the sole intent of scaring everyone into leaving. And I want to emphasize, even the most violent nights...
 The vast majority of protesters were peaceful protesters.
 The tear gas affected 90% of the people there. When people returned about an hour later, the feds came out again. This time they shot munitions and so much tear gas directly into the park, hitting people who were sitting, relaxing, eating, cooking. These people were no threat and there were lots of injuries. A national, uh, this person personally saw members of the national press bleeding
 from their injuries and local press thrown to the ground. The medics had a line near the park of people needing emergency medical care and this is all for post protesting. Thank you commissioner Udailey. Commissioner Hardesty, do you have your hand raised again? I failed to put it down. No worries. Any further discussion on this item? Carla, is there any public testimony on this item? The way we register for
 testimony, Mayor, people do not have time to sign up. No, I know that, but you just never know. I feel obliged to ask. Sorry. Please call the roll. Hardesty.
 I hope that this resolution sends a very strong message to the community that we will not tolerate police abuse, whether it's from federal goons sent in by 45 or our own local police force. It is unacceptable that they are providing assistance to this federal secret police force, which is why I'm here.
 I made it clear and created a directive that my fire bureau will in no way participate in any police action until we are assured that the police actually are working for the benefit of the community. Thank you Commissioner Udalli. You know how it makes me crazy when we do last minute stuff
 But this is absolutely vital that the city council send a strong message that these federal goons do not speak for us. And we absolutely reject the notion that the city is under siege. The city is under siege by paramilitary private police force and our own police force not respecting the rights of community members to peacefully assemble and demand change from their government. I'm happy to vote aye. You, Daly? Aye.
 Chloe, Chloe, you're muted. Thank you, Mayor. I want to take a moment to focus on the gravity of our current situation. Not only is the Trump administration violating the constitutional rights of Portlanders, but they are also attempting to use Portland as a proving ground for fascism. And they plan to invade cities across the country, cities that are political targets of the president.
 This resolution serves as a statement of our opposition to their presence in our city, a direction to our own police bureau, a template for policies that other cities could advance, and a national call to action. I'd like to thank my policy team, Hannah Holloway, Andreas Oswell, Jamie Duhamel, and my Chief of Staff, Marshall Runkle, for their work moving this forward so quickly.
 Thank you also to Noah Siegel, PBOT's Director of Public Affairs, who consulted on this resolution. And of course thank you to my colleagues on Council for their support and your policy teams who made it possible to get this item ready for today. Before I make my vote, I want to make something very clear.
 I stand in solidarity with protesters defending Black lives, demanding racial justice, and the transformation of our justice system. But whether you agree with the protesters or not, if you believe in the Constitution of the United States, you must oppose the actions of this president and the violent suppression of individuals exercising their constitutional rights. I vote aye. Fritz? Yes.
 The person in charge of our country and of federal law enforcement has shown utter contempt for human life for the past three and a half long years that he's been in office. We've seen him order babies removed from nursing mothers and children put in cages at the border. We've seen him disrespecting the families of fallen soldiers and murdered civilians.
 We've seen him encourage white supremacists and hate mongers. We've seen him failing to take life-saving actions to stem the COVID pandemic, disregarding medical advice and endangering communities with rallies and pressures to reopen. We should not be surprised that he is fueling upheaval in Portland by sending in federal officers, knowing that the city council has no authority to control or expel them. And I disagree with my colleague, Commissioner Hardesty. I believe he would have done it.
 regardless, he needs something to point to to rally his base.
 It's hard to know what to say about people who encourage others to hate that won't further add to giving them the attention that they crave. It's even worse when those perpetrating violence against Portlanders and further inciting unrest are federal officers sent by the person in charge of our country, a person who often acts more like a petulant child than the president. Sending in federal officers to an already volatile situation seems calculated to magnify protests and indeed it has done.
 actions of federal officers are irresponsible and reprehensible. And the courage of demonstrators is awesome.
 Portlanders must unite against hate now more than ever. We must be smarter than the hate mongers. We reject white supremacy. We believe black lives matter and that peaceful demonstrations are necessary to support the movement. People who commit violent acts are not welcome here. Whichever side of the confrontation line they occupy during the demonstrations, those responsible must be brought to justice whether they wear a badge or not.
 The council is united in opposing the federal invasion. We are all engaged, some on the front lines, others in discussions on finding solutions. There will be further action by the council to address the challenges that we all face. And in the meantime, we must work to be united and to find those solutions together. I appreciate the leadership of each one of my colleagues who care so much about our city and about justice being done. Hi. Wheeler. Hi.
 I appreciate this for this item being brought forward. Commissioner Udaly, thank you for taking the lead on that and steering this along. I don't agree with everything my colleagues have said, but I have been deeply disturbed by reports that members of the press have been targeted by law enforcement, including city officers. In my opinion, such targeting violates fundamental legal protections afforded by our Constitution.
 Access to accurate information from reporters on the ground is a critical element of social change, and media must be able to do their job without the fear of interference from law enforcement. In the middle of June, following such reports, I directed the police bureau not to target members of the press.
 Today, I stand with my council colleagues in affirming again that city employees must adhere to our direction in the law and never target law-abiding members of the press. I also want to say this. I agree with the thrust of this, our...
 Community is under attack. Members of the community are being violently assaulted by unaccountable paramilitary forces deployed by President Trump. These violent troops are under no obligation whatsoever to adhere to our values, our laws, our policies, or even the terms of the U.S. Department of Justice settlement agreement.
 They were not invited, they are not welcome, they are not properly trained, and they refuse to leave. Therefore, I have no reservations about directing the Portland Police Bureau to continue to reject any or all requests for support from these federal interlopers. What's happening on our streets is not only an assault on Portland values, but on American norms. This is not the way we do things in our country.
 I've joined mayors from progressive cities around the country calling on the administration to immediately remove these soldiers and calling on the Senate and the House leaders to immediately investigate what looks very much like constitutional violations towards Americans. And I will use every legal option in my power to expel these troops from our city and make our streets safe again.
 I've directed City Attorney Tracy Reeve to explore and pursue every possible legal remedy to stop this intervention and to protect our community from the horrors the President is unleashing against its own people. And I will direct Chief LaBelle to issue an order consistent with this resolution to his bureau effective immediately. Again, Commissioner Udaly, thank you for your leadership on both of these. I am pleased to vote aye. Thank you.
 The fourth item is adopted. Next four-fifths item, please, Carla. 615-2, affirm the rights of members of the press and legal observers covering the protest against police brutality. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. As a reminder, we'll follow the same process with this resolution. I'll introduce it. It'll be open for discussion, and then we'll take a vote.
 This resolution resolves that the City of Portland condemns any intentional targeting of the press and legal observers who are otherwise engaging in lawful conduct and have the right to document police conduct during the protests under the court's July 16th stipulated preliminary injunction and affirms that local law enforcement officers are prevented from arresting or using physical force against members of the press and legal observers.
 I'll open the resolution to council discussion now. And if there's no discussion, we'll just move on to the vote. Commissioner Hardesty has her end up. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I'll just say what I have to say during the vote. Very good. Carl, is there any public testimony on this item? I'm guessing the answer is no. Correct, Mayor. No one was registered. Very good. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Hardesty.
 Thank you, Commissioner Udaly, again for this second resolution. I was shocked when I talked to Chief Lavelle and found out that he lacked the knowledge that media was a First Amendment right to be able to record and report on government's actions. He did not believe that media...
 had the right to stand and record and document police activity. And he said when the police give an order, everybody is supposed to follow that order, media or not. I reminded him that we have a first, we have a constitution and we have a First Amendment right that protects reporters.
 and requires them, not just protects them, but requires them to report on government action. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly, because I could not get it through his head. And even with the federal judge putting a moratorium on removing media personnel from these actions,
 I absolutely know that Portland does not believe that people have rights to actually record what police are doing. This was before the federal goons showed up. And so, again, though the federal goons has exacerbated a very tense situation, the fact that the chief does not know that the media has a right to record their actions makes this resolution vital.
 It is absolutely critical and I am thrilled, Commissioner Udalli, that you have bought this for the vote of this council. The fact that I couldn't tell him and convince him that the media has this right. The federal courts couldn't tell our police department that the media has this right. It is vital that the city council speaks loudly and clearly about.
 that Portland police is required to actually follow the Constitution as well. I wholeheartedly vote aye. You daily. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. That is concerning. I think...
 Clarity on the constitutional rights of protesters may be training we need to add to other required training for the Bureau. And I just want to really appreciate my colleagues willingness to bring these items forward today. We often spend weeks, months, even years developing
 policy and it typically goes through many rounds and iterations and amendments are brought but this these are urgent issues that are unfolding on our streets every night and we needed to address them as quickly as possible so I am deeply grateful for your input and your your willingness to help me move them forward.
 The violence perpetrated against members of the media and legal observers by the Portland Police Bureau and by federal occupiers is completely unacceptable. Freedom of the press is a fundamental constitutional right and a tenet of our society. The press helps hold government accountable for its actions, and the lack of government accountability for police violence is what has led millions of protesters around the globe to take to the streets.
 We unequivocally need local press, independent journalists, and legal observers to document the actions of the PPD and federal occupiers. Without their commitment to reporting the facts, we wouldn't have accurate documentation of law enforcement assaulting Portlanders, targeting members of the press, and violating their constitutional rights.
 I want to thank every member of the press and our legal observers who are risking their safety every night to report on this national uprising for justice, for Black lives, for transformative changes to law enforcement, and now the federal occupation of our city. You should not have to risk your safety to do your job. Your government should protect your constitutional rights. And I am hopeful that the action we take today will make you safer on our streets.
 I look forward to the PPB's strict adherence to this resolution. To all Portlanders, please consider supporting our local media outlets, all of whom have been hard hit during the COVID-19 crisis. They need our support and we clearly need them. Once again, I want to thank my policy team, and this time I need to add my communications director, Margo Week, who was instrumental in this moment.
 for all of the work to move this forward. And thank you again to my colleagues on council for your support and to your talented staff. I vote aye. Prince?
 So the Constitution is a complicated document. That's why we have an Oregon Supreme Court and a US Supreme Court. I was really glad to hear the mayor say under the previous resolution that he has directed our city attorney to pursue all legal means to oppose what's going on. There is debate, which is why there was the temporary restraining order on what the media
 has the right to do and whatnot. There are some who suggest that when an area is closed, the media does not have the right to remain. So I believe these are complicated issues. They may seem...
 as clear as daylight on the face of it. And when you dig into them, there's more to be considered. And so I'm pleased to support this resolution and also to work with my colleagues and the mayor to find our way to the solutions that are going to work for Portlanders. Hi. Wheeler. I gave my speech earlier, it covers both of these
 four-fifths items. It still holds true for this one. Proud to co-sponsor. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. The resolution, I'm sorry, is adopted. Thank you. Now we have one more item left. That is the one item, Carla, that was pulled off of the consent agenda. My recollection is that was 593. Is that correct? That's correct. Very good. If you can read that, please.
 authorize a competitive solicitation for parking garage management services for the Smart Park garages for five years. Commissioner Udaly. This ordinance... Pardon? Who pulled this one, Carla? I did. Commissioner Hardesty pulled it. This ordinance authorizes for parking garage management services for the Smart Park garages for five years.
 It authorizes the chief procurement officer to facilitate the use of the competitive solicitation process in order to obtain the most responsible and responsive offer for providing parking garage management services for the Smart Park garages. And here to provide further information is Michael Jacobs, Smart Park general manager. Thank you.
 Hi, actually, this is Chris Arms with the... Chris Arms, welcome. Hi, sorry, Michael is not in the office currently, so I am here to answer any questions that you may have. As Commissioner Daly said, this council action would allow us to advertise an ERP for a vendor to operate the garages. Our current...
 contract expires March 31st. And so we are in the process of drafting the RFP now, and we hope to advertise it in September and then have a selection in December, which would give us time to finalize any contract negotiations and have it in place by the time our current contract expires. I'm sure if the mayor was unmuted, he would allow me to ask the question right now. So Chris, I do have a couple of questions.
 My first question is, I have intimate knowledge of the history of the small park, smart park contracts. What's different based on COVID-19 and us knowing that parking revenues will be drastically reduced for a while to come? How will this contract be different than other ones in the past? Yes.
 Well, we're looking at changing the technology in the garages. So our current contract with Central Parking is to provide operations janitorial, and they provide a lot of services such as the pay stations. We are working to use the same machines that we have on street in the garages that will allow us to maintain them in-house with our current workforce.
 And we're working on implementing mobile payments, the same as we have on-street through Parking Kitty, so that the on-street and the off-street systems are the same. So the services themselves will be slightly different, and that is we're transitioning out of the current system and into this new system with this technology. And where's this major contractor  where's their base? Okay.
 I believe Central Parking is owned by SP+, which I believe is in Nashville, Tennessee.
 I'm actually old enough to remember when this RFP used to be written for one particular company. Yes. And that was back before the Vera Katz days. And I had this pull because I just wanted to make sure that as we are moving forward with this new contract,
 that it was a competitive process, that it hadn't reverted back to being written in a way that only one company would benefit from it, that it would be something that would also prioritize companies owned by BIPOC community members.
 And so I appreciate the information that you have shared today. Clearly we're only today providing authorization to go out and do an RFP.
 But I just want you to know that this is something that I will be paying close attention to because it's really easy for these contracts to warp into a sense of entitlement for one individual company or organization. It took us a long time to decouple this from who thought they were entitled to this contract.
 I have no problem with supporting going out for an RFP, but I just want to make sure that as we are being thoughtful about the new world we will live in, that we are making sure that we're prioritizing BIPOC communities and that we are being as deliberative as possible and reaching out to the most vendors possible. So I thank you, Chris, for your presentation. I thank you, Commissioner Udeli for, um,
 for understanding the need for me to put this on a public record, because this is something that we cannot allow to continue to happen at the city of Portland, that vendors think that they have a sense of entitlement to public dollars. Thank you so much. That is all my questions, Chris. Okay. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one would have registered. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Hardesty.
 Again, I am very grateful that transportation is really thinking through what's going to be different as we come out of this pandemic. We know people will be driving a lot less. We know we'll have a lot less parking revenues for a long time to come. And hopefully this contract will reflect a new vision about where we are moving. I vote aye. You're muted. Commissioner Udeli, you're muted. Thank you, Chris. I vote aye. Chris. Chris.
 So, Commissioner Hardesty, I'm smiling because I'd actually, I would think that maybe a lot of people in Transportation Bureau are smiling. Every time this contract has come in the 12 years I've been here has been hugely controversial. And indeed, the parking garage was. Probably the first one was the...
 a pivotal time. But I think certainly while everybody who's there now and has been for the last 10 years are managing the programme, there'll be no danger of making it a single bidder because we all know that this is...
 important contract. I still, well I did when I was occasionally driving to City Hall, I missed having the attendants saying goodbye to me and hello to me with the automation. Probably in the age of COVID that's not a bad thing that they are not in contact with a lot of people but I want to thank them for their service and their friendliness and their kindness. So thank you Commission New Daily and thank you to the
 transportation staff. I would have to say the long-suffering transportation staff in this particular instance. Aye. Wheeler. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. Thanks to the Transportation Bureau. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted and we are adjourned until 2 p.m. All right. Good afternoon, everyone. We're ready to go. It's two o'clock. This is the Wednesday, July 22nd, 2020 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Good afternoon, Carly. Please call the roll.
 Good afternoon, Mayor. Hardesty? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. And now we need me to read the electronic statement first. Under Portland City Code and State Law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending remotely by video and teleconference. And the City has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting.
 The meeting is available to the public on the City's YouTube channel, EGovPDX, www.portlandoregon.gov slash video and channel 30. The public can also provide written testimony to the Council by emailing the Council Clerk at cctestimony at portlandoregon.gov. The Council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and promote physical distancing.
 The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety, and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communication. Thank you all for your patience, flexibility, and understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do the city's business. And with that, we'll hear from our city attorney on rules, order, and decorum.
 To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. The Published Council Agenda at Portland, Oregon.
 The citycouncil.gov slash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while City Council is holding electronic meetings. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others' testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that all council meetings are recorded. Very great. Thank you for that. Our first item today is item 616. Carla, could you please read it?
 Refer to the voters a five-year local option tax levy for the November 3, 2020 general election to restore recreation programs and protect parks and natural areas. Colleagues, today is an exciting and important day for the future of our parks and recreation system and for the legacy of our good friend and colleague Commissioner Nick Fish.
 During the development of the fiscal year 19-20 budget, Commissioner Fish shared with Council that Parks faced an operational funding gap that could not be solved with merely one-time fixes. The Council made the difficult decision to reduce the Parks budget, but also directed the Bureau to begin to work to fix the structural issue.
 As a first step, Commissioner Fish and Director Long led a work session last November to talk about the park system that we have today, the one we want to have, and what we need to do to get there. Park staff took the council's feedback and continued to explore a range of options that would improve services, make our system more equitable, and ultimately stabilize the Bureau's budget.
 But of course, COVID-19 changed everything as it has for the entire city budget for many Portlanders and for businesses of all sizes. Portland Parks and Recreation has been hit especially hard. And we know that recreation activities, special events, and even more than that have been canceled since March.
 And the same structural problem, the Bureau's dependence on fees that caused the gap last year, has reared its head again. As things stand today, Portland Parks and Recreation is likely unable to reopen pools or community centers or to offer camps, classes, and swimming lessons of the kind that we're used to, even in the summer of 2021, because of the extended closure. Okay.
 At the November work session, I said that parks needed to make a play for history and one that we can be proud of for generations to come. And so today I'm proud to propose a five-year operating levy for Portland voters to consider. This is a critical first step toward fulfilling our shared vision for a more stable parks bureau that can better serve all Portlanders.
 Before I turn it over to Parks Director Adina Long for a brief presentation on the details of this proposal, we're going to hear from several Portlanders who cherish our park system in this brief video. My name is Moqtad Al-Hatmi and I have five kids, all boys. Parks here in Portland, for me it looks like second home.
 I'm Linda Robinson and I'm a park advocate. I've been advocating for parks in East Portland for about 30 years. My name is Mike Bretto Jackson. An important thing to know about me is that I'm a father, you know, I'm an activist.
 artists, entrepreneur, mentor. These parks are crucial to the benefit of the black community. Parks and recreation are very important, especially now. Because we need to play outside now more than ever. Now more than ever, Portland Parks is a...
 very, very important. Feel welcome here and feel safe here. People need a space to go breathe. They need a space to go relax. They need a space to take a walk, to think. So me and my brothers and kids like us can play. I really get a sense of just peace and tranquility. I feel so happy when I see my kids play on the park. I love walking through the woods. I feel really good. And then I just think about family.
 How old are these trees and how long have they been here? All Portlanders should have access to the amazing activities that Portland Parks offers. Portland Parks are a place that everyone needs.
 As a musician, I go to parks and it inspires me to write. That's what keeps Portland healthy. It's health, it's social. We need our parks to be welcoming for all the people. Posing down community centers would be the worst thing you can do right now. If there's one thing we need in this day and age, it's our park and recreation system. Having a strong park system for the next generation is absolutely critical. I just can't imagine how barren their life would be without it.
 We need to keep it clean for next generation, the generation after that, and the whole community, because we all deserve to play at first. We need that investment. We all do. Thank you, Mukhtar, Linda, and Mike for sharing your stories. Director Long, this tees you up for your presentation. Good afternoon.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Good afternoon, Council. I appreciate the opportunity to work with you to advance Portland Parks and Recreation's vision of building a sustainable future. I'd like to begin with some acknowledgement of my team who helped us get here today. They're also available to answer your questions if needed. Thanks to Sarah Huggins, who has managed the levy process to date, Todd Lofgren, our Deputy Director, and Claudio Caposano, our Finance, Property, and Technology Manager.
 And I'd like to note that our division managers have also joined us today. Thank you to our invited guests and the community members who have signed up to give public testimony. We appreciate the many ways you support our efforts. Let's get started on the presentation. We appreciate the opportunity to be here today to ask City Council to refer a measure for a five-year operating levy to the November 3rd, 2020 ballot.
 Our colleague and friend, late Commissioner Nick Fish, would be proud that we are having this conversation. Let's be clear. This conversation is about the future of Portland Parks and Recreation, and by extension, the future of Portland. It's about making Portland a healthier, more equitable community. Due to the COVID-19 public health emergency, our challenges are greater than ever, and the need for solutions is more urgent.
 Portland Parks and Recreation and the role we play in the community is at a crossroads. Next slide please. Equity is achieved when one's identity cannot predict the outcome. Our community continues to face inequities, whether visiting a neighborhood park, accessing nature, or learning how to swim. Equity has been and continues to be at the forefront of our management decisions. And we've made progress.
 For example, system development charge funds have allowed us to build new parks in underserved communities like East Portland. We've made our workforce more reflective of the Portland community. Employees of color are now 32.6 percent of our total workforce. We have increased the percentage of full-time employees of color by 12 percent over the last five years. We've prioritized equity and contracting for disadvantaged minority and women-owned and emerging small businesses.
 In fact, we've achieved 46%, more than double the city's 20% goal. Equity will continue to inform how we address upcoming challenges and opportunities, regardless of our funding levels. But we know that we have much more work to do, and to make real progress, we need more resources. Next slide. We appreciated the opportunity to have a work session with City Council last fall to discuss the future of our parks and recreation system.
 We highlighted how service levels would change over time with three different levels of funding, and we showed that without additional funding, our service levels will continue to decline. At the work session, City Council told us to pursue alternative funding so that we could provide the parks and recreation system Portlanders need and want.
 We also talked about the inequities in our system, especially for Portlanders of color and East Portlanders. I want to share two examples how our park system is not equitable. Portlanders attended classes, camps, swimming, and other recreation programs over 2 million times last year. But to provide those programs, we have to charge fees, which means that many Portlanders have not been able to benefit from them.
 Cost is more of a barrier to Portlanders of color and East Portland residents. Next slide please. People want their parks to be clean and to feel safe, but safety is more of a barrier for Portlanders of color and East Portland residents. This levy would make our parks more clean, safe, and welcoming. Next slide. Since last fall, we began exploring additional funding opportunities based on feedback from the November work session.
 We reorganized to implement a difficult budget, and as of March 1st, we were on track for a balanced year. Then COVID-19 hit, and everything changed. We pivoted quickly to protect the health and safety of our community and staff while responding to the pandemic.
 We have continued to show up and serve the public, especially for our most vulnerable neighbors. We expanded our free summer meal program, offered shelter for people experiencing homelessness, opened our restrooms 24 hours a day, and turned on drinking fountains early. I am proud of the work our team has done during this public health crisis. Portlanders have flocked to our parks and natural areas,
 Now, more than ever, it's clear that our Pirates and Recreation system is central to the community's health and emotional well-being. Next slide. We are doing our best, but due to COVID-19, Portlanders have seen painful service-level reductions. We have closed our community centers, indoor and outdoor pools, and playgrounds. We had to lay off or not hire most of our casual and seasonal staff, meaning more than 1,700 people are without work this summer.
 Many of our culturally specific and most popular events and programs have been canceled, like the Stand with Refugees and Immigrants event, Portland World Soccer Tournament, Summer Free for All, and recreation and environmental programs. The public health crisis has magnified the fundamental flaw in how we fund parks and recreation programs. In the Recreation Division, fees pay for more than 40% of recreation services to the community.
 Without new funding, we may not have a way to serve Portlanders next summer with the programs that they've come to expect. We would struggle to keep our parks clean, safe, and welcoming, and to maintain our natural areas and trees, which are important to clean water, protecting wildlife, and diminishing the impacts of climate change. Next slide.
 Mayor Wheeler and I believe that an operating levy is a necessary solution to bring us out of this current crisis and a first step towards fulfilling Commissioner Fish's long-term vision for a sustainable parks and recreation system. Over the past few years, we've had ongoing effort to collect feedback from the community. Most recently, in late May, we conducted a public opinion poll of likely voters about potential funding options.
 We heard that Portlanders love their parks and value them as a priority. This is consistent with what we've heard in other community engagement processes. Our proposal is a five-year operating levy of $0.80 per $1,000 of assessed value. A reminder to the public watching today that assessed value is different than market value. For a home with a slightly above median assessed value of $200,000, people would pay about $13 each month.
 We expect to raise an average of $48 million each year, which will allow us to restore recreation programming for all, protect and grow parks and natural areas, and invest in stronger community partnerships. To deliver these enhanced services, our general fund budget cannot be reduced. Next slide. With levy funding, the Bureau could end its dependence on fees. We could restore recreation programming and jobs and build from the ground up a new equity-focused model.
 We could also safely reopen community centers and pools and resume programming for summer 2021. And if COVID-19 is still with us, levy funding would make us resilient enough to offer recreation programs in a safe manner. Next slide. For example, our new recreation model could offer free swimming lessons for all families that qualify for free and reduced lunch, free programming through sun schools, and free summer and after-school camps for low-income families.
 expanded age and culturally specific programming, like growing our Teen Force program to serve more youth. And a levy would keep the doors open at Multnomah Arts Center, Community Music Center, and the Interstate Firehouse Cultural Center, and fund the operations of a North Portland pool. Next slide, please. Our maintenance team is 11% smaller today than it was 10 years ago. And during that same period, the city's population grew 13%.
 With levy funding, the Bureau could take much better care of our 11,000 acres of parks, 8,000 of which are natural areas. We could keep parks cleaner, safer, and more welcoming for all. Our urban forestry team could plant additional trees in parks and natural areas and proactively care for the 1.2 million trees that already grow in these areas. This important work ensures clean water, protects wildlife, and diminishes the impacts of climate change. Next slide.
 For example, with a levy, we could provide more young adults with work experience through youth conservation and internship programs. Develop a strategy in partnership with communities of color and East Portlanders to make parks safer and more welcoming. Create new opportunities for stewardship and environmental education partnerships with marginalized communities. Improve cleanliness in parks and restore and protect natural areas.
 and fund the operations and maintenance of new parks built by our system development charge program, where today we need to ask council for general funds. Next slide please. With levy funding, we would center community decision making, oversight, and partnerships to deliver an equitable parks and recreation system for all Portlanders. We've already begun this work. In the past months, we've been engaging the community, and we will continue to do so through the next year.
 One of our community meetings included 150 participants focused on services for New Portlanders. We would provide community grants to support stakeholders and service providers. Community oversight would include annual reports and an independent audit. And we will partner with you, City Council, to annually review and approve our plans for levy funding. Next slide, please.
 Our parks and recreation system is essential to Portlanders' health, wellness, and connection to one another. I've only been in Portland for a short time, but I've spent my entire professional career dedicated to providing parks and recreation services to the public. Commissioner Fish brought me here to help build a sustainable and equitable parks and recreation system for all Portlanders. We are now at a decision point to invest in our parks and our people.
 My best ideas come from the community. So Mayor Wheeler, I'll turn it over to you now so we can hear from community leaders how this investment would transform their lives, their parks, and their city. Thank you. Thank you, Director Long. Colleagues, my office has received many messages from community members and colleagues in support of this proposed levy. I'd like to take a minute to read excerpts of letters from two community leaders who
 the hardest deal I'll get to you. I see you have your hand up. In the interest of time, I'm not going to read their full letters, but they have been shared with the council offices and they will be entered into the official record. Metro President Lynn Peterson said on behalf of the Metro Council, quote, we especially appreciate how you and your staff have been nimble in the development of this levy to respond appropriately to the challenges of the moment and the
 to do what you've heard from the community to center equity in the deliver of programs and services. And in his letter of support, Dion Jordan reminded us of a quote from his dad, former city commissioner and parks director Charles Jordan, quote, quote,
 Before we get to invited testimony, Commissioner Hardest, do you have your hand raised? Thank you, Mayor. And thank you for allowing me to speak before you get to public testimony. As you know, I only have a half hour left and I have to go to the governor's task force on police training reform. I wanna make a statement about my concern, both about this levy and how it's being presented today to the public.
 I'm actually taking offense at utilizing Commissioner Fish's name to promote this parks levy. The last time I talked to the director of parks, they were directed to go out and look for and give the public three options of what we could, how we could permanently fund our parks system.
 I told the director to her face, I am a strong parks supporter and I need to be in the loop. Then I hear from Metro Council President that the City of Portland is moving a parks levy to the ballot. And as a sitting city commissioner, to be shocked would be an understatement. Now I find out that this levy has been thrown together in a back room somewhere.
 And a letter went out from the parks director and the mayor that basically sounded like a threat to the community. If you don't pass this levy, we won't have parks. I'm appalled by that as well. I am appalled that we are being asked to vote on a levy that does not fully fund parks. And it did not give the city council the opportunity to do their due diligence to determine whether or not.
 in this COVID-19 pandemic environment, that this was the highest priority of the City of Portland. I have seen nothing from Parks that says that they've done any analysis about how COVID will impact Parks programs. If the director believes that Park programs will operate like they did last year, then she is misinformed.
 I am absolutely appalled at the full court pressure of running this to a ballot that will have over $15 billion of ass for people who are unemployed, who are facing evictions, who are facing houselessness. And this feels to me like an underhanded deal.
 with no input at all, not from parks employees or from the people who are elected to serve the city of Portland. I want to be very clear, I am a strong supporter of parks, but I will not be bullied into supporting a half-baked plan that does not fully fund our parks operations and will still make you dependent on the general fund. If this is the way the director of parks operates,
 I have lost all confidence that we will have the kind of park system that I expect us to build. I want to be very clear. In no way, even if I was here, would vote for something that was created in a back room with no input and no conversations with elected leaders. And to have the arrogance to come around and say this is what we're going to do without input? Right.
 I'm just appalled. I'm appalled at this whole situation. I'm appalled at the tactics that were used to develop this levy. And I want to be clear, I will in no way vote for it. I will in no way support it. And I will make sure that people know that this was not a deliberative process at all. This was a small group of people that decided that this was the best route. When I asked the director...
 Well, why did you, you told me you were coming back with these other options. Well, we need money. Well, guess what? The entire city needs money. The fact that you need money is not a good reason for us to rush this to the ballot. And if this is the way some directors operate, I have to say, I have no confidence in the information I get out of parks anymore, because if you would misrepresent yourself as somebody who's actually seeking input and then don't get input.
 I'm absolutely appalled. I am a no vote. If I was here, I'd be a no vote. And I will be out actively campaigning against this measure because it did not have this. It had no input from the people who've been elected to lead this city. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, I see you have your hand up.
 Yeah, I just have to say that I have been involved. I was offered briefings several times and took them. And, you know, obviously we're here to discuss the merits. And so I know that Commissioner, yeah, I appreciate that Commissioner Hardesty
 is careful about invoking Commissioner Fish's name. He and I both loved parks. I mean, I still do. I know that Commissioner Hardesty does as well. And I think were he here, he would definitely be speaking up in support of Director Long. And so...
 Just to say that there's more to be considered. I will make some more comments when I get back. But my recollection of the discussion we had in November, which was probably the last time that Commissioner Fish was in City Hall with all of us, just before he went out on the leave in December, was that it was very clear that there would continue to be need for general fund funding.
 and that there would be other things explored. And one of the other things that was being explored back in November was a restaurant food and beverage tax. Obviously, with the COVID decimation of the restaurant businesses, that's now off the table. There could be some other...
 options explored. Parks has traditionally used serial levies for a very long time in terms of how it will affect people. Many homes in Portland are already maxed out on property taxes, so it will take from other
 I would say that the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the
 And it was not. And so when it's not, and then I have to hear from another government that we're moving something forward, that is not the way I will participate in our governance of the city of Portland.
 And Commissioner Fritsch, you told me that when you heard about it, you were told it was going on the ballot. So it wasn't that you were involved in the conversations to figure out what went on the ballot. You were told that it was actually headed to the ballot. So let's be honest here about what happened.
 what it is we're being asked to do and why. We're being asked to support this because Parks is desperate. But Parks has not done the planning necessary to win the support of me, and maybe they have a view, but not of me, and not when I find out outside of City Hall that what I was told directly to my face by the director is not in fact what's happening.
 And so, again, when people do behind door, closed door deals, I will never be a part of those kind of backroom dealings. So I'm a no and I'm gone. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. Sorry, I'm trying to gather my thoughts. So...
 My recollection of the conversation last year during the work session on sustainable funding was that the option that rose to the top were general obligation bonds or GO bonds. And I raised that issue with Director Long, and she gave me an explanation that was satisfactory to me. Okay.
 there's multiple criteria we have to look at and a big one right now is allowable use because of the crisis that parks is in with funding but you know we're also concerned about volatility whether the tax is progressive or regressive and what kind of compression it's going to put on this overall system I'll just say that it's frustrating that we continue to have to advance
 solutions like this when the real problem is the state and federal government not making everyone pay their fair share. And we keep having to come back with items like this. And this fall, there is a funding measure frenzy on the ballot. All of that being said, I believe that parks and our community centers are 
 absolutely essential under normal circumstances, but will be indispensable when it comes to our resiliency through this crisis and our recovery. And so I'm really interested in, I mean, I guess the council and the public needs to understand why this is the best way forward in this moment.
 And so anything that Director Long or any of the other presenters can do to convey that information, I think would be really helpful because we have a lot of hard choices on the ballot this fall. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Udali. And I'm going to jump in here. This isn't part of the presentation, but...
 I have a couple of thoughts. First of all, we have known for two years, and this is not in response to your comments, Commissioner Daly or Commissioner Fritz. I am now framing my own thoughts. We have known for two years that the Parks Bureau is running significant structural deficit. And we have heard for several budget sessions in a row from the public extensively that
 about the importance of the park bureau. In fact, parks issues raised to the top of the list in each of the last several budgets that I have presided over and we as a council engaged together in a conversation under Commissioner Fish's leadership about
 how we were going to make our park system, which is beloved by the people of this community, how we were going to make that system sustainable for both the near term and for the long term. And we looked at, as Director Long said, three specific scenarios. As a council, we were unanimously in agreement that we would not let the Parks Bureau continue to deteriorate,
 that we would get ahead of the financing issues that were that the parks bureau was struggling with commissioner fish was doing an outstanding job of leading to that effort i don't think it was ever a secret that it was going to lead to some additional financing mechanisms
 I assumed that that was a given unless we were planning on breaking out the old printing press. There has been extensive public participation and engagement. And I'm sorry that Commissioner Hardesty did not stick around to hear some of the other comments that were going to be made or the public testimony. But this should have come as a surprise to nobody. And then finally, I'm just going to say this as a matter of decorum. We are the city council.
 The bureau directors work for us, and it is our responsibility to work with them and make sure we have the information we need, that we are provided what we need, that our staffs are collaborating effectively. This is the second bureau director in two items today where the bureau director has been impugned.
 And I just don't think that is acceptable behavior for us as commissioners. If we have a problem with the veracity of a bureau director, we should take it up in person first. And if we believe there is really a problem of trust or veracity there, then maybe that is the appropriate time to take it beyond that. But I hope that in the future that, uh,
 These differences of opinion regarding policy will not boil over into a personal condemnation of our Bureau directors. So on that happy note, I would like to start introducing some of the folks from the community who've been engaged in this process. I thank them for their engagement. First of all, we have Jules Bailey, the incoming chair of the Portland Parks Foundation. Good afternoon, Jules.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you to the City Council for taking time to consider this very important measure. My name is Jules Bailey, and as you mentioned, Mayor, I am the incoming chair of the Portland Parks Foundation. I am also a former elected official with eight years in public office and a former county commissioner. And I want to begin by congratulating Director Long and her staff. I have been part of a number of processes to bring progress.
 funding measures and other measures before the public. I was involved with the housing bond through the county. I currently serve on a number of organizations that are considering the measures that will go before the public this fall.
 And I have a very high bar for this kind of process. And Director Long and her staff have worked exceptionally hard to bring in the public, to have extensive public meetings, to work with stakeholders, to bounce ideas off of the public and interested parties, modify based on feedback, and to really craft a plan that I think is one that Portlanders can get behind and that I hope that all of you will get behind. And I appreciate the public participation.
 process that went into this.
 As a former county commissioner though, I actually want to start not with parks, but with libraries of all things. I saw firsthand what a difference it made to have a dedicated stream of funds for libraries when I was a county commissioner. I also saw what a difference it made as a parent, bringing my young kids into libraries and the reading programs, the community programs, and all of the services that libraries provided.
 And it'd be hard for me to imagine going into a library where it might be free to walk in, but then there was some sort of tiered scale where we had to pay to check out books or pay to be in the programs that they offered. And yet sometimes that's the situation that we face now and in the future with parks, with an inequitable access to the programs that parks offers. So
 Why should parks be different? If libraries are in some sense temples for our minds, parks are temples for our bodies and our souls. And whether we are exercising or just contemplating or whether we're there to play or just breathe or whether we're gathering in parks for birthday parties or for protests, parks provide a space for the community to breathe.
 realize our community desires and our dreams. And I've always had access to parks growing up in Portland. I grew up on Mount Tabor, I took swim lessons at Selwood. My family now has access to Gabriel Park, the Southwest Community Center. The Multnomah Arts Center is right nearby and is a hub for our community.
 But that's not true for all Portlanders. And frankly, I can't express it any better than the people that you had in your video and the people that are coming behind me about the importance of equity and access for parks. But I fundamentally believe, and what I want to leave this council with, is that every Portlander deserves clean air and clean water. And especially with climate change, access to a place to cool off in the summers, that
 that every kid deserves access to safe playgrounds, that every community deserves community pools, art centers, and facilities,
 And that, frankly, especially with school a little bit uncertain now, every family deserves some access to camps. It's very important for Portlanders to understand and have confidence that their park system will be robust, that it will be available to them, and that most of all, that they will be able to access it no matter who they are in Portland. This levy and this small ask that it makes of voters,
 is one that I think this council can be proud of, to put parks on a firm financial footing for the future that will leave a legacy that shows that parks are indeed the pride of Portland. Again, I congratulate the Bureau and this council on this important step. I fundamentally support it, and the Portland Parks Foundation will be an organization that will be right alongside you to help make sure that this is a successful effort in November. Thank you.
 Thank you, Jules. We appreciate it. Thanks again for your tremendous leadership. Next up, we have Bonnie G. Yosick, Portland Parks Board Vice Chair. Welcome. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, my name is Bonnie G. Yosick, and I have the privilege of serving as Vice Chair of the Portland Parks Board.
 As you know, the board is comprised of a diverse group of individuals unified under a mission to bring a citywide and long-term perspective to issues involving our parks and recreation system. As you heard from Director Long, the future of Portland Parks and Recreation faces a crossroad, burdened with a structural deficit and now facing severe program revenue loss due to the pandemic.
 Decisions and circumstances outside the Bureau's control have created a budget gap so large that without sustainable funding, our parks and recreation system will fundamentally change for the worse. There is a choice that could mean a new future for the people of Portland. A choice that would prevent a material deterioration in parks programming, services, access, and facilities.
 We ask you to refer the operational levy for parks and recreation to the November ballot so voters have the opportunity to invest in our park system. In these fraught and unusual times, the importance of parks and open space infrastructure has become even more apparent. These public spaces have become for some their sole respite and for others their literal nourishment.
 Park staff anticipate a five-fold increase in the Lunch and Play program, serving an anticipated 500,000 meals to food insecure youth this summer. And you heard from Director Long about the community centers opened to provide much needed temporary shelter for individuals and the increased access to drinking water and restrooms. Strong and equitable parks and recreation systems are an essential infrastructure for healthy communities.
 They promote public health by improving air quality and mitigating the impacts of urban heat islands. Programs provided by parks teach our children to swim and to be creative, and they keep our seniors active. We go to parks to relax, to celebrate, to learn, and to play. But for that infrastructure to be either equitable or effective, it must be adequately funded.
 We recognize this levy as a first step toward that adequate funding. We support the referral of the operational levy to the November ballot and look forward to your decision. Thank you. Thank you so much. We appreciate it. Thank you for your leadership. And next, we have Vivek Chandas, the Urban Forestry Commission Chair. Welcome. Thanks for being here. Hello. Thank you. I hope you can hear me okay. Loud and clear.
 Excellent. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Vivek Chandas, and I'm testifying as a resident of southeast Portland.
 I'm a professor at Portland State University, and I also serve as chair of the Urban Forestry Commission. I will note, just in light of previous comments, that I did serve on the Sustainable Futures Task Force last fall, which brought together a group of community members to discuss multiple options, bonds, taxes, etc.,
 And it involved an economic analysis by Portland State University to examine compression and a number of equity issues that were also on the table for us to deliberate on.
 We had several activities and really honed in on a levy as being one of our primary areas of interest. So I'll just note that given light of previous comments. I'm here to support the levy for a couple of reasons. First, we know that parks are instrumental to Portlanders. While we have general understanding of this reality and with earlier testimony today, I'm a data person. And to validate these claims for my own peace of mind, I was...
 I needed to look into what data were available for the parks. So I was astonished upon analyzing Google's mobility reports. Now, these are reports that Google has made available for this 2020 year, partly as a response to COVID, to understand where people are spending time by using the well-understood phone data that Google collects.
 and these are all compiled together. And what I was astonished to see is that in Portland and in all other cities across the country with 300,000 people or more, that people were consistently and constantly using parks from February all the way through today.
 And in fact, what we're starting to see with that is that people were using parks more so than all other land uses in any of these cities. And so that to me was very interesting, at least from a data point, to understand that green spaces are playing a very therapeutic role for Portlanders. And while decades of research has pointed to the fact that parks and green spaces have been...
 playing a very therapeutic role for human health and well-being, COVID and these mobility reports has made their therapeutic effects quantifiable.
 While the levy, second, while the levy will also help to ensure that parks are open, well maintained and safe, I think, I believe the levy will also bring a number of unexpected and invisible benefits to Portlanders that will help to keep our city cooler during the hot summer months, as well as our streets less flooded during the intense seasonal rainfalls.
 The levy pushes us in a promising direction and really more than anything else helps us understand the social therapy as well as reducing the acute effects of a warming planet.
 I would like to mention that I would urge the design of the levee to really take into consideration a number of things that I spend a lot of time thinking about. One of those is the urban forest. While we know that parks have forests, we also know that many of our streets have street trees that act as an urban forest.
 And in the design of this levy, I would really encourage decision makers to think carefully about how to enable the maintenance of street trees in this levy. It's something our commission, the Urban Forestry Commission, has been working for years to try to understand. We had a small bit of resources to be able to bring together a group of stakeholders to understand the options for moving forward on.
 a street tree maintenance program that still has yet to find rooting, if you excuse the pun,
 And if we are able to center historically underserved neighborhoods, low-income communities, and communities of color in this street tree maintenance program, I think this levy will send us really quickly into a direction that will help us safeguard the parks, safeguard the trees, and really enable a thriving and sustainable future for the city of Portland. Thank you for considering my testimony today, and I look forward to hearing your deliberations.
 Thank you. Thank you Vivek. We really appreciate your leadership on this and super cool backdrop by the way. Colleagues, I also want you to know that I've spoken with Commissioner-elect Carmen Rubio, who also serves as the Executive Director of Latino Network about this levy. And while she's out of town this week, I'm very excited that we have her Deputy Director, David Martinez here with us to speak. David, good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, and thank you for the opportunity. I guess to start, my name is David Martinez, and I'm the Deputy Director here at Latino Network. And we went through a lot of internal discussions regarding this levy. Like many community-based organizations, we are responding to a tremendous need for
 from our community members in this time of COVID and this pandemic. It's such an unknown on the scale of need that is out there. So I recognize, we recognize that this is a very difficult decision and it's a very difficult time. Having said that, after discussing and really
 Thinking of what would help and provide support and provide opportunity for our community, we are in support of this levy. And what I want to do is I want to read a testimony, joint testimony, on behalf of, again, our ED, Carmen Rubio, and myself.
 So for a number of years now, our organization has partnered with the Portland Parks and Recreation Bureau to offer safe spaces and positive activities for youth, both during and outside the school year. Right now, many youth lack safe spaces and activities to engage in during these summer months. The lack of programming disproportionately impacts Black, Indigenous, Latinx, and other communities of color, low-income, and East Portland neighborhoods.
 Latino Network Summer Academia provides youth ages 8 to 18 with positive, healthy, and educational summer activities, and our teen night programs provide a safe space on weekend nights for teens during the school year. Portland Parks and Rec plays a central role in these programs, both in activities and public spaces, and the programs rely on having access to parks and community centers to keep our youth safe, stimulated, and connected.
 Ending these partnerships will have a serious impact on our community in the time when we need it the most. Our communities are now unfairly faced with bearing the brunt of previous decisions by losing access to these services and coupled with the potential economic fallout of COVID. For these reasons,
 We are supportive of Council referring the Portland Parks and Recreation Levy to the November ballot, on the condition that it prioritizes support to Black, Indigenous, Latinx, Asian, Pacific Islander, and other communities of color and low-income and East Portland communities the most.
 We are at a crossroads where we must make hard decisions to ensure funding is in alignment with our values, center community, and the parks facilities serve all equitability.
 We are compelled to state that we also have some reticence about whether this is the right time for a levy in the midst of budget constraints and a pandemic. After much consideration, we balance this concern with the reality of the long-term impacts of a declining public resource that is one of the most positively utilized resources by low-income and diverse communities.
 And if we are honest, we need even more ability to truly equitably serve communities that goes beyond the scope of this levy. But this provides the necessary stabilization. The coronavirus pandemic has already devastated our youths and deprived them of the benefits of having continuous access to Portland parks and recreation spaces and programs.
 Extending permanent closures would heavily impact the emotional and physical well-being and safety of our students and their families. We have first-handedly seen the value of our city parks, community centers, and programs for the community we serve and beyond. We know that these services are especially essential to our community during this global pandemic for both mental and physical health and overall well-being.
 And that deal and our work is in support of the Portland Levy, Portland Parks Levy. And thank you for this opportunity to share testimony. David, thank you so much for your testimony. We appreciate you being here. Thanks a lot for your leadership. Good comments. Next up, folks, we have Tom Cleve, who is the head of the Laborers Local 483. Tom, good afternoon. Thanks for being here.
 Good afternoon, Mayor. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Tom Collette and I'm the lead field representative for Laborers Local 4D3. I'm actually not the leader of the organization, that's Farrell Richards, our business manager.
 But you're here right now, so that makes you the leader now. Well, I appreciate the faith in our leadership. Laborers Local 43 represents hundreds of Frontlines Park workers who work at community centers, sun schools, and parks and wildlife locations throughout our great city. When the public thinks of Portland Parks and Recreation, they think of our members who staff the front desk at Mount Dishman or remove trees from the right-of-way on icy nights.
 We are happy to be here today speaking in support of the Parks Levy, a first step towards sustainable funding of the Portland Parks and Recreation Bureau. We also understand the gravity of the moment. Without the passage of the proposed levy, it is highly unlikely that our beloved community centers could reopen, threatening to place large numbers of workers onto unemployment at a time of pandemic and little economic opportunity.
 With over 4,500 workers in fiscal year 2019, or 44% of the entire city workforce, Parks is the largest workforce in the city according to the City of Portland Demographics Dashboard. Our workforce is also one of the most diverse bureaus in the city. Again from the City of Portland Demographics Dashboard for fiscal year 2019, 32.6% of the workforce were people of color and 56% were female.
 Park's workforce is also young. 61% of employees in 2019 were under the age of 30. Park's jobs are traditionally a pipeline to full-time city employment, breaking down barriers to living wage jobs in the city.
 Parks jobs are also community jobs. Our members are a lifeline to the elderly, the ultra-abled, communities of color, teens, multilingual communities, and low-income families. Parks, viewed through the lens of its impact, is the single largest social service our city provides and hundreds of thousands of Portlanders rely on parks for education, fitness, community involvement, climate-controlled spaces, shower facilities, and even their daily meal.
 Over the last decade, parks have struggled with budget woes. As services have become more popular, funding has not kept up. This has resulted in reduced service levels, huge maintenance backlogs, large layoffs, and now, with the advent of the current global pandemic, a crisis so large that it threatens the integrity of the entire park system. Swift action must be taken to ensure that our park services are shored up and that city jobs are not lost.
 This levy of progressive tax that increases with home value will maintain park services for low-income Portlanders and prevent the loss of jobs during precarious economic times. Laborers Local 43 strongly supports the parks levy and urges a yes vote on today's referral. Thank you. Thank you, Tom. We appreciate your leadership. Next up is Rachel Whiteside from ProTech17. Good afternoon.
 Hello Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to testify today. Just as a little background, professional and technical employees, Local 17 represents roughly 900 members at the City of Portland, most of which also live and recreate in our city.
 I'm here today speaking on behalf of the more than 50 employees represented by ProTech 17. These employees staff over a dozen parks programs, including the nationally renowned International Test Garden, community gardens, natural areas, our award-winning environmental education programs, and numerous other programs that help support the city's Climate Action Plan and equity goals.
 Our members have chosen to work for the Portland Parks and Recreation Bureau because of their dedication to the Bureau's vision and to their community. ProTech 17 members care deeply about the programs that they have developed and more importantly, the people that they support.
 Our members, for example, in the Natural Area Stewardship Program, work with volunteers to help restore natural areas, to encourage native species regeneration, provide habitat to wildlife, and provide safe trails to park visitors. They engage with young environmental leaders in the community through volunteer naturalist training, paid work programs, and science-based field trips to inspire the next generation of public employees.
 Programs like these advance the city's climate action plan and they create an essential school-to-work pipeline within our community. ProTech 17 is in full support of moving forward with referring the operational levy to Portland voters in November. This is a key step towards achieving the sustainable funding of PPNR that this council has indicated is a priority.
 During these uncertain times, it is absolutely critical that Parks and Recreation has a reliable source of funding that will allow them to return to full operations as soon as our public health officials indicate that it is safe to do so. Parks and community facilities provide essential resources for disadvantaged populations, and our investment in these programs is a key component of the city's commitment to equity.
 Certainty and stability in both availability and access to these programs is crucial to their efficacy. Lowering barriers to entry by reducing reliance on fees is good policy for advancing these goals and places parks in a stronger long-term financial position. Portland's parks, natural areas, and employees are a vibrant thread in the beautiful tapestry that is our community.
 These essential assets connect people to place, self, and others. Maintaining access to these services and facilities for all Portlanders is vital to advancing the city's equity goals, which are of paramount importance at this challenging moment in time. Portland's residents care deeply for this legacy,
 We ask that you please give them the opportunity to maintain this treasure for future generations. Please vote in support of advancing the park's operational levy. Thank you for your time today. Thank you very much. We appreciate it. Rob Martineau from Ask Me Local 189 is our next invited testimony. We have two other individuals after that. Rob, good afternoon. Thank you for being here.
 Good afternoon. Thank you and thank you Portland City Council. I want to offer a little bit of history on this. This is something that predates this council by quite a ways. I would say, let me start with my introduction. I am Rob Martineau. I'm the president of AFSCME Local 189. We represent about a thousand employees in the city of Portland. I'm also a Portland Water Bureau employee and have been for 21 years maintaining a fantastic drinking water system. But
 With that, I was thinking about these comments earlier and I started at the Parks Bureau in spring of 99. I took a seasonal job there and it was a good job. I was amazed at the breadth and depth of the parks. It was amazing to see just what Portland's park system was.
 We fixed tennis courts, we delivered materials to ball fields, fixed fences, cleared debris, fixed walking paths. Then I spent that summer just in awe of what Portland had across its city. As my seasonal time was coming to an end and I was looking for more permanent work, I recalled what people had told me in my first few days on the job, is that the city could be a really good place to work, but if you can go anywhere but parks, do it. They are always underfunded, our jobs are on the chopping block,
 and we're always shorthanded. This has gone on for far too long. We all know that the current system for funding is not sustainable, and for too long we've deferred the critical work, we've robbed Peter to pay Paul, and we haven't treated Portland Parks and Rec like one of Portland's jewels, and it is.
 The parks and rec centers support us all through these good jobs, through open spaces, community programs. These programs increase the safety and they promote the health of all Portlanders, young and old. We've let this go underfunded way too long and now parks needs the reset that this levy can provide.
 we've got to keep these critical services in place. Ultimately, these are the people's parks and it will be the voters who decide. So please support this referral and let the people have their vote. Thank you. Thank you, Rob. Appreciate it. Next up is Tim Singh from the Portland Parks and Recreation Youth Conservation Corps. Welcome. Hi.
 My name is Dim and I work for the Youth Conservation Crew. So the Youth Conservation Crew is a job for teens that involves working on trail, trees, and mostly habitat. Before I start off, I applied this job wanting to help the environment. So this was two years ago. And back then, I saw a lot of things on social media and news talking about global warming and how animals were going extinct.
 This impacted me a lot mentally, making me want to put my feelings in action, leading me to apply for the Youth Conservation Program. This job won't change the world, but at least will impact a small percentage that are the parks that I have worked in and will work in the future. Although, City of Portland will have better taken care of parks.
 So going on about how this is a paying job, most of my coworkers come from many different backgrounds, including low-income families. This money helps them by paying bills that their parents are struggling to pay for. Although it is a paying job, it is a learning opportunity, which I extremely value the most.
 Now, going on into about how it's racially diverse, I have met a lot of people that have changed my perspective, which improved my team working skills and communication. This will help me a lot in the long run, considering I'm only 16. Last of all, this work has helped a lot of parks in many ways, as well as visitors. Visitors will now have a better experience and flourish looking parks because of what the youth does. And will give further opportunity to want to come back and enjoy their time.
 In conclusion, I really hope you guys continue to fund Youth Conservation Crew so that others can experience this opportunity as well. Thank you. Thanks, Dim. We appreciate it. Last but not least is Isaiah Johnson, the Teen Recreation Leader at the East Portland Community Center and a former TeenForce participant as well. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Good afternoon, you guys. So my name is Isaiah Johnson and I'm a Recreation Leader with TeenForce.
 I've worked for Teen Force for nearly five years, beginning when I was 16 years old at the Charles Jordan Community Center. Before I was employed with Portland Parks and Recreation, Charles Jordan was my home away from home. To many, the community centers and pools are a place to work out, swim, play basketball, and enjoy the many classes that Portland Parks and Rec has to offer. But to myself, as well as many other teens and their families, teen services provides much more than a place to go play.
 My experience was like many others in the Portland area. Growing up in a working family often meant that I was on my own most of the time. Excuse me. Pardon me. And without teen services and the safe space that they provided for me and my friends, there was a high probability that I could have been involved in the wrong things. However, teen services are more than just a safe space. Being an African American male, it is often challenging to answer the question of what do you want to do when you grow up?
 Teen Services has a diverse group of staff who come from all different backgrounds. So for me, when I saw the teen staff growing up, it was incredible to see that I could become someone who I looked up to. Now having transitioned from experiencing the program as a team to working for Teen Force, I see the amazing benefits that the force has to offer to the youth.
 I get to make a positive impact daily on the youth of our future. This is personal to me because I was once these youth and also have a younger brother who can experience team force. It's a truly amazing thing. He can see people who look like him and are positive role models in his life. He can have a safe space to play and enjoy his free time rather than possibly be involved in something that can be detrimental to his growth as a young adult.
 Without the levy, my brother as well as many other youth in the program could no longer have access to a safe and positive space where they can grow, learn, and mature into the amazing people that they are. As staff, we get to watch young adults mature and become the amazing people they are. We get to see their accomplishments firsthand, and we get to know their families. This is where the community centers truly become a community. Recently, I was asked a question by a director, Adina Long, that stuck with me over the past week. Do you have ideas about how additional levy resources could make the parks and recreation system more accessible and inclusive?
 The additional resources the levy could provide can make parks more accessible to all families. Often, cost is a barrier for families, and I can relate to this. Additional funding can allow us to expand our reach to the entire family rather than a specific age group. Oftentimes, myself included, youth are tasked with taking care of younger siblings. And for many years, when he was younger, we were not able to enter the community center.
 With the current structure, this excludes many youths and their families, as they have no way of bringing their younger siblings into the centers to access the programs and facilities. I believe that the levy would be great for Portland Parks and Recreation, as well as TeenForce. Without the levy, there are so many families that would be negatively impacted by the huge loss of our community centers and the programs that we have to offer. It would truly be a huge loss to the community and the many youths and their families who depend on us every single day.
 We can see the effect of the community centers being closed due to the current pandemic. Community centers are a lifeline for many young people and their families. The recreation for all component of the proposed levy will create a boost and allow Portland Parks and Recreation to provide an outlet and support to all communities in Portland. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you, Isaiah. We really appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz, I see you have your hand raised.
 Yeah, I just wanted to particularly thank Isaiah. I appreciated all of the union leaders lending their support and thank you for being here. But Isaiah, you're just making me smile. The team program, I agree, is absolutely fantastic and hopefully it's growing a lot of Future Parks employees. I remember when we went from using paper resumes, which was really an exercise,
 to just opening it up at the Mount Tabor Community Center and how many people just came to explain why they would be good at working for parks. And so thank you for being here and thank you for your support. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. And are there any other questions before we open this up to public testimony? Before we do that, I want to thank all of our invited testimony. That was very important testimony. We appreciate you all taking the time to be here on this important referral. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz, you have your hand raised again. Welcome. I do. Thank you, Matt. I just have a few questions for Director Long.
 because I think the public will want to know this. First of all, I'm really impressed with the presentation. I'm really impressed with how you are centering equity. This is not the same old, same old parks levy as was done before. You're really looking at how do you build the programs that are most important with this levy. So thank you for that. People have asked why are we not doing a parks district? Could you tell folks why we're not doing a parks district?
 So I'm actually going to pass that question to Sarah Huggins, my colleague who is managing this process. She can speak about it most articulately. Thank you, Adina. Good morning, Council. My name is Sarah Huggins and I work for Portland Parks. Back in November, we investigated many funding options and one of them was a parks district. A parks district involves not just a funding source, but also a change in governance structure. So under current Oregon law,
 The current city council could not be the governing body of a parks district. It would need to be an independent body or Multnomah County Commission. Parks makes up 10% of the city's land. And so this is a, we have many labor contracts as well. So this would be a major process to put a parks district in place.
 Given the timeline that we're working on to refer something for a November ballot, that is something that we're going to continue looking at for the longer term, but not something which we could put in place in a short term.
 Thank you. I remember that we did discuss at the work session, but obviously that seems like a million years ago. Thank you, Sarah. Okay, I have a couple more questions. The levy focuses on operational dollars, but parks also has a significant deferred maintenance backlog. How is that going to be addressed?
 Thank you, Commissioner. Yes, as you recall, or may recall, that when we first started looking at alternative funding, the deferred maintenance backlog was really our most pressing concern. And because of
 the COVID-19 really sort of illuminated how vulnerable our operational model was, we had to pivot towards the levy. So we anticipate that the sustainable future process will continue. This is one step. We recognize that this is temporary,
 and that it's very specific to operational funding. And we understand and agree that we absolutely need to address the deferred maintenance, which we currently estimate at a half billion dollars. So the work will continue as we move forward. And I'll just see if any of my colleagues have anything to add to that.
 So let me ask a follow-up question in the meantime. As you just mentioned, the levy is time limited, and we've seen a serial levy model like the children's levy to be successful, but it's still a non-permanent funding source. Could you give us a little bit more information about that?
 Hi, Commissioner Fish. This is Sarah Huggins. So we are going to continue looking at a variety of funding sources. Ultimately, the long-term goal for the Parks Bureau would be to put a permanent funding mechanism in place. We have both continuing capital needs as well as operating needs. But a levy gets us five years, and we can 
 look at a recurring model like the children's levy, as you mentioned, and we can also look at other funding sources that we discussed in the fall. So income tax, food and beverage tax, and other permanent solutions as well.
 Thank you. You call me Commissioner Fish, and that's been a while since anybody's mixed us up, and it brings back memories. It's all right. No, it's quite all right. It's an honor. So finally, I know from being in charge of parks how we manage the bond measure in terms of community oversight and public accountability. Could you just summarize what the measure calls for in terms of ongoing measures?
 looking into how this money is going to be used? Yes, we also, similar to the 2014 park replacement bond, we will create an oversight committee comprised of community members
 to make sure that we remain accountable to what the levy is stated we would provide to the community. We're also going to arrange to ensure that we have independent audit. And of course, every year we'll be coming back to the council with our budget and the levy budget.
 the levy expenditures will be included in that budget. So there's quite a few sort of touch points where we can be held accountable to ensure that we're using the resources from the public in an appropriate way.
 Thank you very much. I don't have plans for after December and I know we want to, it's a really big deal to serve on these oversight committees. The committee does a huge amount of work and I know we want to make that opportunity available to people who haven't previously been involved but I'll definitely be watching it closely. Thank you. Was that a volunteer opportunity?
 It was kind of an angling, kind of an angling. But as I say, you know, I've kind of had my turn with Parks and it would be a great honor for whoever gets appointed to that committee. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. And with that, then we will turn to public testimony. Carla, how many people do we have signed up today? It looks like there are 11. Very good. Why don't we go ahead. That's. Yeah, we're good. Go ahead. Three minutes each name for the record.
 Okay, the first person is Andy Nelson. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler. Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to weigh in here on the Parks Levy. I want to, as way of introduction, I want to talk about my experience with parks in two ways. First is the seven years I spent on the Parks Board, and the second is what I'm hearing as Executive Director of Impact Northwest. And seven years on the Parks Board, one of the main things we do every year is
 to advise the commissioner on the budget and the council on the budget. And for so many years, we were literally stuck in a situation of having to make really tough cuts year after year. Literally sitting around having to close kiddie wading pools and make other tough cuts we knew were going to affect people. At the end of the day, it was always about where's the revenue?
 So I'm really delighted to see that we have a solution here to fix an issue that's gone back many, many years. And then my role as executive director of Impact Northwest, it's very clear when we talk to clients that the portability of Portland is just getting out of reach. And of course, you know that, you all know that. We think of that often about housing. So I'm very excited that this levy would actually waive the fees.
 We heard earlier from Isaiah and his experience and not being able to go to parks. And I think it's an incredible opportunity to take a little bit of a burden off of people and the folks we work with. What we hear is that any relief like this that we can take off of folks to make life more available and enjoyable is going to go an awfully, awfully long way.
 I just can just end by saying that we can afford this and we need to. This is a play for history and I'm optimistic that you'll do the right thing. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it, Andy. Next is Mike Abate. Good afternoon, Mike. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Mike Abate. I have the honor to serve as Director of Portland Parks and Recreation from 2011 to 2018.
 Today's parks funding shortfall is not new. During my time as director, as Andy mentioned, PPR's budget was reduced in five of seven budget years.
 And actually the last long-range plan for the Bureau, the Parks 2020 vision adopted by Council 20 years ago, said that, in fact, our park system is at once sensational and shameful. Moreover, increased growth, changes in our culture and housing, and lack of funding threaten the park system legacy that is so vital to our city's quality of life.
 And you can go even back even further than that to the last century with the bedrock foundation of our park system, the 1903 Olmsted plan, where landscape architect John Charles Olmsted said this, I've enjoyed my park reconnaissance in Portland very much as the landscape is fine and the possibilities for parks, as far as land is concerned, are excellent. But I fear the money will be deficient.
 Well, he was absolutely right. It has been for over 120 years. As Director Long made clear in her letter to you, the Bureau's budget was taken off life support this year when all community centers and pools had to be closed due to COVID-19, thereby eliminating fees and other revenues. The closures also highlight the inequity of building a system on a fee-for-service model, preventing those who need the programs and activities the most from accessing them.
 So now's the time to restore the parks and recreation services that Portland Portlanders want. The $48 million a year generated will provide the recreation, swimming lessons, park safety and maintenance that will once again make our park system the gem of the city. I will support and urge others to support this new levy with one condition. Ensure that if it passes, the city will not reduce the Bureau's annual general fund allocation. As Director Long said in her letter,
 Quote, PPNR does not expect that funding from a levy will reduce our ongoing general fund allocation. Close quote. Let's lock that in. To prevent this in the future, I'd request there be language added to your Resolution 616 that says something to the effect that during the life of the levy, if passed, PPNR will continue to receive no less than their 2020 to 2021 allocation of general fund.
 In 2014, Portlanders voted overwhelmingly to approve a $68 million bond measure to fix our parks. It's time to ask them to fund a levy that will allow us to reopen our parks. I urge you to vote yes today. But let's not kid ourselves. This is not the permanent funding solution that your Sustainable Future work session in November called for.
 This is a very needed five-year band-aid, but a future council will have to make the tough decision on what to do when it expires. The long-term funding solution for parks is not a series of levies. As Jules Bailey mentioned, the Multnomah County Library District should be our model here. After decades of levies and bond measures and fluctuating funding, in 2012, our renowned library system was launched on its own when voters approved formation of the Multnomah County Library District.
 This is the model that a courageous city council should follow. Refer Portland Parks and Recreation to the voters as a parks district, removing it from the annual competition for limited general funds with fire, police, and planning. Thank you for your time. Mike, thank you. And that reminds me, at the end of this, Director Long, when we're done with public testimony, I'll just ask the question now. Could you walk us through the analysis process?
 in short terms, in bullet point terms. I know you considered the district. That going into this discussion was my first choice, but it quickly became one of my last choices. And so Mike raises some really good questions, and I think we should answer those at the end of this session. Thanks, Mike. Appreciate your testimony. Thank you for raising the question. Next individual, please, Carla. It's Ted Lebby.
 Mr. Labbe, welcome. Yes, good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners Udailey, Fritz, and Hardesty, thank you for your public service. My name is Ted Labbe, and I'm the Executive Director of the Urban Greenspaces Institute. I serve on the Portland Utility Board, along with Karen Spencer, who spoke to you earlier in support of your referral to voters of a city charter amendment enabling public use of city lands for secondary uses.
 Today, I speak as an individual, not as a member of the pub. Karen Spencer and I offer these thoughts as you move forward with a referral to voters on a five-year operating levy for parks and recreation. In these unprecedented times, our parks are crucial to our physical, mental, and spiritual health. In the age of COVID, when so many of us are shut inside our homes, disconnected from our family and friends, our city parks are among the only nearby nature available to us.
 Often our parks are the only places where, with social distancing, we feel safe gathering to connect with one another. And gather we must, to heal, share, breathe, and find community. I'm not sure where we would be in this moment without our parks. In spite of the necessary pandemic shutdowns to our community centers, swimming lessons, summer camps, and other programming, our parks are still there. The pandemic has altered our lives, and the changes feel disorienting.
 But time spent in a Portland park is grounding and helps one recover a sense of social bearing, connection to nature, and to other Portlanders. Our parks and our urban forests feel like an extension of our homes, and to caretake them, we need to invest in their upkeep and care. I encourage you to move ahead with your vote to refer a five-year operating levy to the voters of Portland.
 This measure certainly won't remedy all of our park and recreation funding woes, but without it, we will be in dire straits. I'm excited to hear Mayor Wheeler talk around a call for a play for history with our parks, and I look forward to future funding discussions.
 Both Karen and I want to encourage all Portlanders to support this five-year operating levy for parks. We need recreation for all to remedy disparities of access and programming, create more equitable delivery of programming, and to support the safe reopening of community centers and pools when we are ready. We need to protect and grow our green spaces, keep our parks clean and safe, and invest and plant and maintain our trees.
 Through community partnerships and oversight, we will direct the levy monies to address these needs. Let's get it done, Portland. Thank you. Thank you, Ted. Appreciate your testimony. Thank you for all you do. Next is Willie Levinson. Hi, Willie. Welcome. Willie, are you unmuted? We can't hear you. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I just wanted to give a special shout out to Commissioner Fritz, Amanda. Hi, Willie.
 Thank you for the great contribution that you've made to the city. I can't believe you're not going to be in City Hall anymore, but it's a well-deserved change for you. I'm going to miss bumping into you at City Hall on the occasion that I was there, but I wish you the best, and I hope I see you afterward.
 The Parks Bond, I can't really say too much more than what's already been said, outside the fact that the understanding that I've come from working with parks in the tenure of Human Access Projects activism is that it's woefully underfunded, that the general fund is not a stable source of funding. This is something that anybody who follows politics understands. This is long overdue, and it's...
 It takes things like the pandemic to bring out the necessity to have the courage to finally address some of these things.
 The Willamette River is Portland's second largest public space and natural area. It's a free, equitable resource to all. You can count on Human Access Project being 100% behind this bond as long as there's consideration for directing people to the least risky places to get into the river and engineering them to be safer. It's time that Portland starts really getting behind activating this public space.
 And thanks again. Everybody on council, Chloe, Ted, you guys are just dealing with some very difficult things day in and day out. And I'm grateful for your just commitment to the city. I don't know how you guys do it, but I admire it. Thank you. Go Bond. Thank you, Willie. Appreciate your enthusiasm as ever. Next is Jung-Too Oberg.
 Welcome. Thanks for being here. Thank you very much, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Thank you for allowing me to speak with you today. My name is June Tu Oberg, and I'm the vice president of Northwestern Alliance. We are the nonprofit by us in front of Council 10 Port Gateway Green. Our dues-paying membership hit a record of 1,800 mountain bikers in Portland. Today, we are at 4,500. What has caused their tremendous growth?
 Our members have prioritized access to nature and want trails close to home.
 These unprecedented times have changed priorities and daily agendas. Bike business in Portland is up in every category. Bikes that have been collecting dust now have tire tread wearing out. Now more than ever, we need access to the outdoors. What we are missing is access to trails. In the 8,000 acres of Parks as Natural Areas, two-wheeled access accounts for less than 5%.
 As an organization that can provide diverse programming to get community members outside and on bikes, our hands are tied. Not having access to trails close to home keeps the form of recreation to those who can only reach the trailhead with a vehicle. This is not equitable. Thank you.
 Northwest Trail Alliance and its 4,500 members, no matter what, we hope that our city and parks finally take us up on our offer to let NWTA help to rehabilitate, steward, and care for the legacy of our Portland parks. Thank you for your time, and I appreciate you all allowing me to speak today. Thank you, Juntoo. Appreciate it very much. Next is Bob Sollinger. Welcome, Bob. Hello.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Weller and members of city council. Thanks for the opportunity to testify today and thanks for all your work on this. I'm wearing two hats today. I serve as Audubon's conservation director. I'm also testifying on behalf of the Intertwined Alliance.
 which is a coalition of groups and businesses that support a strong system of parks, trails, and natural areas. Audubon Society of Portland's board has already endorsed this and plans to make it a major priority for the fall. The Intertwined Alliances board has given provisional endorsement. We're still going through our formal process, but also gave provisional endorsement as well so we can speak in support.
 So we are very excited about this measure and I have a long history of working on parks issues. I served on the parks board for two terms.
 I have served on, I believe, a dozen parks budget committees, and I served on the Sustainable Futures Task Force. So the issue of how we fund parks is complicated, challenging, and we're very glad that you are giving it the kind of attention that you are, because it has been significantly underfunded and unstable for a very, very long time.
 Truly appreciate the work of Commissioner Fish in particular in setting us on a course towards sustainability. Recognize that we need to make hard decisions and find a path forward that truly is sustainable and meets our community aspirations.
 I wanted to acknowledge Commissioner Hardesty's concerns because this is a very challenging time. And we also talked through some of the issues that she talked about. We all heard about this fairly late in the process. We have concerns about making sure that this isn't a surrogate for looking at the bigger picture. This is just a small piece of the puzzle. It's not the whole puzzle. And...
 We want to make sure that this truly is an inclusive ballot measure as well. And we talked through those issues. And in the end, we came to the conclusion that despite the fact that it had to be moved fairly quickly and that it doesn't solve the entire problem, that we could still strongly endorse this measure. So the reason for that is a multifold. First, we think we are truly in control.
 an incredibly urgent situation, an unprecedentedly urgent situation that really calls for making bold moves to sustain our community. And as you've already heard today, and I won't belabor the point, parks are such an important part of a sustainable, healthy community. Secondly,
 We've talked with a number of folks about this, and we believe the city is still committed to moving forward with the bigger picture challenge of putting parks on a sustainable funding trajectory.
 We believe that this measure is consistent with that objective. Having served on the Sustainable Futures Committee, I believe that this would have been part of any package. It's a part that is reasonable to front load. We also believe it's probably going to take longer to figure out what that big sustainability picture is because everything is somewhat delayed as we sort out how we deal with the COVID crisis. This, in our opinion, is a smart move.
 uh investment that allows parks to keep the lights on the doors open serve the most vulnerable communities uh and keep us moving forward on a path towards sustainability and resiliency um lastly i would just note that i think it is very consistent with some of the things you all have been talking about recently with the covid measures and the climate resiliency resolutions you've talked extensively in recent months and we really applaud you for this about uh
 you know, advancing even faster, doubling down on our commitments and to competing sustainable, resilient communities. And this is very consistent with that. So we look forward to working with you on this. We do want to make sure that we do continue to think about the bigger picture. We want to make sure this isn't used to backfill general funds. And we think there's still time to work through how to make this the best measure possible. Thank you. Very good. Thank you, Bob. We appreciate it.
 This is Tony DeFalco. Hi Tony. Hey Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, good to see you and hear you this afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity to share Verde's thoughts on the Parks Levy. My name is Tony DeFalco and I serve as the Executive Director of Verde. We wrote a letter to you all and I'm going to read the letter and then have a couple other quick comments.
 We write in qualified support of the referral of the Parks Levy on today. We recognize the challenges that PPNR faces budget-wise and that communities of color will be disproportionately impacted by further cuts to service. We ask that the Council place strong directives on the development of the levy
 in order to better engage low-income and people of color communities. Such directives could include, but not be limited to, creation of a resourced working group of low-income and people of color community members and representatives of organizations working on behalf of communities of color to further develop levy, language, and campaign activities.
 The goal of these and other directives the Council may deem worthy should be to engage those closest to the problem in crafting the solution, as well as building community capacity as part of the campaign. We share additional specific desires to see in the levee development. One, continue the City's promise to develop a community-led master plan for Colwood Park.
 2. Set contracting performance in levy funds to 50% minority and woman-owned participation. 3. Leverage levy dollars to align with and expand community benefits agreements. 4. Incorporate explicit racial equity criteria to guide levy investments.
 Five, draw from community expertise to prioritize community of color priorities for natural area maintenance, in particular those of indigenous communities. We want to thank PPNR for its leadership to address budget shortfalls and to prioritize equity and utilization of new resources. And we look forward to stable and secure funding for our park system.
 I would just add a couple notes real quick. One is that this is an important investment for
 for jobs as has been noted earlier and Verde itself has benefited from the partnership with parks and in fact two graduates of our Verde landscape program now work at Portland Parks and Recreation and we've been very proud about the ability to graduate folks from our program into good-paying green jobs at PPNR and
 Second, I was really excited to see the backdrop that U Bureau Director Long used in your presentation and saw Cully Park there. We have put a lot of blood, sweat, and tears into Cully Park and helping to create an investment that we've all been proud of, and we look forward to being able to care for that
 assets like Cully Park, and also to be able to ensure that future assets are equally well cared for. Thank you and appreciate all of your leadership. Thank you, Tony. Appreciate your leadership. Next is Daniel Newberry. Hi, Daniel.
 Can you hear me? Yep, loud and clear. Okay, thank you very much, Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council. My name is Daniel Newberry. Today, I'm just representing myself as a resident of Outer East Portland, but I also am the Executive Director of Johnson Creek Watershed Council and a member of the Urban Forestry Commission. First, thank you to everyone, especially folks at Parks and Recreation. I know this has been a big task to take on,
 and I'd like to say I support the levy, although I do have some issues I would like you to think about. You know, a lot of people speaking before me today have talked about how really underfunded parks and recreation is and how it's really part of our culture and well-being in Portland and so important to our health, especially during these COVID days. And
 I'm concerned about several things. I'm really glad there's a focus on equity here, because especially with user fees in the past, a lot of services have not been available to lower income folks, especially communities of color. So I applaud you for centering that in the conversation here.
 A comment that Mike Abate made really resonates with me about making sure that this isn't just used to backfill general funds that could be reprogrammed somewhere else. So I really encourage the city council to make an addendum to the resolution to say that the general fund to parks and recreation will not decrease from the current levels. Where this really hits home for me is over many years, my job at the Watershed Council, we've...
 been, you know, mobilizing thousands of volunteers to help care for parks and natural areas in East Portland. And every year, that part of Parks and Recreation loses employees, and we try to take up the slack with more and more volunteers. And at some point, volunteers have been starting to feel like they've been taking advantage of, that the city just says, oh, we don't need employees, we'll just get volunteers to do the work. So I think that
 by providing more dollars to maintain the parks in terms of upkeep and more staff positions, this will really help to address that. I would like to just say, and a couple of commissioners alluded to this, and that is that
 you can't just keep taxing property owners without hitting limits. And this issue of compression was raised. And I think it's really important for transparency and for getting support from voters to let people know what existing levies and bond measures that taxpayers are already being paid for are going to be impacted. I'm not sure a lot of voters know that some things that have already been passed may actually get less dollars because you're putting in a new levy. So I think
 you'll really need to be really open and transparent and let people know about that. The other thing, final thing I'd like to mention, Vivek Shandas, who I serve with on the Urban Forestry Commission,
 talked a little bit about thinking of the urban forest canopy, really, and street trees as part of the park system. I think that's really important. A couple years ago, the city council devoted $100,000 in one of the bumps for looking at ways of doing street tree maintenance and planting because the current funding mechanism has adjacent property owners paying for that, which is really inequitable. So I encourage you to put something for that into the funding
 into what you're gonna be paying for with the bond. And thank you very much for this opportunity. I appreciate all the good work you've all been doing. Thank you. Thank you, Daniel. Next is Dawn Stastny. Good afternoon, Dawn. Mayor, could I just respond to the previous testimony? I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz has her hand up. I'm sorry, Commissioner.
 That's okay. It's just a couple of people have now mentioned that we should say that there won't be cuts to the parks budget in the future. First of all, we can't bind future councils with a clause like that. In fact, sometimes obviously we have difficulty binding the current council to do various things. So there's that.
 I would also say that, as Mayor Wheeler mentioned, for at least the past three budgets and probably more, a lot of the testimony at budget hearings has been from park supporters. So I am very confident that the people of Portland will not allow future councils to use this to cut, that this will in fact. And that is partly what the Oversight Committee will be looking at as well, to make sure that it is indeed used for the purposes that are in it.
 and doesn't involve a bunch of back selling. Thank you. Appreciate that clarification. I think that's a good one. Can you, this is Don Stassi. Can you hear me? Hey Don, yeah, we can hear you. Okay, great. Thank you. I speak, Mr. Mayor and commissioners, on behalf of the Halpern Landscape Conservancy.
 As you know, the Halpern Landscape Conservancy is a volunteer organization dedicated to preserve, maintain, and activate the Portland open space sequence. And since 2008, our public-private partnership with Portland Parks and Recreation has successfully addressed the need and opportunities to connect visitors to the historic Pettigrew Park, Lovejoy Source Fountain, and the Keller Fountain.
 I'll also point out that the recent improvements that were made in that area of somewhere in the neighborhood of $4 million, about 60% of that was raised from private sources to help support that construction and maintenance activity. The Alpern Landscape Conservancy supports a proposed Portland Parks and Recreation operational levy
 and we urge you to put it on the November ballot. Speaking more personally, I'm an architect and an urbanist that has the opportunity to work throughout the United States, and one of the things that we really understand about cities is that the parks and open space systems are basically the lifeblood of our cities economically, socially, culturally, and operationally. It's very important that we keep this vital artery open
 that we keep it accessible, and that we allow equitable use and support of the overall system to continue to bring our city back to its position it was before COVID. We urge your support of this and to put it on the levy, or excuse me, on the November ballot. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak to you today. Thank you, Don.
 Next is Pat Wagner. Good afternoon, Pat. Pat, are you unmuted? Carla, can you move Pat over? How is this? Am I there? Yeah, you're good. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Fritz, Hardesty, and Commissioner Udaly, and the Parks Director. My name is Pat Wagner. I'm speaking on behalf of the Linton Community Center, a parks partner organization.
 Portlanders, including myself, live under the threat constantly of our community centers either closing or having their services they provide reduced.
 Without the financial support of Portland Parks, the Linton Community Center would be unable to provide the services we currently provide. This would leave many children of working parents unattended during the crucial hours after school and morning hours. This levy can be a new beginning, one that is more fair and reliable.
 It is putting people first. It's easy to overlook the impact Portland Parks has on citizens such as myself. Community centers especially impact the lives of young people, lower income residents, senior citizens, and working parents that are too busy with their daily lives to say thank you. The mission of the Linton Community Center has been supported by a partnership with Parks Department.
 We offer so much. A few examples are a food pantry for low-income people, preschool,
 quality full-day state certified child care for working parents, and after-school program for the children of working parents, a morning breakfast parents program where parents can drop their children off to wait in the safety of the building. We give them food to eat and until they wait until the school bus picks them up to deliver them to school.
 This prevents the children of working parents from waiting alone, sometimes in the dark, at the end of long driveways for their school buses. We also offer a low-cost venue for new immigrants to teach their children and enjoy the cultural events of their native countries. As many of these new immigrants can be short on money, we bargain regularly.
 For example, a group of Aztec dancers practice at the Linton Community Center every Thursday evening. In exchange, they host a Day of the Dead event over the weekend closest to November 1st and 2nd. We also provide a venue for neighborhood meetings, a community computer lab for job searches, and a no-cost shower for houseless or homeless people.
 Please don't focus on ability to pay or just the ability to pay. Often parents are unwilling to pay even though they have the money. In Portland, young people often see their friends in parks classes, yet even though their parents are able to pay the fees, the parents won't. They say no. This leaves kids bitter and often separated from their friends.
 Community centers and swimming pools are the first exposure children have to good government and what it can do to them. These closures leave a lasting impression. It's very disappointing for a child to see the next level of swimming they've been anticipating signing up for is not offered because the pool is closed. Please take the action needed. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate your testimony.
 Thank you. Could I just comment again there? Yeah, Commissioner. I just wanted to say thank you to Pat. You are a true community hero. I feel like there's a lot of wonderful community partners that are coming to testify today. And I just appreciate all that you do at the Linton Community Center, which sometimes feels Linton can feel a bit removed from Portland, but you're definitely a treasured part of our community. And I'm glad to know that this love you will help. Thank you so much.
 Thank you, Pat. Thank you. Next is Jim Etzel. Very good and Carla before Jim jumps in how many more folks do we have? I just want to do a time check. I show one more after Jim. And Julia Brim Edwards was having a tough time getting on. She's, oh she is on, please put her at the end of the list. So we have two more after this. Thank you. Certainly. Welcome.
 Jim Edsel. Yes. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners Hardesty, you daily and Chris I'm Jim Edsel, the CEO of sport Oregon. And thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today. I'll try to come at it from an additional angle from some of the other supporters of this.
 and also around equity. Our organization has worked closely with Portland Parks and Recreation over the 27 years of our existence and to support programs benefiting our community's quality of life and also identifying and recruiting events that utilize city parks to drive sports tourism, which in turn benefits local businesses.
 As a nonprofit supported by over 150 member organizations and individuals in our community, our mission is to drive economic growth and enhance quality of life in Oregon communities through sports.
 A healthy Portland Parks and Recreation is a critical partner as we look to grow sports tourism and equitable opportunities for every citizen of our city that enhance the health and wellness of our entire community, especially underserved communities. The long-term financial stability and predictability that this operating levy would provide
 will help tremendously as we recruit and plan for future sports tourism events utilizing our parks. The budget uncertainties for parks, especially over the last decade, have made it extremely difficult
 for Parks and Recreation, Sport Oregon, and our partners at Travel Portland to commit to hosting these events as we often work two to five years in advance of the events actually happening in our community after they're secured.
 Having that budget certainly would create more sports tourism wins, and that would create much needed local and economic quality of life impacts, especially in our hospitality industry that is really hurting. COVID has caused us to lose customers.
 numerous events that would have had impacts ranging from 2,000 to 6,000 room nights in our city's hotels. And obviously the trickle down into our restaurants and local businesses have been felt. So sports tourism will be one of the first to come back and a strong park system will land us additional incremental events.
 events in our efforts. I appreciate the opportunity to share why Sport Oregon supports you voting to put this operating levy on the November ballot and wish you well. Thank you for everything you do for our city. Thank you Jim, we appreciate it. Thanks. Thank you for the good work you do. Thank you. Appreciate your support. Next is Tanya DeCrosse. Hi Tanya.
 Oh, hello everyone. Thank you so much. It's an honor to get a moment of your time to introduce my name, Tanya Louise DeCrow, Sands Mine Mission. Just a quick little background about who I am. I am a longtime Northeast Portland resident. I am native from Denver. I moved here in Portland in 1996 and have made Northeast my home. I live in Coley, have been here for over about 10 years now and prior to that in the Alameda area. I'm
 I am really quite excited at the end of listening to all of you. You have wonderful ideas. At the end of all this, I am a supporter of the levy. I first heard about it yesterday through social media, and it was one of the infrastructures that came to me as I'd been wondering what I could do to help our communities better. I'm a retired medical and educational speech language therapist. I retired in 2016 after servicing our most gradual communities in both medical and educational
 I worked under the Providence Health System for a little under 10 years, both as an employee and then in 2006 went just on call, filling in as I could. So I have a unique experience.
 perspective that I bring to you from the pediatrics to the adults throughout the state, really, and also our medically fragile schools that are serviced quite often through medical contracts under Medicaid billing, where they are providing the allied services that many school districts have deemed needed to keep our students safe, as well as accessing our
 curriculum and outcomes for their maturation. So moving along, you'll see I did submit comments and you can read a little bit more about who I am. I did have the honor of also sitting this morning in the Rockefeller Foundation's first live virtual event to let us know what they're trying to do to help support national efforts. You may know they've been here locally working with OHSU to support the COVID
 Needs that we need so desperately, especially around the testing, tracing, and supporting of the PPE and social distancing protocols. I am a support. I did send you a link there. They're really wanting to let you know that they have invested today massive amounts of funding, $75 billion, for community enhancements that are servicing low-income populations, especially around COVID-19.
 requirements to support their mission to leave no trace, do no harm, and also build partnerships between business, government, and our public sectors and individual actors like myself. Anyway, you'll see my comments also include some of my special ed background and a lot of the platform that gives us a great data point for science starting in 1954 all the way up to your wonderful Oregon Senate Bill 64 of last summer.
 So some of my questions have already been answered after listening to all of you so eloquently present your positions. Some difficulty here and I know, but I do see some hope at the end of hearing all of it. One of my.
 last comments is just making sure that you know we have a lot of populations out there that fall under a tier 3 setting and they actually can come together through partnerships with your medical and your educational settings they do have that infrastructure in place after listening to one of your goals about the levy we can build on that and I do think there's also some unique opportunities to build on some of these other like through the Rockefeller Foundation is one that I did find
 a lot of inspiration and to help us identify what is in place and what we can do better. And again, they want to help the most needy. Thank you so much for the time to present today. And please put my name somewhere. I'd love to be involved and help us, however, unite in COVID and do some real community peace building around this. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you, Toni. We appreciate it very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next is Julia Brim Edwards.
 Welcome!
 Good afternoon, everybody. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, I'm Julia Brim Edwards, Nike Senior Director for Global Government and Public Affairs. Nike's been our home community for four years, and we have a long history with Portland Parks and Rec. I just want to maybe say personally before I start that I've been a neighbor of Portland Park for over 50 years. I've been a park employee at Creston Pool and certainly been a beneficiary of the
 Parks programming as I was growing up. Just to speak as I referenced our Nikes long history with Portland Parks. We've also been engaged with leaders since for many decades including Charles Jordan, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Fish. We were delighted when Director Long joined Portland Parks and her leadership and
 And over the years, we've looked at parks as a critical piece of what makes Portland special in our home community. Our largest, our 30-year anniversary project, which...
 was the resurfacing of basketball courts all over the city was our way to say thank you to Portland for being our home community. At the time it was the largest global community investment we've made. Since then, over the last decade, we've financially supported summer free-for-alls, field upgrades, and youth sports programming.
 And, you know, I can't understate the importance that we see of the park system in the broader community. They give Portlanders a place to play. They provide an opportunity for recreation.
 individuals in our community to be outside, to be in natural places. And I will say, you know, somebody who's right now living right next to the park, our parks are being used more than ever before. The amount of use of our parks during this
 This time has just, I think, expanded exponentially because it's giving people a place to go outside. They're using parks in a different way, but really a critical piece of our city's infrastructure, what keeps us together and connects us. So I just want to close by saying we're going to, Nike's strongly supporting Portland Parks and Rec, Director Long, the Parks and Rec staff, and...
 support the council's referral of this levy for the November election, and we look forward to providing
 support for it this fall. And I'm just hesitating because I'm thinking about our good friend Commissioner Frit Fish, who would have been the biggest booster and if we hadn't offered to step up to help, he'd be twisting our arms to help. And so I know this fall campaign, we will miss his leadership as part of it, and he would have really
 been so supportive of this and always made the case of why parks matter to our community. They're not just places to play, but really important community building places. So thank you for the opportunity to testify today. And we are very supportive of the measure. Julia, thank you. And thank you for doing a daily double today. We appreciate that. Thanks for your leadership. And thank you for Nike support. Commissioner Fritz has her hand raised.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Julia, for Nike's support. You, I'm sure, will remember that back in 2014, since I did not have Commissioner Fish's prowess in encouraging people to donate to the campaign, the Portland Parks Foundation was helpful in that regard, but also many, many community members and companies stepped up. I believe it cost a little over $300,000 to run that campaign.
 Before it's referred, we can actually mention that yes, we would like both your support and other community members. And sometimes people need to be wait to be asked to donate to campaigns. I hope that in this case, people will recognize the need and step up. And I know that you and Nike will, thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion on the resolution?
 Oh, you know what? I had one last question. I'm sorry. Director Long or somebody from the Parks Bureau staff, could you quickly go through the logic of why we abandoned the Parks District strategy? That came up early in the testimony, and obviously that was something that we were all hopeful about.
 could be a viable option for us but fairly quickly we realized that that was not going to work. Is there somebody who can quickly review the reasoning behind that?
 Yes, thank you Mayor Wheeler. This is Sarah Huggins from Parks. Hi Sarah. Hi. So the primary reason that a Parks district is not something that we're considering in the short term is that it involves an actual change in governance structure. So under Oregon State law the current city council could not be the governing body of a Parks district. It would need to be a new independently elected body or it could be county commissioners.
 So that is still something that could be on the table for a longer term, but it would take significant time to put in place. We have, you know, parks make up 10% of the city's land, so that is a significant conversation that the city would need to have. We also have many ongoing labor contracts. We would need to figure out how that works.
 And then just sort of the mechanics of putting a special district in place. It is not something the city council could refer to the ballot. So it would need to be referred by your the consent of every single Portland or 15% by a petition of Portlanders and then there's also a long timeframe. So 180 days before it could go before the county to consider for referral.
 So that was not something that we could do in a shorter time frame. Thank you, Sarah. I appreciate that. All right. I think if I could just add to that, Mayor, the other issue is that we're not just Multnomah County. There are parts of Portland in Washington and Clackamas counties. So creating a district that actually would cover all of Portland would be extremely challenging.
 No disagreement there, Commissioner Fritz, but I wanted to get that on the record since it had been raised and reasonable people would naturally, as frankly I did early on, gravitate towards that as a possible permanent funding solution. So it's still on the table for the future, but I agree, at least in the near term, the hurdles that we have to jump over are too high.
 So that brings us, I don't see any more hands raised. That brings us to the vote. This is a resolution. Carla, please call the roll. Udaily? I didn't realize I was going first. Well, first I want to thank everyone for presenting. I want to thank community members who gave testimony today.
 Because this is on kind of an accelerated timeline, I'm reassured to hear from so many trusted advocates that they are supporting this levy. I wanted to...
 just highlight something that came up during the session, which is that levy dollars can be used for operations and maintenance, unlike the bond. And that has been a real problem for parks in the past. And it's one of the reasons that the levy is the more desirable option at this time. And I want to suggest that one of the things,
 opportunities that this levy might allow is for parks to take on the Duckworth dock which Human Access Project has been championing it as a potentially world-class urban swimming hole and recently installed multiple swimming ladders on the dock and it is being put to good use during this heat wave and
 And it's one of, I'm sure, many facilities that would be a fantastic part of our parks portfolio, or could be if this levy passes. So I am happy to offer my support and vote aye. Fritz? Yes.
 So Commissioner Udeli raises a good point that there are many uses for this potential money and we're all clear this is not enough. I believe that when we had the discussion last year the estimate to really fund a good park system with urban forestry and various other and adequate maintenance was at least a hundred thousand a hundred million per year. So this and
 And frankly, when I was briefed on this earlier in the year and then just before we were no longer in City Hall, I was disappointed that the levy had been proposed because it doesn't fix the problem. It's a stopgap. And then COVID came along and there's so many things that need to be taken care of this
 this will take care of some of the most urgent needs. This will and I very much appreciate that it seems that parks is re-imagining and re-envisioning the park system, building it from the ground up to look at the most vulnerable to see how we fund things. So that is really exciting to me. I'm
 have been hesitant about adding property taxes. We know that there's a lot of inequities in the property tax system. We know that people in East Portland tend to pay proportionately more in property taxes. And if this had been proposed during Commissioner Fish's first go around with parks, I would have,
 been very concerned about it. Because we passed the parks bond measure in 2014, and we invested money in East Portland because we had $100 million to invest in new park facilities, over 70 million of which was invested in East Portland. East Portland now finally has
 some wonderful parks that need to be taken care of. So it would be tragic if we invested all that development charge money and then couldn't maintain those parks as they need to be maintained. And so for that reason, I'm much more supportive. Thank you, Sarah Huggins, for your work, not only with this measure of
 that also with the parks bond measure. You know, parks looks really hard to do what they say they're going to do. And we know that Portlanders love our parks. So we have received quite a lot of correspondence, much of it in support and some of it saying, please don't raise my property taxes.
 This is we're not raising the property tax by doing this. We are sending it to the voters to decide what is the best allocation for their property taxes and while
 Commissioner Hardesty has the right to her opinions. We serve in a commission form of government and the Mayor's Parks Commissioner and the Parks Director have determined that this is the best thing to do at this time and therefore I will support it enthusiastically. I do encourage community members to find out how you can become involved because especially
 In COVID, we need to have people by word of mouth. And sometimes that might be Zoom. Sometimes that might be phone call. Sometimes it might be from one side of the street to the other or one side of the park to the other. We are going to need people to understand what is it we're proposing, what is it going to do and why we would like them to support it.
 And so I will try to, as I'm campaigning for the Water Bureau's ballot measure, I will certainly make sure that I add my support and explain to people all the things that I just mentioned. And although this wouldn't have been Commissioner Fish's first choice, I know how much he cared about parks and I know how much he was proud of what Director Long is doing. So I'm happy to vote yes in his honour. Aye.
 Wheeler. As I said at the beginning of this hearing, this is an inflection point for the future of Portland Parks and Recreation. And as Director Long said,
 It's an opportunity to make sure we continue to serve all of Portlanders and to serve them better than before. My office in the Parks Bureau have heard from many community members, including those who joined us today, who support this proposal and want to see more of the vital programs and services that Portland Parks and Recreation provides. I agree. This levy can help us achieve a more equitable, robust, and financially stable park system.
 I've heard concerns from some that this is rushed or that the timing isn't right. Parks has been facing budget challenges for at least the past decade. The Parks team has been diligently researching and developing solutions based on the Council's feedback during the work session that we had last November.
 The challenges caused by COVID have made it clear to me that this levy is not only responsive to the borough's urgent financial needs, but that it would also improve services during a time when Portlanders have been relying on free lunches, outdoor spaces, and other critical parks programs more than ever.
 To the second concern I've heard, that the timing isn't right, I recognize that there are other asks of taxpayers on the November ballot and that we're facing economic challenges on both an individual as well as a global scale. I get it, but let's be clear.
 This would provide a huge return on investment with offerings like free swim lessons, free after school activities for kids and teens, free summer camps, programs for seniors, new culturally specific programs, a way to keep the doors open at Multnomah Arts Center and the Community Music Center.
 cleaner parks and natural areas all across our entire city, and much, much more. These programs, I believe, would especially benefit low-income households, East Portlanders, and communities of color. And parks will work with the community to ensure that we follow through on these commitments. I just want to take a moment to talk about jobs. I believe we can all agree that right now, more than ever, we need good paying jobs.
 jobs, union jobs. As our labor partners who are present today pointed out, this levy would create a wide range of new jobs like recreation staff, professional maintenance staff, administrative support staff, and staffing in many other key areas.
 One of the possibilities I'm personally most excited about is expanding the Bureau's Youth Conservation Crew. It gives teens and young adults real job experience, and it creates a pipeline to a range of environmental career opportunities. With this levy, Portland Parks and Recreation would once again be the largest employer of youth in the entire city.
 Colleagues, I believe the answer is clear and the time is now. I'd like to take a moment for some important thank yous. First and foremost, to thank the community for cherishing your parks and recreation system and pushing us to make it better.
 To our invited guests today, we appreciate your time and support. Thank you to the team who helped put this exciting proposal together. Deputy Parks Director Todd Lofgren, Finance, Property, and Technology Manager Claudio Camposano, Community Relations Manager Tim Collier, Program Specialist,
 Nicola Sisson, and City Attorney Robert Taylor, and of course, our City Economist Josh Harwood. And two quick extra special thank yous to Sarah Huggins, who's led the research and development that brought us here today. Sarah, your passion for parks and a more equitable community have never wavered.
 and to Director Adina Long, who's led the Bureau with poise, passion, and dedication since her first day in Portland. Thank you. And of course, I'd like to thank my council colleagues for their thoughtful questions and working towards what is a shared goal of a more sustainable future for Portland Parks and Recreation.
 Commissioner Fritz, I want to thank you especially for your service as Parks Commissioner. Your commitment to building new parks in underserved communities like East Portland is going to leave a lasting legacy, one that you should be very proud of. And speaking of legacy, we wouldn't even be here today without the work of Commissioner Nick Fish. Nick's vision for parks was simple. Put people first.
 He did it by expanding our community gardens program so that people could grow their own fresh and healthy food, by making simple investments like a new playground that have big impacts for the community, by rallying the business community to support the summer free-for-all, a name that he came up with, and by his work to put the Bureau on solid financial footing.
 I'm proud that we're taking this step toward fulfilling that vision. I vote aye, and the resolution is adopted. And with that, Carla, we've been at this for quite a while. Why don't we take a recess for 10 minutes? We will be back at 425. We are in recess. Thank you.
 I see your lips moving, but I can't hear. Sorry, I was just organizing my desktop here. I am not a digital native, so I'm not as nimble as I'd like to be. All right, we are back in session. This is the Portland City Council, of course. If you thought you were going to be watching something else, you blew it. Carla, could you please read item 617, our final item for today?
 Yes. Amend planning and zoning code to extend the expiration date for some land use approvals, maintain inclusionary housing rates outside the central city and gateway plan districts, and allow for virtual neighborhood contact meetings.
 Thank you, Carla, and thank you, colleagues. Today we're continuing our discussion of the expiration date extension project from the July 8th hearing. We will vote on several amendments that were introduced at that hearing and vote on revised findings. As we all know, the COVID-19 pandemic has had widespread impacts in our city, including on the construction and development sectors of our economy and on the development review process.
 These impacts, which include slowdowns to the application process as well as on job sites, physical distancing requirements, and COVID-related economic uncertainty, are causing land use reviews to expire before applicants have the opportunity to act on them. The Expiration Project is a package of proactive steps the City can take to provide some relief to applicants affected by the pandemic.
 On July 8th, a public hearing was held on this package. At the hearing, BPS staff presented the project. I introduced four amendments to the proposal, and they were all seconded at that time. Several community members provided testimony at the hearing as well.
 Today, we'll be getting a brief update from the BPS staff. We will then vote on the amendments introduced at the July 8th hearing and move second and vote on the revised findings. So with that, I'll turn it over to BPS staff, J.P. McNeil, to give us an update. Greetings. Greetings.
 Hello, good afternoon Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council. For the record, I'm JP McNeil and I am trying to share my screen. Do you see my screen? Yep, we do. It seems large. I can't tell if it's... Let me try something different. I have it all full screened out and that might be the problem. Maybe. Oh, now it stopped. Let's try this.
 Where did it go? There it is. Is that any better? Yeah, that's better. That's good. Let's do this. All right. So as you mentioned, Mayor, the project addresses several issues related to the administration of the zoning code and the economic disruption the COVID-19 pandemic has had on the development market. So this proposal will amend Title 33 to provide relief to applicants impacted by the pandemic.
 So I'm just going to give you a quick refresher. I'm not going to go into detail on these, but just very quickly. These are the eight proposals that were recommended to you by the Planning and Sustainability Commission. The first is the pre-application conference proposal. This would extend the timeframes for pre-application conferences from one to two years.
 The virtual neighborhood contact proposal, this allows neighborhood contact meetings to occur virtually using video conferencing technology. The land use review proposal extends the expiration date for land use reviews that have been impacted by the pandemic. Generally they expire after three years and this would extend a set of land use reviews until January 1st of 2024.
 The final plat proposal under the current code of final plat can expire, expires after 180 days of inactivity. This extends that period of inactivity to 365 days before the final plat expires.
 The Conway Master Plan proposal, that would extend the Conway Master Plan for a large segment of Northwest Portland. The Master Plan is set to expire in 2022, and this would extend it until January 1st of 2024.
 The non-conforming upgrades proposal, this extends the compliance period for non-conforming upgrades which are required for building permits for large alterations on sites with non-conforming development. So this would extend the agreements impacted until January 1st of 2022.
 The inclusionary housing rates proposal, there's currently a lower rate of affordable housing is required for inclusionary housing projects outside of the central city and gateway. And so this proposal would extend those lower rates which were set to expire at the end of this year. Finally, the list of terms proposal is just a simple quick fix to the code to add some terms that were inadvertently left out with the Better Housing by Design project.
 Real quick, I'll just cover the mayor's amendments, as you mentioned, Mayor.
 The amendments that were introduced at the July 8th hearing, the retroactivity amendment, which expands the extension period for the land use review extensions, would have begun capturing land use reviews effective as of the date of this ordinance. This amendment allows the proposal to apply retroactively to land use reviews that began to expire at the time the pandemic hit Portland, which we've correlated with the governor's emergency declaration on March 8th.
 The virtual neighborhood contact amendment, which simply extends the allowance for virtual neighborhood contact meetings until January 1st of 2024. The inclusionary housing amendment, this would limit the extension of the lower affordable housing rates for inclusionary housing projects outside the central city and gateway. So that would be limited from three years to one year.
 And finally, the SDC amendment. This is for system development charges. It would delay the increase of SDCs for PBOT, BES, and the Water Bureau that went into effect on July 1st of this year, and it would just delay that until August 1st. And this corresponds to a four-week backlog in permit processing at BDS.
 Quickly, the testimony after the last hearing, the record was held open until July 15th at 5 p.m. There was no additional testimony submitted after the July 8th hearing. So in sum, we had eight pieces of written testimony to the PSC, two pieces to you at city council. And there were seven testifiers at our July 8th hearing.
 So with that, that's my brief refresher and update. Unless there are any questions for me, I will turn it back to you, Mayor. Very good, colleagues. Any further questions at this particular juncture? I don't see any. Very good. Next, we'll vote on the end. Oh, sorry, Commissioner. Mayor.
 Yeah, I'm sorry. I was not able to see the raise hand thing. So there was a late breaking issue with the Portland Water Bureau because of the way they charge their system development charges. I understand that your staff and the Water Bureau are working on that. Does anybody have an update on that? Commissioner Fritz, this is Lauren King. Yes, we do have an update and it is included in Amendment 4. The mayor will be introducing that. Okay, thank you.
 Very good. So the first amendment aligns with the start date of the proposal to extend land use review of her approvals retroactive to the start of the pandemic specifically the amendment that I proposed moves the start date back to March 8 of 2017. This amendment does not apply to sites in incorporated Multnomah County or to land divisions.
 This we refer to as Mayor's Amendment Number 1. Is there any further discussion on Number 1? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Udaly? Fritz? Aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. The second amendment extends the proposal to allow for virtual public meetings until January 1st, 2024 to match the other proposals. Since we don't know how long this pandemic is going to be with us, obviously it makes sense to extend this proposal longer than the end of this year. Is there any further discussion on this amendment? This was Mayor's Amendment 2. Please call the roll. Udaly. Aye.
 I would just like to say that I support the extended time frame for virtual neighborhood contact meetings and that my office and Civic Life are in the process of procuring an online civic engagement platform that I think could serve these purposes very well. I vote aye. Fritz? Yes.
 I continue to be concerned about moving only to virtual meetings. Certainly right now, obviously it's the main option. And I have voiced this to the various people concerned and I know that they will continue to keep that in mind moving forward. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Amendment 3, and the amendment passes. Amendment 3 is to reduce the amount of time the lower inclusionary housing
 RATES WOULD CONTINUE TO APPLY OUTSIDE OF THE CENTRAL CITY AND GATEWAY FROM THREE YEARS TO ONE YEAR. AS I MENTIONED DURING OUR PREVIOUS HEARING, I'M COMMITTED TO A PORTLAND HOUSING BUREAU STUDY FOCUSED ON WAYS TO IMPROVE THE INCLUSIONARY HOUSING PROGRAM. AND I BELIEVE A ONE-YEAR EXTENSION PROVIDES A REASONABLE TIME FRAME TO ALIGN WITH THIS EFFORT. IS THERE ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION ON THIS AMENDMENT? SEEING NONE, CARLA, PLEASE CALL THE ROLL.
 I'm looking forward to that study as well. And the opportunity to kind of refine these policies, make sure that we are not skewing incentives. We're closing loopholes and looking forward to that conversation. I vote aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted.
 As moved, Amendment 4 will postpone the effective dates of the system development charges for the Bureaus of Environmental Services, Water, and Transportation. This amendment delays the effective date of the new rates until August 1, 2020 to account for permit processing delays at BDS and allows applicants to minimize the financial impact of the SDC fee increases.
 During the last hearing, this amendment was moved and seconded, but the amendment did not include all of the exhibits and included the water barrel. If there's no objection,
 I would like to make a friendly amendment to include Exhibits C and D. Exhibit C reflects the VES system development charge fees, the SDC fees. Exhibit D reflects PBOT's SDC fees. Again, these are the fees that will be in place until August 1st, 2020. My friendly amendment also removes Water Bureau from the list.
 The Water Bureau has indicated that unlike the BES and PBOT, they do not assess SDCs at the time of application. My office circulated an ordinance to reflect this change. And assuming that everybody finds that language acceptable, I would like to withdraw my previous amendment and have a motion in a second to put this one on the table instead, which we will then vote on. Second. Second.
 We have a second from Commissioner Fritz. I've moved it. Call the roll. You daily. Fritz. So just to further explain what the mayor said, the other in,
 infrastructure bureaus get their system development charges on permit application intakes that makes sense for them to delay the month to accommodate the delay the Water Bureau doesn't receive a system development charges until the developer is ready for installation which is months to years after the permit has been taken in an issue and and since it's completely up to the developer when they request a fee statement from the Water Bureau which signals they're ready for the water installation to be formed
 performed. We apply the rates of the fiscal year when they are made, when the request is made. So there wouldn't be a way to capture the folk, to help the folks intended to benefit from this extension. So I appreciate the mayor and his staff's quick work to get this done, as well as the assistance of the city attorney's office. I appreciate it.
 Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted, and thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Finally, staff has prepared updated findings, Exhibit A to the ordinance, to reflect the amendments and testimony that we received. This is a new amendment and requires a motion and a second. Can I get a motion and a second to amend the ordinance by substituting updated Exhibit A? So moved. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Udalli, a second from Commissioner Fritz.
 Any questions or comments on that particular one before we call a roll? Seeing none, Carla please call the roll on that exhibit. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. All right. All right. Are there any further questions or statements from my colleagues before we move this on? I was just going to get to another question.
 This is going to go to another vote next week. Correct. Is that correct? So I just want to state for the record how grateful I am to attorneys. I mentioned this this morning, but in particular, not only attorneys, but planners and permit staff and all of the people who process these permit applications and all the, you know, dot the I's and cross the T's and make sure that the money is done correctly. And so I do appreciate all of these people,
 attention to detail and I'm confident that we got it right now so thanks everybody
 Very good. I also want to thank staff who've worked so hard to prepare this proposal very quickly and address the COVID-19 impacts on the development review customers. This is obviously pretty thick stuff, and it's times like this when I'm glad we all have really smart staffs, both at the council level and in our bureaus and in our legal department, to be able to help us muddle through all of this. So thank you. This matter is continued to July 29th.
 At 10 a.m. time certain for a second reading and a vote on the proposal. If council is in full agreement on the proposal at that hearing, we have the option of adding an emergency clause to the ordinance. Before I conclude the hearing, I see Lauren, and that always makes me very twitchy. Lauren, you got anything else to add? I just wanted to make sure we had it continued to a date and time certain, and you had it.
 All right, very good. Thank you to our council clerk staff for hanging with us all day and doing an exceptional job. Thank you to our bureau leadership and bureau staffers who are with us all day. Thank you to my colleagues and their staffs and to everybody who testified today. Thank you. This concludes today's hearing. We are adjourned.