hey good morning everybody the council will uh come to order and carla could you please call the role saltzman here novick fritz here fish hails okay i'm going to uh read a few comments about our conduct of our meetings here today uh the purpose of council meetings is the orderly consideration of the public's business preservation of order and decorum is necessary for due consideration of matters before council
 The public is welcome to attend council meetings. During the meeting, there will be time-limited opportunities for public comment on various agenda items. Although citizens can sign up for communications, public testimony on a council calendar item must address the matter being considered. If you come up to testify, please state your name for the record. We do not need your address. If you are a lobbyist, please disclose that information at the start of your testimony.
 if you are here representing an organization i ask that you please disclose that as well unless otherwise informed each community member will have three minutes to speak in front of council at two and a half minutes you'll hear a beep and the light will flash on the box before you at three minutes you'll hear four beeps and the lights will flash and that will be the time for the next person to speak i ask that you respect the time limit so that there's time to hear from each person who has signed up to speak
 If you have any handouts, please give those to our council clerk, and she will distribute them to us. Please testify only to the matter at hand. Council rules of procedure seek to preserve the public order and to ensure that council deliberations proceed efficiently and that all who want to participate get to be heard. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting during people's presentations or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed.
 Please show your support or displeasure with your hands, i.e., wave, thumbs up, thumbs down. This is a warning that anyone disrupting this proceeding may be escorted from council chambers and excluded from city hall. Okay, so that is the rules, and then we'll start with council communications. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Item 854, request of Brian Quinn to address council regarding saving Portland historic sidewalk stamps, parking issues in close in southeast. Morning, Mr. Quinn. If you could just give us your name and you have three minutes and the time is right in front of you. My name is Brian Quinn. This is my third time here. I've talked about saving sidewalk stamps and I think it's a unique experience.
 piece of Portland that needs to be saved. But that's not why I'm here today exactly. I recently broke up a scuffle out in front of my house over a parking spot, and I feel like I need to say something just for my own mental health. I'm having a hard time getting over it. The growth, I think it's irresponsible that we continue to build these –
 I think they're kind of like vertical strip malls with no parking. People need a place to park, and they're coming out into neighborhoods, and they're irritating. Apparently, they irritated my neighbor to the point where they got into it. I just don't want to see parking rage make road rage look like a civil conversation. I was...
 Happy to see an 09, 10, 11 construction was starting, but I had no idea we were going to create Port Adelphia. And I don't think that we have the infrastructure in place to have this many people and not do something about it. Green's my favorite color. I'm all about just bike boxes, but I don't think that's going to help
 In the long run, you've got 2,000 people a month coming here, and they have cars. The West Coast, people have cars. Some people have two cars. So if we could figure out a way to maybe have these developers pay, maybe pay more for not having to build a parking structure. They've got to be saving a million dollars a building or two. And...
 Belmont, Division, Hawthorne, if you dug up the asphalt, there's tracks underneath there where the trolleys used to run. I would bet that that stuff's still in good order. It's been covered over. So if we could maybe look at bringing the trolleys back, I think that would help. And I think we need to start talking about revenue. I know that's important.
 Not something that people want to hear anymore, but got to end these tax cuts for people that don't really need them, in my opinion. So anyway, old story probably. But when it got physical, I figured I had to say something. Thank you very much, Mr. Quinn. All right.
 Read item 855, please. Request of Norm Santana to address council regarding city council meetings being held on either weekends or a weekday evening. Mr. Santana, are you here? Apparently not. Well, maybe he'll show up in a few minutes, but let's go ahead and read 856. Request of Mary Eng to address council regarding the Americans with Disabilities Act and the disability treaties worldwide. Morning, Ms. Eng. Good morning.
 Hello, Council. Just give us your name, and you have three minutes. Thank you, Mr. Saltzman. My name is Mary Eng, and I want to present my American passport. This is the United States of America. This is a new one. I think there's even a picture of me there with short hair. I thank you very much for being here today. I would like to also present the United...
 State's Department of State memo on the International Disabilities Treaty opening the world to travel. It's fabulous to have an ADA, but when disabled people travel abroad, they need to have access to...
 accessibility devices and inclusivity that we take as a norm in the United States of America. So let's make that happen and inspire change worldwide. Then I've got a Department of Justice memo from Vanita Gupta yesterday. She printed this about Americans with Disability Act litigation to get states into compliance. Like for instance, the abuse of disabled people in the state of Oregon working poverty wages.
 $1.70 per hour, bringing them up to a livable wage. So this is just really exciting. There's a voting accessibility. But I just happened to run into Porkchop yesterday, and he said he would be my bodyguard in case you guys plant a weapon on me or threaten to plant a corkscrew on me, which I don't drink it.
 9.30 a.m. I don't know whatever got into John Chandler of G4S that he would allege such a thing and brutalize me and cover me with bruises, even though you know I have post-traumatic stress disorder. So poor Chop said he would be here because I come here with trepidation, but I'm not as scared today, and I'm not shaking as much as I was the other day. And the bruises are healing.
 And the neck injury from Benjamin Pickering is healing, although it bothered me tremendously this morning when I woke up. Poor chap said he would speak. Would you permit his access to give some 60 seconds? 16 seconds, yes. 60, yes. Okay, 60 seconds.
 I'm here about the disabled act and stuff. I'm very upset about what's going on with Bud Clark. It's a heroin junkie house that you know we've been in your office about that. Now we've got Springwater Trail out there that you guys are going to go mess up.
 And I'll let you know that the Hawthorne bus is out here working. There is other solutions. Instead of running people like cattle and pigs around town, let's keep them where they're at. Let's work on a solution and not move them like cattle. I'm here. I'm pissed. I've lost my apartment.
 because of drugs, and I'm a recovered drug addict. I got 10 years clean and sober. I didn't relapse in there, okay? And I'm out here, and I'm dying, and I built the Hawthorne Plus because that's a solution. Okay, thank you both. Could you please read item 857? Request of Craig A. Rogers to address counsel regarding transparent and accountable. Morning, Mr. Rogers. Good morning, Mr. Rogers.
 Just give us your name and you have three minutes. My name is Craig Rogers. And if you drive down Broadway and you approach Portland State, there's a walkway over it. And up there across in big letters, it says, let knowledge serve the city. Okay.
 Well, to have knowledge, you need information. And I think that in a lot of ways, things aren't transparent or accountable down here. And I think there needs to be a point that things are made transparent and accountable to the citizens. I think sometimes members of council forget who sent them to the dance. And it's important for us to know perhaps somebody has a priority of developers.
 So I think actually over the last four years, it should say animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than other animals. Yes?
 And where I live at, on this hillside across from East Portland Community Center, there's this pop-up neighborhood now that's getting more dense. And just since Sunday, we had police involved. We've had some very attentive park rangers that helped resolve the issue. And I realized that what we're doing, we're criminalizing the homeless and making
 I have a friend that lives on the same block as Ted Kulangoski in Lawhurst, incredible, beautiful craftsman home. And she said, you know, if I was homeless, I'd be doing drugs too. So I think we need to take a serious look at Wapato. What's the deal with Wapato? It just sits there, not even being used. These people that are homeless need stability. Okay.
 More than anything else, they need stability. And they aren't going to get it if they're out there living on the street. So it's very expensive to be poor. So I think they need to be housed at Wapato. And people need to come up to the plate and make a difference in that. And I think you need to think about something, too. There's a legal term called the prudent person standard. And that needs to be invoked more and more down here. And when...
 Members of city council take the oath of office. I want them to say this. Do no harm. So I think what we got going on down here, and when I made an appointment to speak here, I asked when full council would be present. And regrettably, our mayor is not present today.
 But I wanted to say this to him, that what we have here is a case of the emperor has no clothes. And I request that Charlie Hales resign. Thank you, Mr. Rogers. Could you read item 858, please? Request of Pedro Ferbel Ascarate and Ovar Perez to address counsel regarding police accountability and community relationship. Good morning. Good morning. If you could just give us your names and then you have.
 Three minutes between the two of you. And the clock's right in front of you. I'm Pedro Ferbella-Scarate. I'm Hulbert Perez. I'm teaching at Portland State University. I teach in the Black Studies Department, and I also teach civic engagement capstone classes. And Hulbert is a student in the class. And, of course, we've had conversations recently about police accountability and racial profiling.
 and strategies around that. And one thing we can do is come to our city council. I'm also disappointed that the mayor is not here because he is in charge of our police. So that is a disappointment. But I've been in Portland since the mid-90s. And since I got here, we've got a whole series of, I'd say, like names and challenges from Jose Mejia, Poot, Kendra James, and
 James Jihar Perez, James Chassie, Aaron Campbell, Keaton Otis. It's like we're not unlike other cities, Baton Rouge, St. Paul, Baltimore. And I'd love to live in a city where I could imagine that I don't have to continue this list and read in the news or watch another video. So I would press for prioritizing police accountability, racial profiling,
 use of deadly force, shoot to kill training. I think we really need to rethink these things, mental health crisis training, and that this should be a city priority. Thank you. Again, my name is Hulver Perez, 2016 Portland State University graduate with a Bachelor's of Arts in Communication Studies and Media Effects.
 Most importantly, I've been a resident here in Portland for the past 10 years. Portland raised me to be the man I am here sitting today. As an Hispanic and Mexican-American, I have witnessed and felt like many other minorities the disappointment and unjustified stereotypes from some of our local police officers and officials. I have also experienced a divisive and hostile environment our current political climate and rhetoric has created.
 I'm here to challenge not only the accountability of police, but us as a community, local politicians and leaders to take a more critical and responsible approach and not let the media and stereotypes hinder our thought process and perceptions when we are interacting with each other. It's time to create an even stronger relationship between our local authority figures and the community as a whole.
 And it starts with effective communication. Even more essential, I'm here to challenge the stereotypes that not only us as minorities experience on the daily, but stereotypes that police officers also face. We all fall under the common ground that we all want to live well and comfortable in our home, in our city. Thank you very much, both of you. Thank you. My understanding is that the mayor was planning to be here and is unfortunately not able to be here.
 So before we move to the consent calendar, I wanted to recognize Commissioner Fish, who's going to recognize some special guests we have this morning. Thank you, Mr. President. I have the great honor of being the commissioner in charge of the Bureau of Environmental Services. And each summer we welcome a distinguished group of interns who spend the summer with us learning about our work.
 And we hope that among those interns are people that someday think of a career with the city of Portland, particularly in my bureau. And we're very grateful that they've chosen to spend the summer with us. And I'd like to ask, I'd like to acknowledge them. And when I call your name, I'd ask you to stand and then we'll ask to suspend the rules so we can acknowledge you in the Portland way. Devante Amundsen, Raylene Kaiser, Jose Marino.
 Nathan Morton, Jessica Rodriguez, and Ellie Santo. And Maggie Campbell could not join us. Folks, this is the future of our community. Let's give them a round of applause for their service. Thank you all for joining us today. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Okay. So, Carla, do we do the consent calendar or do we do the time certain? Consent first. Okay. So we'll move to the consent calendar. I know that there's been a request to pull item 11.
 865 and 871 to regular agenda. Are there any other items anybody wishes to remove from the consent agenda? Okay, if not, please call the roll on the consent agenda. Novick? Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Okay, we'll move to our first time certain, item 859. Accept the Quarterly Technology Oversight Committee Report from the Chief Administrative Officer.
 Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Oh, good morning, Commissioners and absent Mayor. I'm Jen Clodius, Senior Management Analyst. Can you move a little closer to the microphone there, Jen? Okay. I'm Jen Clodius, Senior Management Analyst with the Office of Management and Finance, and I'm also the staff person for the Technology Oversight Committee. With me today are Jeff Baer, Director of the Bureau of Technology Services, and Diana Garcia, Director,
 Commissioner Fritz's representative on the TOC. As you know, the TOC is made up of five community members, each appointed by one of you.
 The others are Wilf Winfield, Mayor Hale's representative. I'm sorry, Wilf Pinfold, Mayor Hale's representative. Ken Neubauer for Commissioner Fish. Joshua Mitchell for Commissioner Novick. And Mike Lynch for Commissioner Saltzman. We're here to present the Technology Oversight Committee's quarterly report for April through June 2016.
 We'll project the dashboards for each project. Diana will describe what has occurred over those three months, and Jeff will provide the update on what's been going on since the time this report covers. So we will switch. So we have only one project to speak about today. It's the Information Technology Advancement Project. The Bureau is the Bureau of Development Services, and
 So this project develops a paperless permit and case management process to allow and allows complete online access to permitting and case review services.
 Project deliverables include digitalization and online access of historical permits and property information, implementation of an updated permit and case review information management system, online case and permit application review services, mobile online access for field staff, and an implementation of an automated queuing system.
 So the status, the TOC continues to have concerns about project duration, budget scope, and overall performance. This has been fairly consistent for this project. The major accomplishments this quarter is Project Docs was expected to go live in mid-June, early July. User and admin training is underway, which was good to see that happen.
 And then upcoming milestones in the next quarter is the project expects to work with INFO to assess work previously done, and project will reexamine the scope of the work that needs to be completed still. So the concerns and risks, TOC requests to find a way to break the project into smaller modules, so can we deliver more measurable chunks?
 in a kind of spaced out timeframe. Request a time loan and milestones for the next three months of work. And then what functionality the customer portal from a municipality who has already implemented this technology, we want to see a demo of that so we could see how other cities are using similar technologies.
 Thank you, Diana. Jeff Beer with the Bureau of Technology Services. And just a quick update on some of the other activity that's been going on since our
 Our TOC report has been submitted. We are in the process of bringing in a third-party consultant to do a project assessment, really looking at the governance model. Are there ways that we can position the city to make sure that we have a very successful go-forward strategy from this point forward? And also taking into account the concerns that you've seen through the TOC about can we –
 present this in more of a modularized approach and implementation and to see if we can do that in a much more structured fashion so that we can get some wins along the way in terms of getting to a point when we actually do the full implementation of the complete project.
 I think another few things that are very instrumental in understanding the project docs is being pushed by some very large projects. I think that's another example of how to break off a component piece of this so that we actually have something that we could look as a win in terms of having something in place and actually functioning. So with that, I know that...
 BDS Director Scarlett and I have been actively engaged, along with Commissioner Saltzman and his staff, to really look at how can we reformulate this at this point in time, since CRC is no longer part of the project team, but understanding what work has been done to date and how do we use that to go forward. Thank you very much. Questions? Thank you.
 So what kind of a deal did we get? Did you reach with Sierra in terms of switching over, and what is the plan for moving forward? Well, the Sierra contract expired in June, and we, both sides, basically decided not to continue forward, and we did settle with Sierra a modest amount to compensate them for maybe some extra travel, things like that. And...
 As Jeff said, we are looking at reformulating the project and figuring a strategy for going forward. And do you have an idea of when that strategy will be ready? I'm hopeful that we can have a strategy in the next 30, 60 days to go forward. And presumably that will mean contracting with somebody else to finish the project, another company? Presumably that's what it will mean, yes.
 You know, it's been enormously complicated. Yes, yes, it is. And we also plan to bring on somebody for a quick assessment of where we stand with the project, an outside consultant that would do a relatively quick 30-day assessment of where we are. Thank you very much. During the time that this report covers, there was one project that was completed. So the Versadex Computer Aided Dispatch, so VCAT?
 um system which operates the city of portland's bureau of emergency communication so very important piece of technology um and used to by public safety agencies throughout waldnama county to connect community and emergency services responders so this was an upgrade project and the project did complete completed successfully i think we were all very happy to see how smoothly the upgrade went for the project so and i believe
 we will get our 90-day post-implementation update here in August on the decommissioning activities of all the legacy platforms that they had as well.
 And I would just add that I think this is a great example of a technology project that actually goes very well and smooth. Very collaborative effort between the Bureau of Emergency Communications, so working with the BOEC staff has been extremely helpful in conjunction with our folks on the technology side and for a hardware refresh on a...
 a mission-critical public safety component, which we had a fairly narrow window to operate and get this up and running, and we hit that window. So a good example of a success story under a technology project. Any questions? Any further projects? We do have a few more projects that we expect that will be coming under the TOC's oversight. One is in conjunction with the Portland Building Reconstruction Project is the data center move-out and relocating that project.
 We are very close to releasing the RFP for that work and hiring the firm that will actually do that. That will be coming up underneath the TOC's portfolio very soon. Another one that we are working on is another module for the SAP, which is called Enterprise Asset Management.
 And also some of the other projects we've reviewed, or the TOC has at least reviewed, but are not necessarily under their official purview, but the invoice cloud implementation for the water billing system and also the 5E telephone switch replacement project. So it's not that they would have an official TOC portfolio, but we wanted to check in periodically to see how the progress is going. Good idea. Yeah.
 going very well so far from the updates we've received. Any further questions? On the Water Bureau piece, we're hopeful. I don't want to jinx it, but we're hopeful that we'll have auto pay back online in August. And then this fall, we'll be making some announcements, which I think our customers are going to cheer in terms of the new range of options they'll have with the system. So knock on wood.
 all right well thank you very much and i'll entertain a motion to accept the report so moved okay i didn't have a sign-up sheet i don't know if i'm sorry did anybody want to i'm sorry anybody want to test wish to testify on this report uh seeing none then okay carla please call the role here i'm just saying aye well congratulations commissioner novick and particularly um director lisa turley and her team at the bureau of environment of
 I'm just back from vacation and a little jet lagged. I got back yesterday at Emergency Communications. When I was in charge of the Bureau and we put in the Versaderm computer, it was on time, on budget, and worked, and similarly for this latest project. So as Lisa Charlie said,
 looks forward to retiring, I think we all owe her a debt of gratitude, as well as you and your staff team. Regarding the ITAP project, I know how hard the Bureau of Development Services has worked, and your team couldn't have done anything else to help it work along. Both Commissioner Saltzman and I have done major reviews of that project, and I support your decision to get a different project.
 I think that was definitely the problem. So thank you to you and your staff. I know you're just as disappointed as we are that haven't delivered so far, but we'll try again. Thank you, Commissioner Solson. Aye. Ms. I want to especially thank the citizen members of the Technology Oversight Committee for their good work.
 I can't think of a committee assignment or an assignment that we make at the city level that's more important than the work of this committee. And we've been well served by the citizen volunteers. So thank you very much. Aye. Councilman. Well, I'd like to echo those comments. I want to thank Ms. Garcia for being here today to represent the Technology Oversight Committee. And thank you for OMF for all the staff support you're providing. And I think...
 the decision to bring in some other projects for review, even though they may not necessarily formally fall under the scope of review of the Technology Oversight Committee, I think is a sound decision. So I appreciate that. Aye. Okay, the report is adopted, and we'll move to our next time certain, item 860. Dean, we're a little ahead of time. Oh, I'm sorry, we're ahead of time. Shall we do the consent items? Yes, let's do the consent items. You said 865. I think you said 865. 865. 871. 871.
 Would you like to read 865? Authorize a contract with SAP Public Services, Inc. in the amount of $3,484,100 to provide ongoing licenses and maintenance services for the city's enterprise business system.
 Morning, Celia. Good morning. Give us your name. My name is Celia Heron with the Office of Management and Finance. Satish Nath was here. We thought it was going to be her later, but I can speak to the issue. This is a fairly standard contract for ongoing maintenance and licensing of the city's SAP enterprise business system.
 The current contract is expiring. It was a five-year contract. We had a five-year extension, so now it's time to enter a new contract. City Code allows us to enter into a sole source and noncompetitive due to the nature of the – A, it's a single – there's only one vendor who can provide this information, this support, and it's an information technology licensing. Okay.
 So if you have questions about that. And SAP is the name of the company, right? SAP Public Services is the name of the company, yes. And just in layman terms, what does this project, what does the service that they provide? Well, among other things, it is the ongoing licensing and then any upgrades to SAP. But to do what? Licensing.
 What does SAP do? Oh, what does SAP do? It provides this city with its payroll and personnel system, finance, budget, accounts receivable, basically all the infrastructure systems that the city needs in order to run as an organization. Thank you. And presumably it was pilled because of the size of the contract rather than any particular concern? Thank you.
 Is this just for annual renewal of license or multi-year? Well, it's a five-year contract, and so it's ongoing. Okay.
 And, again, we don't have to belabor the point, but there were some questions raised by your two staff about SAP generally going forward. And it is moving toward a cloud-based system rather than an on-premises system, which means the burden of maintaining the equipment, et cetera, falls away. And so the contract allows us to transition with SAP to that cloud-based system.
 So it completely anticipates that. As the technology changes, the business model changes, our contract will support that. Questions? Thank you very much. Is there anybody that wishes to testify on this item? Seeing none, it's an emergency item. So, Carla, please call the roll. Novick? Gritz. Thank you. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Thank you. Aye. Okay, let's move to the next item, next polled item, 871. Okay.
 amend city code to clarify sewer billing authority and criteria. I know there were some public people who may not expect this to come up right now. So, Mr. President, this was pulled by Janice Thompson from CUP. Janice, are you here? So I think she's en route. May I make a suggestion? Since we're still ahead of schedule.
 Why don't we move to 872, and then if you wouldn't mind, when she gets here, bringing it back. We'll just take it out of sequence. Yeah, we'll wait until Janice arrives, and then we'll return to that item. And let's move to our regular agenda, item 872. 872, Proclaimed 2016 to be National Park Service Centennial in Portland.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Mayor Hales has asked me to read the proclamation, which states, whereas national parks provide unique opportunities to connect the world around us and families around our city and state enjoy the splendor of the outdoors, and whereas the National Park Centennial will kick off a second century of stewardship of America's national parks and engaging communities through recreation, conservation, and historic preservation programs,
 and whereas closeness to nature, outdoor recreation, and wildlife is a crucial component of life for many Portlanders, and whereas it's important that we ensure that our national, state, and local parks, public lands, and public waters remain relevant to all Americans in the next century.
 Now, therefore, Charlie Hales, the mayor of the city of Portland, Oregon, the city of Roses, does hereby proclaim 2016 to be the National Park Service Centennial in Portland and encourages all residents to take advantage of our city's natural wonders and find their park. That's signed by Mayor Hales. I will note that we have over 200 parks facilities in Portland, so it would be fun to see who can go visit them all.
 And I'm also told that filmmaker Ken Burns called our national park system America's best idea, which is quite a tribute. Thank you. Thank you for reading that proclamation. Mr. Fritz, I accept your challenge. The new fire commissioner visited every fire station on a Sunday. I think if we have the appropriate escort, we can hit all 200 parks.
 Well, I have had the concept perhaps of next summer maybe doing kind of a passport thing where you could go and get stamps and such. Certainly, people are welcome to go visit the concerts that have concerts in them, the parks that have concerts in the movies. We have the summer free-for-all. It's currently in full swing. And it's quite delightful to go to a park that you've never been to and hang out with people that maybe you've never met and find out about all the wonders there.
 Can we volunteer to help you with that? Absolutely. And yesterday I met with Venture Portland, and the 82nd Avenue Business District has just issued a passport for all the restaurants on 82nd. Nice. And they list the addresses, and you get a passport. And if you hit enough of the restaurants, you then go into a raffle, and there's really great prizes. And I think it's a great idea, and we'd love to work with you on that. Great. Thank you.
 Well, I think we have time to take up item 872 before we go to our time certain. That was our item. Oh, that was 872? Yeah, 873. 873, excuse me, 873. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Metro for regional illegal dumping patrol services. Do we have somebody from, do we have Lieutenant Eric Schober here? I guess not. Oh, there he is. Did you want to make a presentation on this, or? Yes, sir.
 Okay. Okay. Well, great. Which one was the officer here for? Perhaps we could do that one. Are you here for another item? Oh, the police secondary employment. Okay. Which one's that? Knowing how tight our police force offices are on the budget, let's get it done. Okay. Carla, can you figure that one out? Is that a consent item maybe? It must have been consent. Okay. Okay.
 Since we have about five minutes to kill here, Commissioner Fritz, could you give us the highlights on your vacation? Thank you. Yes, I'd be happy to. I was just in England for 20 days with my mother and my family, amazed at the natural beauty of the national parks of Great Britain. Great Britain, the island, is about the same size as the state of Oregon, and it has over 60 million people there, whereas we have about four or five people.
 And it's astonishing how much open space, farming, natural beauty there is with compact and very walkable, livable developments in the villages and towns. And then vast acreage of open space parks. Had a fantastic time.
 One thing that is interesting, given the fallout from the Brexit vote, if the vote was held again, would it have a different outcome based on what you were hearing and reading? Oh, dear. Everybody I know is just so distraught about that. It's just awful. I'm not sure. Actually, my brother, who's an elected official in Chesham near London, he says he would – obviously, all of my family and everybody sensible voted not to vote.
 leave, but he says that if they held the vote again, he would vote to leave because Britain can't be seen like it can't even make up its mind.
 And the new government led by Theresa May, who's the second woman prime minister ever in Great Britain, United Kingdom, she has appointed several of the Brexit supporters to be key people in her cabinet, basically saying, you voted to leave, you need to figure out how to do it. But it's really awful, especially for young people, for immigration, for migration, for people working, finding employment. There's a lot of fear and concern, and frankly, it's...
 Nobody thought it was going to happen. And so I think that's an example of why we need to be vigilant here in this country. We have perhaps one of the most important presidential elections in our history coming up. Let's make sure that we don't take it for granted that our preferred candidate wins, and let's make sure that we get accurate information out. That was something that happened after the Brexit vote. These people didn't even know what they were voting on if they voted to leave. Thank you very much. Welcome back. Thank you for the opportunity to tell. Thank you.
 So we're a few minutes early, but I see Fred Miller's here. Are you ready to go, Fred? And I move to suspend the rules and take up 860. Yes, if you could read 861 and 862 together. Okay.
 860, accept the initial guaranteed maximum price of $140 million from Balfour Beatty Construction LLC, doing business as Howard S. Wright for the design and construction of the Portland Building Reconstruction Project, Progressive Design Build Relocate Services.
 In 861, direct the Office of Management and Finance to implement the Community Opportunities and Enhancements Plan for the Portland Building Reconstruction Project and to allocate $1 million of the project budget for these purposes. In 862, authorize revenue bonds for the reconstruction of the Portland Building.
 We'll turn it over to Fred Miller, the Bureau Director in charge of the Office of Management and Finance. Thank you. And I think we have 45 minutes to do some things that should be relatively easy, but we'll impart some information. This is a different kind of meeting. I said the relaxed Commissioner Fritz and then the intimidation of dealing with the President of the Council. We'll try to get our wits together. Stay calm. Okay, thank you. I'm really happy with where this project is.
 It's a complicated project, and there have been lots of things done, and really a good team working on it who knows what they're doing and takes one of your first things you approve seriously on we're going to do this for no more than $195 million and finish it by the end of 2020. And everyone working on the project knows that. So today we have a chance to move this along, but I want to in a brief time remind you where we've been and where we're headed for the rest of the year and then get to the hopeful approval of three items. Thank you.
 I counting October and January you directed us to bring the building in at 195 by 2020. You we set aside 1% for community enhancements and said we'd bring back a recommendation on how it should be spent and you'll get that today.
 You gave us approval to hire Day CPM as the owner's rep that provides quality assurance, public outreach, and assistance in terms of reaching our DBE and WBE goals. And you allowed us to go ahead and make a selection of a consultant for the design build reconstruction contract. And today we're going to ask for approval because we have selected someone and you'll hear from them later.
 And as of last meeting, or in January, you suggested or directed one or the other, but we did, create a community oversight committee where one of you has appointed one person on it. And it's the same sort of model as we have for the TOC. And you're going to get reports on this related to dollars, schedule, scope, etc.,
 sustainability, and DBE, WB, MBE progress. And that's going to be formalized, and you'll get those through our Citizens Oversight Committee. So you know the three items today. I'll mention the things that are coming up between now and the end of the year to give you context. Thank you.
 We would get our project team on board after your approval today, and they'll be co-located along with our staff, the owner's rep, and the architect and the contractor, making decisions in a process that Kristen will describe today.
 By the end of October, we should have the information available on whether or not we have to move all of the employees out of the building during the reconstruction. There are advocates in doing it either way to leave some in the building and some say move out. We're going to have that analyzed and know the costs and the benefits of doing that. We're going to have their community oversight committee up and running providing reports
 And by the end of the year, we'll have a target price for the building. And it's going to be less than $195. So all of this is moving. Today is important to get the three decisions we've talked about to keep it on track. And, again, I feel very good about where it is. And I think you will after you hear the presentations. So Christine's up. That's usually the exciting part. Can I just ask you a question before we get started? Sure.
 Have you been either formally or informally briefing the mayor-elect on this? Because this is uniquely an issue that's going to continue beyond this year. Not since last Friday, yes. And that was one of the things we've talked about. And frankly –
 He wants to be comfortable with the numbers, which he will be. And the head of the transition team has read everything we've got is on the web and accessible. And we got that to the mayor-elect. His transition director has read it. And I think they're going to be comfortable with our numbers on the selection process.
 But my comment was, I think, and this is really an additional point, I think the real gold from his point of view is that we are trying to do everything right from a technology point of view, seeing what we can do about remote work and get the building prepared, looking four years ahead on technology. And we're trying to get a regional approach to this whole idea of community benefits, which all the other regional partners are interested in. He likes that idea a lot. So I've...
 I think I'm going to feel good about where he is, but in that conversation I felt good. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. As Fred stated, in January, Council authorized the exemption for the use of a progressive design build relocate solicitation process for the renovation of the Portland building. On February 12th, a project overview and contracting meeting was held prior to the release of the RFP at the Oregon Association of Minority Entrepreneurs.
 The city provided an overview of the project and the equity objectives, as well as solicited feedback from the contracting community that was then used to refine the scope of the RFP. Because of the nature of this progressive design-build process, the RFP established aspirational goals for PTE services at 20% DMW ESB and 22% for construction services.
 We also ask contracting teams to submit a project-specific PTE DMW ESB plan, a construction services equity inclusion and diversity plan, identify a project diversity manager, city involvement in the selection of all PTE subconsultants.
 design team mentor-protege services, and added up to 20 additional evaluation points for exceeding the PTE and construction services goals that were established by the city. The RFP was issued on April 1st, and on May 13th, three responses were received. The responses were evaluated by a five-member selection committee, which included representatives from Facility Services, Portland Parks, Multnomah County, and the Minority Evaluator Program.
 Representatives from Technology Services, Planning and Sustainability, Office of Equity, and Human Rights, and the City Attorney participated as technical advisors to the selection committee. Howard S. Wright and DLR Group were selected as the highest scoring proposal. So I'm going to talk a little bit about the progressive design build approach and bring you... Could you give us your name, please? Sorry, Kristen Wells, Facility Services. Okay.
 So back in October, we came forward with you and you set the price at maximum $195 million and to be completed no later than 2020. In order to achieve that, the thing that is essentially in flux is scope. And in order to maximize our scope, the approach that we have taken is an integrated approach
 and the exact contracting type is progressive design, build, relocate. With this type of contract, we as the owner are entering into one contract with our selected team, Howard S. Wright and DLR Group. They will be handling the design, the construction side of things, and the relocation aspects of the project. The reason behind that is that
 we will be following a target value design process rather than the traditional design process that you design, you price, and then you have to cut back.
 With the target value design process, we will be ensuring that we stay on budget by having a continual pricing to the design approach. So the contractor, the architect, and the owner will be sitting in meetings on a regular basis. We will be working together to ensure that the design and the budget align every step of the way.
 What that also gets us to is being able to complete sooner and being able to have the target budget and the cost certainty earlier in the project. So as Fred mentioned, by the end of the year, we will know what our target budget is and the scope that aligns with that chosen target budget.
 The breakdown of the overall project, we have $195 million, and we came to you in January with a similar type of pie chart that broke down the allocation of costs. Since then, a few things have changed. Based on our owners' representatives' recommendations and a market study that we conducted, we moved the lease costs into the owners' market.
 portion of the pie. We added some of the technology that we were going to potentially do into the design, build, relocate contract. So that's why the numbers are slightly different than what you saw back in January. The overall pie and the overall items under each of those pieces remains the same. We went out to the market and we did the RFP.
 And we are entering into a contract, if you approve today, with Howard Estuary and DLR Group for a maximum of $140 million for their portion of the contract. Through the target budget process in this first phase that we'll be doing between now and the end of the year,
 We will be defining exactly what is within each of those pieces, but the general breakdown is that 80% to 82% of that is construction costs, 8% to 10% is design costs, and then 9% to 11% is the pieces that will come out of the relocation. While we are defining the scope in more detail, we do know some basic parameters of the project that we have to meet. We have to eliminate the water intrusion. We will be meeting all of our equity goals, our sustainability goals,
 We will be completing the relocation and the temporary moves to support the project, whether that's staying in the building or moving out of the building. We will be improving technology to bring it up to current standards and be able to work for the city and into the future. We'll be upgrading accessibility of the building.
 Upgrading and replacing our building systems, that's the mechanical, the electrical, the plumbing systems. Upgrading our seismic stability of the building and improving the workplace overall. We might need to add to that list to maintain the historic exterior just to make sure that we keep remembering that. I know you do anyway, and you'll have to through the application process. We already have a date with Landmarks Commission, so that is definitely in the forefront. Okay.
 And with that, I'll turn it over to Howard S. Wright and the DLR Group to tell you a little bit about their experience and our equity approach. Thank you, Kristen. I'm Todd Miller with Howard S. Wright. On behalf of DLR Group, our design partner, we're really excited to be considered as the design build team for the project.
 We bring a good bit of experience and wanted to highlight two projects that are very similar in nature but with different variables. One is the Edith Green Wendell Wyatt project just across the park here. That was a collaborative delivery project that leveraged the benefits of the collaborative process, which this project is very unique and has a
 a variety of puzzle pieces to it that need to be put together to come out with the best value solution. And this is a great project that represents our ability to do that. We did, in this project, do some significant structural improvements to the building. We ultimately opted, as a collective team, to relocate 26 agencies out of the building.
 and phase through construction, bring them back into the building. It was successful and exceeded our social equity goals. Another project to share with you, the Henry Jackson Federal Building up in Seattle. That was a design-build project with the LR Group and Howard S. Wright. We did a full seismic improvement to that building. It's a 40-story building.
 And through the team assessment of that, we determined we were able to keep all employees in the building with minimal impact.
 So one of the items, obviously, first out of the gate for our team is to do a deep dive assessment as to what our structural options are given the scope of the project and determine, you know, what is the optimal both, you know, best value and cost, but also assess the impacts to employees in the building to come up with the right solution.
 I think we've got the right team. We've got a fantastic set of behaviors, which is very important for a collaborative design-build process. But I would agree with Fred that the way the team is coming together, this will be an exciting project that can meet and exceed all the goals we've set. With that, I'll turn it over to Rhonda to talk about our equity approach. Thank you.
 Good morning, I'm Rhonda Edmiston with Howard S. Wright and I'll be the diversity manager on the project.
 And I just want to start out by commending the city. I think the city has the opportunity with this project to set new standards for small business MWESB inclusion on this project. I was really impressed when the city split the goals out so that there was a professional services goal and a construction goal because quite often on these large projects,
 the design is done before the MWESB design community even knows that the project existed. So I was really personally excited to see this. As Christine mentioned, the city set a 20%
 DMW ESV goal on the project. And another thing that was unique is that it split out with 8% minority, 8% women, and 4% emerging small business. And then Howard S. Wright committed to additional 21%. So that is our professional services goal. And we are well on our way. So far for Phase 1, in the last couple of weeks, we went through a process where we issued out
 requests for information to the number of firms listed on the slide, and we received four MBE responses, ten WBE responses, and four emerging small business responses. We interviewed all of those firms, and then we selected three MBEs, seven WBEs, and one
 Emerging small business. So right now for phase one, we sit at about 20.3% participation. And once we round out the team, we're projecting that we'll be more in the 25-26% range. So that's a good start on this project. The construction phase, that'll start a little bit later. Our goals are the City Set goal was 20%.
 22% participation. We committed to an additional 3%, so we're shooting for 25%. And you can see the breakout, and it's heavy for minority-owned businesses
 Our construction phase starts a little bit later, but this fall we will be selecting MEP, mechanical and electrical trade partners. And so our plan is to follow a process similar to what we did for the professional technical services in the selection and embed those trade partners within our team. I didn't mention that on the professional services, but that embedding process
 the equity partners as part of the team is really critical because they will be in, you know, initially in that big room working with all the other firms and so they will gain the skills and the knowledge and be very critical to the delivery of this project. The rest of the construction we're planning on early and frequent community outreach because we want to make sure that the equity contractors are informed about the project,
 are knowledgeable about the project and that they're excited so that they're saving time on their schedules to work on the project. We will do an analysis of the availability of the small businesses and their capacity so that we can –
 build our bid packages to match that availability and capacity, and then we will tailor our solicitation to maximize participation. And then we'll focus on the job mentoring and coaching to ensure success of the small business firm.
 And then workforce training is another critical part of the job. So we will shoot to achieve all of the apprentice and then the split out of minority and female apprentices and minority and female journey workers on the project. And again, we'll do this through early engagement with the pre-apprentice and the apprentice training programs such as the Oregon Trades Women, Constructing Hope, Portland Youth Builders,
 We will monitor how we're doing on a monthly basis because that's critical to knowing exactly where we are so that we can make adjustments. And on Edith Green, it was really helpful because we were able to identify which trades had...
 you know, didn't have the workers, and we could work with those trades to try to build the minority and women workers in those trades. And then we're really excited to fully engage with the school enrichment program efforts that the city is planning, and we've got a lot of experience working with young people through the Portland Workforce Alliance, the ACE Mentor Program, and then the construction camp process, or program that's been going on in the city for probably 12 years now. So we're very excited to be...
 Doing this project for you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay any questions for This item or ready to move on to we're ready to go. Okay, go ahead So on to the 1% do we have Dante? I didn't see though We spent a loss of time developing our approach to a
 the one percent and dante we're very pleased stepped in to provide some leadership on additional meetings with the community and working with a variety of interested parties to come up with a final recommendation for you so i think what we'll do is have dante talk about the process and then jamie talk about the substance without going into great detail but see the categories and what we're proposing to accomplish
 Good morning. Dante James, Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Welcome back, Commissioner. I guess I could give you the short version. There was a community process that was engaged under the direction of OMF to start with to get feedback and ideas and thoughts and questions, concerns from the community members on what this 1% should be, what it should look like, where it should go, how it should be divvied up.
 and received lots of feedback, and then a document was put together in that regard. The ECPC was also part of this conversation, the Equitable Contracting and Purchasing Commission, which has recently come under the auspices of OEHR. There were, honestly, after the first iteration of it, still concerns, and we kind of pulled back, and it allowed me to engage with the ECPC
 really for the first time, and then try to address and reach consensus on what this should be, what the 1% should be. The ECPC had originally taken a vote on it and offered a recommendation on it, but honestly it was not a concise decision on their part in terms of quantitatively how to shape this.
 And so based upon the questioning and some of the confusion and some of the concerns about how it was drafted originally, we went back and then I met with, we had an ECPC meeting. I'd also talked to some folks in the community. There were people there at the meeting and further clarified what the ECPC's recommendation was, which was to heavily emphasize workforce development.
 in lieu of focus on contracting because their position was there are quite a few programs that support and address contractors and contracting firms, and there is a greater need in terms of workforce development, apprenticeship programs, things like that. So the culmination of that was their recommendation, ECPC anyway, that –
 It would be weighted 99%, 1%, and also removal of the administration costs that were originally in the document, removal of funding for the vendors who are currently in the building that was originally in the document to remove any funding for that from the 1%.
 So after then that decision and recommendation by them went back to some other community members and in speaking with OMF and the other recommendations that had come from other community members, the final document is what you see, which is currently $750,000 for workforce development.
 $200,000 for contracting. Then there's a $50,000 component that's set aside for a conversation and approach to creating a regional approach and template to doing this work. And so depending upon the utilization of that funding, it will return, if it's not all utilized within a certain period of time, that will return to the $750,000 for workforce development. So essentially it's an 80-20 document.
 weighted workforce to contracting. So that's the short version, I think, of how we got where we are. Thank you.
 Jamie? Jamie Waltz, OMF Facility Services Division. Just to reiterate what Dante said, the overall goal of this plan is to help support a workforce that will be available and able to work on future city or region-wide projects. These individuals and groups may not be working on the Portland building just because of the time that it might take to build them up through the process, but it's about providing the training and opportunities.
 for these groups and individuals now so that we set them up for success in the future. So with the 1% funds, it was 1% for community opportunities and enhancements, and we've set that at $1 million. At this point, with some of the target budgets still in flux, we knew that the hard construction costs were around $800 to $1 million. So to set certainty for this plan moving forward, we've set the $1 million budget
 price to be allocated across the three different categories that Dante stated. So just quickly to review those categories, we have $750,000 going towards workforce diversity. How do we recruit and retain minority women and disadvantaged business enterprises into
 the workforce. We have $200,000 support for minority women and disadvantaged business enterprises, a little less here because they already have some services to support them, but looking at how we can provide technical assistance to help them be successful on bidding on projects and also once they've been awarded contracts to keep them and help grow their capacity so they can do more work.
 And then again, the $50,000 for what we're calling continuity of opportunity. Metro is providing some leadership looking forward to how can we create a common conversation amongst the region, given that we're going to have a lot of future construction projects with really lofty goals for minority and women contracting. And so how do we work together with them to set ourselves up for future success? And so...
 We will be monitoring the progress in reaching our goals. We will be setting clear metrics on how we will be allocating the money and making sure that the money is being utilized as we intended. And our Portland Building Community Oversight Committee will be providing the oversight on this plan. May I ask a question to either you, Fred, or you, Dante? Sure.
 And it has to do with the sort of philosophy of workforce development and ensuring that we don't do a series of what I'll call serial one-offs, where we make these investments and we're satisfied with whatever the outcome is by that project, but not necessarily track future benefits.
 Obviously, because of the nature of these projects and the fact that we do them episodically in different bureaus, we're different than, say, the NECA IBEW partnership or any of the other established partnerships in the community where the relationship continues across public and private contracting.
 But I guess my question is, since our ultimate goal is to create long-term change and opportunity, how do we ensure that our workforce development investments benefit people beyond the duration of this contract? That's the reference I made earlier into the continuity of opportunity. Every public entity in this region would like to do the same thing. And if we have not just –
 a Washington Park Reservoir, a Portland building, specific projects, but we also had a convention center hotel, a county courthouse, a port terminal improvement, all going to the same thing. There really would be a continuity where someone could be trained as a tradeswoman and not just finish this project and be done, but be able to go to other projects as well. So I think the answer is to get away from the project by project into a more regional approach, and we're working on that.
 Additionally, I think that the way and the criteria by which the money –
 that moves from apprentice to journey and through. And so it's not going to be allocated specifically for the one-off, as you say, but how are whoever receives the money going to be looking at the long-term approach to the workforce? Thank you.
 You want to go ahead and present on item 862? I just have a question on this one. I know the answer, but I'm very pleased to see that the existing vendors on the first floor are going to be taken care of with the main project budget rather than out of this 1%. Just for the folks at home, could you tell them
 What is being done for the vendors? You're exactly what I wanted to say. Because I wanted to mention the vendors since Jamie made a reference. We looked at precedents, what others do, and we ended up saying the following. We are providing...
 Rent forgiveness. We're collecting no rent starting July 1 while they're remaining in the building. And recall they have month-to-month leases. So theoretically you don't have to do much, but we do want to do something. So we're saying rent forgiveness. We're giving at least one-year notice on when we make the decision. If everyone's out of the building, we'll give them one-year notice on.
 We'll provide relocation assistance because that part of our contract is to have relocation of our city employees. And we'll provide right of first refusal if the design envisions the same sort of cafeteria operation or whatever. I give them first chance at it. So that was our package, and I sent you all a memo in May on that saying that we thought this was a fair treatment.
 Thank you for doing that. May I just add my plea to say, yes, please have some vendors on the ground floor because often I don't have time to go to anywhere else. Okay. Okay, so that's this portion, and now we turn to the money. Okay. Can Russ and Eric Johansson know about that? Okay.
 Good morning, members of council. For the record, I'm Ken Russ. I'm the city's chief financial officer and the director of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. The Portland Building Project has had a finance team led by myself that's been working on a variety of funding plan options and a financing plan that will support the project.
 Some of the work that we've been doing, and I know you're familiar with, is the development of a blended rate lease model that will support this project and all of our downtown office space when we move back into the reconstructed building and beginning in fiscal year 2021. I want to acknowledge the hard work that Aaron Beck has provided me and the rest of the team and lots of different numbers that we've been running, and he will continue to do that. But he's really the person behind me that makes everything work, and I appreciate his support on the project.
 We've also worked hard to accommodate the desire of water, the bureaus of water in BES, to be owners in the reconstructed Portland building. And so we have developed an ownership option that will allow them to finance that space that provides a financial benefit to them in the way their financial model works in terms of impacts on rates and charges. So our funding plan includes that as well.
 And during the course of all of the work, we've had regular reviews with the city budget office. We've viewed our plans with them, made sure that we were seeing things correctly, and used their input in fine-tuning the plan as well. The ordinance in front of you this morning, Ordinance No. 862, is the ordinance that authorizes the financing for the project. And I'd like to have Eric Johanson, the city's debt manager, walk you through the specifics of the financing ordinance so that you're familiar with that. Eric. Thanks, Ken.
 This is a non-emergency ordinance, and it authorizes the issuance of up to $195 million of bonds to fund short- and long-term financing for the Portland Building reconstruction. Our current financing plan for the project includes two phases. First, an interim financing phase that will begin later on this fiscal year and run through project completion estimated in 2020.
 at that point in time we'll be issuing long-term takeout financing to repay the lines of credit and debt service will be is expected to begin in fiscal 2021. um one thing that's a little bit different about this one we are authorizing 195 million but it will probably be done in three parts the one the first part the largest part will be for everybody other than water and bes
 And then Water and BES will respectively be selling revenue bonds for their respective purchase price of the building. It's a little hard right now to know what the annual debt service will be all in for the project because we don't know what rates will be in five years. We've done some pretty conservative estimating, and we think it's going to be roughly around $15 million in for all three components. But that will depend, of course, on interest rates.
 in 2020 and other factors including rates on the lines of credit and cash contributions to the project. But that's where the finance plan stands now. I'm happy to take any questions. Dan Bausch, M.D.: Questions? Okay. Thank you. Male Speaker 1, I guess I have one question, Dan.
 You're trying to do some forecasting of rates five years out. At the utilities, we do five-year forecasts, and we build in fairly conservative assumptions. The truth is that the interest rates we use in our five-year forecast generally are above where the market lands, and we've been in a historically low level.
 provided the utilities like the Water Bureau continues to maintain a AAA credit rating, unless there's some unforeseen event, do you anticipate a continued favorable rate environment? I do. I mean, we're subject certainly to bigger things that are going on in the world right now. Our estimate at 5% right now is about –
 two and a half percentage points higher than what I think we would do today. So that's how conservative that we are right now. And it's, I think, consistent or a little bit more aggressive than what the bureaus have put into their financial forecast. I'm glad you mentioned that because we, at budget time, we sometimes get asked why are the forecast rates for the utilities typically, particularly in water, above where we end up landing? And the answer is...
 we build in some pretty conservative placeholder numbers around interest rates because we can't anticipate global events and market conditions. And then when we find that interest rates continue to be historically low, we're able to bring those forecasts down, which is why this year the combined rate increase is just above 4 percent, which would not be possible if interest rates doubled. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you. And we'll now take – oh, did you have further? No, that's it. Those are the three items, and with your approval, we will continue to move. Okay, well, let's take – see if anybody wants to testify on any of these three items. Is there – Carly, have anybody signed up to testify? Yes, I have five people signed up. The first three are Shedrick Wilkins, Mike Jennings, and Mary Ng. She may have left. I don't see Mary here, so why don't you call her? And then we'll go with Charles Johnson. Okay, come on up.
 I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I'm interested in this term called reconstruction. In the last six years that I've been at Portland City Council, I've learned terminology like deconstruction, reconstruction. I would say in a ballpark, if you reconstruct a building, it's probably 10% of the cost of building it in the first place.
 And for people here that are into the environment, another 10%, you could put solar cells and hot water, solar heaters on top. So that's one-fifth of building an entirely new building. And I live on NATO Drive, build NATO. His family started in Japan rebuilding buildings that were bombed by us in World War II. And then he came over here and did the same thing with brick buildings.
 Brick buildings can be reinforced with steel and concrete cracks. Bricks are better. You just put steel frames on them. A lot of buildings in Chinatown have steel framing on bricks.
 I think if you're interested in solar energy, it would be best to do these things instead of like the 20-story either green building. I thought they were putting solar panels on top, not a rain collector, but I was intrigued about that. Five or four-story buildings in East Multnomah County might be better. On a side topic about this meeting, I have decided maybe that I will run for the Mount Hood Community College School Board.
 or some jerk out there, anybody, I'm going to get into this. So I might run for office, in which I would like to promote the skills of reconstruction, which doesn't require a university degree to be a professional architect. One can just use community college skills to mount things. And basically, reconstruction would be more of a repair job on a building, which are skills taught at the community college. And then, of course, you have a university grad say it's safe.
 Thank you. Mr. Johnson. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And while this overall number is, I think, a little bit – causes a little bit of apprehension among city residents and taxpayers, I think that you've constructed a plan that the aspect that hasn't been discussed is ensuring your re-election. The main difference between this project and the Edith Green-Wendell Wyatt building is that
 You all are right here, and 2020 will be an election year. So I hope that the promises from Howard S. Wright can be fulfilled. And I think that you have done a good job with the due diligence. I was pleased that after we got through some more dry stuff that the gentleman from Howard S. Wright came here and made it clear that they have expressed their...
 experience and success doing the project across the, on the other side of Terry Shrunk Plaza, which was the situation where they moved everyone out, and that when they worked on the 40-story building in Seattle, they were able to keep almost everyone in place. So I know it's going to be a little bit of an interesting and stressful uncertainty maybe for the Bureau employees over there, but
 The other thing that I hope that citizens and also yourselves will become fluent in is this kind of viva neoliberalism, the neoliberalism of saying that we're taking the city building and paying for it through the rate-generating agencies. So if there's a repurposing of the place that houses water and environmental services, that's
 Whatever new agencies might be there, we'll have to pay the agencies that rebuilt the building. Nobody seems to really know if that's – I mean, it's the public policy that's in favor right now. I'm not sure it's the best public policy. It's not the one that built this building. But good luck, y'all, and thanks for your work on this project. Thank you. Is there anybody else who wishes to testify on either of these three items? John O. had signed up, but he may have left.
 Okay, so I'll entertain a motion to accept the report. Second. Oh, wait a minute. I'm sorry. Oh, okay. He is here. Okay. Welcome. If you could just give us your name and you have three minutes. Okay. My name is John Oh. I'm the owner of the Cafe Portlandia, and I am one of the three Portland building vendors who have provided goods and sundries to city employees for over 20 years collectively. Okay.
 The reconstruction of the Portland building impacts our businesses and our livelihood. We are no longer in position to be able to sell our businesses because there are no buyers because of pending construction and dislocations. This reduces the value of our businesses to nothing.
 We understand that there are provisions being established for us. We have been told that these include a minimum of one year's notice of need to vacate.
 waiving our rent for the last year of tenancy, providing us with relocation support by including us in the brokerage services for the Portland building and giving us right of first refusal upon the city's return to the reconstructed building. While we appreciate these concessions,
 This does not cover the impacts of our businesses or our futures. We have families that we support and who rely on our income. Moving our businesses while possible is costly both for moving the equipment and establishing a new clientele.
 It takes about three years to establish new clientele, and that lost revenue cannot be recovered. In order to compensate for the impacts of our businesses, we are asking that you consider purchasing our businesses from us.
 Another alternative is to provide us monetary compensation to cover the cost of moving, marketing, and establishing new businesses in new locations. Chang Sim, owner of BC2, requests $150,000 in compensation, and the owner of the Galloway requests $100,000 in compensation. For Cafe Portlandia, my situation is very different.
 As I have kitchen equipment that is not easily relocated due to size and weight, the cost to move the equipment, set up a new restaurant, and return to the building once construction is approximately $250,000. I request funding to cover these expenses. Also, I request that upon return to the Portland building,
 that my operation be turnkey, which means that it is in a running condition, and I can start business right away. Please consider supporting us either through the 1% fund or through the city's overall budget process so that the impact of our involuntary displacement can be mitigated.
 Thanks for listening. Thank you, Mr. Rowe. Thank you for coming in to testify, and I'm going to continue to ask about what's being done for your business and the other businesses, and I can assure you that if you do relocate that I will be there to tell everybody what a great service you provide and what delicious food you give. So thank you, and we'll continue to work with you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, a motion to accept the procurement report. So moved. Second? Second. Okay, moved and seconded. Please call the roll, Carly. Move it.
 I really appreciate the discussion, which Commissioner Fish touched off, but our team is obviously ready for, about having a regional and multi-project approach over the next several years to workforce development. And I trust that we are in communication with the conventions in the hotel and the county, and that's really encouraging. So I just wanted to highlight that. Hi. Hi.
 I appreciate Fred and your staff and this whole presentation. It was very clear and having Howard S. Wright coming in to talk to us about your part in it and also having seen the great success of the Edith Green Building. I'm very hopeful and confident this will be done well.
 Yeah, I want to especially thank Fred for the bulldog approach to moving this project forward. This presentation is clear and concise, and there's a logic to moving forward, but there's been a lot of work behind the scenes, and there's a lot of moving pieces, and frankly, I'm pleasantly surprised we're at this point.
 Dante, I want to thank you for your partnership and your role in this, your testimony, Fred, to your whole team, Christine, and everyone. And I want to just piggyback off of something one of my colleagues said earlier. These council discussions end up being pretty dry, and we talk about – we use acronyms and targets, and we talk about things within a legal framework. But let's be very clear what the council is committed to.
 We're committed to using a portion of the cost of rehabilitating this building to create meaningful opportunity in our community for people that for too long have been left behind in some of the construction trades. And we're not satisfied with saying that for the duration of this contract you're going to get a chance to develop your skills. We want to see that person continue up the ladder of opportunity. And I love the idea of thinking holistically throughout all the contracts we do at the city and then regionally.
 because the person that gains a skill set on this project ought to be able to go to a Water Bureau project or a parks project or, frankly, a regional project with that skill and continue to advance forward with the goal of becoming self-sufficient and productive. So that's what we're talking about. The language we use is dry, but the values behind it is about opportunity. And so thank you all for your good work. Bye.
 I appreciate all the work everybody's done. I appreciate the continued express commitment to bring this project in at less than $195 million. And I appreciate Howard S. Wright, DLR, for increasing the minority and women emergency small business goal the city had by a few percentage points. That's trending in the right direction. And I really appreciate the breaking out the goals in terms of the professional technical services.
 versus construction. I think it's great that you're doing that, and we're looking at it with those eyes on. It's a whole different world how you deal with the professional technical services, and it's a whole different world how you deal with construction contracts. And it takes sophistication to achieve our goals in that. So thank you, and pleased to vote aye. So the report is accepted, and now we move on to resolution, which is 861. Please call the roll. Okay. Aye. Aye.
 Again, thanks to Fred Miller, also Jamie Walsh and Kristin Wells of the building team, and Christine Moody of procurement, and especially to Dante James and the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I commend Mayor Hales for having moved the Equitable Contracting and Procurement Commission to the Office of Equity and Human Rights along with Brent Eng, and I really am hopeful that
 You know, for the seven years, seven-plus years that I've been on the council, we've been trying to figure out a system with community involvement, with community agreement and consensus, to figure out how we can get more of the community's money going into more community businesses. So this is another great step forward, and I appreciate it. Hi. Hi. Saltzman. Hi.
 uh well i appreciate director james getting involved in this and uh and bringing it bringing it home to us i think is a good sound landing and uh a good commitment on our part hi okay the resolution is adopted and uh 862 moves to a second reading uh next week so let's return to our regular agenda which is item uh we left off on item 873 and i believe why don't you go ahead and read it again we have somebody here now
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Metro for regional illegal dumping patrol services. Good morning. Good morning. How are you? Good.
 My name is Nicole Grant. I am a public safety policy analyst with the Mayor's Office. This IGA would be a contract with Metro to remove solid waste at camping sites established by homeless individuals on public property. Since 1993, Metro has worked closely with other local government agencies and law enforcement to investigate and remove illegal dumps. Why is this necessary? There's a high risk of...
 or there's a high health risk from rats, insects, and other vermin, and also a high risk of physical injury from dangerous protruding nails, items with sharp edges, needles, possible harmful chemicals, and other hazardous materials. And so Metro has contracted with Multnomah County Sheriff's Office and the Oregon Department of Corrections to obtain the services of individuals
 Inmate work crews from Inverness Jail who would only clean up personal property, or excuse me, they would not clean up personal property. It would only kind of be other solid waste items. They would also not clean up any hazardous chemicals. That's beyond kind of their skill and scope. Metro has a separate contract with Rapid Response, a bio-clean company, who would remove kind of those hazardous chemicals from those sites. Okay.
 They will post notices prior to any kind of cleanup operation, and there's no cost to the city. These services are covered by fines from Metro's patrol investigations, which cover the cost of cleanup and properly managing waste. Thank you. Any questions? Thank you. That was a really very succinct and thorough presentation. Whenever we've had inmate work crews come
 I've expressed concern about it basically being prison labor. Do you know if there's any kind of a program through the sheriff's office or elsewhere to maybe turn this into job training? I know that we have other contracts for that.
 um non-inmate work groups to do the other cleanups so is it possible that we could have an element of training as part of this so that it's not just punishment but rather job training i'm not aware of any kind of current program and i don't know if there's any plan on the part of the sheriff's art office or the department of corrections to implement that but i can certainly have the portland police bureau follow-up with multnomah county and see if that could be done
 Yeah, if you could please, so that when the next intergovernmental agreement comes on an inmate work project, because I know we do some in parks as well, and it's been troubling to me that we don't necessarily include that component. Thank you very much. And I'm glad Commissioner Fritz raised that. My understanding is that the inmates who do this work are presented with a choice of doing work within the facility or outside the facility, right?
 They are required by law to provide service. The question that we grapple with as a council, though, is since we are going to get the benefit of that service, how might we long-term capture that value in a more meaningful way? And since Commissioner Fritz mentioned parks and we have other bureaus involved,
 I think we've talked around this in the past about could someone who has faithfully concluded their time and provided exemplary service, could that person be considered for entry-level employment in the city in bureaus where they have worked? And we haven't quite connected those dots yet.
 But particularly with the work we've done on Ban the Box, I think we should be a model employer that says, if your resume says you spent the last couple years working on these projects and you have an exemplary work record,
 and you have the skills, why shouldn't you be considered for entry-level employment with the city, which is exactly what we should be focused on, giving people a bridge opportunity once they've done their time. So, Commissioner Fritz, I hope that's an issue that we can tackle post-Ban the Box, because I think it's the natural next step. That might be a project that the Mayor's Office could look into in the remainder of his term to bring something that would say we're going to do that. But, yes, I agree. Thank you.
 How many times have you come before us? This is my first time, so I'm very nervous. Well done. Thank you very much. Take care. We hope to see more of you. Does anybody wish to testify on item 872? 873. 873. Dan has his thing about the Park Service Proclamation. Keep coming back to it, yeah.
 Okay, go ahead and give us your name, and you have three minutes. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I disagree with Mary Ng about things and the other homeless person since I was homeless. I think these homeless camps on Springwater need to stop. There's a lot of littering and stuff like that. This isn't about the homeless camps. It's about dumping from – it's not personal property. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay.
 Okay. Do you want me to stop talking or just – is it not appropriate then? Yeah, if you want to testify on illegal dumping and the cleanup of it, that's what this ordinance is about. Well, I encourage this, and I am going to go over to 122nd and Gleason and check out this homeless building that's being made where people can go there instead of sleeping outdoors. Now, here's what I'm saying also. Right near there is –
 The State Recycling Center, there's a bounty now on cans and bottles that keep them from being dumped in the woods. That's why the Oregon Bottle Law was started in the first place, right? It's a very good thing because as people conjugate there to get money from the 5% to 10% bounty on these cans, they're right near a place where they can spend the night and not have to camp around and dump more stuff out. I'm going there right now, and I want to see – I know that was – I think it was a Safeway store.
 Mr. Wilkins, it's about dumping of household goods. It's not about that. Well, you're solving the problem. And people who want to sleep outdoors and litter are not solving the problem. Thank you. Enough said. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you, Commissioners. And I hope that, you know, as the first-time presenter explained, the –
 project is covered by fees and fines, I guess, assessed against those people who dump. I do hope that as we come up on the beginning of this spring water corridor program, that there will be some transparency and accountability to make sure that we know, you know, if somebody comes in along I-84, you can see that,
 Oregon is not living up to its best expectations. All you have to do is watch the embankments along there and see refuse. And it is an interesting situation where we don't know the source of that litter and trash. And I think homeless people may get scapegoated. So I hope that as this project goes through and is managed, that we'll learn to be diligent and find out,
 What is stuff left by homeless people who have no trash service? I mean, we'd like to – and what is stuff that other people who have homes but aren't willing to pay for their trash service have put in places where we maybe attribute that to the wrong people? Thank you. Thank you. Okay. It's an emergency item. Could you please call the roll? Oh, I'm sorry. We're missing Commissioner. Okay. We'll send it over. And let's take up item 871 now, which was pulled from our consent agenda.
 871, amend city code to clarify sewer billing authority and criteria. Thank you, Mr. President. Let me invite Jonas Beery and Janice Thompson forward.
 This item has been pulled at the request of Janice Thompson, who, as we know, is a representative of the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon that provides oversight to our two public utilities. What I'd like to suggest, Jonas, if you could tee this up just to describe what's before us. Janice, if you could share your concerns, and then if it is your desire, I would be pleased to consider taking it back to my office if there's further work to be done. So, Jonas, will you tee it up? Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. For the record, Jonas Beery, Business Services Manager for the Bureau of Environmental Services. So this agenda item presents two sets of minor clarifying amendments to Chapter 17.36 of City Code related specifically to sewer billing. These changes are intended to improve transparency and consistent application in a couple of specific billing-related circumstances. Thank you.
 The first set of changes, which is to subsections 0.020 and 0.050, clarify the definition of areas subject to city stormwater charges for impervious area. These changes better define or clarify properties that are publicly available and are regulated by a governmental agency or excluded from these charges. Examples of those properties include parks, public schools, public rights-of-way.
 The second change, which is to subsection 0.090, accommodates – recognizes current business practice and accommodates fair customer service by providing reimbursement to rate payers who have incurred charges for certain sewer scoping or who have billed erroneously. B.S. has historically offered these reimbursements under the assumption of code authority for water billing, but the city attorney's office –
 recently advised and we concur that the code would be improved by calling out authority specific to sewer charges. Just a little more detail on those two kind of reimbursement circumstances. The,
 For sewer scoping, B.S. occasionally requires that a property owner perform a sewer scope as a result of mapping data indicating a party sewer that may not have a conforming sewer. The cost of that service is typically $150 or less. We see 10 to 15 of these a year. And when the scoping occurs, we have the ability to reimburse the property owner for that fee.
 Second circumstance is when we receive requests from reimbursement for rate payers, from property owners who have been diligently paying their bills and then for various reasons identify that, in fact, there was no connection. So they've been paying the bill, not receiving the connected service. Typically that's due just to records errors on the side of either the documents associated with the property title and in conjunction with maybe erroneous areas, errors, documents and BS records.
 Again, 10 to 15 or a dozen or so of these that we discover a year varies significantly. We've been seeing more of them as more properties have been being sold recently.
 Currently, code allows for reimbursement up to three years under certain conditions, property ownership, evidence of no connection, et cetera, evidence of bill being paid. This adjustment would clarify that the director can authorize reimbursement amounts in those circumstances beyond the three years of up to an additional $500. Okay.
 amounts requested above those three years plus $500 would still have an option to be brought to council, and council could authorize reimbursements above those amounts. And we do anticipate having one of those coming to council if we proceed under this path later this summer, so we can talk more about that process if you wish at that time.
 So to summarize quickly, our intent is that these are truly administrative changes to reflect current and best business practices that clarify options that are at the Bureau or the Bureau Director's discretion to provide reasonable and fair reimbursement to ratepayers in those specific circumstances. Thank you.
 very much. Janice, welcome. You've been digging into this, and you want to frame some concerns. So Janice Thompson of CUB. So yeah, I requested to pull the agenda. I had some specific questions, but only about the second change that he's discussing, not the impervious service definitions. So most of those questions have been resolved. You know, it was a courtesy obviously to let your office know, and
 Jonas know. I think there's a few other clarifying things such that maybe your office and Jonas and I can do a little bit of fine-tuning yet. But primarily, or just as importantly, I requested a chance to
 identify kind of a bigger picture concern related to various BES bureaus and just achieving the appropriate balance between the interest of the system and rate payers and the interest of individual customers in terms of having meaningful appeal rights with adequate mechanisms in place for BES to address consumer complaints and objections to administrative rights.
 I mean, you saw this, it was all over a year ago, the auditors brought a proposal to you related to how ending the practice of customers needing to pay for taking their disputes related to a bureau administrative decision to the hearings officer.
 And Rex Burkholder testified at that time, you know, that he kind of, you know, kind of went through the fight he had with BES to kind of establish that right and whatnot. But what was striking to me is that he didn't follow through with that, you know, hard-fought appeal right because on the advice of his lawyer, he looked at the rule and said, well, I'm going to lose. So it just kind of raised the question of are there some, you know,
 unduly stacked in the favor of BES dynamics. And this also kind of came up in the context of some calls I got related to some complaints that customers brought to the BES and went through, kind of they have their own internal complaints
 administrative review process. So I'm pleased to report that in early 2015, when I kind of circled back to this all was coming up, talked to VES, they had already identified and had gotten started on an internal review of those proceedings. So that's been moving along
 a little bit more slowly than I had hoped, but I think it's moving along. And so that, I think, will deal with the first-tier problems, like there need to be clear timelines, there need to be clear procedures for the customer to request these ARC proceedings. But once that's done, I have planned to kind of do this review more in terms of, huh, you say that an appeal is necessary, but...
 As I read this, there's just no way the customer is going to win this appeal. So that's – and that then I think speaks to kind of a philosophical difference that might be appropriate, you know, between like, for example, the Water Bureau and VES in terms of –
 discretion on resolving these kinds of issues. The water bureaus related, you know, their ARC proceedings that are operated in conjunction with BS participation focus on billing disputes. And they, you know, their ordinance language, code language, is quite broad.
 So BES has taken the approach of like, well, we're going to identify like these certain spots where we see something. We want this authority to make a financial adjustment or whatnot. And, you know, those two approaches might be valid, but it does some – I think the BES approach is setting the stage for some of these, you know, can't win for losing, you know, can't fight city hall kinds of comments that seem to surface more –
 related to BS. Not that they surface. I mean, I'm sure they surface citywide. So I just wanted to let you know about that bigger picture. And so this is a process that is complicated. It takes a lot of time. So it's not like I'm going to be coming back next week. But I wanted to let you know of that kind of preparatory work
 I would, at the perfect time, circle in and keep the pub posted about all this and whatnot as well. But I just wanted to highlight is that this may well make sense given the approach BES
 But down the line, this provision I might suggest revisiting in the context of, like, let's take a little different look at this approach more generally. Janice, can I make a suggestion? Yes. One of the benefits of having both utilities under a single commissioner is we get to look at utilities holistically. So it isn't.
 the BES approach and the Water Bureau approach under different leaders, we look at them as what's the best approach for our public utilities. It sounds to me, and I just was reviewing my notes, that you're in concurrence with about two-thirds of what's in this particular ordinance. And on the question you've raised, which I'll use my words, even though we've reduced the barriers to filing an appeal, is the DAC stacked against the rate pair.
 You've raised that question, and you've raised a question about should BES be more like water in terms of the kinds of discretion that we give to the director. Are you comfortable with us moving forward and adopting this and then committing to addressing your question, or do you think we should hold up the train and address your question before adopting the non-controversial parts of this? The first, I mean, like I said, I do have one little clarifying question, but I think that can...
 You want to take action today. I get it. It goes to a second reading. But what we would commit to, and I'm just giving you the options, you have framed a concern. It has the full attention of the Bureau in my office. Are you comfortable with the city adopting this, recognizing that you think we may not have gone far enough and we will come revisit that? Or do you want to hold up the train for that discussion? No. No, I don't want to hold up the train because I was trying to be clear. It's a train that's been in process for a while. Okay.
 and it's a train that appropriately is a slow-moving train and needs some careful due diligence. So it was more, well, having some initial questions about the details of this particular provision, but more how it highlights this difference, which I want to stress, it may be appropriate between the two bureaus. I mean, I think there are, I totally agree with you about the advantages of having bureaus
 one commissioner under both bureaus. But that doesn't always mean that, you know, a particular practice on one bureau that has evolved in a different way isn't appropriate. I mean, I think having one commissioner in charge once
 sets the stage better for let's take a step back and learn from each other. Well, and my understanding, Janice, is that following the council action on the auditor's recommendation that we waive the fees on the appeals, there hasn't been a huge spike in appeals. But nonetheless, I think we should take a look at
 what has gone through the system, maybe what we're hearing anecdotally didn't go through the system. We certainly don't want to be in a position where we're saying you have a right to a hearing, but the hearing offers you no meaningful relief. And I think that's what you're suggesting. Yes. So I commit to taking a good hard look with you and the Bureau at those instances and also comparing the authority with the Water Bureau and addressing that question. Yeah. And one other quick FYI about the Water Bureau and then circling back to your question,
 to your question. I mean, the Water Bureau, there's also an auditor's report underway that has more of a focus on the billing process, which the Water Bureau does provide that service for both bureaus. So implicitly, it involves the BES, but it's a little bit more Water Bureau-focused. So I think, because I think one dynamic under the Water Bureau model of, like, more broad discretion, are those discretionary services
 Sometimes I hear situations that makes it seem like, you've got the discretion to do this, do it. I mean, which is understandable. When you have the discretion, you want to be really careful about using it, but...
 Are they potentially going to be too careful? So another piece of the puzzle is this auditor's report could help shed some light on that model and kind of taking a look at kind of an analysis of both sides and both models could inform conversations. And that's, again, why... We have to move on. Yeah, so nothing is going to come back immediately. Nevertheless, in terms of moving forward on this and my wanting to...
 highlight this point was that I didn't want down the line for this revision to end up being part of a possible set of recommended changes, only to be asked, well, why didn't you bring this up earlier? So I'm bringing it up now more as a placeholder and identification, this longer train is underway. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else wish to testify on item 871?
 I think they all left. Okay, so it'll go to a second reading, and let's move to Item 874. I think we still need to vote on 873 because we were missing our fourth microphone. Oh, correct. Sorry about that. Okay, let's do the roll call on Item 873. Item 873 was authorized an intergovernmental agreement with Metro for regional illegal dumping patrol services. Novick. I apologize for inadvertently laying the vote. Aye. All right.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. The agreement is adopted. Okay, now we can move to 874. 874, accept bid of Brown Contracting, Inc. for the Northeast Prescott Street I-205 to Northeast 102nd Avenue, Southeast 86th Court, and Southeast Steel Street LID for $1,363,170. Mooney.
 Good morning, Council. Christy Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to Brown Contracting. The engineer's estimate on this project was $1,571,846.89. On May 24, 2016, six bids were received, and Brown Contracting is the low bidder at $1,363,170.70.
 which is 13.28% under the estimate. The city's subcontractor equity program establishes an aspirational goal of 20% of the hard construction costs for disadvantaged minority women and emerging small businesses. Ground contracting identified three divisions of work for potential DMWESB subcontracting opportunities.
 DBE participation on this project is at 20.85% or $284,166, with work being performed in concrete, flagging, and signs. I will turn this back over to Council if you have any questions. And a representative from PBOT is here if you have questions about the project. Questions? Okay, thank you. Anybody wish to testify on Item 874? No.
 Seeing none, I'll entertain a motion to accept the procurement report. Second. Okay, moved and seconded. Please call the roll. No thank you.
 I just want to note that this project addresses several areas in East Portland where there are unsafe pedestrian connections in surrounding neighborhoods, which hinders pedestrian access to transit. The problems range from missing curb ramps and sidewalks to difficult and unsafe crossing locations and busy streets. He bought it, my other thing, to be completing a missing section of sidewalk along Prescott from I-205 to 102nd. So I'm very pleased to vote aye. Great. Thank you. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman. Aye. The report's adopted, and let's move to item 875. Accept bid of Wildish Paving Company for the Northeast 122nd Avenue I-84 ramps to Northeast Skidmore Street, project for $1,351,314. Ms. Moody.
 You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Wildish Paving Company. The engineer's estimate on this project was $1,720,000. On June 2, 2016, three bids were received, and Wildish Paving is the low bidder at $1,351,313.50.
 which is 21% under the engineer's estimate. The city's subcontractor equity program establishes an aspirational goal of 20% of the heart construction costs for disadvantaged minority women and emerging small businesses. Wildish Paving identified 11 divisions of work for potential DMWESB subcontracting and supplier opportunities.
 DMWESB participation on this project is at 12.34% or $166,782.50, with work being performed in saw cutting, concrete, fiber splice, flagging, signs, and supplies. I will turn this back over to Council if you have any questions. What's the difference between flagging and traffic control?
 I don't know. They're kind of similar. But on this one, it's just the flagging. Yeah, I know. I was just interested that they're going to be self-performing the traffic control. And that's an area where we often have, especially women-owned businesses, unless it's different from flagging. There was supposed to be a representative from the contractor here, so let me see. Oh, I see. Are you the representative for the contractor? Yes.
 The reason for my question is you're coming up, it's disappointing to not get to the 20% level. And so I'm just wondering why you chose not to do that. You could give us your name. Dan Payne, Wailish Project Superintendent. The first off the question was flagging and traffic control. Yeah. Obviously flaggers are flaggers. We understand that. Traffic control is setting up your lane closures and the traffic.
 the liable devices per your standards to make sure that we don't have any accidents and stuff out there to maximize public safety. And typically that's something that we hold in ourselves. There are some companies that can do that. But in this particular case, their quotes were quite a bit higher than what would have allowed us to get the project. So there are some to consider, and we did consider them for traffic control, but they weren't competitive. Okay.
 I understand that point, and maybe this is a question Ms. Moody could answer. You got the project because the bid was low, but we didn't meet our 20% aspirational goal. So, yeah, if the traffic control was more expensive, that in some ways you're getting the bid because you haven't met the goal that we've set. Yeah.
 That's correct. I mean, Commissioner, this is a situation when we have low bids, and obviously contractors are trying to be the lowest bid, and sometimes they just have to make those decisions on what areas they're going to sub out and what areas they're not. So would we be allowed to add some criteria that,
 you know, give demerits perhaps. I don't know how it would be that if you haven't met the goal and that's what makes you get the low bid, that maybe the second lowest bid had a higher proportion of minority and women-owned businesses.
 By state statute, we're not going to be able to do that. And so with our subcontractor equity program, what we have tried to do is make it an incentive program. So when you meet the goal, you have less paperwork that you have to submit to us.
 And we moved forward with that. On this particular one, since they didn't meet the goal, we asked for a lot of backup paperwork, and that was supplied by Walletish to us. And so that's kind of where we're stuck and where you see the differences between the low bid and when we do alternative payments.
 contracts like a CMGC or something where we're able to negotiate that with the contractor. It's your good faith effort program. Yeah, I appreciate that. And I noticed that you're from Eugene, and I appreciate you making the effort to come here to talk with us today. What is your company doing to diversify the workforce within your company?
 Well, as a matter of fact, the three TCS officers I have in the company are female and minority. We brought them in from the Dalles, Oregon, from Eugene, and from here in the Portland area, and that's what we continue to do to train and bring on. We also do that through the apprenticeship programs.
 Bring those folks on it's a good opportunity to get them on board find out how they're doing see if they're dependable and And they have the right kind of attitude and ability to work in traffic And that's how we that's one of the ways we do it. We work through the the
 unions and their apprenticeship programs. We work through the unions and make sure that we're working with the minorities and stuff like that. And then we also have special, through the good faith efforts and stuff like that, we work with the different subcontractors and stuff like that and try and get them on board and let them know about this work ahead of time. Thank you.
 So presumably, Christine, we could, maybe we already do, give some bonus points or something for if a company is not a minority of women, disadvantaged, owned, but it has a diverse workforce. Could that be counted in the percentages? In the percentages for meeting the goal? For meeting the goal, right. Because if the company has done a good job of diversifying its own workforce, but it's not owned...
 by any of the categories, it seems like we should give some credit for that too. I will look into that, Commissioner. Thank you. And thank you again for being here. Thank you both. Anybody wish to testify on 875? Seeing none, I'll entertain a motion to accept the procurement report. So moved. Second. Okay, moved and seconded. Please call the roll.
 Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thank you. Aye. Fish? Aye. Schultzman? Aye. Okay, the report's adopted. Item 876. Authorize contingent loan agreement with Home Forward Lovejoy Station Apartments. Without objection, this will be referred back to the Mayor's Office. Okay. It's referred back to the Mayor's Office. Item 877. Okay.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County to provide $96,999 in grant resources for a feasibility analysis on potential pay-for-success funding models to support the connection between affordable housing interventions and improved health outcomes for low-income households.
 Earlier this year, the Portland Housing Bureau applied for and was awarded a grant from the University of Utah to conduct a feasibility study on pay-for-success models of funding to support housing interventions that provide long-term health benefits for low-income communities. Portland Housing Bureau and the Multnomah County Health Department are frequent partners on programs that address both housing and health outcomes specifically.
 and this intergovernmental agreement authorizes that partnership using the grant funding to conduct the analysis. And this is an emergency ordinance. I'll see if there's any questions. I have a question. Why isn't it just $97,000 rather than $96,999? You know how they got to that number? No, I have no idea. Probably some division among different grantees, I'm guessing. All right, something like that. Thank you. Okay, does anybody wish to testify on item 877?
 Okay, seeing nobody, it's an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Novick? Aye. Ritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Schultzman? Aye. Okay, the intergovernmental agreement is adopted, and we move to item 878. Adopt interim rules governing Ankeny Alley and Plaza during demonstration period to inform future citywide public spaces rules. Commissioner Novick?
 Colleagues, this item provides PBOT with the necessary tools to enforce rules associated with the newly expanded pedestrian area at Ankeny Alley in front of Voodoo Donuts. What is coming before council or interim rules will be further refined through the livable streets process. Item 879 with the new consultant. It's important to note that the interim rules are the exact same as rules that govern Portland Parks. PBOT expects to bring permanent rules governing public spaces after the livable streets strategy is completed. Now, I'll turn it over to staff to help.
 Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Rich Eisenhower. I'm with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Today we're bringing two items in front of you. The first item is going to be is to authorize our contract with Nelson Nygaard to begin work on our livable street strategy.
 The strategy will guide the city on how we design and implement. Excuse me. Carla, could you go ahead and read 879, too, so it's actually on the table here in front of us? 879, authorize a contract with Nelson Nygaard Consulting Associates, Inc., for the development of a livable street strategy in the amount of $149,158. Okay. Go ahead. Yeah. Sorry about that.
 The strategy, like I said, will guide the city as we design and implement placemaking in the public right-of-way. Sarah will talk about that here in a minute. The second item we're adopting is the interim rules for the Ankeny Plaza and Alley. Ankeny Alley and Plaza is located downtown between 2nd and 3rd Avenues. In 2001, City Council adopted ordinance to close Southwest Ankeny between 2nd and 3rd to create this new unique public space.
 Peabody has recently reconfigured 3rd Avenue to create the new Ankeny Plaza that is located on 3rd Avenue between Burnside and Ash. Ankeny Plaza is an example of innovative community use of the public right-of-way. It's basically creating public space out of underutilized roadway area. Ankeny Alley, just to give you a rough size of Ankeny Alley and Plaza, it's comparable in size to Director Park. It's about 20,000 square feet in area.
 As PBOT creates more public space, like Ankeny Alley, there's a need to provide consistent rules on how the city manages overall all of its public spaces. Today, we're asking council to adopt interim rules on governing Ankeny Alley and Plaza. These rules are based on existing rules in Portland Parks.
 It's not uncommon for City Council to use park rules in the public right-of-way. A couple examples are the sidewalks around Pioneer Courthouse Square, the Fireman's Memorial Park up on 18th and Burnside. Both use parks rules to govern those public right-of-way spaces. Like Commissioner Novick said, these rules are interim. They'll be used to inform our overall livable street strategy that we'll bring back to Council next year.
 Thank you. Good morning, commissioners. My name is Sarah Figliuzzi. I'm with the Bureau of Transportation. Just to give a bit of a background in terms of the livable street strategy, with the authorization of this contract, we would begin this work. We're looking at about a year-long process.
 the goal of the strategy is to open and expand placemaking in the city so opening our streets which is the source of the the largest the largest form of public space in the city at 20 opening our streets for portlanders so that they have space to sit to play to interact to just be um the uh to be able to create unique spaces throughout the city these may take the form of
 block parties, street seats, the demonstration projects like we've seen with Better NATO or reclaiming part of Southwest 3rd Avenue for the Ankeny Plaza. The second goal of the strategy is to create guidance for the Bureau in terms of how we design and how we manage these spaces in the city. So specifically looking at
 What are our design guidelines, our enforcement actions? What are the rules for cleaning, maintenance, for liability requirements? What are the traffic control requirements and so forth? So there's a big chunk of the work, just the nuts and bolts of the permitting process of these activities in the streets.
 And then finally, the third goal is how do we make these permits and these activities more accessible to the public so that community groups can find the processes, that there's consistency, that there's transparency, and that the permit process is something that they can access and create their own unique spaces in their neighborhoods. And so there would be an accompanying online community toolkit program
 Um, and we want to bring this back to you May, June, um, for your approval. Thank you. Sure. I have a question. Um, uh, I'm looking at the ordinance, uh, for the consultant and, uh, my sense is that the issues raised by livable streets as they apply to streets and parking spaces is different than, than the kind of issues that come up with plazas and alleys. And, um, uh,
 And my own experience working with Commissioner Novick, for example, on the improvements along division is that there's a delicate balance between sort of promoting the laudable goals of this program and also ensuring, for example, that business districts function. And so, you know, we heard, for example –
 you know, comments like, we're really delighted to have these bioswells, but do they have to be so big, and do they have to take up two parking spaces, and why in a particular location, and on and on. So the first question I had is, when you form the stakeholder group, is it your intent to include Venture Portland? Yes, absolutely. And second...
 I just, as a commissioner, want to make sure that as we deal with the delicate issues of streets and parking spaces, which is a big flashpoint, and frankly, it's increasingly difficult to get from point A to point B on our streets, that we use a broader lens than livable streets to make those decisions. And I have a different personal standard that I apply to alleys and plazas, because in some cases you are activating orphan spaces.
 The challenge with streets and parking places is we have competing demands. And I just want to make – I want to just put that on the record of concern that
 that we look at them systematically differently. And frankly, while I now live in a rental apartment and walk to work and have ditched the car, when I am in a car trying to get from point A to point B, there are huge consequences when we take a lane at NATO or we close a street. And effectively what it means is you just can't get from here to there.
 And in my job, there are times I have to travel by car. It's just a necessity. So I want to just plant this flag that I'm going to have a different approach to this vis-a-vis streets and parking spaces and want to know about the tradeoffs than I would around plazas and alleys where I think there's some really –
 big opportunities like what you're doing in Ankeny to create meaningful public spaces out of areas that are essentially orphaned or don't serve a compelling transportation need. So I want to put that on the record, and I also am grateful you'll include Venture Portland, which will give you the voice of 50 neighborhood business districts that are always struggling with that balance between getting customers in and out of the district and also wanting it to be a safe and welcoming place.
 No, thank you. It's definitely something that we'll have to look at. It is also something that we've included in the scope with the consultant that we actually look at draft policy statement that will provide guidance to the city regarding how to balance placemaking and community uses with other uses of the right-of-way. But absolutely, balancing all of the different needs of the right-of-way and all those different users is something that the Bureau of Transportation is extremely sensitive to. I know you are. Thank you.
 I have a few questions. The title of the ordinance talks about Ankeny Alley and Plaza, but I'm wondering, are the draft ordinance, is that for all public plazas? Yes.
 Right now it's being adopted just for Ankeny Alley and Plaza with the possibility of, because Ankeny Alley is unique, but we do have other public plaza spaces in the city that these rules could be adopted in the future. And would those come back to council? Yes. I concur with Commissioner Fish that if it's not just about Ankeny Plaza, there needs to be a much more.
 public process. You say that these are based on parks rules. It's well known that people are allowed to be in public parks whether they're buying anything or not. Do we need to have something in these rules that explicitly says that people who are not patronizing the adjacent businesses are allowed in this space? I mean, we could. I mean, the space is still public right away, so all those other rules apply. The rules just really don't.
 I guess, are tools to enforce certain behaviors, but they are still public right away. All the free speech, other things still apply.
 in these areas i remember when we were thinking about the pilot project and there was concern that people needed to be able to use the sidewalk and that not all of their public space be privatized so where are we at on that with ankeny plus we are reshuffling the the alley we're making areas wider creating more public space than what was currently in just the closure of ankeny will that come back to council um no not necessarily the design of it that's
 I'd like to get a briefing on that because I am concerned about public spaces being taken over for private gain. I mean, they'll be permitted under existing programs like our sidewalk cafe program or street. Right, but in this case, we're basically giving up the public street over to the sidewalk cafe, which is different from a part of the sidewalk. Yes, in some cases. Yeah. Yeah.
 So, again, noting that it's based on park rules, I haven't looked at the park rules recently, but this prohibits lying on the benches. I don't know that we have a park rule that says you can't lie down.
 We do. I'm going to look into it. I mean, they were just directly copied out of the park rules. We deleted some things that would not apply in this case, but we did not change any wording or add anything additional. Well, so again, if the businesses are closed, but it's still within the time that it's open, because the park rules said it's midnight to 5 a.m., people are not allowed to be there. But if somebody were to get there at 5.30 a.m. and wanted to lie down on one of the benches, would they be allowed to do so? No.
 I have to read specifically in the rules of it. Then, yes, not. I mean, like I said, we can direct copy of Park's rules, so I'm not familiar. Well, yes, except that you haven't got about no smoking. So Park's rules say no smoking. There's no smoking in here as well. Can you point that out to me? I don't have them all memorized here. Let's see. It's under fires, fireworks, and smoking prohibited. Paragraph C, no person shall smoke or use tobacco in any form in any place in any pedestrian plaza.
 I'm sorry, what page is that on? We seem to not have this paginated. I apologize, but it's two, three, four. It's page four, top of page four. Top of page four, from page three, that three to four. It starts with C. It doesn't start with the title. Okay, great. Thank you. Any further questions? Well, so it says tobacco, but then it includes marijuana. Do we need to say use tobacco or marijuana in any form?
 I believe marijuana is not used under other state laws or prohibited. Well, you're not supposed to use it in public places. Marijuana is the last thing listed. I know, but it doesn't say. The smoking bit applies to marijuana, but it just says tobacco in any form.
 I would suggest that we're going to make changes here. We also look at maybe the parks rules so we are consistent. I mean, the whole goal is to apply consistent rules that would do public space. To the commissioner in charge of the Parks Bureau, my sense is that this can be resolved for now through legislative intent if you state clearly your legislative intent. Okay. And I believe your legislative intent is to cover the existing prohibition on marijuana but also the existing park rules with tobacco of any kind. Right. Okay.
 and that is your understanding yes our goal is to provide consistent rules you can't use marijuana in any form in any public place so I just want to make sure that's clear so yes that's a good suggestion thank you and the goal is to create consistent ways that we manage all our public spaces including park versus public right away so as parks rules changed I think these would adopt kind of way yeah so if we change the park rules I am going to look at the
 prohibition on lying on benches since we clearly don't enforce that. If we change that in parks then you would change it here too. That's the goal today to be consistent. Thank you. I have a technical question. What the heck are CRETEX?
 Why'd you say that? It's a list of things that are prohibited. Nicotine vaporizers, nicotine liquids, hookahs, cretex, pipes, chew, snuff, smokeless tobacco, and marijuana. So I've never heard of cretex before. I'm glad we're prohibiting them. They sound nasty. We might not be able to recognize it. Special cretex training. Yeah, really. Okay. Any other questions? Yes.
 Thank you very much. We'll see if anybody wants to testify on items 878 and 879. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I don't see anybody wishing to testify, so these are both emergency ordinances. Could you please call the roll? 78, Novick. Okay.
 In May and early June, I spent some time in Barcelona, and one of the things that most impressed me about that city is the number of pedestrian plazas and pedestrian-only alleys. And I think that where it's appropriate to take back the streets from cars and have people there.
 it's something that I applaud. And I should note that I want Portland to be a city where, to quote Martha and the Vandellas, not only in summer but throughout the year, the time is right for dancing in the streets. All right.
 I hope someday you'll come to my hometown of Leeds in Yorkshire, England, because the entire downtown is either pedestrian precinct or just buses. And it's very clear that that's public space and that the sidewalk cafes are definitely secondary to the use of the public right-of-way. So I appreciate you agreeing to give me a briefing on the new layout of Ankeny Plaza. I think it was established as a pilot project, so...
 At some point we need to decide is it going to continue or is it not going to continue? And I appreciate the answers to my questions. I. Yes. Since Steve mentioned Barcelona, I'll just mention Córdova, which is a smaller city, a very historic city. It has a historic core and they too have restricted driving in the historic area, which is also sensitive and fragile buildings and other kinds of things.
 What I think they've also done that's quite extraordinary is they've maximized access to the historic areas by managing circulation, and there's a ton of parking underneath existing parks that are adjacent to the historic areas. So my takeaway from that is that
 It is a wonderful thing to create livable streets, provided you have a holistic approach of how you get there and also what the options are, both public and private options for getting there. And when they're all connected, then they create beautiful placemaking. And so I applaud the effort. Aye. Saltzman. Pleased to support these rules. I think by all accounts, the Alley and Plaza have been a tremendous success. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. If you could call the roll on 879. Novick. Aye.
 Aye. All right. Aye. Fish? Thank you for including our neighborhood business districts. I think we'll have a unique perspective on the balancing act that you'll be undertaking in this. Aye. Saltzman? I appreciate that one of the tasks in this consulting job is the secret lives of livable street permits. That sounds like something Commissioner Novick wants to come up with. Aye. The ordinance is adopted, and we'll move on to item...
 Items 880, 881, 882, and 883. If you could read those together, please. 881, authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for the construction of the Southwest Terwilliger Sanitary Sewer Extension Project, number E-10413, for $3,800,000. Okay.
 881, authorize intergovernmental agreement with Clackamas County in the amount of $54,000 for services related to the construction of the Southwest Tolliger Boulevard Sanitary Sewer Extension Project, number E10413.
 882, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Lake Oswego for a reimbursement in the amount of $78,800 for the construction of the sewer facilities as part of the Southwest Twilliger Boulevard Sanitary Sewer Extension Project, number E10413. And 883, authorize...
 Permit with Multnomah County for construction of the Southwest Terwilliger Boulevard Sanitary Sewer Extension Project, number E10413, for $2,500. Mr. Fish. Thank you, Mr. President. Scott Gibson is here to walk us through these items. Ordinance 880 would authorize a contract to construct the Southwest Terwilliger Boulevard Sewer Project. The new sewer will allow the Bureau of Environmental Services to retire a failing sewage pump station facility
 The Southwest Twilliger Boulevard sewer will serve residents of the cities of Portland and Lake Oswego, as well as unincorporated Multnomah and Clackamas counties. Ordinances 881, 882, and 883 authorize intergovernmental agreements to reimburse Clackamas County, Multnomah County, and the city of Lake Oswego.
 for costs related to the sewer construction. Scott, take it away. Thank you, Mr. Commissioner. For the record, my name is Scott Gibson. I'm with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and I have a short slideshow on the project itself, and then I'm here to ask questions on any of the supporting ordinances, or to answer questions. Excuse me.
 As the Commissioner stated, the goals of this project are to decommission the Powers Court pump station. It's a privately owned pump station that has had a poor performance history and is difficult to maintain and is at the end of its service life. We'll provide a gravity sewer to the residents on Power Court as well as the unsewered areas within the city's urban sewer or service area. It'll also reduce flows to the Willamette Interceptor and the Tryon pump station, which is located at our treatment plant.
 and to provide opportunities to serve some unsewered areas within Multnomah and Clackamas County. In the map, you can see generally where the sewer alignment is. It's highlighted in yellow hatching, and it moves down towards the lower section of Terwilliger. It's in southwest Portland on Terwilliger Boulevard between Northgate Ave and Highway 43. And it's in southwest Portland on Terwilliger Boulevard between Northgate Ave and Highway 43.
 There are multiple jurisdictions, including the City of Portland, Multnomah County, Clackamas County, City of Lake Oswego, and ODOT that all have a stake in this area. Also, we're planning to replace a culvert on Boone's Ferry Road with a bridge. You've seen a presentation on that, and we're timing this work and the traffic impacts of this current project with the future projects on Boone's Ferry to make sure that we can keep circulation traffic around the area. We do have a hard closure planned.
 to allow the crews to move as fast as they can through the construction so that means the traffic will be closed on that section of highway of southwest earlier residents are concerned about local traffic so we have accommodations to make sure they can get in and out of their their residences we also have a very difficult permit which is a manhole construction which is in highway 43 where the product terminates and the new sewer ties into our existing sewer infrastructure um
 Permitting, we've got utility permits from multiple jurisdictions. We've got noise variances within all those multiple jurisdictions. Clackamas County and ODOT have authority for traffic handling, so we've got permits with them. And then we're asking for PVOT to reduce the speed around the construction zone for safety of our crews. The construction cost estimate is $3.8 million. Our intent is to advertise in August, have the contractor start in November.
 and to wrap up a constructionist project in April of 2017. And with that, I ask any questions. You said the construction starts in August? Advertise in August. Oh, advertise in August. Award in November. So the construction should start around November. Any other questions? Okay. Did you cover all four of those ordinances? I believe I did. Okay. Are there any questions? Great. Okay, we'll see if anybody wants to testify. Anybody wish to testify on 880, 881, 882, 883?
 uh seeing no one these are all uh first readings so they will move to a second reading next week mr president we do regret the inconvenience on three members of council but we will mayor has authorized me to announce we'll be giving you 15 minute grace periods for wednesday council meetings for that new period of construction great okay thank you and then we'll move yeah i have the next one as well so okay if you could read item 884
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for the construction of the Humboldt Sewer Rehabilitation Project, number E10564, for $4,980,000. President, more than one-third of Portland's 2,500 miles of sewer pipes are 80 years or older.
 The Humboldt Sewer Project is part of the Bureau of Environmental Services' large-scale sewer repair program to repair or replace the most severely deteriorated sewers in the city system. And here to present is our good friend Scott Gibson. Welcome, Scott. Thank you, Mr. Commissioner. So good morning. I'm here to ask for permission for authority to award a contract on the Humboldt Sewer Program
 restoration project. With me today is Eric Dershbeck. I like to bring along one of the team key team players. Eric's actually going to be our construction manager, so he's going to administer the construction contract, oversee the quality of the constructed work, and deal with utilities in the public as part of his job going forward. And his part of the work will start right now. As a review, I'm going to start with Eric Dershbeck. He's going to be our construction
 I'd like to show you an overview of our large-scale sewer rehabilitation program. Each of the purple areas are areas we have or are intending to get through as far as rehabilitation. The area in green, you can see Humboldt is outlined in green, so that will give you an idea of where we're located. Okay.
 As the commissioner mentioned, this is extremely old pipe, and I have two slides that will show you some of the worst that we found there. Cracks, major holes, root infestation. I've got one more. And then one thing that I did want to add was –
 To show you a slide that would indicate how the engineers are making assessments with regard to which pipe should be repaired and which pipe shouldn't be repaired. So in addition to showing you pipes of extremely poor pipe that we intend to replace, I wanted to show you some of what we're saving in order to stretch out the dollars. So on the left, the theme is pipes that are in the project and pipes that are out. On the left, you'll see pipes with multiple fractures and highly deteriorated channel sections, large holes with root intrusions,
 And on the right-hand side, you'll see stuff that we did not include in the rehabilitation that we expect can last 10 to 20, 30, 40 more years before it deteriorates to the point where it needs to be replaced. So you can see minor cracks on the right-hand side and small cracks along the pipe alignment that don't indicate pipe failure, as well as roots which we can maintain through a preventative maintenance and a maintenance program. So this was my 11th presentation of the program. This is the 11th time I've come here with these projects. I thought I'd show you something a little bit different.
 So to talk about the project, I have Eric, and he can run you through what the construction will be like. Hi, my name is Eric Dershbeck, and I'll go through some of these slides. This slide provides some statistics that can give you a flavor for the project size and complexity. As with our other neighborhood sewer projects, a broad suite of rehabilitation tools will be used to restore and reconstruct failed pipes. Okay.
 Work will occur near schools. For the K-12 schools listed here, we have included special provisions for the timing of the work to happen outside of school hours.
 Several pipes will be repaired on or near PCC campus. Over the course of design, we work closely with administrative staff and PCC to work and try to closely understand some of the sensitive areas near PCC and which pipes they would prefer be done during the summer. And also, when we talked to them, we pushed the construction of our project
 to work with them with a project they had going on called the PCC bond construction. And so that was one of the things we worked out with them. The project does include night work, which is primarily to accommodate the cured-in-place lining process, which will be used to repair many of the pipes. This is a non-invasive trenchless technology that typically takes one to four days, depending on the size of the pipe.
 Air inflates the liner, then hot water or steam cures the liner, meaning it gradually hardens from basically to a rigid form, creating a smooth surface, sealing the cracks, and restoring the pipe to near new condition.
 And noise variance was secured for several locations where the extended cure time is anticipated. And this is a function of size of the pipe and the length that requires this curing process to take a longer length of time.
 public outreach we had public involvement staff engaging a variety of stakeholders that helped the project team address unique issues for the neighborhood including work in alleyways timing of construction around pcc and special provisions for work adjacent to sensitive areas such as state of oregon facility on north webster and the north uh or the moore street salvation army
 Salvation Army located there in North Moore. And neighborhood association meetings were where we engaged the community and did presentations at the Albina-Killingsworth Safe Neighborhood Commission meeting and information and tables were provided at events that were hosted in Peninsular Park. An additional note on cured in place pipelining, there is a chemical odor during the
 curing process from chemical styrene that is in the resin liner But it's not at high enough levels to be harmful to humans or pets I believe last time Commissioner Fritz had a concern or a question that came up whether styrene was harmful to animals. So the basic message is styrene is not shown to be an issue to humans or animals and
 And we've explored a variety of sources, including Styrene Information and Research Center and the CDC Division of Toxicology and Human Health. We can email Commissioner Fritz more detailed information following the City Council meeting if you're interested.
 I really appreciate when you remember what I said last time and answer my question before I ask it again. As long as you've reviewed it, you don't need to send it to me, but thank you very much. Presumably, if anybody in the public wants to see it, they can contact you and get that information. Thank you. It's available. I'll back a slide for a second. Yes, of course. I just want to anticipate a concern my colleagues may have. When I looked at this slide, my first reaction was, are we now running sewer lines above ground and just an arch going across the park? And the answer is no.
 this is just the liner that's been laid out, which then is fed through the manhole and goes inside the existing pipe. So this is just the process, but we're not proposing above-ground sewers. Thank you. And if approved, we anticipate that the procurement of construction contract will occur this summer, and the construction will begin in the fall. So sometime in October, we hope to begin construction. Okay.
 And we've seen some volatility in pricing recently. I think they're in a transition point in the construction market, so we're using a high level of confidence, although we've been able to exceed that as far as the accuracy of our estimates recently, but we're just not sure what's really going on in the market. So with that, if there are any questions, you can answer them. Any questions? Okay, let's see if everybody wishes to testify. Veronica, wish to speak? Incidentally, that's a lovely photograph that you ended up with, with the roses and the dogging pen instead of art. Thank you.
 You can go ahead and have a seat. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Just give us your name, and you have three minutes. Three minutes. Exactly. Good. Good afternoon, City Council. I see the mayor is not here. We hope he had a good trip. I always love seeing the mayor at this City Council. Can you give us your name, Veronica? My name is Veronica Bernier from PSU Public Health and Safety. I'm a retired LVN whose field was PEICU and community health.
 things like that. Good morning, Nick Fish. You're looking well this morning. And good morning, Dan Saltzman, one of my favorite players. And good morning, Amanda Fritz. You're looking well. And Steve Novick, of course. He's our, he's a bulldog. But that's just the figure of speech. But he's always ready to pick up the struggle. To this, I would like to say that I understand what primary and tertiary treatment of raw sewage is.
 has to do with a lot of things, and in sewage pipe, we understand how it has to be clean going in. This is kind of a large project and will impact the neighborhood in a very, very grand manner. If there is not a placement of sewage pipes or large pipes in the area, that is going to come into play in the community, and I would want to see that the police department and the county health department stays abreast of this issue.
 I do know that there are people in the community that do watchdog work, and I think that's very important. I do remember living in the country one time when they put in pipes in our community, and we were living in the back 40 in Petaluma. And when they put in the pipes, it disrupted all the cows, chickens, and ducks, and everything else.
 But what I was going to say is we had a good outcome. It was below ground, and the pipes did work. And I think a little bit of disruption is okay as long as the end goal is met. Now, I wanted to also include the churches. Holy Redeemer is obviously Catholic, and nearby schools definitely to support them. In this time, especially during the summer, I think it's good if the Pope even himself notices that the churches need support.
 and that comes in dollar amounts in the collections on Sunday. The whole world isn't Catholic. We knew that already. However, if we can reach into the community where these new pipes are going and support the local churches and the schools in dollars amount, like not charitable contribution, however, but just community health support, that just means going in there and being there and looking at them and saying, what can we do to help too? Because any time you have raw sewage or replacement of pipes,
 I usually have some shift in the terrain. So keep up the good work, City Council, and we look forward to seeing the mayor in a pickle scheme. Thank you, Veronica. Okay, this item moves to a second reading, and we will now move to item 886. 885. 885, excuse me.
 Authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to acquire certain permanent property rights necessary for construction of the Fano Basin Pressure Line System Upgrade Project, number E10599, through the exercise of the City's eminent domain authority. Second reading. Vote only. Please call the roll. Novick.
 I'd just like to comment on the concept that Commissioner Fish broached earlier. I note that something called Infogroup has rated Seattle as more hipster than Portland. They're number one, we're number two. And it occurs to me that above-ground sewers might be just the kind of innovative postmodern idea that bolts us to the top. So I'd encourage the Commissioner to take a look at that issue.
 I wasn't here for the first reading, but I reviewed the information, and I vote aye. Fish? Steve, we'd be happy to take a look at it, and I would suggest we do a pilot in Multnomah Village. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Okay, the ordinance is adopted. Our final item this morning is 886. 886.
 Accept contracts with CH2M Hill Inc. and SSC Construction Inc. for the design, construction, and construction support services for the Powell Butte Reservoir No. 2 Phase 2 project as complete, released retainage, and authorized final payments.
 Mr. Fisher. Thank you, Mr. President. And we're pleased that Teresa Elliott is here today, our chief engineer, to walk us through this matter. The completion of the new Powell Butte Reservoir is yet another milestone in meeting our LT2 obligations and strengthening the seismic resilience of our water system.
 And let me just note for the record that the water we are drinking at City Hall is water that, for most of the year when we're not using Columbia well water, is water that has run through our two buried reservoirs on the east side. This is a large and complex project, but it is just one among a number of crucial investments we have made to make sure we are ready for the big one. At the end of September, we will receive the final report on the Kelly Butte Reservoir.
 And on Portland's west side, we will be breaking ground on the Washington Park Reservoir Project on September 12th. Colleagues, you will all be receiving an invitation, but just as we gathered as a council of the whole to cut the ribbon at the interstate building, I'm hoping that all of you can join us on September 12th as we break ground on the Washington Park Reservoir Project.
 These new reservoirs usher us into a new era of resilience, upgrading our water system to meet future challenges. It has taken, and this is an understatement, an incredible amount of work to get us to this point, and it will take us a lot more to finish the job. But we could not be in more capable hands than those of Teresa Elliott. Teresa, welcome, and I'll turn the floor over to you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Good morning, Mr. President and commissioners. For the record, I'm Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer of Portland Water Bureau. I have two contracts before you today to approve and accept the work associated with the construction of the Powell Butte Reservoir.
 Reservoir 2 project is complete. This report includes the Design and Engineering Services contract with CH2M Hill and the Construction Services contract with SSC Construction. As you may recall, the Palbutt Project was constructed in two phases, starting in 2009 as one of the city's local economic stimulus projects.
 Phase one we completed in 2011, and it included the site preparation and the preliminary excavation of the reservoir site. Phase two design started in 2010, and construction started in fall of 2011.
 In addition to the construction of the reservoir and associated piping, the Palbutte Conditional Use Master Plan required some construction of a bunch of other facilities, either concurrently or before the reservoir construction. This included portions of the Conduit 5 piping that we were going to build, a maintenance and storage facility, a caretaker house, and
 an interpretive center, ADA accessible restrooms, parking, trails, and some extensive environmental and stormwater mitigation measures. The Bureau's project estimate in 2010 for Phase 2 was just under $130 million. The total project has now been delivered at $116 million, which is $14 million under budget, or 11% under budget.
 We had 13 change orders, mostly administrative in nature, that added just under 5% to SSC's construction contract. On phase two alone, we had 183 firms or contractors that were working on the project. Of those, 106 were MWESB firms, 174 were in construction, and nine were in the design contract.
 Of the total number of people that were working on the project, 98 of the subcontracts under SSC construction were MWESB firms, and eight were under the design contract with CH.
 We met the city's goals for the MWSB participation, 39% for CH and 23% for the construction contract. In addition, we had 27 permits...
 Commissioner Fish mentioned that we had extensive work on this project. With 27 permits, we basically involved almost every bureau in the city and a number of outside agencies, including DEQ, DSL, which is Division of State Lands, Oregon Department of Transportation, the City of Gresham, Rockwood Water, and the Corps of Engineers.
 The project is now complete, and I ask the council to accept the work is complete, authorize our final payments, and release all retainage so we can close these two contracts. I'm available for questions. Okay, well, let's see if there's anybody who wishes to testify. Anybody wish to testify on this item? Seeing none, I guess we'll entertain a motion to accept the report. So moved. Second. Okay, moved and seconded. Please call the roll. Move it.
 I'll anticipate Commissioner Fritz, who's made this comment before, but in a week of glass ceiling shattering, it's nice to be reminded that our chief engineer is, in fact, a woman. Thank you, Teresa, for all your work. Fritz.
 Well, indeed, this has got to give you great satisfaction to have seen this project through from beginning to end. And likewise, Commissioner Fish, thank you for bringing it home after Commissioner Leonard starting the project, which as you said, will make us safer and restore, and ensure our water supply for many, many years to come. And it is wonderful to see the over achievement on the women and minority and emerging small businesses. Good job.
 Good job. Thank you for showing the way. Hi. Yes. Teresa Elliott, thank you for your good work. Thanks to your team and all the professionals who have worked so hard to bring us to this day. And you must in part feel like it's Groundhog Day because we're celebrating this milestone and we're beginning a project which in many respects is more complicated on the other side of the river.
 As I indicated to my colleagues, on Monday, September 12th, we'll be having a groundbreaking. You'll be getting invitations. I hope you can all join us. And we are poised with the future investments in Washington Park and with a fortified connection under the Willamette River to be taking the kinds of steps which will ensure that there's uninterrupted supply of safe and clean and reliable water to Westside customers now and in the future.
 Thanks for your good work and for hitting the numbers. Aye. Saltzman. Well, thank you, Commissioner Fish and Ms. Elliott, for completing this very important project for a safe and secure and resilient water supply. Aye. Okay, the report's adopted, and we are recessed until 2 o'clock. Steve, is your time certain at 3? It's listed at 15 minutes. Is that what you're anticipating, or is that optimistic? I don't think so. We have a flow of presenters, but yeah.
 The President is here. The President is here. You can just kick it to me. Okay, good afternoon, and Council reconvenes. Do we need to do the roll? Okay, please call the roll. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? I'm here, and I'll just add it's 10 p.m. on the time that I was on yesterday, so if I nod off, just wait a minute. There he is. Here. Fish? Hales? Here. Hales?
 Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you, Council, for covering this morning, and welcome back. Thank you. Welcome back to you, too. Thank you. We have a single item on the Council calendar this afternoon. It's item 889. So, you know, we've got two items, 887 and 888. Sorry, let me get synchronized. 887 and 888. Would you please read 887? 887, adopt the Powell Division Transit and Development Project Portland Local Action Plan.
 Good afternoon, gentlemen, and welcome.
 you're going to start joe yes i will um good afternoon uh mayor and city councilors um i'm joe zender chief planner for bureau planning and sustainability and today uh carl if you could flip us on we're to uh here to present the portland local action plan uh community development and transportation improvement action plan that's a piece of the portland division high capacity transit project
 That project, that bigger overarching transit project, is a partnership with Metro and TriMet, cities of Gresham, cities of Portland. And it's to improve transit in a corridor where there's a lot of transit-dependent households and a large, large amount of transit use. It's to improve access. The places it links are centers of employment and education and services. And the main piece we're talking about today is to support equitable community development. So, okay.
 The way the presentation is going today is we're going to start with Metro Counselor Bob Stacey to introduce sort of Metro's point of view, and Metro is the overall leader of this phase of the project. And Bob is co-chair of the steering committee.
 After that, I'll be joined by Kurt Krieger and Kate Dean, and we'll present the particulars of the plan. After that, we're ready for Q&A, and there's also some invited testimony. I have that here. Great. Thank you. Councilor Stacey. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. First of all, I want to reassure Commissioner Fish that what I told him before the proceedings began, that Metro and the City of Portland are partners in this project. We're not the leaders of it.
 or ascended above the city of Portland in some way. I sincerely believe that. The grab on my remarks today will be that the Powell Division Project or the division corridors we're now focusing on increasingly are
 is a very important transportation investment. But in terms of the excitement and possibility and importance of the planning effort overall, this would be a much less significant project if it weren't for the significant leadership being shown by the City of Portland in the Portland Action Plan.
 I want to first acknowledge that in addition to Commissioner Novick and me, there are other members of the steering committee on the corridor project here today. My colleague, Councillor Shirley Craddock,
 District 1 Metro Councilor, who actually represents significantly more of the project corridor than I do, including two and a half miles inside the city limits of Portland. This is a long and important corridor for transportation generally and for transit in particular.
 In addition, we have two citizen members of the steering committee, Ken Marks, who represents East Portland Neighborhoods and the East Portland Action Plan, and Vivian Satterfield, who I believe is representing Opano and the Jade District and Opal to varying degrees, but she's representing the community, which is the important point.
 Unlike past transit projects and community building projects in this region, Powell Division is a unique partnership of the regional agencies, TriMet, Metro, ODOT, the cities of Portland and Gresham, and community representatives selected to ensure that the views of neighborhoods of
 minorities and community members throughout the corridor would be reflected in the decision-making process that leads to a decision on transit and on the other elements. That partnership has been very pivotal in the development of this corridor, including the
 About two years ago, citizen members of the steering committee bringing forward a key issue that was on the radar screen but wasn't incorporated into the work program of Metro or, I'll dare say, to some extent, the City of Portland. The concern about displacement of businesses and low-income households whenever significant public improvements are made in an area, particularly improvements that provide additional access to jobs and other amenities. Okay.
 that's, in many people's minds, an unalloyed good. We're providing more access to people to jobs and daily needs. At the same time, if we're making this area more desirable for investment, we have the prospect of pushing out existing businesses and households. It was community members that brought that forward today.
 Metro, thanks to my colleague Sam Chase and the Council, has moved in the direction of developing its own strategies about what we call equitable housing. And I believe the City of Portland is among other cities applying for a $500,000 pot of resources to do housing planning in response to some of the new tools that the city has already picked up and started using and the other communities in the region can use, like the construction excise tax, like the inclusionary zoning approach.
 Those ideas started with the citizen members who said we need strategies, and the City of Portland stepped forward in the form of Joe, who started convening people and the Bureau and PBOT and PDC and Housing to put together strategies that make sense for this corridor and that are outlined in the Portland Action Plan. So, yes.
 the division corridor will be a transportation lifeline that will connect this whole southeast area much better with more frequent service with better buses that are longer but not wider on interdivision just the same width that will be able to move more people on each trip that will reduce the number of passed by passengers in close in division and and make the the
 speed of the movement through the entire corridor better for East Portland and Gresham residents. And it'll deal with the capacity issues and the need for more transit service in that area. But fundamentally, it's making real progress in areas that the city and the region need to progress toward, toward ensuring that there are places where people can live,
 as areas become more prosperous, that the supply of affordable housing and the opportunities to stay in a community rather than be displaced from it are increased as we make strategic public investments. So my hat is off to the city. I know you'll continue to be engaged in the...
 planning process and ultimately the implementation of a bus rapid transit line in southeast portland but you'll also be leading the way in terms of making this this project ever more valuable to the region as a whole thank you thank you questions for councillor stacy or for joe thank you both
 We're going to hear from, yeah, we're going to hear from, I think, Councilor Craddock and from the Housing Bureau and then also from our steering committee members who are here. Right. So the next phase of this I'll have, unless Councilor Craddock wants to address you all, it will be Kirk Rieger and Kate Dean will join me and we'll go through the particulars of the plan. Okay. Let's do that. Thank you. Councilor Craddock has the prerogative whenever she wants to jump up and say, wait a minute, you forgot this. Okay.
 So, the part of the plan that we're focusing on today is the part related to housing development, affordable housing development, and economic development, community economic development. And the overview of the pieces of the plan or the actions that are included in the plan is shown on this slide, on the housing side of the strategy slide.
 The overall point is to get more and to get better affordable housing in the corridor. And as Councilor Stacey pointed out, when we did the displacement or gentrification risk analysis a few years ago as part of the comprehensive plan,
 The south side of Powell and all of Division popped out as a high-risk area given the characteristic income and the renters and the other characteristics of the households there. So even before there was a high-capacity transit project, we knew that this was a part of the city where we needed to pay attention to that issue.
 So, in vis-a-vis of housing, we've got three overall actions. One is to increase the supply. And just for context, too, we wrote this. We were asked to write the local action plan as if a five-year plan. So, this is looking out to things that we think we can get accomplished by 2022. Okay.
 add 300 affordable units in the corridor. The 300 number is not necessarily reflected of the overall need of affordable housing in the city or in this corridor. However, part of what we needed to do is to
 make this in proportion to the size of the transit project and the sense that we have of what the impact would be. We thought that was a more reasonable way to sort of set this particular goal. Other goals are set citywide that you've already heard in the comprehensive plan and other work that housing's brought forward. So the goal is 300 units.
 Coupled with that, we have a project that we're going to get underway at BPS about creating better multi-dwelling standards. So you know the apartment buildings, especially that you see out east in East Portland on some of the lots, and their design need to be improved to benefit the households who live in those units more, and we're moving to evaluate and improve those standards. So overall, great.
 We hope that the multi-dwelling, the apartment buildings out in East Portland and elsewhere in the city will be better designed and will carry over into the affordable housing units as well, market rate and affordable. Finally, on the housing part of the strategy, in this
 came clearly through the messages given us by the steering committee and the advocacy groups in East Portland was that there was a need for stronger tenant protections. Having good units, having more units is one thing, but protecting the rights of those in those units is another. And so the point of this action is just to really continue the work that the Housing Bureau and others have already started in that regard.
 On the economic development side, the overall message or the point of this piece of the strategy is we
 We want to make sure that the businesses and the households that are currently in this corridor are able to take advantage of the benefits that come from introducing better transit. We know that the households are going to benefit from the transit because it will perform better and they already are heavy transit users.
 If there's displacement of either the business, as there is displacement of the businesses and or residents, that benefit to those folks becomes more threatened. So on the economic development side, we really focused on business retention and getting businesses in the position to take advantage of growth and also workforce opportunities for households and residents in the corridor.
 The tools that you see listed here, business retention, connect workforce navigation, sort of development assistance is what help development means. It's classic sort of real estate work. And having this be a community-driven planning and action effort are really tools from the
 PDC's approach that they've been using in the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative areas, the NPI areas. So part of this is bringing it to scale using that toolkit that we have been developing or PDC has been developing with the community and trying to bring it to scale to affect businesses outside the NPIs in the corridor. So that's the overall actions.
 Funding is the next piece of this to see it through. So we've estimated the amount of money it takes for the 300 units and the other pieces of action, and to bring, increase the access or the ability to deliver those business services and workforce services in the corridor.
 The estimates came out to be $33 million for the housing piece, $6 million for the economic development activities. The housing work is primarily implemented by Housing Bureau. The economic development work is implemented by PDC and their community partners. Do we have the agreements of the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative?
 that they're going to dedicate a million dollars of their money? Well, Kate's here to address that part of the overall, what this really represents. So we wanted to show also with the adoption of this plan, what resources do we have to get together to get going?
 On the housing side, and Kurt will address this in more detail, when we prepared the plan, we thought we had about that amount of money. This is $7 million that we would have access, and a half million dollars we'd have access to. There's still a $26 million gap to get to the finish line, and Kurt can address our ideas about getting to that. On the...
 And you'll notice that in here is some money from Central Eastside that's already sort of dedicated to housing, so we're counting that as part of this. Housing Bureau money that they can reprogram or that could be focused over there in current sort of programs. And then Metro, in their community planning and development grant, is actually helping with this effort, and we're taking that money, and it's not so much planning this time as we're actually trying to go out and do these actions, get started.
 On the economic development side, there's the TIF money that's in the MPIs that Kate can talk about. The activities that only can be spent within the MPI geography, but it's similar activities. Once again, there's some metro money from a community planning and development grant, and there's some general fund that is allocated to PDC for this kind of work.
 Still to be funded on the economic development side is $4.3 million. So, if we're going to follow through, we needed to, the next sort of parts of the presentation show how we get from the START funding that we have to be able to deliver the actions. And so, to talk about this and to talk about, you know, more fully what opportunities that we see in the corridor, I'd like to turn it over first to Curt and then to Kate. Curt Coyne- Very good. Mr. Mayor, members of council,
 It gives me great pleasure to come to you today and not ask for new resources. In taking stock of this plan, I think it's worth mentioning that Matthew Scheibold and Carl Dinkelspiel from the Housing Bureau were part of the initial conceptualization of the fiscal note and the number. And between the time that number was developed and the time that we've come to you, frankly, we've been able to put a lot of tools in place. Yes.
 The securitization of the transit lodging tax into some general fund backed bonds gives us resources outside of urban renewal areas to make purchase offers on property. We are actively pursuing sites in this corridor and have made some issued letters of intent to acquire some properties. We're not prepared yet to disclose what they are, but they are in this particular study area.
 Moreover, with the action you've taken to implement a construction excise tax August 1st,
 we'll start to accumulate not just the offset funding for developers to comply with inclusionary zoning but additional resources that can be used in this particular area. As mentioned, we have existing tax increment within the construct of the urban renewal areas and you appropriated some $500,000 for our rental rehab program. That's really an
 an initial start on a robust rental rehab program. If you recall, the request was for $1.5 million. Assuming we're able to launch that program, we'll come back in the normal budget process for full funding. And that was consistent with the East Portland Action Program's goals. So I'm thinking, frankly, that we have the tools at our disposal for us to fill this gap in the next five years. Okay.
 The real estate is always opportunity-driven, and we need to focus our resources and our attention on this area to make sure that we avail ourselves of those opportunities. But I wanted to let you know that I think we have the tools necessary to meet this goal.
 So you won't be coming back to ask for additional resources? I don't expect to. The council, of course, will have to approve any acquisition of real estate in due time, and we'll come in each instance for that. The...
 The resources that we would normally have available at our disposal in the next five years should allow us to fulfill this goal. So could you possibly, because of the chart we just saw, said that there was nearly $27 million of unmet need, that is not specified. How come we don't have that broken down into where you think that money is going to come from?
 Well, our annual budget is $153 million as approved by council. And of course, we're a citywide bureau serving lots of different areas. This area is a large geographic area. And as we calibrate our resources, we obviously are working within the eight open urban renewal areas. This
 This corridor includes two of those eight, Lansing Gateway, which is helpful. But moreover, it is large enough that we think we can find opportunities within this area in the next five years to place 300 affordable housing units in the area.
 We don't budget specifically by allocating resources because it is so driven by opportunities. What I can tell you is that we are really at the present time only shopping for real estate in the interstate urban renewal era and in this corridor. If the Tigard City Council votes affirmatively to support the Southwest Corridor, I think we'll redouble our efforts in the Southwest Corridor as well.
 I would still like to see more of a framework for which buckets you are looking to get that nearly $27 million from. I think as a planning tool, I'm perfectly supportive of that. What we can't do is budget in that manner because we obviously don't want to leave money on the table. We need to deploy our resources in a timely manner and make sure that we meet our goals. But I don't have a problem with giving you a roadmap as to how we would deploy those resources.
 I'd like a framework for you think that, and of course not project by project, but how much of the construction exercise tax do you think will be dedicated to this area? How much of the other resources that you mentioned will be, you know, what are the buckets and where are they coming from? Thank you. I'd be happy to. Let me follow up on that if I could. Is your goal to have 300,000
 New units of affordable housing, or is preservation part of your strategy? Well, this plan calls for 300 new units. We plan on, in addition, stabilizing the current stock to the greatest extent possible. And when you talk about 300 affordable units, if you were successful tomorrow in achieving that goal, what would be the income distributions? Yes.
 Well, I think it's going to be 100% below 60% of AMI. 100% would be low income. I must say that there are a lot of mobile home parks in this area, and those tend to be even lower income than that. We are looking at preservation that includes mobile home parks as well as existing apartment complexes. We've mentioned this before, but...
 I hope soon we identify a mobile home park that the city can take its entire toolkit to bear, because one of the things I'd like to see is BES, BPS, housing, all of our key partners at the table, taking a mobile home park, reimagining it with updated units, and then greening it up so that we can show what a different kind of environment we can create in a mobile home context while preserving affordability.
 And let me just ask you a tougher question. So you're committing $500,000 over five years from your federal funds. So that's new money that you're carving out of the money we get from the feds. But you're crediting $5 million from an urban renewal district. Why isn't that old wine in a new bottle? Well, I think actually the $500,000, as I understand this chart in terms of sources, is actually the Rental Rehab General Fund commitment.
 It's not federal dollars. I believe it's general fund dollars. The chart that we have at page 28 says PHB federal fund allocation over five years, a half a million dollars. Well, let me double check on that. We've gone off the chart. So if it isn't that fund, that's fine. I just... Yeah. And as Kurt said, it's a...
 of a source of funds that Housing Bureau has to focus on this corridor. So let me double-check the source. But since we already have money budgeted in urban and old districts and we have a strategy, why isn't this old wine in a new bottle if we're crediting TIF within Central East Side? Okay.
 Well, it may be a difference without a distinction. I'm not sure I'm fully tracking you, but indeed. I'm being provocative, obviously, but the money in the Urban Renewal District predated a strategy for this corridor, and we've been thinking about how to spend that money. Now you've got a vision for a corridor, and you're talking about new investment to address the housing needs. Right.
 I mean, you're adding this to the mix, but this is a preexisting commitment we made to do housing within that urban renewal district. So someone might argue, well, that five is already in the mix. Come up with an additional five. Why are you suggesting that we essentially credit an existing allocation within an urban renewal district of TIF that was otherwise available?
 targeted to creating this housing before we had this strategy. But the way that we came up with the goal and sort of were thinking of this is sort of an end state of what can be on the ground with the completion of the high-capacity transit project. So this is part of that mix of units. Granted that there is a set-aside that's coming from an urban renewal area that already exists, but...
 That money could be spent on the corridor. The Central East Side is a big area. It could be spent outside the corridor in the Central East Side. The site that we've been talking about is particularly a site that will be where the
 Bus rapid transit intersects or at least comes in the vicinity of the white rail, so it's a major sort of transfer point, so we think it's an opportune site for affordable housing. You're targeting it. My final question is, does that displace any other affordable housing commitments or priorities that the district had previously put on the table that we're now shifting to this focus? It does not. Any other questions? Yes.
 Other points you wanted to cover, Kurt? Very good. Thank you. Kate, welcome.
 Thanks. Kate Dean, Portland Development Commission. I'm the Community Economic Development Manager. I'm here today to talk a little bit about the economic development portions of the action plan. The slide that you see before you, as we really looked at the transit project coming through, what we've tried to do in the economic development portion of this plan is to really anchor the
 are economic development actions around the existing NPI areas in the division corridor. And the focus of the plan is really between 82nd Avenue and approximately 174th, where the City of Portland meets Gresham in this corridor.
 So the idea would be you're well aware, I think, of the investments that City Council currently makes in the Jade District and in the Division Midway. So through City Council investments of general fund on an annual basis, we're able to fund those two districts, including JV.
 one staff person in each of those districts to manage the district, to know all the businesses, to work with the community to identify needs and really to drive local economic development. So our vision here is that we have this infrastructure that the city already has made, and in addition to that, other existing resources that we are putting
 putting in place right now include business technical assistance. So again, the city works with PDC to fund business technical assistance focused primarily on low-income and or minority-owned businesses. We have worked to layer those resources
 Within our NPIs, to a great extent, we have in both of these districts, we have on the ground business advising on a walk-in basis that's more, I would say, light touch. And then for those businesses that need more than a light touch on business technical assistance like marketing,
 I need some help with marketing, or can you look at my website, or how do I, you know, where do I go to get this from the city? We have ongoing business technical assistance that we also provide that people can receive up to three years of business technical assistance. So we're trying to layer our existing programs within the NPI areas. Okay.
 So what the plan does and what we've started even this fiscal year with a grant from Metro, we've got a grant from Metro. The way that we're using that grant in large part is to enhance our business technical assistance in the corridor. So we're serving the entire corridor, not just NPIs, although it will sort of be focused through the NPIs. We'll be kind of home bases. So we're going to double down on our business technical assistance there.
 That means that more people can receive longer-term business technical assistance than we have with the base city funding. We are also helping to fund community organizers. So one of the things that occurs when you have a major project that comes through an area is that there's a lot of public outreach that's needed. And up to this point, a lot of the burden or blessing of that public outreach
 involvement has really fallen on the NPI's and so one of the things we're doing with the Metro grant and that we think we need to sustain over time is to have a community organizer so that that much of the outreach and community connection to the transit project and to business technical assistance and to some of the workforce development services that we hope to put in this corridor can really be
 we can have a community organizer who's out on the front line, developing relationships and making connections with individual residents and businesses and making sure that they get to the appropriate, you know, business technical advisors, workforce advisors, and learning about what's happening with the transit project, when meetings are coming up, when significant community input is needed, hosting meetings. Where would that organizer be housed?
 We anticipate that we will house them through the NPIs. Though we have one right now, we're kind of knitting together resources that we are putting first in Division Midway because they have slightly less capacity than Jade does with the broader resources of APANO at this point, but I think we would see this as a really
 a resource for the corridor and something that would be shared between the two as we move beyond. Would there be any merit, do you think, to house that position at Venture Portland? I mean, it's certainly something we could consider. I think the reason that we are suggesting that we would put this in the community-based organizations is that they're just frankly closer to the people and that this really is –
 It's more of a community development role. It's not specifically about businesses. It's as much about connecting residents and businesses to the transit project as it goes along, connecting businesses to business technical assistance and back to the districts and to the business community.
 associations in the corridor, and finally connecting residents up to some of the workforce development services that are there. So it's certainly something that we could consider. I think our proposal and recommendation would be that we funnel it through the NPIs. The transit project is really important.
 developed a very nice relationship with the two NPIs in terms of the outreach and the community connections. Is the other virtue of, I don't remember the numbers on the chart, but is another virtue of running it through an NPI that you can use TIF? No. Are we talking general fund? We're talking general fund at this point. But where is that coming from?
 Which? The additional money for the community organizer. Well, right now, where the money is coming from, I mentioned that we have a metro grant. Right. So a large part of that is coming from that. And then PDC gives some resources to the district in terms of e-zone funding for technical assistance. And we had a little bit of carryover of that. And so we're sort of
 This year, we're knitting this particular position together to kind of jumpstart that work in the corridor. Well, I appreciate the thriftiness. On the other hand, we just did a six-month-long budget process, and I don't remember hearing allocating funding for this from the general fund.
 It is from the Metro grant and then from PDC's e-zone dollars. And we did, in the budget process, bring forward a package that wasn't, you know, you weren't able to fund around the BRT action plan. So acknowledge that.
 i acknowledge that yes you didn't appropriate anything for it we're using other resources and kind of trying to cobble together a need that we see there right now right thank you and just following on from commissioner fresh's question how does southeast uplift and the east portland neighborhood associate neighborhood organization and epap the east portland action plan how do they fit in with the community organizing around transportation
 I think that this will be a resource for all of those. You know, it will be a resource that helps all of those organizations who are also, I don't want to say
 There's just an unmet need out there for community organizing that occurs with a big project, and it typically falls on the backs of local community-based organizations to do that kind of on the fly. And so I do think that it benefits those other organizations. In addition to that, our NPIs are very tied into EPAP, particularly to the Economic Development Committee. So I think that there's synergy there.
 I see that Laurie Boisen from the Division Midway is here so I can follow up with some questions to her. I am, I'd like to ask you again though my question about the fundings from the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiatives for this plan. Have both of them agreed that they're going to dedicate $100,000 of their money? The TIF dollars, that's really, first of all, those dollars are not ours to spend. They're the NPI's to spend. So it's really the figure that you see here
 which is about $100,000 per district, is money that they would direct. And so we're just making an estimate of where those dollars would likely go in terms of investments around businesses and business improvements. But my question is, have they agreed that they're going to dedicate $100,000 per year for five years? Yes.
 I am not sure whether they have agreed to specifically dedicate that. That resource is theirs to spend, and it's, like I said, it's just an estimate of what they might be spending to help this effort.
 And part of how we were thinking about it is that both of the MPIs in the corridor are directly on what the high capacity, the proposed alignment of the bus rapid transit line. So the work of the MPIs really is about those districts and directed by those districts, but is inherently shares the mission that we're trying to do with the economic development work.
 in the local action plan. And what the extra funds are is to bring it to, is to be able to spread it to businesses outside of the MPIs. So that's, it's not so much that we're redirecting any MPI dollars, we're just saying that there's money in the MPIs and the essence of the MPI directed work is complimentary to what we're trying to do in the action plan. I'm going to be looking forward to community testimony. Thank you.
 So that's basically the existing money that I just ran through. And so the other – so I mentioned that with the plan that we would anticipate adding additional business technical assistance. Right now, again, that's something that we're funding with our Metro grant this year. But that we would also be adding – making a request to city council in order to fund activities such as
 small business lending and access to capital, a position around connecting the community to anchor institutions, both to the jobs there and businesses to economic opportunities within anchor institutions, those being education, such as Portland Community College, some of the hospitals in the area, and really taking more of a citywide approach for that, and
 And then this year, and then finally workforce navigation, this year we have a partnership with Work Systems Inc. where we have, again, tried to be proactive, trying to knit together some partnerships in this case in order to test out a workforce navigator in the corridor to try to connect people who are under or unemployed to both workforce training, jobs,
 and workforce development activities such as resume building, interviewing, other things. So on the second slide that you see here, I have tried my best. We have tried our best to just give you on an annual basis a little bit of a glimpse of what this looks like. So we've been talking earlier about if you look at the center green –
 green box with the arrow we currently have we're estimating how much of the general fund resources that we get from the city go to the two npis and to business technical assistant currently we would be coming back for that annual request that's part of our ongoing budget with the city
 We've just acknowledged in the other green bucket that there is an ongoing TIF available for activities that could complement our work in the corridor. And all of this business technical assistance would be done through partners such as, you know, we have a whole suite of business technical assistance nonprofit partners, and it is likely that it would continue to be through them. And then finally, you're looking at what...
 new, we're thinking new general fund dollars that we would need. So the Metro grant is really a one-time grant, and our partnership with WSI is also a one-year opportunity at this point. So we would anticipate with that general fund request continuing the enhanced business technical assistance that's currently funded through the Metro grant.
 continuing the workforce navigation services that is currently being funded with a partnership opportunity with WSI, and then finally really institutionalizing that community organizer function in the corridor, and then adding two new functions, access to capital, so a big barrier for business can be access to capital and the anchor institution function. And so that's
 I think this slide fairly well lays out what, on an annual basis, that new request would be coming to City Council. So one of the things I really appreciated with the transportation budget that Commissioner Novick put forward in the last round was that there was a constrained list and there was a non-constrained list in the Portland Plan and Transportation Funding. Do we have another version of this plan?
 580,000 is a very big number, and I don't know that we're going to have lots of calls on the budget next year. So what happens with this plan if we're not able to fund that? Well, I think those conversations are – it's certainly something that we could respond to. I think at this point that I would want to go back and talk to –
 the districts, our public partners, and more importantly, some of the community partners about what are the priorities. When we developed this plan, our philosophy, quite frankly, was to
 If we have a major transit project coming to this corridor, and we know that there are inevitably pressures caused by that that are likely to displace businesses and residents, where is the kitchen sink that we can throw at this in order to try to put tools in place to minimize those displacement impacts? So we can certainly ratchet this back.
 I would like to do so in consultation with some of our partners. And if I could just add, the basic way to think about it is, with less funds over the next five years, you reduce the area, the geography, in which we can work to get to businesses, to a system and the number of businesses. This overall budget and this size of effort was scaled, once again, to the size of this project,
 transit project, which is big, but it's not as big as some of the other transit projects that you've considered. And we just scale it back. That's what happens. What's the status of the overall project as far as TriMet doing any kind of a transportation system on division? Well, Commissioner, if I could just wrap this up and we'll get TriMet up here in Metro who can answer those questions. Thank you. Just one final question, though.
 What discussions were had as far as the community organizer as to where that would be located and how it might partner with the neighborhood coalitions? Because it seems like you're going to be hiring somebody and hoping that they've got an ongoing job rather than a one-time funding job.
 I believe that we did have conversations with the NPIs. I don't think we did have conversations with some of the other community-based organizations about that. Thank you. Questions, other comments for these folks? And do you want me to call up the four? Sorry, Commissioner. So I just want to make sure I understand the context for this. Joe, what's the analogy here in terms of the exercise we're going through? What's the best analogy here?
 best analogy. Ahead of a major transportation project, anticipating some of the unintended consequences or some of the
 Oh, so if I could describe it. We normally take these up after the horse has left the barn. So I'm trying to think, what's the equivalent? Well, this is us trying to get ahead of actually the final alignment and decisions about the project. Part of what you're seeing, and I think it's best reflected in the work that the Housing Bureau has done, early on, even in the planning of this, we were generating information that the project
 the Housing Bureau has been able to use to start to look for, set some of those early targets for retention or purchase. And as funds became available or they could reprogram them, they've been able to do that. The practice around transit-oriented development, the way you think about it, we're trying to think about it nationally, I think, is to get ahead of the projects.
 and to bring an equity focus to that work, not just a real estate focus. And in this case, because of the characteristics of the corridor and the work we're already doing out there, this was an obvious place to try to do that. I don't know if that's responsive. That's very responsive. And so, Steve, the total cost of this project when we do the transportation enhancements, you would estimate is a low to a high of what, 30?
 I think we're going to defer to TriMet on that in fear of getting it somewhat wrong. It would be interesting to hear that number because another way of looking at this is there's a lot of different ways of looking at where you landed. One is it is scaled to the size of the project. Another one, it is scaled in part to the available resources. Okay.
 One is it's a pilot, and we're going to see whether this is really the right number or does it in the future projects become the floor and can we go above it? I mean, there's different ways of looking at it. Another way of looking at it is what's the percentage of the total funding that we're setting aside to anticipate upstream these things, and how do we scope out the cost of these projects in the future? We don't know the answers to any of those questions, just like we don't know what the power of the market is going to be ultimately. Okay.
 but you're trying to get upstream and anticipate some of this, and we're going to learn a few things. And what makes it different for me is that over the last eight years, we usually have this conversation when it's too late. And so it may be the right mix. It may be too modest. Who knows? But it's certainly scaled to what the available resources are. But you've been very honest. If the resources don't all materialize, it will just be put on a diet.
 you'll get proportionally less. And that will be a council choice to the extent you're asking for new resources in the future. Is that fair? Fair.
 I do think it's important to note this has been largely a community-driven process, and I think it's kind of a new process where basically we've had a conversation with the community and folks have said we are not sure we want a new high-capacity transit line unless we have some assurances on what happens with housing and economic development because we do not want to use a deliberate pun but a paraphrase. We do not want high-capacity transit to simply be a vehicle for gentrification.
 So I think actually we'll continue to have that conversation with the community, and it's possible that if we cannot fund this plan – I mean, we have back and forth about, well, if we can only fund X percent of this plan, do people in the community still want this project?
 So I don't know how much hurt there may be with a few hundred thousand here and there, but I think that if we thought that we were in danger of losing the lion's share of this investment, then we might say, actually, we don't think the community wants the project. Just one comment off that. In a lot of the other work we do at this body, we take the mitigation costs out of the overall pot of money. We don't say it's another pot of money. We say –
 We're going to do this project along the Rivers Bank, and we're going to take a portion of the money to deal with the mitigation or whatever. And in some cases, it's prescribed. This is different. You can do this transportation project without being required to spend this money. I wonder if what we're heading towards philosophically is,
 is a kind of thinking that says if you're going to do a $100 million transportation project of this kind, you've got to take $20 million of it and do housing and economic development and other things because it's all of a whole. And the only reason we don't think that way here and in other cases we do is that it's legally required that we consider mitigation in other contexts and use the same funding source to address the mitigation. Other questions? Yes.
 Okay. Thank you very much. I think I should call up the four community members that we have invited testimony from, Chris, Vivian, Duncan, and Kim. And then we can bring forward TriMet to answer some of the other questions. Okay. So why don't you pull up another chair, please, and come up as a panel. Chris Smith, Vivian Satterfield, Duncan Wong, Kim Marks. Appreciate having you here and your work on this project. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. I'm Chris Smith, Vice Chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and I am here today carrying the Commission's recommendation regarding this plan. We had our public hearing back in January, and you have a letter from us from several months ago now regarding our recommendation. I would say first that we want to applaud the governance structure for this project, the
 Populating the steering committee with community members and representation of relevant advocacy organizations, not just with elected officials, we think is a very good idea. So we commend Metro and the other project partners who made that decision.
 While we recommend this plan, we do so, and it was an 8-to-1 vote by which we recommended this plan, and I'll talk about the minority view in a minute. We do so with some conditions, and the first is very much the discussion that you've just been having, that if you cannot find your way clear to fund this mitigation plan, you should seriously reconsider whether we should do the transit project or not. And, you know, it's a little bit challenging, I know, because...
 We can get federal match for the transit component of this project. The federal government is not offering any match for the community mitigation pieces, so it makes it a little tougher for us to come up with the resources, but our commission felt that it was important that we do the mitigation, we commit to do the mitigation. We would also feel better if the affordable housing component of this mitigation plan was stronger than 300 units. We appreciate the effort to get to 300 units, but we think the real impact is probably somewhat larger.
 And finally, we think that there are additional strategies you'd probably be adding to the toolkit. I think we heard one of them today, which is land banking in advance of the transit project, because, of course, as soon as the transit project appears to be certain, the public benefit of that transit project will wind up being reflected in the property values and we'll pay more to get the land for the affordable housing and the other needs that we have. So I was –
 hardened here that Kurt was talking about acquiring property now before that value is fully baked in. We think that's an important strategy. We also feel like affordable housing retention in the corridor is an important strategy. And then finally, I'll mention that the dissenting member of our commission basically did so on the basis that we should be doing more and should have started it sooner. Thank you. Thank you.
 Kim, who's next? Vivian, whoever. Good afternoon. Vivian Satterfield with Opal Environmental Justice Oregon. I don't frequently have reason to correct Councillor Stacey, but I'm actually not representing a Pano in the Jay District. That's my colleague here, Duncan, although I am a resident of the area and our offices has recently located to the intersection of 82nd and Franklin, so we're right in the neighborhood. Okay.
 But we do work at the intersection of housing and transportation, so that's why this project is so important, and that's why we've been participating on the steering committee for a number of years now. And that's also caused us to develop this community stabilization goal and toolkit, which we released to the steering committee in March of 2015 alongside some of the community members represented here, Duncan, Heidi Ginnan, who's no longer with Upstream Public Health,
 Of course, OPAL, the defunct now Coalition for a Global Future, Division Midway Alliance, East Portland Neighborhood Office. There's a number of organizations that have been really involved in digging into some of the tough questions that the council has been asking here around community stabilization and, of course, affordable housing production and preservation. Okay.
 So I think that, you know, overall the action plan, I do want to commend the staff that have been working on it for lifting up a lot of what we put in this toolkit, both from the legal tools that we have available to us and other some ideas that we haven't tried innovating yet. I do like the idea of land banking. I think that's a really critical tool. And, of course, our membership of Bus Riders Unite is going to be digging in more on the transportation aspect of this. And I've been hearing from members that we have some –
 We have a lot of questions and some concerns around the transportation angle. But as this action plan stands now, I'm speaking mostly to the development side and economic development aspects of that. So I think that what I've been hearing from the line of questioning here from this council is right on. These are critical questions to address.
 How are we going to develop an analysis around the dollars being spent for transportation? How are we blending them with housing and economic development? And quite frankly, we need some leadership to figure out some of these tough questions. We have a lot of tools available to us now that we haven't had before. But what does that look like citywide? What does that look like in our specific target area? And, you know, we need this plan regardless of the transit investment. Looking at the patterns of gentrification and displacement, this plan is needed regardless. Okay.
 thank you uh let's be next okay uh good afternoon uh duncan huang with apano and budget district uh thanks for having us in for testimony uh so after extensive community engagement with our folks many of which was in language we spoke with residents business owners and landowners generally speaking our community is supportive of the brt project but we have three major concerns
 The first, obviously, that we've discussed is the displacement of our business and neighbors. Our businesses are also concerned about what happens to our local business community during construction and how that would disrupt the business district and what would happen to businesses.
 to their customers. And finally, we had a lot of concern over potential loss of property and land to the project. In the previous scheme, we were losing between 10 and 27 businesses within the district, which would have been incredibly disruptive and really not palatable to the community.
 So to kind of illustrate where we are with this project, I just want to highlight the corner of 82nd and Division because it really kind of illustrates the issues that we're facing and how it intersects with this project. So on the northeast corner, you have Hong Far Low.
 which no longer exists. It was a Portland institution. It was here in Portland for 87 years and has now closed. The new owners, in talking to them, are really excited about the transit project. You kind of see the dollar signs flashing in their eyes. So we're seeing some sort of property speculation already across the street on the southeast corner. We have Canton Grill,
 If you drive by today, they have a sign on their marquee that says 72 years in operation, third-generation business owners. So Cindy, the current business owner, she's a third-generation owner of that business, and there's some great video footage of her.
 being really emotional about this project. She really wants to stay in this neighborhood. And when her property was potentially up for acquisition to do the turn lanes, she was really upset and emotional about that. I don't think that's on the table anymore, but it kind of speaks to the sentiment of our business owners. They really want to stay here, and they've been here for, some of them, 72 years. So it's really important for them to stay here.
 Across the street on the northwest corner, you have a new PCC Southeast Campus now serving 11,000 students. Now also a community anchor. You know, they're really excited about the project because it brings more access to opportunity for PCC students. Thank you.
 and finally across the street on the southwest corner, we have jams for Jalapeno Multicultural Space, a TOD project and a future site for affordable housing. We're intending to have 48 units of affordable housing there, which would be a great win for the community. That's a microcosm of the impact of this project on our neighbors and residents.
 You know, kind of going from that earlier this year in January with the sustainability commission, our board voted to support the BRT project contingent on the funding for the mitigation strategies that were being proposed.
 There's a whole suite of priorities there that are all great, but for us, really four rise to the top. The first is more affordable housing. 300 units is a great start. I think that was the...
 the amount called for already in the comp plan, so the city should go above and beyond that where possible. We're really interested in having a business mitigation fund and more technical assistance for our small businesses, particularly during construction times.
 We're concerned about any loss of transit. If we lose underlying service, how is that going to affect our transit-dependent residents and how they get to their jobs in school? And finally, we're really excited about the possibility of land banking and getting ahead of the issues that are coming.
 So, I guess overall, you know, we're really excited about everything in the Portland Action Plan and we want to be a BRT project that makes the lives of residents and riders and neighbors along the alignment better. So for this reason, you know, we think the Portland Action Plan should be adopted. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE. Thank you. Mr. Marks, you get to back clean up for this group.
 Thank you. My name is Ken Marks, and I'm the representative for the East Portland Action Plan on the Steering Committee. I want to first thank the staff of all the different agencies for putting in the work that they have put in to come up with the plan. Having said that, I have to admit that, frankly, I'm somewhat ambivalent about the plan. Thank you.
 As Duncan just mentioned, the 300 units that are currently in the plan were already on deck. And the only benefit that I see that the plan provides is that those units are directly being linked to the corridor where they otherwise would not necessarily be. I
 I don't think that the approach that was used to determine those number of units is appropriate given the nature of the populations that live along Powell and Division.
 It doesn't take a genius to realize that there are a lot more people of low income and moderate income that live along that particular corridor than in other parts of the city. And to only allocate proportional to the entire city for a 10-mile corridor seems to be less than impressive, to say the least.
 I think that there certainly needs to be more housing. As for the economic development aspect of it, I think that there's significant oomph there, or for lack of a better word, and Lori Boyson will be speaking to that in more detail. Okay.
 I have some concerns with regards to how the housing is going to be allocated along the corridor. There's nothing to say that it's going to be an equal distribution along the entire corridor, and in fact,
 As was discussed earlier today, a significant portion of the funding that's already been identified is on the inner east side urban renewal area. And as my understanding is, that money is tied to that urban renewal area. Now, people may correct me if I'm wrong. That means that a significant portion of what's already been identified is going to wind up in inner east Portland. And...
 leaving a significant portion to be found for outer East Portland. With that said, I'd also like to talk about the underlying transportation project. I have been beating the drum for a significant long time about the
 nature of this project. I'm glad to hear that it was mostly referred to as a high-capacity transit project and not a bus rapid transit because, frankly, in my eyes, I don't see this as being a bus rapid transit project. It may meet the federal standards for a bus rapid transit project, but those standards are, frankly, fairly low. Thank you.
 There's significant issues as to whether or not there's going to be any increased savings in time, given the alignment. There will be savings over the PAL division alignment, but the only savings of time that I see are from the elimination of bus stops and priority lighting systems at major intersections. Okay.
 There's nothing to say that those buses aren't going to get stuck in traffic along with everybody else in rush hour, and that's going to significantly impact both the time that it takes as well as reliability. The other major issue that I have with this is that there is a significant reduction in bus stops,
 that are being proposed now for both inner division and outer division.
 As a person who lives in outer division or near outer division, I can tell you that the street grid does not really afford to have a significant reduction in bus stops without causing a major impact on the people that are going to lose the stations or stops that they're currently using. That means people are going to walk farther and walk through –
 and that's going to be walking further through unimproved streets. That's not a good thing. East Portland Action Plan has said that it cannot support a project that is going to negatively impact people when it comes to transportation.
 What this plan currently being in its current iteration is essentially borrowing from Peter on division so that TRIMEC can expand east or north-south service on 184th and 162nd. I don't think that that's equitable, that a portion of East Portland should have to lose service to provide service for another portion of East Portland.
 Having said that, I'll wait to make a final analysis on that issue when TriMet and Metro come up with their final numbers. But as I currently look at the information before me, those are the conclusions that I've come up with. Thank you.
 Mr. Marks, has the East Portland Action Plan sent us a letter or taken a position on this particular local action plan? It has, and I can forward a copy of that to you. Essentially, East Portland Action Plan's position is that mitigation measures have to be taken to ensure
 to alleviate displacement effects from the project, that there needs to be economic supports for local businesses, and that there should not be a negative impact on transportation or on the transit riders that currently exist along Division. Thanks. It's probably in my inbox, but I haven't been able to check that. Thank you. I'm sure you have a lot of stuff in your inbox. I've been away for three weeks. I hardly dare look at it.
 That's a serious backlog. Okay, other questions for these leaders? The one thing that I don't see in the list of particularly housing initiatives is getting in front of predatory speculative behavior around homeownership. So there's a big number for renters. One of the things we learned around the Albina plan and the areas that we –
 fell short were the stories of homeowners who felt that they were victims of predatory agents and other folks and lost their homes as a result. The plan is heavy on renter protections. It has an economic development piece. I'm guessing that we could, in a 10-mile corridor of this dimension, I'm guessing we could come up with a pretty good database of single-family residences
 And, you know, I know that I get a notice almost every week from BPS telling me about some planning projects. So we have the mechanism.
 Should we be considering some kind of communication with homeowners, maybe even just targeting seniors, but thinking this through to give people information about this plan, some potential risks ahead, and providing them with information where they can get neutral advice as to how to evaluate unsolicited offers? Yes, that's something we attempted to.
 flesh out a little bit in our 11 goals to community stability and recognizing a lot of it was pretty heavy on the renter aspect because of, again, who's living along the corridor, but also recognizing that some of the long-term homeowners there also need tools. And so there's some suggestions in here, including providing long-term homeowners with a tax credit and also developing limited equity cooperatives as well. So, I mean, you know, thanks to Measure 50,
 this is one area where it has at least a shock absorber effect as property values go up. But I would urge us to come back to this question and think about we've got –
 communities that speak different languages. We've got probably, my guess is, from my recollection, is you're going to have a lot of older adults in homes up and down this corridor. And at least with respect to homeownership, we ought to be thinking through a strategy to get people information because what they may first find out is someone knocking on their door with an unsolicited offer to buy their house ahead of actually knowing that there's a major transportation improvement coming. That's great.
 There are a lot of bad actors out there right now because there's a shortage of supply.
 And there's a lot of people that are using an imbalance in the marketplace. So maybe we could think, Mary, about some way of getting something with our partners out to homeowners, just giving them a heads up. Yeah, helpful. Commissioner Smith, I noticed that the Planning and Sustainability Commission held a hearing in January. Do you happen to remember whether that was a day meeting or an evening meeting, and was it well attended by community members? I believe that we had –
 Five people testify, three of whom were steering committee members, so I would not say that we had a groundswell of community participation. Was it during the day or in the evening? I don't recall. Kim says it was during the day. I'm a little concerned that we're holding a hearing about something which is obviously of great importance to the community at a time that it's very difficult for people to get here. Yep, that's a fair point.
 Thank you all very much. I know we wanted to hear from TriMet. I'm not sure, Alan, if you were signed up to speak, but I think we do want to hear from you. So we'll summon you even if you weren't planning to testify. Mr. Mayor, thank you and members of the commission.
 So why don't I say a few words and then I'd be happy to answer any questions. Alan Lato with TriMed. I'm the Director of Planning and Policy. And we're very excited to be able to be working on this project with Metro and the city and the other partners. It's a great opportunity. Along Division, along the Line 4 Division today, about almost 10,000 times a day somebody gets on a bus.
 So this is a heavily used, heavily needed bus today, and we can deliver –
 Quicker, more reliable service for those folks, and as you know probably all too well, the expectation is that this corridor is going to grow and the demand will grow. And so we can bring a project that's going to serve today's needs and provide the kind of capacity that's needed to support the city's visions and our expectations for providing transit that helps develop and realize the visions that communities have.
 I know there were a couple of questions I heard already, so I'll go ahead and jump in and try to answer those. Yeah, please, the current estimated capital cost. Sure. So just quickly where we are with the project. We are in project development with the Federal Transit Administration, which is a formal step in the process of pursuing, securing funding, and developing and delivering the project.
 That means that they recognize that we are developing it. We are actually at a point where the efforts that we're doing now are matchable with future federal funds, assuming that the project is successful. And that puts us in a particular positive step with FTA. Okay.
 We are looking at a schedule that brings the steering committee to the point where hopefully they are able to make a specific recommendation about the alignment, the stations, the terminus by the end of this calendar year and puts us into further engineering the environmental process, identifying potential impacts and mitigations, and
 during the following year, and then moving towards the finalization of the finance plan and getting under construction to the point where we can open in 2021. I wish we could do it faster. We'll continue to look at that, but it's still a process that needs to involve lots of people with lots of detail, and it's still a federal process, so there is some timeline along there.
 In terms of capital cost, we don't know exactly right now, but we do have a range of approximately from $175 million to approximately $225 million that is a very likely range of capital cost. And that really is, for this kind of a project, this kind of a transit project, much more so in some ways than a
 light rail project, which we are so familiar with, as our first true BRT project, there are still lots of details that need to be worked through. And individual intersection designs make a big difference. And as you heard from Duncan, impacts at an individual intersection need to be worked through so that we can bring down those costs. And those kinds of work still needs to happen to narrow that range of costs down.
 With that, I'd just be happy to answer any questions. Could you give me just some concepts of what would make for a bus rapid transit on Division? It's hard for me to imagine when it's such a congested street right now, what kinds of things you could do to make a bus go faster than a car.
 Right. A few things. One is the entire length, obviously, of division has very different characteristics. If you think about what division it looks like at 28th, it's very different from what it looks like at 148th. And that's the great character of this kind of bus-based investment, that it is nimble enough to be able to deal with and provide benefits in both kinds of environments.
 In terms of actually generically across the alignment, what we're looking at is using stations with better amenities, better crossings, better improvements so that we can attract people to those. Those would be the current proposed stations would be at places where approximately 74% of riders are getting on bus stops today.
 we would ask the remainder of folks to travel just a little bit farther to get to this more comfortable location, and that really reduces the variability in travel time, which means that we can schedule it faster, which means we get quicker travel, we get more reliability. Signal priority has been talked about. Before you go on to the next thing, the community member just said that cutting down
 Because what I heard what you say is that it's going to go faster because it won't stop as often.
 Yes, that's absolutely true. There are only certain ways to speed up a transit vehicle. Light rail, even though it's in its own right-of-way, if we stopped every block, it would go very slowly. What we're looking for and what we're working with the steering committee and the community is, where is that right way to balance out making sure that people can get to the service, but making sure that once you're on the service, it doesn't stop all the time.
 So it would include things like adding sidewalks where there aren't any? Yeah, not only adding sidewalks where they're needed, which thankfully, I'm happy to say, division has been improving over time. So it's less dire than it was, but it's still not complete. Okay.
 It also includes ADA-compatible access at those stations and looking at that throughout the entire corridor so that it's not just, you know, nimble, healthy people who can make to the stations, but people who are traveling using mobility devices as well.
 Okay, so I interrupted you. One thing is fewer stations to make it go faster, and then you were going to say signal. The signal priority, and we've been running with signal priority at various locations throughout the city for a number of years, but we're really on the next generation. They're much smarter. They're much more nimble and adaptive and able to provide additional travel times.
 Each individual's intersection, especially the large ones that really control what happens for travel throughout the corridor, gets a serious look at to look at whether there are ways to readjust the lanes, give us queue jumps so that we can get past the long line of cars close to the intersection and not have those sort of cases that happens in the peak of the peak where you could lose five minutes at an intersection.
 If we can forestall that, we can move a lot faster during the peak as well. But there's not that many places where you could add a lane, right? Not a full lane the entire distance. But what it takes is, and this corridor, like a number of other corridors, but not always, there are some key intersections that really control everything. So starting from downtown, some of the key ones are 11th, 12th, Cesar Chavez, 82nd,
 120 second. So it doesn't need a treatment everywhere. It needs treatments at those key intersections. And that can be something like a right turn only except bus that doesn't dramatically negatively impact the cars moving, but does move the bus ahead. If you're talking about essentially a single lane road where you're getting a preference at the intersection, how do you deal with the backup
 Beyond that, and I'm thinking that the last time I had a great experience with BRT was taking a bus from Denver to Boulder. But the singular feature about that trip, other than in addition to the nice bus and all the infrastructure they built, was it was on a dedicated lane on a highway. So it had a preferential route. So what do you do? I mean, division, for example, through most of the day is clogged.
 And when you get into the restaurant section and closer in, it's almost impossible to move. So how does a BRT, other than giving them a preference at an intersection, how do you deal with that congestion? And frankly, and I'm just going to the part in the 20s and 30s with all the restaurants, there are times during the day when part of the blockage is cars trying to look for parking.
 and it takes a couple of cars trying to park in a tight spot, and that's a couple of minutes. So how do you deal with that challenge? Right, and division, the way it's developed and the way I think we anticipate it's going to continue to develop is exactly the kind of place where it needs this ability to carry more people, to attract more people to the transit, so that that development can happen without even more of the kind of swirling for parking and all of that activity.
 What we're looking at is, despite the feel of that section, what's often happening is that there are those key intersections that are causing backups that are kind of disrupting everything.
 Almost in that section, almost no matter what we do, we'll be running a little bit faster with those kinds of treatments. But we're looking at some key intersections to see whether we can actually improve the way the overall traffic system flows through that intersection so that buses can take advantage of that as well. Great example is whether we can do anything at 11th, 12th to be able to mitigate the impacts of the freight rail crossing at that intersection, where sometimes that just blocks up.
 if we can just look at some reconfiguring of what happens there and move everybody through. I'm all for that. Nothing's easy though. And I'm guessing that runs up against vision zero at some point, because if you time the lights and you encourage people and you give people a greater flow, probably people take advantage by, by going at a faster pace. But, uh,
 Given the sequencing on that street, I think aligning the lights is a great idea. I don't know whether it has an unintended consequence. Absolutely. And we've been a strong partner and a strong component of the city's Vision Zero efforts. And I'd tell you what happens with that is all we need is for people to keep moving, not to move really quickly. So we very much want to provide a great transit service in a place where people can comfortably and safely cross the street as well.
 Are there any other strategies to make the bus go faster? That boils it down, but we can really look at – there are lots of kind of smaller details that really add up when you're talking about a line this long.
 So we've kind of invested our design team with the idea that every second counts. So these are different buses than what we've typically seen. These are three-door buses with all-door boarding. They'll be using the Hop Fast Pass to be able to get people on and off as quickly as possible, so it'll feel more like a light rail in terms of boarding and alighting, and that saves time.
 At most of the stations, we likely will be able to allow folks with mobility devices and strollers and whatever else to board at the second door, much like a streetcar with a bridge plate, which is much easier and quicker to be able to load than it is at the front.
 And all of those little individual pieces add up on every single trip so that we end up with a faster trip and a more reliable trip than we would with typical service. So this would involve developing and buying buses specifically for that line? Exactly, yes. And how much would that cost? It's part of the cost that I already mentioned. I wouldn't want to tell you right off the top of my head.
 But they are a premium. They're something close to...
 A typical 40-foot bus is around $500,000, and we're talking in the $800,000 range, something like that. So the additional space comes with a premium, but you get a lot of benefits out of it. Do buses like that exist? Oh, absolutely. Given the pilot project you're in with the federal government for using electric buses on regular service, maybe this will be the first all-electric corridor in the state.
 We would love to. There's always, of course, the cost question, but this would be a wonderful place to try that. There might be additional resources that might come available for that.
 Sure. Jean is doing a good job of reminding me. The other thing I should mention in terms of timing is that I mentioned the locally preferred alternative decision that needs to be made to be able to move forward on the project. And the timing would be once we get a recommendation from the steering committee, then it needs to come back to the jurisdictions, including the city of Portland, for your affirmation or adjustment of that locally preferred alternative. And that
 late this calendar year. So that's of concern to me too, because we've got the kind of the framework here, but often when projects like this with multi-jurisdictions come back to us, we're told, well, you can't change it now because everybody else has agreed to it, or this is the consensus. So I'm just, I'm nervous about hearing from the East Poland Action Plan representative that it's not acceptable to them to cut out the number of stops. If that's the way you get your
 speed, and what do I do when you come back? Well, it's our job to continue to work with the folks that you saw and the folks at EPAP to work through that as well as possible so that our hope, obviously, is that we bring you something that you can be comfortable with. Have you analyzed what would happen if you just ran the buses more frequently so that there wouldn't be as many people getting on at the stops or they wouldn't necessarily have to stop at every stop? Because that
 That's what happens in Europe is that there's a bus every 10 minutes. Nobody checks to find out when it's coming because it's going to come, and it stops when you ask it to, but not otherwise. I'll give you one cautionary flag on that, and it's the number 12 bus at peak time. And what I've observed is that they end up getting stacked.
 And they get stacked. I'm not saying that happens everywhere, but on the number 12, they get stacked, and then it actually is a huge drag because they all stop at the end sequence, and you're just backed up. And as a frequent rider of the 12 Sandy, I can tell you I'm very aware of that. We call it bus bunching. What happens is one bus gets just a little bit behind, and then they get kind of an overly large load. They start slowing down, the next one. And then what we have to do is we skip.
 And that actually really frustrates our riders because you're standing at a bus stop and a bus goes by you and they're kind of pointing at the bus behind them that they may not be able to see and turns into a lot of understandable complaints. Being able to have something that reliably shows up consistently on the Line 4 division, we have something like five-minute headways during the peaks right now, but it's lumpy.
 And if we can smooth that out and have vehicles that each vehicle has more capacity so we can bring more people on and not risk those pass-ups, we'll be doing a great service to our riders. Other questions for Alan or Gina? Thank you both very much. Thank you. Other folks that want to speak this afternoon? Ms. Boyson, others? I have one person signed up, Lori Boyson. Come on up. You looked prepared, so that's why I called on you specifically.
 Thank you very much. I'm Laurie Boyson. I'm the Executive Director for the Division Midway Alliance, and I'm also a steering committee member on the Powell Division Transit and Development Project. I snuck in on Bob, or he would have, I'm sure, recognized me. Mayor Hales and Commissioners, I want to thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today about the Portland Action Plan as it relates to this project. I am not going to reiterate what the other committee members said. I echo their sentiments.
 I believe that this, I encourage you to adopt this Portland Action Plan. I believe that this plan is the result of collaborative work between city bureaus, all city bureaus, community organizations, metro, and tri-met. It provides much-needed community stability actions to a transit project that can jeopardize a tenuous housing crisis in an already vulnerable community. I'm happy to see the business and technical assistance and workforce development tools addressed.
 And while this section provides a broad overview of workforce and economic development, specific tools, I encourage the council to adopt specific tools that will feed this. Specifically, as an East Portland Action Plan representative to the Metropolitan Alliance for Workforce Equity,
 I have come to believe that the most important tool we can use to make sure the project benefits current businesses and residents is to adopt community benefits agreements similar to the pilot CBA developed for the Water Bureau projects. Deliverables on that project exceeded projected goals and achieved excellent results. For example, the goal for journey-level hours worked by people of color was 18%. The CBA pilot achieved 25%.
 Minority and women-owned firms and minority apprenticeship participation was over double the stated goal, and female apprenticeship participation was triple the goal, or nearly 30% of total project hours. Utilizing local and minority hiring through a CBA would directly impact residents living along the corridor by providing not only much-needed living wage jobs, but eventual professions to these residents. Those residents will in turn spend money in those local businesses.
 improving those businesses as well. Community benefits agreements do work. Seattle found them so beneficial, it has established a threshold by which any public project that meets the criteria automatically triggers a CBA, and I encourage the city of Portland to adopt a similar model.
 I also wanted to just quickly address to you, Commissioner Fish, I love your idea about creating some type of model for mobile home parks as an affordable housing. And I encourage you to visit the Rolling Wills Mobile Home Park at 143rd and Division.
 They are renovating their property in an amazing manner. They're replacing mobile homes with updated units. They are greening. They have their own swimming pool. It's an amazing place, and I recommend that you check it out.
 I want to again thank you for your time, and I hope that you please adopt the Powell Division Transit and Development Project and the Portland Action Plan. Laurie, thank you for your testimony. Could you tell me about the community benefit agreement? Is that included in the document here? It is not included in the document. It's something that we have talked about, and it is a tool that the East Portland Action Plan uses.
 It's an anti-displacement tool that they have recommended through – they went through a very, very long process, I'm sure you're aware of, to pull out tools. And two of the three groups that worked on that identified community benefits agreements as the number – as what they felt was a very important tool to use. It's because you are actually bringing people to work in your communities together.
 And it's just very beneficial. And I don't have a, like, this is plan one, two, three, but- But my question is, should that be in this action plan? Was it discovered? I think it should be added, yes. Was it discussed by the steering committee? I don't remember. I don't recall. But it's certainly something that East Portland Action Plan has done. It's something East Portland Action Plan definitely is behind. And what's your feedback, living, working in the district for a long time, about the question of fewer bus stops?
 We've worked with TriMet for quite some time. We spent hours this past fall, which kind of talks to what Kate was talking about, reaching out to our communities and identifying and finding community members and talking to them about what was going on. I think about the work that I do for my community, and over 50% of my time was being spent just on outreach for BRT. When we learned that bus stops were going to be taken, a large percentage of bus stops, large bus stops,
 Percent of the population in our district was going to be losing their stops. We worked with Allen and Elizabeth and Metro and City of Portland to add on a few more stops that we were concerned about that were large numbers of people were getting on and off. At this point, my concern is there are so few stops. There are so few stops being taken out. To me, it's like how rapid will this transit be?
 And I'm still waiting, as Kim is, as many of us are, I'm waiting for those numbers. I want to see. Today, if you travel from 174th to 11th on line 4, it takes...
 I don't know, an hour and 35 minutes. If we have the bus rapid transit, it will take an hour and 20 minutes. I want to know the differences. I want to know the numbers. And I also want to know what's the difference between 82nd to 11th. What's the difference from 82nd to 174th? And those are the kinds of things that we at the steering committee level are looking at and then passing on to our community members and talking to them about and getting feedback from them saying, what do you want to see here? You're not happy with this? Great. We take it back to them.
 So then why are you recommending that we adopt this plan today? Because I think the time is right now. I feel like we're moving along in a timeline. We need to move forward with this timeline. We've made huge headway with this project. I believe an action plan is not something that I believe it changes. I don't think it's static. I believe that...
 As we move forward, a community benefits agreement today is not necessary until we start doing construction, but it's something we need to start looking at, and it's something that you as council have the authority to authorize.
 When we adopted the East Portland Action Plan, which Commissioner Fish and I remember as one of the greatest things we did in the first year of our terms, we promised that we were absolutely going to do it. And each year, the East Portland Action Plan group comes back to us and you tell us, these things you've done, these things are still pending. I'm concerned that we can't.
 I don't want to promise to – I don't want to adopt this plan when I can't make that promise on this. I don't – I can't tell you that I'm going to be able to allocate more funding for this. You can't make the promise to allocate additional funding for what? I'm sorry. For the implementation of this local action plan. When the staff are telling me that it requires – in order to do it, it requires another at least a half a million dollars of ongoing money
 In one area. I guess then I would put it upon council to look to figure out how to. I love what Commissioner Fish said, that in some cases you are required to have a certain amount of mitigation fund, and in this case it isn't. I would think it would be really wonderful to see council step to that level and say, you know what? We are going to commit to this because we understand that this is a way to bring equity to East Portland, that this is a tool that, as Vivian said earlier...
 We need this now, and if we don't start this now, and planning and sustainability, same type of thing. These conversations began because communities said, great, you're doing this transit project. What's going to happen to all the people who are living here who can no longer afford to live here? If we as community members had not said that, we would have moved forward. Now we're saying move forward with this plan because we have to. The time is now for us to move forward. If we wait, it may be too late. Thank you. Good point. Thank you. Other questions?
 I have another question for TriMet, actually. Okay. I'm sorry. Come on up, Alan. Round two. Because I ride the 12, but the other way to southwest. And there it's at Rush Hour you have the option of the 94, which stops once between seven miles out and downtown, and similarly coming back. Or you can get the 12, which stops all along the way. Right.
 So is that being considered for division so that you wouldn't have to take out all of the stops? Not for division. We thought about that early on and discarded that. That kind of service does not come with any additional capital resources from the federal government.
 It does not come with an ability to provide service throughout the day so that it helps a very small number of riders. So it's something that we're looking at in terms of the corridor. This corridor seems appropriate to bring an improvement that helps all of the riders throughout the day, seven days a week. Except those who are living between the stops.
 I would argue, and we've certainly talked to plenty of folks who have indicated that they seem to agree with this, that walking just a little bit farther to be able to have a much more comfortable station and have a more reliable and quicker ride is of total benefit. Thank you. But other questions? And I'm not sure if there was anyone else who wanted to speak. I know we had more questions for you, but okay, perhaps not. I would just call for a – can we have a council discussion before we take a vote? Sure.
 So, Steve, can I follow up on a couple points? One of my takeaways on this is that if there was ever a capital construction project that cried out for the highest level of coordination between all of the bureaus and some other partners, this is it. And so to the extent you've been taking the lead on this effort to get everybody to coordinate the work they do,
 I think the one thing that – the one headwind here that could really work against what you're trying to do, since we're talking about potentially upgraded streets, sidewalks, the addition of things like bioswales, the ongoing work with water and sewer, new construction, which, by the way, whenever there's new construction, we seem to mysteriously lose a lane, and on and on and on. I think if there was ever a time that we need to map this out and coordinate –
 timing of investments and major construction projects along this corridor, this cries out for it because we could end up creating essentially a gauntlet
 that even if you painted the bus red and gave it a fire engine siren, you're not going to get through if we're not coordinating this effort. So that's something Steve's taken the lead on. Obviously PBOT, BES, Water, and others, and then some utilities are working on. It just seems to me this is a good one for us to focus on the way we did earlier. We've done on, say, division at a smaller scale. And I would encourage...
 You and Leah to convene all the bureaus that have a dog in this fight. So we start thinking about how we, how we time capital construction work. Well, I think BPS is officially the lead in all of this. So I rely on them to compete every bit. That's somewhat jokingly, but no, we need to, we need to do that, but we all need to be involved. On the home ownership side.
 I guess I would just say to Kurt, can we just investigate whether there's a database that we could call upon, we could find? We seem to mail out a lot of things to the public. And so I would love to know what's the universe of single-family residences that we could communicate with and who we might partner with on that. And maybe we partner with Elders in Action to target just older adults first, or maybe we partner with some culturally specific groups to talk to people. Sure.
 I'm going to just, in advance of the vote and the discussion, just address something my friend and colleague, Commissioner Fritz, just said about funding. Because as everyone knows, we cannot today commit a future council to a spending commitment. So we can't do that. And so we're not saying today that the council next year and the year after is going to spend X dollars. What this plan contemplates, as I look at the backup documents, is,
 A lot of non-general fund money being allocated to this task in a creative way. So going through all the new tools at the Housing Bureau and looking for ways through the HIF, through the securitization of Airbnb revenue, everything else, finding a way and saying, yeah, we're going to come to council every year and say, here's our chunk that we can dedicate to this goal and to closing the delta. And if...
 Some of our assumptions are unduly modest about revenue we're going to get from some of these new tools.
 in the toolkit, then we can use non-general fund revenues to close that gap. But what I anticipate is an annual forum in which we discuss how to get there. And Commissioner Fritz is right. We can't commit here to the future general fund money and, worst case scenario, in two or three years we're in a recession and we're not going to say we're going to fund this and then turn around and cut out a community center in the heart of this community. But I am encouraged by the
 by the amount of non-general fund sources that we can tap. And what I read this to be is a commitment to pull as much of that as possible and focus it on the quarter. So that's how I'm going to interpret it. And then I will go out to 143rd Division, and I appreciate that. And since we make modular housing in Oregon, and since we know how to green up these sites, I just want to take a couple of these things and have the city and county commit to
 transforming them because I think with a little ingenuity, we could turn these into not only very desirable and attractive places to live, but we could put the green value system in it and make them sustainable. And then on the CBA issue, I mean, so most of the money, the money we're talking about today is city money, and most of it is already governed by policies. So the housing money requires a whole set of strings attached to it.
 What I hear Lori saying is that the federal fund piece and the TriMet piece, we need to be thinking about what is the community benefits component of that. I know TriMet has federal requirements it has to meet,
 We're going to be coming to council in September with a report on the numbers on the CBAs that were used under the Water Bureau pilot, and we'll have a broader community discussion about how is that working, does it need to be tailored, and other things. I think where we're probably headed is what we call a community benefits plan, which is a more targeted version of a CBA. But the goal we share, and so I guess I would just close by asking our friends at TriMet,
 Since this is not directly implicated in what's before us today, will we have a chance to have that conversation about how to bring the values behind a community benefits plan to the capital construction side? Absolutely. Without knowing what any of the details are, we're very much eager to have those kinds of conversations so that the benefits to the corridor are not just on the transit side. The details of that are still to be worked out, obviously. Thank you.
 Sorry, I am concerned about the affordable housing because according to the chart on page 28, most of it is in the Clinton Triangle. It's not along the corridor. There's $500,000 for outside of the Clinton Triangle and $5.5 million within the Clinton Triangle. So how are we going to address the concern that it should benefit outer east rather than – or as well as inner east?
 I think this is on. I appreciate you pointing that out. And indeed, the Clinton Triangle is a major area of interest and focus. However, it's not the only one. One thing that I did not mention was that as we worked through the summer, and Vivian Satterfield, who spoke to you earlier from OPWL, is on the panel of experts for the Inclusion Area Housing Program.
 We're scheduled to come back to Council with a construct of what the calibration of inclusionary housing requirements would likely be come September. If you look at the residual land values in East Portland, it does not argue that you could get very many units.
 through private development mandates mandatory inclusionary zoning however I've asked staff specifically to focus on areas where transit improvements are being made and
 push the envelope on the inclusionary units with the expectation that we would offset those costs more robustly for private developers in areas such as this. So that's going to tap the private market hydraulics throughout the entire length of the corridor. And I think that will be helpful. The CET is how we would pay for that.
 And we don't have to take title to those properties. We just need to incentivize a private developer to do it. But that's not included in the table, so I don't understand. Right. Well, the table was – I must say the table was done, like, before the legislature even approved inclusionary housing. And perhaps, you know, an amendment would be useful because I'm citing tools that weren't even available to the Bureau when this plan was developed.
 If you remember the summary slide that I showed earlier, and this is a good catch if the table is not actually reflecting this.
 A big part of how we're thinking about the next five years of the affordable housing piece of this is a share of the new resources that are just coming forward now, as well as programs that even since we started this planning project, housing's been able to secure through different sources and been able to identify how they can target someone on the corridor. It's a five-year plan.
 One of the things that we thought was really critical was to give the city council a sense of
 the order of magnitude of cost of lift it is to even attempt to meet some objectives like this, both on the housing and the economic development side, and to fairly represent to city council sort of what we had in hand today and then what we need to continue to work on through one means or another to secure to be able to follow through on this scale of effort. So that's...
 Part of having a gap in funding at this point of a five-year plan like that is less of a reason not to try to move forward with it, but more of putting a financial goal on it as well as a 300-unit goal for the housing as well as the number of businesses we hope to assist on the economic development side. You sort of have to do both to even know what you're shooting at.
 And so I just encourage folks to think of the plan and the budget in those terms. The story that the Housing Bureau has been able to tell now is representative of how much things can change over a period of a plan to bring more resources to the table. And then the last piece of it is this I encourage us to think about.
 The housing needs, just on the housing side, and I think it's true on the economic development side, the needs in the city, in a lot of the neighborhoods, are way bigger than what we're talking about just in this action plan, much larger than, you know, you even really see just in this corridor. The needs are big in the corridor, but there's more beyond that. We're focusing on this corridor now because we think there's something to leverage with this transit investment.
 What's the right sort of proportional scale to try to capture that moment of leverage? There are other places in the city where we can mount similar efforts where we just don't have a transit project to try to leverage. So this isn't the only action that we need to be thinking of in terms of housing and economic development in the city. This is a scale of effort tied to making the most of what's going to be a big capital investment as well.
 If the project goes forward, if it can come back and demonstrate the transit advantages that we think it's going to have, that's going to have to be presented to the community and satisfy those concerns, as well as come back through city council. Joe, I think it's good to have stretch goals. Part of me says I'm not sure we've stretched enough, but it is a sober goal.
 And you guys can't say this, but in addition to all the tools that Kurt has rattled off that are a tribute to the good work that Kurt and Dan have done to bring these things forward and give us additional tools in our toolkit, it is possible that the Portland voters are going to give us another tool later this year. And that's another pot of money that can be tapped to meet our goals here. And I think stretch goals in this area make sense. Thank you.
 so this um resolution says that we're going to adopt this plan as non-binding city policy but then it goes on to resolve that we well certainly we do gratefully acknowledge the excellent work and dedication of the steering committee
 The third be it resolved, though, says that we will work with regional partners to implement the local action plan and to continue to participate in the broader Powell Division transit and development project. We haven't had a public hearing at this council where we've had a lot of robust community input to say, do they even want this? So what I'm hearing from the community today is if we do the project, then this is what's necessary to make it work for the community at a minimum.
 My understanding is that we will still at some point have a public hearing on are we going to support doing this project.
 um yes the schedule shows that the locally preferred alternative which is the transit piece of this is supposed to come out of the steering committee this fall commissioner and then a public hearing on that will take place in front of the city council after it's come out as a recommendation from the project so a lot of the issues that were talked about today
 And the technical analysis that the community was even saying it needs to see to know how it's going to come down on this project will come into place between now and those decision points. And it will be at a hearing in front of city council. And there will be some form of local match that goes into the project. So the city council has several points of leverage over the future of this project.
 The community action plan is at least letting the community and the steering committee know now, if the project goes forward, here's what we think we're, you know, we set as the objective.
 And, you know, I'm from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I like to think that actions stem from these plans. But with or without the transit project, the metro money is on the table to begin this work in the current fiscal year. And the work is necessary. So it's worthwhile to move forward. And we're appreciative of that contribution to this.
 Thank you. And I'm still concerned about the community organizer position and how it interacts with the neighborhood associations as well as with Venture Portland. So since we only have the Metro money for this year, my...
 assured that the position will be hired as a limited-term position? I guess I'm going to ask Kate to confirm that from PDC, since that part of the Metro grant is going to directly go to PDC and the MPI districts. Right. Just to clarify, the money is not being hired to add another position at PDC, where the
 working with Division Midway to have that position at their office. It will be hired by them, managed by them. And so that is – the plans are already in the works with that, with the grant money and with the PDCE zone money that we – community contribution money. So Division Midway is aware that it's a limited-term position. We're not guaranteeing funding for the full five years? I believe they are, yeah. I see Laurie nodding. I think the funding is enough.
 Thank you. And I know that your Division Midway and, indeed, all of the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiatives are working well with the communities. So I just want to make sure that when we have a structure for community involvement, it gets used in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, that we are coordinating it. Right. Absolutely. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you.
 What's the action? This is a resolution? It's a resolution, and obviously then the LPA comes back this fall. So that's the process. Okay. Any further discussion before we take action on the resolution? Then let's do that, please. Saltzman? Well, thank you to our Metro Councilors and to everybody else who's participated in this Portland – I'm sorry, the Division PAL Local Action Plan –
 I think it's a good plan, good questions about affordable housing, land use, and how we do this with buses quickly. And it's definitely a corridor in need of a lot of attention. So thank you. Hi. No, thank you.
 I want to thank everybody who's been working on this plan. Thank you, Joe. Thank you, Alan. And thanks to APANO and the Division Midway Alliance, my favorite World War II alliance, for their work on this. I appreciated what Laurie said about this is an organic and iterative process.
 We're adopting this plan to make it clear that we understand that the community wants to be sure that a plan like this is implemented. And if it's not, then the serious question is whether we should go ahead with the transit project at all. But as Laurie said, it's not necessary to say we're going to tell TriMet to stop working on this plan until we know that we have precise funding for each element – to stop working on the transit project until we know we have the funding committed for every element of
 This is one step in a process, and we've been talking about what the next steps are going to be. I am delighted to hear Director Krieger say that given the new tools we have to address housing needs, he feels pretty comfortable that we should be able to come up with funding to address the housing component of this plan. Thank you.
 And granted, 300 units is not enough, but I mean, I think that a year ago we probably would have said, well, maybe we are going to ask CryMet to stop because we don't know how we're going to get money for any significant investment in housing. One thing I want to note is that we also have heard from folks in the community that in addition to investment in affordable housing, they'd like to see stronger tenant protections.
 And obviously, our ability to adopt tenant protections is limited by state law. But we have a legislative session coming up. We have a work session planned on tenant protections in the council next month. So hopefully, actually, no, in September. So hopefully, we'll be able to show some progress on that as well. So I think that this is rather a new thing.
 And I think that Commissioner Fisher was asking earlier what the analogy is. I'm not sure that there is an analogy where before we're going ahead with the transit project, we're talking with the community about unintended consequences and coming up with a plan to address those unintended consequences and making it clear, as Commissioner Fritz said, that –
 our commitment to the transit project is dependent on our ability to address, to anticipate and address those unintended consequences. So I think that...
 It's hard to come up with an analogy, but hopefully we will think this way in future projects and it may not be that there's some rigid formula that X percent of the money spent in a transit project goes to mitigation. I think it will be a case-by-case determination as this has been. So thank you all very, very much. Thanks to the Metro folks. Thanks to Commissioner Stacey. I'm pleased to vote aye.
 These projects do become very complicated with multiple jurisdictions all doing their best, including citizens from multiple jurisdictions as well. So I appreciate that, and thanks very much to the steering committee and all of the staff work. This is actually the second project we've done like this because we did the Barber transit plan looking at the concept of land use before we're actually sure of what's happening on Barber. And that's...
 Before that, we did the St John's Lombard Plan, and then we did the Sandy Boulevard Hollywood Plan,
 In those last two, we haven't funded many of the recommendations that were aspirational in the plan, and we haven't actually funded a lot of the things that we're hoping to get done in Barbour. Of course, in any kind of planning, you do the plan so that we agree on what the aspirations are, and then you go seek funding. But I want to make it very clear that I'm not sure that there is funding within the city for the action items that are in this plan, and I think
 I'm willing to support it as the roadmap for how to get there. We're going to have to think very carefully when we do have the locally preferred alternative, how do we get all of the other jurisdictions to pay their fair share and to make sure that collectively we can fund it? Because that's, as we know with affordable housing, it's a metro-wide project problem and challenge, and yet a lot of the burden falls on Portland's taxpayers. So, yeah.
 With those provisos, I will vote aye. Thank you. Yes. Well, I just was looking at the agenda, and this was originally scheduled for an hour. We're now two hours into the discussion, and it's normally at this point that we look to find the person who's responsible for it, and the recriminations happen off camera. I actually –
 I am left feeling that this has not only been a very stimulating and thoughtful and interesting discussion for two hours, but I look forward to further discussions. And I want to begin by thanking everyone who took time out this afternoon to come shape this discussion. I think this is one of the best discussions we've had of this kind. And since we're sort of making it up as we go along, I guess, since there's not much of a precedent, I have found this incredibly interesting and provocative. So thank you to everybody.
 We're struggling with, in part, a problem of definition. We're calling this a goal, a framework, a roadmap. I think what you're hearing is because we have done big planning exercises in the past and have fallen short in terms of meeting the goals, Council doesn't want to just embrace this and say, you know, you can assume that this will be funded and we're going to get it all done.
 But to use the analogy that Commissioner Fritz did a while ago about East Portland Action Plan, while we haven't funded everything in the action plan and while there's a lot of stuff that is to be addressed, for me the great virtue of that process is that every year the community comes forward and says these are our priorities and we have a mechanism to actually act on them. And without that, we don't have the focus and therefore we're –
 What did Tom Potter once say? If you don't know where you're going, any road will get you there.
 And so I like the fact that it gives us focus. And my expectation is that at each budget year over the next five years, housing and planning and transportation, everyone else is going to come forward and give us an update and tell us where the delta is. And we'll have a chance to say, well, you know, Dan, let's put some more HIF in this or so-and-so, let's bring some discretionary money. So it's going to focus our attention. Okay.
 And I'm cautiously skeptical about whether we can fund this, but I also – my heart tells me this should be a floor, not a ceiling. And I know that's contradictory, but I don't know that we have enough housing units here. And the one piece – and Kurt would be – I'd be remiss if I didn't say this –
 I'm glad they're all going to be below 60%. I want to see the lion's share go to 0 to 30 and then match the demonstrated need within the quarter. And if you and Commissioner Saltzman come back and say that's families and two-bedroom units, that's fine with me. If it's single adults and seniors, that's fine with me. But I want to focus on where the greatest need is, and that's below 30%. So with those caveats and with the expectation that we'll have an annual increase,
 process to evaluate this either as a freestanding meeting or as through the budget. I'm pleased to support this, and I really appreciate the thoughtfulness of the community, and I'm hearing that there's stuff here that does not have unanimous approval, and there are some trade-offs. And I guess I'm going to go forward on this because I think this gives us a better chance to getting to yes than not doing anything. And I also think that we're at risk
 in government generally about spending too much time getting to no and not to yes. We've got to start somewhere. So I'm going to support this and thank everyone who brought it forward. Hi. Well, this has been a good discussion, so I'm glad that no one minds that it took two hours instead of one.
 And I want to commend the staff and our partners at Metro, elected officials and staff there and TriMet, and our citizen leaders and this council for a good discussion. And I found this deliberation this afternoon both heartening and very concerning.
 deeply disturbing on a second level. Let me talk about both. It's heartening because this is a thoughtful, inclusive, almost painstaking planning process for a good transit project, and I'm happy about that.
 And we have a couple of them underway at the moment. They're both good projects, and I think they both are worthy of moving forward. So that's good news. I'm happy about that. And I'm happy that we're, this year, going to continue work on both of those corridors. On the other level, I'm pretty concerned because, you know, we are growing at 1,000 people a month in this city.
 And we are livable and prosperous in large part because of the transit and bicycle investments that have been made in previous decades. And the pace at which we are adding the infrastructure that we will need for mobility in this city is insufficient to that rate of growth.
 And as both a commissioner and a consultant and then as mayor, I've had the chance to frequently triangulate what Portland's doing against other cities. And that's another reason why I'm concerned. Phoenix is at the moment investing over the next 30 years $17.5 billion in
 in bus rapid transit projects. Let me say that again. $17.5 billion in bus projects. That's not the count. That's part of a $31.5 billion three-decade program. The city that we love to jeer at, Phoenix, is doing this. They're not alone.
 And cities across the country are investing massively in the mobility that's necessary because the world is moving to cities, and the world is moving to other cities just like it's moving to Portland. So the pace at which we're moving is insufficient to the task that is in front of us, and the financial resources that we have at hand are woefully insufficient. So that's a big deal, and that's a big problem. And we as a community and as a region and actually as a state
 need to address that problem because again we're living on the investments of the past and we've run the string on the we've run the trap line on the financial system that we have today to be able to pay for things commissioner novick's done great work on one one of those fronts over the course of the last year a couple years and we've made some progress but i'm pretty concerned about that
 So, yes, measure twice, at least twice, cut once, do good projects. That's what we're doing here. But as a community, we have to figure out how to do them faster and bolder if we're going to keep up with the transportation demands and the livability needs of the city.
 over the next couple of decades. So don't want to depress everybody, but I'm concerned about that. I think that's a big-picture issue for all of us to grapple with. So by all means, let's get this one done. Let's stay on schedule. Let's get the LPA approved this year. Let's make the case to the Clinton administration for our funding under the Federal Transit Partnership that's worked so well for Portland and then figure out how to do the next ones even faster.
 good job everyone well done aye thank you good work good work okay let's uh let's take up our second item here which we have before us which is 888.
 Amend towing code to allow immobilization of vehicles to give owners an opportunity to pay outstanding parking fines before a tow. So we're going from mobility to immobility in one afternoon. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues, what I'm asking for today is for council to give PBOT the authority to boot instead of tow.
 The city made a decision, I think it was in 1987, that we would not boot. We would only tow based on the idea that when you boot, you're taking a parking space out of commission for a certain period of time.
 I would like to reverse that decision largely because a towing fee, which contractually is $168, is to me an unnecessary penalty that we impose on everybody whose car we tow, which obviously is particularly burdensome for people with low incomes. I've said before that ideally I'd love to have a system for traffic fines like Finland does where the penalty you pay is related to your income.
 because a $100 penalty can be no deterrent at all to a rich person and a crushing blow to a poor person. Unfortunately, unlike in – or some people might say fortunately – unlike in Finland, our parking enforcement officers and our police don't have immediate access to people's tax returns. So it is not practical to have penalties that directly correlate to people's income. But we can avoid imposing unnecessary penalties.
 And I think that the towing charge is a necessary penalty because if people's cars are booted, if they can, they are going to take the action necessary to pay their fines and get their car free. It's also more humane to boot rather than tow because at least if your car is booted, it's there and you can go and get your essential belongings out of it, et cetera, rather than wait until you catch a cab or something out to the towing place. So booting gives...
 people an opportunity to pay their overdue parking citations and before incurring additional towing and vehicle storage fees Folks will have the option to see a judge pay off their overdue citations or set up a payment plan with the court before access to their vehicles taken away entirely and more fees are imposed and We've got Dave Benson here. He's been working with the court to determine what he bought can do they know consistent with what they can do with us and Answer any for any questions give more information. I
 Good afternoon guys. Good afternoon. Good afternoon Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Dave Benson. I'm the Parking Group Manager of the Bureau of Transportation. I'm going to echo just briefly what Commissioner Novick said. I'm here today with my colleague Donald Hunter from the Parking Enforcement Division to request that you amend City Code to authorize police officers, parking enforcement officers and others authorized by Council to immobilize vehicles more commonly known as booting in addition to the authority we already have to tow a vehicle.
 This ordinance also makes some minor changes in code language to reflect our current situation in 2016. As you know, a judge can sign a warrant to seize a vehicle for unpaid parking tickets when the vehicle has six or more delinquent citation and or owes more than $500 in parking fines. Adding booting to the parking enforcement toolkit has a number of advantages,
 First, as Commissioner Novick noted, there's approximately a $170 fee to tow the vehicle. And if the owner doesn't retrieve their vehicle in four hours or less, they're charged with another $25 storage charge. So in addition to the fees they owe, there's an additional $200 charge. And as Commissioner Novick noted, they're deprived of all their property inside the vehicle.
 By having the option to boot a vehicle for up to 36 hours, it gives the owner the opportunity to retrieve their personal possessions, pay their delinquent parking tickets, or set up a payment plan with the court. Afterwards, we'll come out and remove the boot and release the vehicle back to them without additional inconvenience or additional expense, which is especially attractive for those persons with limited incomes. And Donna will talk about the procedure.
 Donald Hunter, Parking Enforcement. So we will only boot vehicles Monday through Thursday from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m., and the length of the time the boot will be on the vehicle is 36 hours. The reason why we won't boot on Friday is we're giving the citizen 36 hours to make contact with the courthouse, and the courthouse is closed over the weekend.
 When an officer locates a vehicle that appears to be a tag warrant, our dispatchers will contact the courthouse to confirm that it is a valid tag warrant. If it is a valid tag warrant, parking enforcement will boot the vehicle, leaving a warning sticker on the vehicle. Okay.
 The warning sticker informs the citizen that the vehicle has been immobilized and do not attempt to drive. It also provides information on how to have the boot removed by contacting the courthouse. Our dispatchers will inform the courthouse that we have immobilized the vehicle and provide the courthouse with the location of the vehicle.
 We will give the owner of the vehicle 36 hours to make contact with the courthouse to pay their outstanding citations or make payments arranged with the courthouse. Once a vehicle goes, once a citizen goes to the courthouse and pay or make arrangements, the courthouse will contact our dispatchers and to inform them that the vehicle is okay to be released. We would then dispatch one of our...
 officers to the location and to release the vehicle within one hour after the courthouse informs parking enforcement. If the owner does not make contact with the courthouse to pay the bill amount, after 36 hours, parking enforcement would unboot the vehicle and have it towed. And what I'd like to show you now, we have two different types of boots that we have
 in place. We have a smaller boot for smaller vehicles. And this is just an illustration of how the smaller boot works. And it's pretty quick and simple. The next video is the larger boot for larger vehicles. Alright, here we go.
 So that's the end of our presentation. If you have any questions. What happens if you are preoccupied and you don't notice that you've got a boot on your car and you try to drive it? It's going to damage the vehicle. It's going to damage, probably just flatten the tire.
 And there's that sign. This is going to be on the driver's side window, driver's window. So when they go to open the car door, they're not going to miss that. It's stuck on the window? Stuck on the window. It's so sticky. And it wouldn't wash off if it was raining? No, we talked about that. No, we're told it will not, and we're testing that right now. What's the profile right now of the person that has –
 six or more parking tickets and for whom a warrant is issued? Profile? So just give us some numbers. How often does that happen annually? Well, we tow about five cars a day. There are 4,764 license plates or vehicles that are delinquent right now in the city of Portland.
 They'd have six or more tickets or 500 or more dollars in fines. How many was it? 4,764. And do we know, do we collect any data on who those people are?
 No, we don't. We haven't run the registrations to find out. I mean, the court knows who they are by virtue of the registration. They've been notified by the court. The State of Oregon Department of Revenue attempts to contact them to collect the fines, but I don't have the demographics. All right. Well, if equity is in part a goal here, how do we know these are not just irresponsible people that just don't pay fines versus people for whom –
 paying parking or paying the fine is going to be a hardship? We don't know that. Well, we currently, for a tag warrant from parking citations, it's a tag warrant and we tow the vehicle, which adds another $168 for the tow plus $25 if they don't retrieve it after four hours. Okay.
 Are we charging someone for the additional 36 hours that they're parked? No. No, there's no booting charge or no boot removal charge associated with this. No other citations either. And in other cities that have done this, like New York, and let's take a peer city, what lessons have we – what have you learned from their experience? Well, I can tell you about Philadelphia. They studied some years old, but they found their collection rate more than doubled. Right.
 because of the visibility of the boot, sends a message. Now, right now we tow a car, the car just simply disappears. The tow truck comes along and takes the car away, and nobody knows what's going on. Where in the case of a boot, it's something that walking down the street you may see, and what they found is their compliance system,
 More than doubled among people who had been booted or not yet booted or not yet booted that saying to themselves, maybe I should go to the court and take care of this. OK, that's encouraging. And I also think what's one of the things that's compelling about this is that someone may have something in their trunk they need. It could be medication. It could be exactly.
 identification I mean some people put all their safe for safekeeping they put things in there and they're right trunk laptop and whatever they need for work that's an additional hardship yes are we is there a risk that will be taking up too many spaces in our inventory
 Now, we've only initially purchased about five boots because the most we've ever towed in a day is seven. It averages three to five. So we're starting with five. We're starting very modestly. And so what's the logic of starting this in Eastmoreland? Why have you chosen that as your first rollout? It just seemed like the place to go. And...
 No charge for the boot, no charge for the extra time, and so what you're saving is the towing charge. Correct, for the citizen. And also, my sense is that when we tow cars, sometimes there's actually some damage to the car that's caused by the towing and the storage. Possibilities, yeah. Steve, has anyone weighed in against this? Not to my knowledge. I want to just put down one marker, which is...
 I think the equity argument here and the fairness argument is pretty compelling. I don't find those arguments compelling when we're going after DUI and other things, and we say that there's a differential ability to pay, because I think there's a huge difference between –
 not paying a fee for parking your car, which we treat as a low-level offense for which we get a fine, and engaging in conduct which puts other people's lives at risk. And I have a slightly different analysis of the equity lens piece on people who put other people's lives at risk.
 So I'm going to support this, but not as a precedent for us to go to all of our fees and schedules and fines and apply the same logic, because I think there are some things where we should treat people the same, whether they're rich or poor.
 if the effect is to tell them they cannot engage in behavior which puts other people's lives at risk. I mean, here we are continuing to treat people the same, whether they're rich or poor. We're just eliminating what I saw as an unnecessary penalty, which wouldn't particularly bother other than having to go find your car. It disproportionately hurts people of limited means. Exactly. I find that – I'm just saying as a preview to other discussions you're teeing up down the road, I find that less compelling.
 in the context of someone engaging in reckless behavior where the fine is deliberately set to both discourage and punish. Right, although I would say that in defense of the Finns, if you're a multimillionaire, even if you're paying a $5,000 fine for DUI, it's not enough. Right, I think we should probably start taking the car. Other questions for either of these great resource people? Thank you both. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 If not, then it's going to move to second reading next week. Steve, good work on this. I think that's a nice and positive change. Thank you. Thank you, David and Donald. Thank you both very much, and we are at recess until tomorrow at 2 p.m. That's good work.