Indeed. Good morning, Carla. Good morning. Are we ready? Yes. All right, good morning, everybody. This is the morning session, Wednesday, July 26th, at the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Fish. Wheeler. Here. The purpose of council meeting. Whoa, that's loud. That's loud.
 The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to the matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings to make sure that the process is clear for everyone. I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope make everybody feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and also to ensure that decorum is maintained.
 There are two opportunities for public participation in today's meeting. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly speak about any subject they wish to address. These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people can sign up for public testimony on first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter that's been considered before the council at the time.
 Please state your name for the record. We do not need your full address. If you're a lobbyist, we require you to please disclose that information. And if you're here representing an organization, it would be helpful for us to have that information as well. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light will light up and there will be a beep when your time is out.
 The red light will go on, and there'll be some more beeping.
 Any conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting other people's testimony or interrupting during council deliberations is not allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption continues, anyone who's disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespassing. It's a shame we have to read all that.
 If folks would like to show your support, a simple thumbs up is great. If you can't stand what you're hearing, thumbs down is equally effective. We ask people just not to verbally express yourself. It gets in the way of people's testimony. So thank you. And with that lengthy preamble, Carla, please call the first communications. Thank you.
 Item 842, request of Jill Heimenson to address counsel regarding Save Peterson's Convenience Store. All right. We have a petition up here as well, a thick petition from the people at Peterson's. Come on up, and if you could just state your name for the record.
 They're requesting if Doug Peterson could go first. Yeah, sure. Yeah, you have several slots here. However you want to use them is fine by us. Okay, 843, request of Doug Peterson to address council regarding Peterson's convenience store.
 Hi, thank you very much for letting us appear. This is great. And I have brought and turned into copies for every city council member the petitions that people have signed in our store to save Petersons. And there's over 1,300 signatures. Many of them are with comments. And they're really worth just looking. If you get a chance, look at it, see what people are saying.
 But this is a community that really supports Petersons, and they want us there. And I thank you very much, Commissioner Udaly and Commissioner Saltzman, wrote a letter to Prosper Portland of support. We've not heard anything back from Prosper Portland at all. It's kind of funny. We were interviewed this week on several of the television channels, and one reporter also went to...
 Prosper Portland. And they asked about... We have said that we really want to be open during the remodel since we're in the middle of the block, and most of the major construction are at the ends of the block. And we think we can be there to serve customers, sell the hop pass, which we do, and upload more value on the hop passes, and we're open all hours that Max operates. And we're very supportive of...
 of the Max Line and all supporting mass transit. And we think there's opportunities there to be open during construction much of the time. And when the reporter asked Prosper Portland, nobody can stay because they're shutting the power to the building.
 And that would have been an opportunity for the reporter to say, well, how about keeping the parking structure open? There's got to be lights. There's got to be power to the machines that process the payments. There's got to be an office for the parking people. There's got to be power to the elevators. Also, hey, they've got to have power for all the equipment they're bringing in to do the remodel. So they're not shutting off power to the building. Okay.
 Prosper Portland didn't give them very good information there. But I really think my background in past history, I was 24 years with Fred Meyer, and much of the time...
 I spent on remodeling and setting up new stores. The retail end of it, working with building contractors, we'd be putting gondolas up on wheels and moving gondolas around, retiling floors, putting new ceilings, power, all that type of thing. And we never closed a store. That's something the room cred buyer just wouldn't do. So anyway, I just want to thank you for your support and any help.
 you can give, and I'll turn it over to my other employees. Thank you. Very good. Thank you, sir. Next, please. Good morning. My name is Erin Hardigree. In 1984, Doug Peterson quit his job at a chain grocery store to try his hand at the American dream, starting his own small business. No small feat, especially back then. With the building of suburban malls, people had stopped thinking of downtown as the shopping and touring destination it once was. Thank you.
 Doug saw the city trying, building Pioneer Square, turning the empty Olds and King department store into the Galleria, and took a chance on them. In the last 30-plus years, the Petersons on Morrison has seen a lot of changes and, unfortunately, the loss of many small businesses. With determination and hard work, Petersons has stayed through it all and has become a downtown staple that is relied on by many people.
 Tourists in need of directions, local Oregon wines and late night hotel munchies, office workers picking up their lunch, people who live in the neighborhood needing milk and bread, even the food carts rely on us for bags of ice.
 Doug invested in the city in its time of need. Now he needs it from you. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Angela Bruce. I'm a German immigrant who moved to Portland five and a half years ago. I spent the first seven months searching for employment opportunities throughout the entire city and surrounding counties. When no one bothered to return the response after I applied for a various position, I was afraid to give me a chance because I was a former military spouse that moved every two to four years.
 Doug gave me an opportunity while employed at Petersons. I was offered a full-time position with health benefits after one year of employment. Through hard work and dedication, I was promoted to assistant manager and eventually to store manager because Doug believed in my potentials. I am here for you today to express the effects of a closure that would negatively impact the local communities. On any given day, up to 1,000 people of various demographics visit Petersons on Southwest Morrison.
 Our patrons consist of tourist, local and sporting events patrons, drive-in passengers, local residents and nearby business employees. The particular store generates 50% of our revenue for our company. A loss of this revenue from the closure would result in termination of 10 employees and a manager.
 not only with the decision to close our location to solve a significant loss of revenue, but it would dismantle the relationship we had developed with our customer throughout the years of our operation.
 I am urging you today to consider the ramifications such from decision would negatively impact the community that relies on our business and the livelihood of the employees facing termination. If you consider to impose a closure to Peterson or Morrison Intent, thank you for your time. Thank you, appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. I have a PowerPoint. My name is Jill Heimenson and I'm the lobbyist for Petersons. Thank you for considering our testimony today.
 So first of all, what I would like to do is just show how the Portland Plan aligns with keeping Petersons open. In the Portland Plan it says that the local businesses help define community character, can reduce the need for travel for goods and services, and contribute extensively to Portland's overall attractiveness and resilience. Petersons certainly does that by nature of being a convenience store.
 The next, supporting the vitality of Portland neighborhood-based businesses as part of the Portland plan, as well as providing economic security for low-income households, which is like the employees that work there, and not only that, the people they serve, they have LGBT women, minorities, disabled people, people with records, all are employees, that would threat for losing their jobs.
 And then also, Peterson's has healthy and convenient affordable foods. I went there yesterday and took these pictures. They have fresh fruits and vegetables and dairy products and lots of ways to stay hydrated.
 Then also the most important thing though is the historic resource preservation. Other cities, especially San Francisco, they have this thing called Proposition J that they started in 2015 where they want to save their legacy businesses, which are businesses that are 30 plus years old. And what they do is they give the employers a yearly grant per employee and then they give the owners the benefits.
 building and they give them a grant to 450 first per square foot with a cap of 5,000 feet because they want to keep these local businesses that have been around for decades because it contributes to the character of the community and it's just a really good thing to do these are all the businesses that they have saved so far into the legacy business program in San Francisco Seattle and Chicago have similar programs
 And then finally, I just want to take a brief moment to show you this video about the seismic concerns with the building. Under the west end of the bridge, concrete columns containing very little steel reinforcement will fail early. Granted, that's under the Burnside Bridge, but the picture on the left is what the parking structure looks like for that building, and it looks like it's very similar construction, and so you can see what would probably happen in the event of the earthquake. I don't believe that this...
 remodel is going to be addressing these seismic concerns because it's right under the limit, so that's something to think about too. Do you guys have any questions? I just have one. I mean, I don't think the value of Petersons is in dispute or the quality of Petersons is in dispute or the value of Petersons to the community is in dispute. Isn't the real question here whether or not – it sounds like you're saying you don't need to move out during this rehab of this facility. Is that your main argument here?
 Yes. That is one of the arguments for sure, yeah. And, you know, just the – it would be losing something as far as the community goes. It's been there for decades, and there's a whole – I mean, they have 1,000 customers a day that go through there. Right, and nobody disputes it. This is really an engineering –
 And it's my understanding that since February of 2016, it's been clear or made clear to the tenants they'd have to move out for this rehab. So I guess my question, just trying to figure it out from my perspective, is the question the value of Petersons, which from my perspective is not in dispute. I value it. The question is really do you have to move out? Isn't that framing the question? During the construction. It's more than that. Actually, in the writing of Petersons,
 In the writing, we don't fit the qualifications of the businesses that will be allowed back in afterwards. So they've pretty much told us that we will not be allowed back in.
 That's the other problem. That's not what they're telling me. So I want to make sure if there is this dispute, I want to make sure we have that resolved. So maybe I could make a suggestion. I know you've met with Kyle in my office previously. He is upstairs and listening to this and would love to have the opportunity before you leave to have a conversation to see if we can frame the discussion here.
 Because I want to be very clear, nobody here is disputing the value of Peterson's, particularly to the downtown community. I personally stipulate all of that. Okay. Yeah, I was actually looking for a lot, trying to find an example of, like, a mall or some other retail store that went through a major remodel that completely shut down. Throughout the country, you know, there's obviously remodeled, huge remodeling projects, and they seem to all stay open, and that was one of their marketing. We are staying open all during the construction.
 Right. And so I think there is a need for a more focused conversation about the engineering question. I'll just fast up. I'm not qualified to give you a competent answer on that question, but it's certainly one I think worth pursuing. Okay.
 Yeah. Good. That sounds great. Thank you. Good. So the mayor's office is just upstairs, and Kyle will be hanging out waiting for you. Great. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate your testimony today. Thank you, Mr. Peterson. One more. One more. Thank you. Number 846, Robert Faith. Nor can I count. To the council regarding Peterson's convenience store. Thank you. Good morning, sir. Good morning to you, Mayor. And good morning to both of you.
 I'd like to thank the city for having these kind of hearings publicly. I grew up in Boston and to get in front of the mayor, you need to know somebody, you know somebody kind of deal. It's a lot of inside baseball. The public response to these kind of meetings is one of the reasons why I chose to live here when I found out what the city was about. Coming back into Petersons, I thought you acknowledge its value. We are part of the community. I appreciate even that you're listening.
 You know, it warms my heart. I mean that literally. I'm not a false speaking man. The leasing of our space has been month to month for years. We've been trying to get a long term lease, the five year kind that most businesses get. You, the city, are our landlord, but you're going to give up this leasing right to the Portland Development Commission, also known to be Prosper Portland. Now, this is their first opportunity taking over leasing sparts and how they treat local businesses or small businesses
 I think you'll have some major input into that. We weren't guaranteed to return. They were going to see if we qualified. It's not an unqualified term, and we've been there for 30 years. Now, we're not gentrified. We're our convenience store. We're not a boutique. But we serve all levels of Portland business, from the guys who live on the street, get a cup of coffee in the winter, and, you know...
 They're here. We deal with them. There are places they can go, and we're one of the spots, and people don't like that they're around, but we'll serve them because the human beings want a cup of coffee. But we'll take lawyers, too, so we don't discriminate against anybody. Now, we've been trying for that lease for years.
 You know, and we, the remodeling, you know, it's going to happen. We want to stay open as long as we can. If they stop at a certain type and they're starting on one side of the building, it's going to take them three months to get on our side. We want those three months. I mean, that's an ask. You know, again, it's an engineering question and how they're going to do it and how long we can stay there. If we have to leave, of course we will. We're not, you know, we don't own the building.
 But that guarantee to come back when we do have to move out is the important thing. He keeps people on during slow periods, off-season. He doesn't let people go. He'll hire up and keep his staff on as long as they want to work with us. And we have like 30-odd employees all year round, and some of them part-time, some of them full-time. We'll accommodate all the hours we can. You know, letting half our staff go because our main store is gone
 is what, you know, he'll probably keep them on and just, you know, staff from other stores if we know we can get them back and people don't have to lose their jobs over it. You know, it's that kind of guarantee, the kind of relationship that, you know, the Portland Development Commission is going to have with small businesses downtown if they're going to take over leasing. You know, how you, you know, go forward from here with us and other people in that building who want to come back, like, boy, fort. That's what I want you guys to consider strongly. You know, where are we at as a city?
 Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Appreciate your testimony. Let's see. What's the time on the giant clock? Why don't we move, please, to the first time certain item, please, item 847. 847, accept the Digital Equity Action Plan, year one progress report. Yes.
 Colleagues, the Digital Equity Action Plan is a collaboration between the City of Portland and Multnomah County Library and many community partners from the nonprofit, public, and private sectors. And as you'll recall, it was adopted by the Council of April last year. Digital equity means having access to affordable high-speed Internet.
 a device to connect, and the know-how to navigate the digital world we live in today.
 While many of us understand the value of technology and have the means to access it, there are still many people here in this community, friends, relatives, neighbors, who do not have that access. And for them, these folks often represent some of our most vulnerable populations in Portland and Multnomah County, and it's essential that we come together and collaborate to find the best ways to help serve them.
 Digital equity was first identified as a policy goal for the City of Portland in the 2011 Broadband Strategic Plan. I would like to especially acknowledge Commissioner Fritz, who is not here today, and Commissioner Saltzman, who is here today, for their leadership on the Broadband Plan.
 Digital inclusion and equity values are also central to any smart cities initiative that we choose to embark on, so I'm very pleased to see our city staff raising awareness and addressing such an important public service issue. Thank you.
 Here to present a progress report on the first year of the implementation plan are Julie Omolchek from the Portland Office for Community Technology and John Rona from the Multnomah County Library Department.
 And we'll also have other presenters who are going to be here over the next 20 minutes or so to update us on the progress on this plan. So I'll just turn it over to you. And however you want to conduct this presentation and whoever you'd like to call on, please feel free to do so. And we'll listen and ask whatever questions come to mind.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Council. I'm Julie O'Malchuk, and this is Rebecca Gibbons with the Office for Community Technology, and I'm here today with John Rawona from the Multnomah County Library and a couple community partners to present our first-year progress on the Digital Equity Action Plan, or as we refer to it as DEEP. I believe the report is in your packets.
 The DEEP specifically focuses on overcoming barriers to digital inclusion for people with limited English language proficiency, the elderly, people of color, immigrants and refugees, low income, and people with disabilities. As Mayor Wheeler noted, the Portland Council and the Multnomah County Commission adopted the DEEP in April of 2016.
 Council added a staff position last year to expand OCT's capacity for this work, and the library has dedicated staff resources as well. These actions supported Portland being designated a Digital Inclusion Trailblazer City by the National Digital Inclusion Alliance. Our collaborative approach to developing the plan was also recognized nationally, but a plan is just a plan without people doing the work.
 The Digital Inclusion Network came together around plan development and brought diverse voices to the table. Currently, 35 organizations make up this informal network, which remains involved in guiding plan actions. The DEEP is a framework for local partners to collaborate on 17 strategic actions around five key goals critical to an inclusive, digitally connected community.
 These include access to the internet and devices, culturally specific training, empowering community partners, job opportunities for underrepresented populations, and supportive public policy. OCTN library staff provide what we refer to as backbone organizational support for this collective community effort.
 This past year, staff efforts focused on building consensus around plan design, such as defining responsibilities of staff, the DIN, and community partners, securing lead partner commitments for all strategic actions, developing an evaluation plan to identify learnings across all activities,
 and defining criteria to identify effective strategies related to our target populations. Due to our continuing development of plan design and work of the DIN members, many organizations have moved forward on strategic actions. So I'll turn it over to John and a couple community partners to highlight some of our work in the community. Thank you.
 I'm John Worona, the Director of Content Strategy for the Multnomah County Library. Many community organizations have moved forward on the strategic actions. In fact, all 17 strategic actions are either in progress, that is in the planning stage, or on track, meaning the project is underway with engaged partners. Our year two goal is for 100% of projects to move to this on track status.
 The Year 1 report includes a chart showing project status and more information about each strategic action project is available on OCT's website. For example, I'd like to share with you a project designed to support a deep strategic action. Action 2.3, Expand Availability of Culturally Specific Digital Literacy Curriculum. The Earn a Computer program was created by Digital Inclusion Fellows, sponsored for one year by N10, the nonprofit technology network, and Google Fiber.
 The library and Free Geek each hosted a fellow who implemented the program with four partner organizations, Hacienda CDC, Metro East Community Media, Home Forward, and Human Solutions. The Internet Computer Program was offered at seven different sites where our most digitally challenged populations live. The program had three key components. It delivered culturally specific, culturally appropriate training, introduced low-cost Internet options, and it provided free computers.
 Our partner, Metro East Community Media, produced this video about the Earn a Computer program at its Rockwood DIY space. So we're going to play that now. So we're here out at Rockwood DIY and our goal is to bridge the digital gap. So the issue that this program is trying to address is the people who don't have the skills and access to technology in order to be full participants in society.
 When the teacher invited me, he told me clearly that if I could attend the computer classes, he would give me a computer. They get a free computer from FreeGeek. We just spend the night setting up their computers, teaching them how to use the operating system. They are giving us an explanation step by step, from the bottom. So this class is very good.
 I learned a lot and I enjoyed being with them. Creating that access to a potential new job track, potential new interests is really what I'm looking to create. Like today we had the parents and teachers conference and it's right at the time when a teacher asked us where we had a computer at home. I said wow, we just got one. I mean the first class last week we were teaching people how to use a mouse.
 and we were doing it in a way that was respectful to them. Everybody was friendly. So a lot of kids come to our workshops because we offer childcare. That's the big thing I appreciated first.
 because if I don't have a babysitter, I wouldn't be here. We want to make sure that this is very inclusive to any person, no matter what their barriers. People who I know are scared, so it's like I can at least give them ease that, oh, I understand where you're coming from, but I'm here to help you, you know? We feel like they're our family.
 I want to go to school because I want to be dependable. I want to work a good job. I want to do something better. I have my chance now. As you can see, the Earn a Computer program is a great example of a clearly identified strategic action to remove barriers for deep target populations. The success of this work inspired the library and Free Geek to allocate resources to focus on sustaining the Earn a Computer program now that the fellowships have ended.
 This shows how we can amplify impact to be greater than what any organization could accomplish alone. A deep hallmark is partnerships for improved community outcomes. Now a few partners are here to highlight their programs. I'd like to invite Stephanie Martinez and Melissa McCoy from the Latino Network, Betty Dominguez from Home Forward, and resident Diane Ford to the podium. And we'll come up after for questions. Very good. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 And if there are members of the public who would also like to testify, you can sign up over here with Carla. And after the invited testimony, we'll certainly enjoy hearing from you as well. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Stephanie Martinez, and I work for Latino Network as a family engagement specialist. First off, thank you to everyone here, the council members present. And I also want to recognize the people behind us for allowing us this time to share one of our programs with you. Our work at Latino Network is grounded in the belief that our Latino communities are self-determined. That is that we as community members know that we have the ability and the power
 to participate actively and meaningfully in any type of decision making process that will affect the lives of our families and our own. We at Latino Network recognize the importance of digital literacy and inclusion. Our program, Mobile Lab, has ran since 2013 on multiple sites, and it helps families build on their digital literacy skills and support them with communicating with their children's schools and their education during their job search among other areas of interest.
 This past academic year, we partnered up with Rigler Elementary School and with the Multnomah County Library to offer a total of 20 computer literacy classes at Rigler. Our initial partnership consisted in Rigler providing us the space to give the programming
 For the Multnomah County Library, they offered us one of the instructors, the Chromebooks, and also the introductory material. While Latino Network offered a co-instructor and interpreter, that was me, in addition to child care, refreshments, and or dinner. And also we had MacBooks available for use.
 We knew that the program offered by the Multnomah County Library through their Digital Inclusion Fellowship was going to be temporary. And our families let us know that they wanted to continue learning and they wanted to continue building on their skills. So around mid-February, Latino Network took more of a leadership role in the program. Now for the good news. On June 6th of this year, 19 incredible and committed individuals received their certificate of participation in the program.
 All of our participants were Spanish speakers. Three of them were self-identified males, and 16 were self-identified females from the ages of 26 all the way till 80 years old. Some of our strengths were that we were culturally specific,
 We nurtured a sense of belonging. We also provided child care. I want to highlight that 17 out of our 19 participants were parents of minors. And we also provided them dinner or refreshments. We recognized that the commitment that we were, that the time that we were asking them for them to commit was every Wednesday from 6 PM to 8 PM. One of our challenges was the ratio of participants and instructors. Sometimes we did not have enough time to answer everyone's questions.
 And now we didn't have a lot of time to do one-on-ones. So for this next year, we're definitely looking into recruiting volunteers to help us in those areas. Latino Network and myself are so grateful for this opportunity. And we are delighted to continue building and strengthening our partnership with everyone. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm Betty Dominguez with Home Forward, and I have been leading our efforts internally around social equity, especially around bridging the digital divide. So I'm going to read my notes because I can't trust my memory, if you don't mind.
 So, in addition to Home Forward's participation in the DIN and the DEEP, which we are a lead partner in some of those goals, we've directed an internal effort to this subject as part of our five-year strategic plan. The properties we're piloting are efforts that were selected specifically to represent geographic dispersal as well as diverse demographic data such as race, ethnicity, and age.
 We began by conducting door-to-door surveys of residents at three different properties, a fourth one is in the planning stage, for a total of 412 units. We asked resident volunteers to do the surveying, and then we paid them $15 an hour to do the work. We felt that our residents would be more receptive to one of their neighbors knocking on their door. So after the data was collected, we began to select cohorts for class trainings at
 At the end of five two-hour classes, residents received their certificate and their free computer. To date, 23 individuals were able to take desktop computers back to their homes and their families. Two more classes are in the planning stage for August.
 This opportunity has been an incredible benefit to those residents who often simply don't know what they're missing by not being connected to the internet. And especially for the children who cannot do their homework on a smartphone, which is often the only device a household has. Residents lacked email addresses, the ability to pay bills online or apply for jobs, and our seniors weren't able to renew prescriptions or stay connected to their families.
 this work with the residents was only one facet of our efforts. The agency has conducted a survey of all of our properties in terms of looking for...
 available computer labs and which buildings have computers, and if any of the buildings have Wi-Fi, and what are the infrastructure needs. Because it's one thing to teach residents and provide them with a computer, but if we don't have the infrastructure in place, it's an issue.
 So to that end, we've been working with Comcast Business Services at some of the properties, along with their Internet Essentials Group, which is focused on bringing affordable broadband access to low-income households. As we undertake the three aspects of this work, the resident trainings,
 free devices and affordable access, and infrastructure needs. The lack of adequate funding is a huge obstacle, particularly in view of the size of our portfolio. We own 6,500 units, and we intend to get to all of them. It will take us a while.
 As we embrace this challenging effort, we very much value our partnership with and support from the City and the Office for Community Technology, which has done incredible work, as well as the other partners represented on the DIN, especially the Multnomah County Library System and Free Geek. Couldn't have done it without them.
 There's one amazing outcome that we didn't anticipate of this work. As we were pondering how to continue the classes going forward on a long-term basis in terms of teachers, we sort of landed on the idea of resident teachers. In our first computer class at Stevens Creek Crossing in southwest Portland,
 We recognized a woman in the class who had some prior skills and was very proficient at the end of the class, very personable, very outgoing. And so we asked if she would consider taking up the job of teaching the next class. And she did, and she will continue to teach classes for us. And we pay her $15 an hour to do that.
 So it's my great pleasure right now to introduce Diana Hankey, who will share with you what all of this has meant to her, our resident teacher. Misnamed Diane Ford. That's one of my neighbors. So I got the privilege of teaching this last class at my complex in Southwest Portland, and we had, I think, seven residents taking the class at that time. And with the help from...
 our resident services person who provided our refreshments and our snacks.
 Charlie from the library was there to also kind of help watch over and give me some constructive feedback. I'd never taught a class before. My instructors at Portland Community College had wanted me to get up and teach their computer classes for them. And I don't do good with groups and speaking, so it's actually helping me in the long run, as is today.
 Watching the faces on people's, watching the people's faces when they got to take their computers home in June was just awesome and amazing. And I've never been able to give back to my community like that before. I have, with Home Forward's help and WorkSource's help, I was able to take some classes and get some qualifications myself.
 So being able to use that knowledge and give it back to my community of 122 units has been great. Wonderful. Thank you. Well, and it's been an opportunity for her to grow her self-confidence and to step into this leadership role, and we're hoping to do that with other residents at other properties. Yeah, that's great. Thank you. Thank you. We really appreciate it.
 So to close our presentation, we'd like to thank the DIN members, many of whom are in the audience today. I'd like to also give a nod to our fellow core planning staff, Cindy Gibbon, Matt Timberlake, and John from Multnomah County. And kudos to Rebecca Gibbons, OCT's Digital Equity Program Coordinator, who is keeping the momentum moving forward for the DEEP.
 Again, the Deep One report and information about the action projects are available through the Portland Office for Community Technologies website or by contacting our office. And so with that, we'd be available for questions. And certainly if you'd like any of our guests to come up, they'd be happy to participate as well. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? What is DIN again? The Digital Inclusion Network. Okay. Trying to keep the acronym straight. Okay.
 So what are the biggest challenges going forward? It sounds like you've had a lot of success, and you gave us some concrete stories today. And I'm very impressed with the results you've achieved with relatively limited resources, and I'm really impressed with the partnership you built. I've always just felt this is the way to get things done, and the community is build these robust partnerships. But what are the challenges today?
 When you get together behind closed doors, what are you most worried about? And where can we be helpful? Well, maybe I'll start and then John and Rebecca can add a couple things as well. I think the biggest challenge for us will be growing our network and our partnerships. One of the things that we're, is a charge that DIN has charged themselves with,
 is reaching out to communities of color, our key organizations around that, and also down into deeper in the community for those small organizations
 that might not right now have the resources to include digital literacy training in their services to their constituents. And so really identifying those groups and then figuring out resources within the DIN community to help them provide those kinds of services. Which – oh, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt. No, I was going to say, so I think –
 Chair Wheeler, you kind of hit it on the head that growing these kind of networks is really important because as the city, we feel like we're more of a facilitator of that than we are going to go out and actually provide all the services in the community. So I think that's probably one of our biggest challenges. Which communities do you see as being the most underserved at this point? Where is the biggest...
 target opportunity from your perspective? Boy, that's a difficult question to kind of delineate, I think, the most underserved community in this regard. I mean, the statistics in Portland play out so that, you know, in the DIN or the DEEP, in the development of the DEEP, we did identify communities through the data we had that were, you know,
 underserved and tended to be digitally excluded. But one of the aspects of our work is that each community, you know, and each kind of segment of a community requires different kind of supports for them to be, you know, to be comfortable coming online and having access to the internet and devices. So I think it's... That's just a hard question for me to answer, and I don't know if it's specifically answerable.
 Data may show that there is a segment of a population that is the most underserved, but I think we have a swath across different populations in the county that are underserved. Thank you. I appreciate it.
 I'll just tack on, yeah, that, you know, we identified our target populations, and these are folks with limited English language proficiency, the elderly, people of color, immigrants, refugees, low-income, and people with disabilities. And so, you know, there's a lot of overlap among all of those groups, and I think, as Julie said, the data, you know, will show as we go on, you know, where in there we should focus most.
 In our example, we focused on refugees. They were folks with limited English proficiency. They were English language learners, so you saw a lot of overlap in that group.
 I would say that for the challenges, one is sustainability and funding. So we were lucky to have the NTEN Google Fiber Digital Inclusion Fellowships. Those were two full-time, one-year positions in Free Geek and in the library. And some of that funding from those institutions supported the more than 150 free computers that were given out. But there is an overhead to provide those computers. So making that sustainable going forward will be an issue later.
 And one of the other things that we're trying to provide is internet access. So we can provide the training, the library's really good at that. We can introduce low cost options and in this case we're able to give devices but that internet access is a challenge. We provide it in the libraries with Wi-Fi and with our wired computers and with Chromebooks that you can check out in the library.
 Getting wireless Internet access or wired Internet access into low-income communities is actually one of our strategic actions, and that will really require a robust institutional network throughout the community that we can build upon, increase bandwidth upon, and really scale up to the next generation. Very good. Commissioner Udaly? You just touched on my main question, which was the ensuring access network.
 to affordable high-speed internet, so that's a problem to be addressed. Is there any conversation about some kind of municipal broadband? No.
 I'll address that. I think that it is a, has continued to be an interest of the city over the years to try and figure out what is a good way to engage in providing internet access, low-cost internet access to the home.
 I do think that with the Smart Cities Steering Committee and OCT's participation on that, we will be able to start looking at some of the future applications and how we can build a broadband infrastructure that supports...
 those kind of applications and supports broadband Internet, especially in our low-income areas that tend to be underserved more because of cost than connectivity in a lot of ways. And have there been any conversations with our local Internet service providers as to whether they'd be willing to offer low-income discounts?
 Well, a couple of them do, and we have some information on our website about that. I'm most familiar with Comcast and CenturyLink's product. But Rebecca, do you want to add or talk a little bit more about that? Comcast does have an internet essentials low income
 service offering. It is available to families who have children in the public schools who qualify for the free and reduced lunch program. It's also available to residents of housing properties and CenturyLink also has an internet basics program which is also available to low-income residents.
 Those programs are available. We are sharing the information with our partners through the DIN network. They are self-educating themselves on the availability of these programs and making sure that they are educating residents who are participating in the training programs about their options. Can you give me an idea of what a monthly affordable internet would cost?
 I mean, either through that program or a number that you've come up with that is manageable for most of your target population? Well, both programs are about $10 a month. Some of them kind of ratchet up after a year of service. So I think what's difficult— Just like wages. Yes. I think what's difficult, especially for our low-income populations, is that—
 really any cost, even a $10 a month cost, can be not affordable. Yeah. And then adding to that, not knowing what the cost is going to be or having to anticipate an increase even after a year can be difficult. One of our...
 action plan items that we are just starting to launch is the possibility of working with, and we have willing partners in this, the public agencies, school districts, you know, the city parks, those kinds of, the libraries who have facilities in neighborhoods to see if we can leverage the connectivity at those
 public agency sites to create wireless networks that push further into low-income neighborhoods to provide free Internet access. So, you know, those kind of things take a while to figure out among public agencies and then, of course, with our community partners. But we're hoping to have some pilots within the next year around that.
 Great. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes. I'm sorry. Commissioner Saltzman, I apologize. What kind of outreach are we doing to older adults? You mentioned they're one of the target populations. What are we doing?
 Well, through the Housing Authority, we are targeting folks through that program. We are engaging and trying to identify other organizations that have direct contact with our elderly community, and we'll be bringing those folks to the table. That is one of our strategic actions is to continue to identify organizations that work with our targeted clients and populations and to bring them to the table.
 to help provide them with the resources that are available. One of our strategic actions is to develop an online resource for our community organizations that would then give them direct access and an ability for us to pool all of our training and our curriculum in various languages that would help then for our service organizations to better serve and reach their targeted populations. Are we working with Meals on Wheels? Yes.
 We have had some initial contact, I think, at the beginning when we first launched the program. We have not had any recent contact, but they are definitely on our list. And then I was curious, I think John mentioned the fact that there was 150 desktops that were donated last year to the individuals who took the digital equity course. Is that the right word for it?
 So, you know, we have a policy in the city, I think I know you're all familiar with, where we donate our computers to Free Geek, and I assume some of those are laptops. Is there any reason why we couldn't, as a city, ask Free Geek to set aside the 150 of those that we donate a year for purposes of
 students who successfully complete the digital equity inclusion course? Right. So I can't be certain, but I wouldn't be surprised if some of your computers actually made it into the hands of those residents because that's exactly the pipeline. Both the city and the county donate their surplus equipment to Free Geek. They refurbish that equipment and load it up with a brand new operating system. They provide one year of tech support for those devices.
 So it's really important and essential that we have those partnerships with the city and the county, and we do. But nonetheless, there's still an overhead of about roughly $200 to get one of those devices through the pipeline and back into someone's hands. So that's what we're trying to make sustainable going forward. And Colleen is here from Free Geek, and I believe she's signed up to talk in the public testimony part, so she could probably answer a little bit more detail. Okay. Thank you.
 All right. How many people do we have signed up for public testimony? I have two people signed up. Very good. Anybody else want to sign up? Samuel. Close the list. Samuel Pastrick and Michael Durrell. Good morning. That's fine. Come on up. Yeah, I could just answer that question really quickly. Come on.
 I'm Colleen Dixon, I'm the Director of Development and Public Services at Free Geek. So yes, those are exactly the computers that are going back to the community and I think that's an amazing example of how we're building stronger networks and we're creating kind of this huge safety net of city computers going to Free Geek, Free Geek partnering with the library, the library partnering with all of these organizations and housing communities and we're just creating this amazing community and support for this work.
 And it comes at a huge cost, right? Because the computers that come to us to free geek are great, but we have to pick them up. We have to test them. We have to wipe data. We have to load the operating system. We have to come teach the classes. We also have to provide a year of tech support and warranty so we can ensure that those computers are still usable. So all of those services are kind of the overhead price that we're looking at when we partner and what is the sustainability of doing that.
 And recognizing that overall, I think those have been a lot of our conversations in DIN, is we can create these connections, but how do we resource them to continue? Because as Julie mentioned, a lot of nonprofits that we want at the table don't... I mean, Free Geek's lucky, right? Because our mission is already so aligned with this work. So it makes sense for us to show up and be there. But when we have to make the pitch...
 to Meals on Wheels or another organization to say, hey, partner with us. They don't necessarily have digital equity built into their work or their strategic plan. They don't have endless resources to add staffing to that. So I think in moving forward, we're really doing a great job of looking at how do we sustain these networks and these partnerships? How do we bring more people to the table and how that's going to work and a huge resource.
 is the computers from the city and the county. And thank you, and especially to you, Commissioner Saltzman, for arranging that relationship for so many years. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Good morning. Sure. Good morning. Sam Pastrick, Oregon CUB. I'm a consumer advocate and membership manager. So I'm going to do a little bit of background, and then I'm going to make two quick points. Both actually relate to something, Mr. Mayor, that you said.
 So, just as a point of background, I participated as CUBS representative in the deep planning sessions. There were three of them. I think I actually only attended two. But so we've sort of been a part of the process all along the way and then I'm a fairly active member on the DIN, the Digital Inclusion Network. So, two quick points. I think
 Really the work that was highlighted by both the Home Forward and the Latino Network projects not only sort of highlights the imperative of the plan itself, but moreover kind of the critical function of the office, the city office in OCT, that I think, as Julie put it, sort of facilitates that community interaction, that outward-facing interaction.
 And a question that you asked, Mr. Mayor, was challenges that folks see in facilitating this work.
 And a challenge that certainly CUB sees, as well as our partners at the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission, and it's nothing new, it's something that we've been very public about in the past, is what we perceive as being sort of a low and inappropriately low organizational status for the Office for Community Technology. So I presented and submitted a report way back in 2016 in November.
 Obviously, I testified in support of the Smart City Steering Committee, and we subsequently provided a memo in relation to that topic. So I did want to quickly touch on that. But to circle back to both the Smart City Steering Committee as well as the recently passed open data ordinance, I think those are two prime examples of why this work, why digital equity work is so critical, so paramount.
 And that is ubiquitous broadband adoption, especially for vulnerable communities, is sort of the foundation, we would argue, that Cub would argue, of those two policies. You can't expect for both.
 for smart cities work to be elevated or to move forward in the right way, or an open data ordinance, an open data policy to move forward in the right way, really without ubiquitous broadband adoption. And again, I think that comes back to why the function of OCT as the predominant city office who's working on these projects really is so important. And so again, we would really strongly argue that their position within the city underneath OCT
 the Revenue Bureau is just sort of inappropriately low. That's really all I want to say. I appreciate that. Excellent. Thank you. And that is all of our public testimony on this item. I'm sorry, Michael. See, this is why I knew I had to order. Thank you, Michael. Good morning, Dan. Good morning, Ms. Utley. I'm not so sure I said that correctly. My name is Michael Durow.
 I'm a long time Portland resident. I first came here in 1960, October 13th, 1967, when my mother and I, we didn't immigrate. My mother immigrated to the United States. I came home. So my family's been here since my grandmother just barely got it out of, got out of Vanport. She worked in the shipyards. I'm a long time advocate for,
 For labor, the disabled, and communities of color, I haven't been disabled most of my life.
 I am also an elected representative serving on Metro, not Metro, MESD. I run for Metro, and the reason why I mention that is because I was involved in putting high-speed infrastructure into inner northeast Portland and outer southeast Lentz. I was a consultant for the developer that worked for PDC.
 And we got that project. That was a lot of money that Quest had taken from the people that we got back. I actually came here to speak about PERS, but I wanted to speak about, if I may, I would like to speak about the digital divide. Is that all right? Yes. Digital divide is definitely related to the subject. PERS is not. Oh, yeah. Thank you. Okay.
 The reason why I want to speak on PERS on my own behalf is because I'm a PERS beneficiary and I was interested in... I picked digital divide. Okay. I'm a self-taught network engineer. I've got two Cisco certifications going back to the mid-'90s. And I'm very interested in using technology to improve the lives of everybody.
 very much including poor and disabled people.
 On the MESD, one of our charges is as the lead agency for the Cascade Technology Agency. It's a shame, but I've been struggling for the last two years on the board to try to convince my fellow board members of the value of Free Geek. Free Geek is a jewel of the city that is now being replicated all over the country and I think in other parts of the world. Okay.
 the technology that we throw away is usable by somebody. Trying to keep, find all my notes, how much time do I left? I'm a declared member, just for full disclosure, I'm a declared candidate for the city council for Danny's health and safety. So I want to say that, not to, but I want to urge you to think about setting up a metropolitan area network.
 Okay. Thank you. I appreciate that. Thank you for your service on the ASD. Thank you. Can I entertain a motion at this point, colleagues? Move adoption of the report. I'll second it. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further conversation, colleagues? Hearing none, please call the roll. Saltzman. Well, thank you to the Office for Community Technology for the presentation. Rebecca. Rebecca.
 Julie and John from the library. Appreciate it. And appreciate all the work. It's very impressive, this network that's developed to tackle this most important problem is how do we bring everybody along into the 21st century in terms of staying in touch. I asked about older adults in particular because I think older adults are lonely and they need to turn, as all of us do, we turn to technology now for companionship. And it's important to have that for them. It also helps them stay in touch with people
 relatives and family and and certainly I think your work you're doing with immigrant communities is also just as important to because it can be a very lonely experience coming to a country where you may not speak the language as your first language and so it's just vitally important that we work with these targeted populations that the digital inclusion network has focused on so thank you very much I you daily
 I just want to thank everyone for the excellent report. I also want to let you know that this is a keen interest of my office, so if you want to come talk to us, brainstorm with us, we would welcome that.
 Some people might read this report and see 15% of Portland residents don't have adequate internet access and think that that's insignificant, but that's roughly 95,000 people in our city, and those 95,000 people represent some of our most vulnerable, underserved residents, and the very people who could often most benefit from having internet access, whether it's
 to apply for jobs or housing benefits, online education, certainly children who are in public schools. It's vitally important, and I am excited to talk more about municipal broadband as we move forward. Thank you.
 Wheeler. Great report. I want to thank everybody who testified today, and I want to thank all of the partners who've been so actively engaged in this conversation, Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fritz. If you were here, I'd say the same thing. Thank you for really showing a lot of vision. For better or for worse, digital technology is the economic and social connector.
 in our society. And as Commissioner Udailey just rightly pointed out, if there are 15% of the people in this city who are not able to connect digitally, they are effectively being excluded from those social and economic connections that are so important today. So the work that all of you are doing is critically important, and I'm really proud of the work that you've done.
 I also just want to reflect specifically on sort of the micro issue of the Office of Community Technology. I want to revisit that because I think you have a point there. It seems like sort of an odd fit under revenue because it's not really a revenue play. That's not the point here.
 The point is really access to both the social and economic connectivity that this new technology not only provides, but now is an essential requirement. So to be continued. And I appreciate you raising that issue again. I know you've raised it previously. So great report. I look forward to further progress. Aye, the report's adopted. Thank you all. Next item, please, which is our second-to-last-time certain item, P4E.
 848, accept the Quarterly Technology Oversight Committee report from the Chief Administrative Officer. Colleagues, this is the Quarterly Technology Oversight Committee TOC report.
 For April through June, the TOC is an external five-member committee consisting of private sector technology expert representing each of the council offices. This committee meets monthly to review project updates and hear from the external quality assurance consultant for each of our ongoing projects.
 This report today highlights two important citywide technology projects. The first is known as POPS, otherwise the Portland Online Permitting System.
 And the second is the data center move project. So I'm very pleased, by the way, as just sort of a headline to see both of these projects reported in green status on the dashboard. And I'll turn it over to staff and the TOC representative to provide updates on each of the projects today. So thank you very much for being here.
 Good morning, the Aaron Commissioners. I'm Jen Clodius, a senior management analyst with the Office of Management and Technology, and I am the staff support for the TOC. With me are Jeff Baer, the Director for Bureau of Technology Services, and Josh Mitchell, who was appointed to the TOC by former Commissioner Novick.
 As you mentioned, Mayor, this panel is made up of five members appointed by Council. The other TOC members are Ken Neubauer, Dr. Wilf Pinford, Diana Garcia, and Mike Lynch. We are here to present the information from the TOC Committee's quarterly report from April to June. That quarter, as you mentioned, TOC followed two projects, POPs and the data setter move. I do need to tell you that there is a Scrivener's error on page four of the report.
 The reporting date for the POPs material is June 21st, not March 14th. Question of legal counsel, does that require an amendment, or can we just consider that a friendly amendment and a Scribner's error to be corrected?
 Mayor, that can be considered a scrutiny, Aaron. Very good. Thank you for raising it and bringing it to our attention. We are going to project the two dashboards. The dashboards contain information from the project management staff, city people, the quality assurance contractor, and the TOC. And Jeff and Josh will update you on what the current status of these projects are. Excuse me. This is a disruption, and if you continue, you will be asked to leave. Oversight can't even oversee two...
 I'm sorry. You're just... And you are interrupting people's testimony. You're being... Listen, you're just being rude. Sorry. No, it's actually very disruptive and it's rude. You're just being rude.
 What? Oversighted technology when you've got people out on the street, Mayor, worth $258 million? One moment, sorry. This isn't even funny. You laugh at this. You're a dictator. Goddamn dictator. Well, and there you have it. The word of the day. Sorry for the interruption. I apologize for that. It's rude, but it happens from time to time. Please continue.
 Mr. Mayor, I just need to point out that you're down to two people up there, so you do not have a quorum. So we opened the item under a quorum, but we can continue the conversation, can we not, under two? Technically, you can continue the conversation. You just can't vote on it or anything.
 Yeah, I guarantee you we won't vote until we have at least three people present. Thank you. But just to be clear, the fact that we had a quorum when we opened the item, and if we have a quorum when we vote on the item, we're still in compliance with our quorum law. Is that not correct? That's correct, as long as...
 Yeah, she's here, so it's a mood issue. But as long as she feels comfortable voting, not having very good things. Okay, please continue. Thank you for the clarification. I appreciate it. All right, the first dashboard we're going to show you is the Portland online permitting system.
 All right. Thank you, Jen. And I'll turn it over to Josh here. I just want to make a couple of introductory remarks. Again, for the record, I'm Jeff Baer, the Director of the Bureau of Technology Services. And we have a few more updates for you, as noted in the report. So the Portland Online Permitting System, POPS, is going well. You'll see from the three different constraints, both from the QA's perspective and from our TOC membership, that we're all in green, stable status.
 We're moving forward over the next few months in terms of devising our next implementation and integration approach, identifying all the different business to functional requirements. And in parallel with that, we're also upgrading the current AmandaTracks version to a supported version, and then also to a more robust system will be the next version after that. So it's more of a stepped approach with that. And I'll turn it over to Josh if he has any additional comments on that. Thank you.
 I'll go ahead and read through the prepared statement, but in general this is something that has come through the TOC and we're very excited about the transition to this because we feel it's a much more sustainable way forward. Good. Again, for the record, my name is Josh Mitchell. I'm with Phase 2 Technology. I'm a director of engineering there. We have offices here in Portland and also throughout the U.S.,
 So the Portland online permitting system develops a paperless permit and case management process, allows complete online access to the permitting and case review services.
 Project deliverables include digitization and online access of historical permits, property information, implementation of an updated permit and case review information management system, an online case and permit application review service, online mobile access for field staff, and implementation of an automated queuing system. So it's a quite large project project.
 It should be noted that we've been reviewing the discovery process and going into the new recommendations, so much of this description may change. One of our recommendations has always been to try to make smaller, more digestible projects that can be finished more quickly. And so that may change a little bit at the end of this discovery and change the scope of the project accordingly.
 It continues to be in a discovery phase, though we're moving out of that right now for the purpose of when this report is for. Still in discovery. The product selection decision has been shopped through all of the stakeholders. The recommendation has come through the decision makers. The TOC supports this recommendation. We think it's a good way to go forward. And we also support the product selection.
 Next steps will of course be moving out of the discovery and into a new implementation phase and we're looking forward to seeing what that implementation phase looks like and participating in that process. Okay, the other project, the second project, is the data center move.
 In the data center move, again, you'll see all green on the reports, both from the QA and from our TOC membership. And just to give a quick update, we just actually this week reached a major milestone in completing the secondary network circuit, which provides a redundant high-speed path to our Brookwood site, which is out in Washington County off Highway 26 near Hillsboro. And this was really key to beginning the migration wave of moving these large production applications
 out of the Portland building or our primary data center and out to this new location, and also represented a very significant amount of work for our network team. And so with that, we're going to begin, and we have developed our migration schedule. All the bureaus will understand what's out there and when this wave is going to occur over the next several months so that we can be and decommission the data center by the end of December this year.
 I'll turn it over to Josh. Excellent. Main thing from the Technology Oversight Committee on this is we've been extremely impressed with the project management behind the data center move. Everything has been going pretty much seamlessly. And having been involved in large scale data center moves, as a matter of fact, I was with Multnomah County as a applications manager at the time that the county went through their application.
 their data center move out to the East County Courthouse. It is a huge undertaking. Lots can go wrong. There are a lot of details to manage, and I have to say the city staff has been just doing an amazing job completing everything on time and on budget, which is very impressive. Great. Thank you. I know you have experience with this. I'm really glad to hear you say that in particular. Thank you. And that is our happy report for this quarter. Very good. Any questions?
 Very good. Thank you. I want to, again, appreciate the time and the energy you're putting into this and assure you that it is very valuable input to not just the city council but to the leadership of the city generally. So thank you for your hard work on this. And thank you for understanding all the nuances as well.
 because I know I don't. Any public testimony on this item? No one's saying, oh. One individual would like to testify. Very good. Come on up. Anybody else? All right, we'll close the list. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Now, the Technology Oversight Committee, I think, plays a very important role for the city of Portland overall.
 Now, these two projects that we're talking about, the POPs and the data relocation center, I agree with your assessment and the numbers that you provided. One of the things that I want to stress is that when I look at a technology oversight committee, I'd like to see certain projects put in front of you. The last resolution we were talking about on providing Internet access
 throughout the city and different type of areas like that. I think we need to start looking at, again, from Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg, the universal basic income concept. It needs to be brought up in front of an oversight committee. We need to begin to analyze that. And everything we're talking about is providing to the whole city
 when it comes to technology and access to the internet is all within that plan. Everything we're talking about when we were talking about homeless issues on the last resolution is all involved in that plan. Everything we're talking about on poverty reduction is all involved in that plan. And we need to start understanding, especially from the Technology Oversight Committee, when you have people
 Like Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk saying now is the time to begin to implement this. We need to have these type of committees researching, planning, and looking over things to understand the greatest thing that can happen. And let's use a pilot project.
 Let's just talk to begin with on doing something for the chronic homeless in the city of Portland, but on a universal level through the United States. Now, if we just focus on that right now and understand that where do we get the resources, where do we get the funding, and listen very close to the technology leaders, the trailblazers,
 is that we need to start focusing on fossil fuel subsidies. We need to start focusing on repatriating money from overseas. And we need to start implementing this plan, which will lift the whole city. And the Technology Oversight Committee has the ability to do that if we have the right projects on the table and we're analyzing those. So again...
 I'm in full support of the Technology Oversight Committee on what they've done on these projects. I hope you can look at some other ones and make some big changes. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate it. I'll entertain a motion. Move adoption of the report. I'll second that. Commissioner Saltzman moves. Commissioner Udali seconds. Any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Saltzman. Thank you.
 Well, thank you for this report. Thanks, Mr. Mitchell, for serving on the committee. We appreciate that, as we do all four members of the committee and the staff who do the great work as well. So thank you for this good report. Hi. Eudaly. Thank you for the report. I recently attended a Life of the Permit tour at BDS, and it made me want to cry, really. The level, the amount of work that we're asking our staff
 employees to do is daunting and I'm excited to finally be moving forward with a new online permitting system, although it's going to take a little while. So thanks again.
 Wheeler. I'm very glad we have the Technology Oversight Committee. And I'm not just saying that because it's all in the green today. I know there will be other projects that we will discuss that aren't as far along as these particular projects that we've discussed this quarter. But this kind of oversight, I think, is really critical, and I'm very, very appreciative of it. I also want to just put in a thanks to Tom Reinhart, the Chief Administrative Officer, who continues to –
 push this as being a very, very important and significant opportunity for the city. It's so easy to think about the Portland building project as being a real estate play, but really it's about everything else. It is the technology infrastructure, where we are moving employees, how we're going to be doing our work going forward, and you're an integral part to the technology piece of this, and I really appreciate it. So I vote aye. The report is accepted.
 Now, colleagues, we just have a couple items left. These are all second readings. And just for people watching or people here in the chamber, these are items that have already been presented to the council. We've already taken public testimony on them. And so now, as second readings, it's just a matter of us formally taking a vote. So if you could please call the next item.
 8.49, extend term of contract with Squire Patton Boggs, U.S. LLP, for federal lobbying. I noticed, Elizabeth, you're here. Was there anything else you wanted to say on this, or are we good? Good to go. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. I had some concerns about this item, which were somewhat assuaged by –
 Elizabeth from Government Relations Office, but I am going to be interested to learn who else we're considering when this extended contract expires. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The contract is extended. Next item, please.
 Item 850, authorize intergovernmental agreements with Multnomah County and the City of Gresham to receive payment in the amount of $3,500 and $10,000 respectively for the production of updates to the five-year consolidated plan fiscal years 2016-2022.
 2020 Annual Action Plan Fiscal Year 2018-2019, Analysis of Impediments to Fair Housing, Updates in Other Plans and Performance Reports as Requested of the Consortium by Head. So that is a contender for the longest period.
 item this year. So we'll put that on the list as a maybe. Please call the roll, Carla. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. I'm so exhausted just from hearing what this was. I vote aye. The IGAs are approved. Thank you. Next item, please.
 8.51, authorize a contract with Water Systems Consulting, Inc. for the development of an asset management-based pump station system plan for a total not to exceed amount of $379,120. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The contract is authorized. Please call the next item, 8.52, please.
 Authorize a contract with CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc. in the amount of $795,358 for the supply system master plan project. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The contract is authorized. There being no further business, we're adjourned. All right.