🎵
 Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the July 29th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll, Carla? Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Hales? Here. Good morning, everyone. Welcome. We have the council agenda this morning that starts with communications items where citizens sign up and speak on a subject of their choosing, and we'll do that first.
 Then we have a regular agenda. If you're here to speak on a regular agenda item, you need to just simply let our council clerk know and we'll make sure that you get the opportunity to testify. We typically give people three minutes to speak and looking at the size of the group here this morning, that shouldn't be any reason to restrict that any further.
 So if you're here to speak on a council calendar item, we ask that you let us know if you're a registered lobbyist representing an organization because that's required by city code. We also ask that we always observe the rules of decorum here in this chamber, and that is if you agree with someone and want to signify that somehow, give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. And if you don't agree with them and want to also indicate your displeasure.
 A polite hand gesture is fine, but we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens in this chamber so everyone can be heard. And with that, I think we will turn to first the communications item, number 796. Request of Robert Liberty to address council regarding concerns about neighborhood change and redevelopment. Good morning. Good morning. Mr. Mayor and commissioners, I am Robert Liberty. I live at Southeast 35th and Tibbets Street.
 I was born in Portland, and I've lived here almost 50 years. For four decades, thousands of Oregonians and Portlanders have been working to carry out our plans and policies to create a livable city with choices in housing and transportation, green spaces and clean water, a city within a region that has stopped sprawl and saved the forest lands and farmlands that make us the Eden of the West. After 40 years of work, the vision of 1975 is becoming the reality of today.
 What many of us did not expect was that our values and aspirations would become national values and aspirations by the time our plans came to fruition, and that as a result, our city and region would attract national interest. A half century ago, Tom McCall said, Oregon, queen bee that she is, is not ready for the swarm. Ready or not, Tom, the swarm has arrived.
 I welcome these newcomers because of the talents and enterprise they bring, because of the way they have embraced many of our values, and because they mitigate our Oregonian provincialism. But the inevitable impact of all the new arrivals threatens some of the cherished qualities of this place, including the affordability of housing and the income diversity and social integration that allows. Yes, the market is now responding to high rents and high home prices with an unprecedented wave of construction,
 In time, the new homes and apartments will moderate the surge in rents and soften the shrinking of the rental home market. But experience in our sister cities on the West Coast shows that the market, as currently shaped and structured, cannot assure the broad supply of housing available to families of modest means and even middle incomes we need. Of course, we should do what we can to build new affordable housing.
 But even if we are far more successful than we have been in the past, permanently affordable housing will never supply more than 3 or 4 percent of our housing stock. We need mechanisms that are market responsive and produce large volumes of lower cost housing of different types. This is the middle realm between subsidized housing and market rate expensive housing.
 I suggest that you organize a think tank or competition for ideas about how to create a system to deliver, say, 50,000 new housing, lower-cost housing units around the city by 2025. The system should not require significant public subsidize. It should generate new housing and forms that keep the city green and livable. Finally, it should ensure that the private investment in that new housing circulates within this region, not flows outside of it.
 Unlike in 1975, today our city and region is blessed with many people with creative ideas and relevant expertise about how to achieve this outcome. And because our city has attracted such attention recently, we can expect national and international contributions to this competition or think tank. I would expect that neighborhood associations and neighborhood preservationists who have opposed some infill and redevelopment projects to participate in this effort because it might offer an alternative to forms of development they oppose.
 I would ask them to do it as part of their responsibilities as Portlanders. Thank you for your efforts to create a livable and lovable city for all of us. Please invite us to contribute to that essential work. Robert, thank you very much. If you wouldn't mind making a copy of that available to us, we'd love to have it. So thank you and appreciate all the years of thought that you've put into these really important issues. Thank you. All right. Let's take the next person, please. 797. 797.
 Request of Landon K. Crowell to address council regarding housing project on Ankeny. Good morning My name is Landon K. Crowell and I'd like to address you about my housing project on North Ankeny I have been self-employed in Portland for over 20 years. I would like to build a housing project that is 26 units and
 The idea is to have six flats, 16 townhouse units that are two and three bedrooms, and four suites on the top. It has 2,700 square feet of retail space involved in it. There is 3,000 square feet of ground floor green space to work with also. The plan of the project is to have 40% minority women and small business participation as the workforce.
 I currently own 5,300 square feet of this property of 10,000 square feet and I am requesting assistance from the city to purchase the other two parcels of land which would be about 1.5 million.
 I have made application to Portland Development Commission or attempted to make application to Portland Development Commission and Portland Housing. Unfortunately I was denied an application, the chance to make an application. So my request is what can the city do to help me with this project?
 Well, I appreciate you calling this to our attention. You have both the housing commissioner here and the commissioner who has the direct liaison responsibility of PDC. So you've gotten it in front of us. Give us a chance to go take a look and see what's possible. OK. So I should wait to hear back from you? Will. OK. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you very much. Thank you. OK. Next one, please. Item 798, request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding safety on the streets. Good morning. Morning.
 My name is Craig Rogers. My address is 11010 Southeast Yanhill Street, Portland, Oregon 97216. Well, the streets are as much about safety as they are about transportation. And the street fee is no small item. It involves a large sum of money. And if you don't remember history, you're bound to repeat it. So from the very beginning with the street fee,
 My opinion was that the cornerstone was Styrofoam because it had no vote, no oversight, no sunset. And as it went rolling along, there were committees formed. And at those committees, I had a gentleman named Dr. Eric Fruits sitting next to me. And if he said it once, he said it ten times. They're just making the numbers up. And...
 A lot of people understood what was going on there. You know, Voodoo Donut came out with the pothole donut. TriMet run Halloween had scarier than the street tax. And let's not forget the naked bike ride. Well, Southeast Uplift requested the basis numbers for the amount of employees of businesses, which would be part of the formula.
 Southeast Uplift was refused that information. It went to court. A kabuki dance ensued. And finally, when it came out of court, it showed that the largest employer in the city of Portland was a colonics outfit with 32,000 employees. Well, in my opinion, Dr. Eric Fruits was correct all along when he said they were just making the numbers up.
 And in my opinion, to believe the numbers that comes out of City Hall, the reason why I'm sitting here before you today is that I want to see that the chief deputy auditor is included in the once-a-week chief of staff meetings at City Hall. Because when you're experienced, you've got a nose for these things. I worked 37 years at one company, and...
 Somebody could come on the first day and I'd tell them, if you see me doing something wrong, I want you to tell me. And now and again they would. And two heads are better than one, and it would prevent making a mistake. And I think that's why we need the chief deputy auditor in these chief of staff meetings from this day forward. Because you want to do things correctly. You want to be transparent and accountable. We need to believe the numbers that come out of City Hall. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Okay. Item 799. Request of Michael D. Krupp to address council regarding whose side are you on. He indicated he would not be coming. Okay. Now let's move on to 800. Request of Antonio Zamora to address council regarding climate change and Shell's Arctic drilling project. Good morning. Good morning. I don't come here much to these scenes. I don't have a lot of faith in these type of structures of society.
 I have been involved with the anti-Arctic drilling project since May 16th. I was in Seattle. Portland, Oregon is my home city. Now we have them in our backyard at the bigger shipyard. Now the Finica or the Phoenicia ship is not associated with Shell directly, but it's the assisting icebreaker ship. My really huge concern in my generation is,
 is that we don't have a generation to tell others after us. And we have these people, part of our home city, preparing a ship to destroy the Arctic. Now, is climate change something to joke around about? I don't want to take that risk. It's going to be embarrassing to look at my generation, because we have to look at the ones after us and say, this is what we have to give you. It is really disturbing. I am very scared.
 Back to where I was talking about what is happening down there at Cathedral Park, there's a lot of peaceful nonviolence happening, and it's really beautiful. And we haven't had something like that, so unique, and it's making history right now. We cannot allow that ship to leave. And according to some sources, I hear that Vigor's Shipyard is some of your biggest donors in these halls, Charlie Hill's.
 and they're in business with Shell's Arctic Drilling Project, and that's associated with furthering, triggering climate change in the future. And I don't know, I'm just concerned whose side are we really on? We only have 15 years to turn this climate change ship around. Is it realistic that we're doing enough? And if we're going to really do anything professional about those Greenpeace activists,
 hanging with their lives on that bridge. I really recommend not police doing that job, but real professionals who know how to work with climate materials and stuff like that. So where are we with this world? I mean, really looking down the pipe, are we really doing something that matters? Our legacy will matter to generations after us. It's going to be me that tells them this. I'm almost 30 years old.
 I don't know what else I'm going to have to do with my future. I'm going to have to do what I can out on the streets and do what I have to do. I almost have no faith in this system anymore. Just asking what y'all side are on. Those people are doing good things out there, those Greenpeace activists. And police are trying to take them down. This is our last fight to stop this. And I just want to say one more thing, excuse me.
 When the Arctic is gone, it is one violent future. According to the U.S. government, 75% chance major oil spill, and there is no way to clean it, according to Coast Guard command. Thank you. Thanks very much. For real. Please. Thanks a lot. Stop those cops. Thank you. All right. I think we're ready to move into our consent calendar.
 And we've had a number of people ask for things to be moved from the consent calendar to the regular calendar. The ones I have are number 805, number 806. All right. Any others? So then let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar. Seltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Item 801. Accept the quarterly technology oversight committee report from the chief administrative officer. Aye.
 Good morning and welcome. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Jen Clodius, a Senior Management Analyst with the Office of Management and Finance. Pull that microphone a little closer to you. Surely. There we go. Try this again. I'm Jen Clodius, Senior Management Analyst with the Office of Management Finance and staff support for your Technology Oversight Committee. With me are Jeff Baer, Director of the Bureau of Technology Services, and Diana Garcia, who is Commissioner Fritz's representative on the TOC.
 We're here to present information from the TOC for the quarterly report from April through June 2015. As you know, the TOC is made up of five community members, each appointed by one of you. The TOC members are Ken Neubauer, Wilfred Pinfold, Joshua Mitchell, Diana Garcia, and Colleen Gadbois.
 Again, Diana is going to present from April to June and then Jeff will have some updates on what has happened since then. And we have some dashboards to show you where we are in the process. Good morning. I think we have four projects to go over this morning. So the first is we're going to start in with ITAP. So Information Technology Advancement Project for the Bureau of Development Services.
 This is this product developed paperless permit and case pro, management process and allows complete online access to the permitting and case review services. Project deliverables include digitizing,
 and online access of historical permits and property information, implementation and updated permits and case review information, management system, online cases and permit application and review services, mobile online access for field staff, and implementation of an automated queuing system. So the current status is the TOC continues to have concerns around this project, schedule, and volume of the remaining work.
 I think that's been for the last several report outs that we've had these same or similar concerns. The major accomplishments for this quarter are the project manager continues to deliver monthly deficiency reports to Sierra Cedar and the project is now working on amending contracts to remedy contract gaps and re-baseline the project.
 Upcoming milestones within the next quarter are rebaseleting the project, addressing development environment support, and making adjustments for interfaces moved in and out of scope, addressing gaps resulting from phase one gap analysis. So that's coming up. And then, again, our biggest risk or concern is just the project schedule and volume of remaining work with this project.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales, members of City Council, Jeff Baer, Director of the Bureau of Technology Services. I just want to provide a couple of updates since the report period ended in June. We have had been involved with and had some discussions with Paul Scarlett with BDS, and I've actually deployed one of our resources prior to taking over BTS and PSSRP, Jerry Schlesinger,
 who is the project manager for the region project. And he has a wealth of experience and background in very complex systems. And he's been working in more of an advisory role with the project manager on the ITAP project and has offered some insights and some suggestions on how to keep moving forward in progress on that.
 and i think that they're it appears that things are moving forward although i think is uh... is indicated in the report uh... all scope schedule budget are indicated as read in any some attention and i'm not expecting the any substantial progress uh... out of that area uh... in the near future but i would be looking for uh... what meaningful progress in activities are taking place over the next several months to in looking for the small wins to look for that momentum uh... that is
 should be taken out of that red territory and moving it, obviously it will move into yellow, but looking for those indicators that are upward that will eventually show a trend towards those and mean towards the more stable territory.
 I don't have any other additional comments. I've just recently taken on this role, so I'm trying to get deeply involved and understand sort of all the complexities of the system. Yes, you have, and congratulations. I think this is your first official appearance at a council meeting since your appointment. That's correct. Congratulations. So questions about this project? Do you want to take them one at a time, or do you rather run through all four? Either way? Either way. Any particular questions about this one? All right. Then let's proceed. Thank you.
 So the next one is procurement solicitation system for the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. The project's description was procurement services is outgrowing their current solicitation system, which doesn't offer cost-effective solution or the functionality required for the city. Procurement is planning to replace and integrate three systems into one and add functionality that will allow electronic RFP submissions. This project is actually complete.
 So that's the major accomplishment for the last quarter. Upcoming milestones is they'll give their 90-day report expected in August. And again, because it's complete, we have no risks, concerns or comments. I did want to say that this project was fairly straightforward and was green, I think, the entire way, at least as I was involved. So that was a positive thing to see for us. I don't have any additional comments to add on that. Questions?
 The next is the lien accounting system rewrite. So the lien accounting system is used to record and manage assessments and liens for the city as required by the city charter and Oregon state law. The application is written in an old programming language and is one of two remaining applications on the mainframe server which is scheduled to be decommissioned as of July 1, 2015.
 Because of the tight timeline and resource constraints, the decision was made to rewrite the existing system using a more modern programming language and transfer it into a Windows environment. The status of this report is that the project is currently meeting expectations. Major accomplishments is they completed the development work for most of the go live requirements for all their modules.
 They are working on report development. User acceptance testing and regression testing continues to be in progress. And the production environment is ready and parallel testing is occurring in production for certain modules. Upcoming milestones for the next quarter is to resolve any issues found during UAT and regression testing, to complete the UAT regression and parallel testing, complete user training, update technical documents and complete cutover.
 The TOC has three main concerns about this project. The project extended schedule, extended into July, and for parallel implementation and production phases, but the mainframe, moving the mainframe decommission to July 31st.
 So that was a concern that we had. And then security module included role-based access may not be fully implemented before go live, but all other critical functions will be available. And the project is currently meeting expectations.
 And just some quick updates on the lien accounting. The application is substantially complete at this point in time and the reason for the delay and we've actually extended the project schedule out to the end of August to allow for more testing and validation of the new system and we want to make sure that the cutover is smooth and that the auditor's office has gone through their substantial user acceptance testing so that's the reason why it's going on into August.
 So the mainframe decommissioning is postponed until August? That's correct. Any other questions? I just hope it lasts that long. Go ahead, please.
 Okay, the next one is the PCI and payment gateway project so the city is required to meet the Payment card industries and data security standards as part of their merchant services contract as required by the card networks So Visa MasterCard American Express discover all those folks the city does not currently meet the PCI DSS 3.0
 standards and is required to remediate the card processing environment or adopt other means of processing card payments to enable the city to be compliant by December 31st of this year. So the major accomplishments for this quarter is the project chose to outsource the payment gateway to improve transaction processing, reduce support costs, and meet PCA requirements.
 And ready they are ready to implement the gateway confirmed bank account mapping and payment flows Executing the NIC paper paperwork to onboard the merchant IDs. So good progress there in the gateway We have some upcoming milestones to develop the application integration with the parking meter vendors integrate test and migrate payment pages and sales groups to the NIC hosted order pages and
 Determine if the enterprise, if enterprise from Windstream enterprise PCI remediation is viable. Implement governance model and integrate training into City Learner. The current risk is the timeline is really short to get this PCI implementation completed. And there still needs to be a confirmed enterprise solution for the PCI remediation.
 And a few comments on some of the activities. We've got a team in BTS and others who are actively engaged in working on pursuing to obtain the PCI compliance.
 a couple things that occurred as of yesterday the problem fire and rescue recruit fee uh... is now pci compliant in and up and running as is the parkway donations uh... is also done so we've got a couple things that are complete were also actively pursuing the parking meter with kelly in parking on to have those completed as well i believe i heard this morning that the parking and we're going to be running the payments through that organization which is only for the streetcar i believe so
 Numerous activities are taking place and a lot of people are actively pursuing so we can pursue the compliance. It says budget to be determined. I thought we had some budget number, big number for this PCI. We had a budget number. I'm not sure if we have a project budget number. I think that's correct. That's my understanding is that we don't have the project budget.
 But we allocated a certain amount of money, and I don't remember the sum either, or maybe you do, but you're still under what's been, well, you think you are still under what the council's allocated to the project, right? I believe that's correct, yes. That is my understanding as well.
 Okay, so questions overall from the council? I guess Paul Scarwatt is here. Obviously, there are a couple of these projects that have big question marks, and the council, in each of these quarterly reports, has been paying close attention, as the TOC has itself. So I think this process is doing a good job of highlighting the
 where things are working well and where there are concerns and issues to monitor and to make sure that we that we succeed in these big technology projects obviously the biggest one of all is the itap project and paul's been been working along with his team and all of you to get this done but we're still inside at some risk here so appreciate highlighting that making that both clear to the council and to the public but
 Any further questions or comments that we have here? And I'll turn it over to anyone else that wants to speak. And I don't know, Paul, if you have anything you want to add on this. It looks like you do. So let's give Director Scarwatt a chance to come up and talk about the project, and then we'll see if there's public testimony as well. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Paul Scarlett. Thanks for inviting me up to say a few words about the ITAP project. We do acknowledge that the project is in red and will remain in red for some time. However, we have been intentionally focused on, of course, carefully managing the project.
 and deploying necessary resources to keep on pace and to even try to make up time. As Jeff indicated, someone from BTS has joined the team to assist Rebecca in managing the project and work with the vendors.
 Over the last several weeks and months, we've spent a considerable amount of time working with the vendor to recalibrate the timeline as identified by TOC members, which we appreciate their help in their oversight duties, to look at the schedule and the volume of work. One of the areas that we feel could gain some momentum and some changes
 is looking at what can be delivered sooner than later. And so we've reviewed a number of scenarios recently, and two rise to the top. One would be, can we provide some functionality soon? And one of the areas that we feel could,
 benefit the customers in the city would be to implement project docs, which is the electronic plan review and electronic submittal. That would be a huge benefit. Currently, we have about 800 to 1,000 people coming through the door each week at the
 the permit center. And we certainly would, that would be a reduction in number of people needing to bring in big heavy plans to the permit center. Certainly there's costs associated with print and paper. And so this would be a huge benefit to our customers and some of
 sort of examples we've received, you know, big projects could save up to close to half a million dollars with, we've got some examples for large projects. That's about how much they spend in printing costs alone. So we're looking at this and it wouldn't impact the other part of the project. So that's one of the scenarios we're looking at. The other scenario that seems most feasible would be continue on with the project and continue
 part of it will be a rebaseline using current practices and experiences to kind of project out what's a realistic implementation timeline. So the plan review stuff could come next year, 2016. The long-term plan to
 implement the full package is looking more like 2018. We still have to look at those timelines a little more closely. That's early preliminary indication to see if we can find some efficiencies.
 Since joining Commissioner Sossman, it certainly has made it clear that ITAP is top priority, similar to Commissioner Fritz had done with over the last couple years, and we really are working closely with the vendors and Cliff Smith, who's here, our quality assurance consultant, is part of that team and or part of the
 the process in helping us to get there. So I'm excited and motivated with some of the late development in terms of really honing in and finding some new timelines and some new possibilities for early functionality deployment that could...
 benefit our customers and our employees. Certainly there's more work to be done, and I'll turn it over to Rebecca, our project manager, to expand a little bit more, but that's where things are at from my end. We acknowledge that we're behind and do feel we can provide the council, which is what we committed to last time, with some more realistic timeline, because each time we come, there's a new timeline. What is it? So we've taken real...
 a good amount of time to really dive into when will this thing be delivered. Thanks, Paul. And I know that Rebecca's going to go into this, but I think it's worth reiterating that it's the vendor who is the sticky point in terms of recalibrating the project, that the Bureau has been doing a lot of good work and has had a lot of oversight.
 We are dependent on the vendor doing their job, so I know that that's something that you're aware of. I just want to make sure the public are. I appreciate that. I will also acknowledge that BDS and the interagency team members have been working very closely, and everyone's committed and doing a great job in delivering this project and understands the significance of this transformational change that will come to the city when it's delivered. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners.
 We, upon our last visit, we talked about the challenges in the project and the complexity that comes with the integrated processes and permitting that we have here at the city. That is also an issue in building this system. To deliver an elegance and easy-to-use system for our customers takes extraordinary measures to build the system each year.
 component and step of the way. Our vendor has since March been fully aligned with us on this endeavor. We have a methodology that we're following very closely and carefully and it has led us to the intense scrutiny of the remaining work and planning that out in a schedule that is achievable. We do believe that we can do this.
 honored during late 2018. There is intense effort now that we'll be working to identify areas where we can bring that in some.
 out of concern to the increasing activity level in the service center and for all the people working behind the scenes to deliver these permits. We do believe that delivering plan review earlier is viable. We've figured out a way to do that in a way that will not impact our current project team, which is also very important.
 We studied the complexity in all of the permitting practices as well as what comes from implementing multiple modules from other vendors. And still believe that the best course of action is to complete the entire system and roll it out to the city.
 The mechanism to deliver Project DOCS plan review early would allow the city to get familiar with one of the technologies and achieve some benefits in the activities that the citizens need to do to submit those plans as well as what it takes for all our plan reviewers to study and recommend and decide on final resolutions for these plans.
 The options that we have studied have caused us to recommend a particular course of action, which is stay the course,
 deliver all the functionality, but make sure we deliver some success initially. And you will be hearing what our timeline is for that upon our next visit. We are for sure we can do it in 2016. We think we can do it early, but we would rather be very sure. And we must continue our discussions with all our stakeholder groups.
 We are making recommendations to those groups. The decision is not final. We are taking counsel from Commissioner Saltzman's office as well on the viability of these plans and achieving the objectives that the project is supposed to achieve. In the next several months, we are
 finalizing the plan. We are in discussions with our vendors on what contractual issues need to be adjusted to align to this new timeline. We have financials to build and support that plan. We do also have the potential to adjust some resources so that we can focus more time on delivery, which has the potential to bring the timeline in. But we...
 For sure at this point, need to say 2018 would be the date for all functionality being completed.
 In the next month, we are conducting a full stakeholder review and discussion about the merits of this plan, and we are entertaining much discussion and need to accommodate each bureau's needs in this area because an early rollout does involve all parties. The final solution involves all parties, and we need to meet their needs and their constraints. Thank you. And, Dr. Cronin.
 To my right is Clifford Smith, our independent quality assurance agent, who has been participating in these detailed discussions. And I'm wondering if you have any questions at this point. Questions for Mr. Smith? Well, yeah, I guess I'd like to ask you, Mr. Smith, you were a little more charitable in your color-coding rating for the budget, the scope stability, and confidence. You gave it yellow as opposed to the technology oversight committee's red. I guess, could you give us...
 Some of you are thinking on that? Certainly. Partially to give the project and the director and other stakeholders a key focus on the schedule. Holding back on changing scope and budget to red, due largely to the fact that I didn't have immediate definitive indication that we would have budget problems and or scope problems.
 In recent months and in the last TOC report, those are in fact read in my reports. Are they? Yes. Thank you. Are there any other actions or strategies that you want to recommend either to us or to the TOC or to the Bureau of Information Technology as your partner in this that can raise your confidence level and therefore ours? No, go ahead. Oh, thank you. Because we've discussed this.
 I will say from a scope point of view, the project is proceeding assuming that it's going to deliver all of scope still. So that's on the plus side. On the other side, the scheduled discussions that the project manager, Rebecca had alluded to have been proceeding. They're still a fair bit away from being finalized. The date itself, the late 2018 is a very risky date.
 In spite of the fact of how far it is, and partially because of how far away it is, but there are some metrics and some unknowns still facing the project that make it difficult to estimate with any real confidence. However, that planning process must continue and come up with a final schedule. When a final schedule is available, now that we've defined what we're going to do and how long it's going to take,
 We can expect that there will be some additional budget requirements for this project. The city staff, as well as additional city staff that will be allocated, will have to be funded and paid for. The vendor will ask for additional travel expenses, and the vendor will, once the schedule is laid out, present the city with an amount that they expect to be paid for for the change in plan and the longer timeline.
 Finally, the project can expect to have to introduce an additional contingency. Considering that the project is now due for another two years plus before completion, we'll require contingency to account for unknowns that will be coming. So those are the finish the planning and be prepared for additional budget requests. Let me make sure I understand that. So you believe the contractor, the vendor, will be asking for additional expenses to
 even though I think it's fair to characterize your report as saying that the most most if not all of the delay issues are the responsibility of the vendor not of the city and
 That's, it's a combination. Certainly we have identified the vendor as being responsible for a number of delays. They've also said we're responsible for some of the delays. So we're working through those things. But what I can share with you is that we had a pretty
 focused re-look at this back in March. And since that time, there has been improved deliverables operationally and in leadership. And so you're asking what can we share with you in terms of raising the confidence. What we've seen over the last several months is they are delivering
 more timely. They're actually achieving the target dates and accomplishing the functionalities that's been laid out as part of what's called a resync plan. In this case, you know, there's always going to be some finger crossing, but we, we're now focused on what can actually be delivered, when, and how, and we're seeing some really good results.
 And just to follow up on the Mayor's question, I know that you're working with the City Attorney's Office and that in refiguring the contract, because it is a fixed-price contract, there will be some allocation of the delays due to the vendor team completely turning over over the first year, for example, versus some that may be partially due to city staff. Because as you've said, the scope hasn't changed. Right.
 So it's not like, I mean, we told them up front, those who set up the contract told them up front that this is a very complex system. In fact, I think one of my main takeaways is astonishment that our staff in the development bureaus managed to do things manually and make the system work so fast, and how complicated it is to try to train a computer to do what our wonderful staff in development services and transportation and other bureaus did.
 And thanks to the co-location that Commissioner Salsman and I set up back in my first term, it's astonishing that we do so well. And it's somewhat nice that computers find it more difficult to figure it all out than real people do.
 Some comfort, I suppose. I will actually note, too, that in terms of going to electronic plan submittal, I have discovered in my time in the city that e-mails don't always show up. And sometimes, like when I transmitted my memo transferring the commissioner in charge duties to Commissioner Saltzman, it had maybe 10 attachments to it, and I attached some of the wrong things.
 just by mistake, people make errors, and in fact, computer routing sometimes makes errors. So I hope that we will have some mechanism, because now you've got the paper, and it's either there or it's not, right? So I want to make sure that there's some kind of feedback, like, yes, we received your application. It's got all of these things. Was that what you meant to send us? Those kinds of things. Okay, that's helpful. Thank you. Other questions or requests of Paul and his team
 Okay, thank you very much. You're welcome. Let's see if there's anyone else that wants to speak on this item. Is anyone signed up? No one's signed up. Okay, anyone want to speak on this item? Then I believe a motion is in order to adopt the report. So moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call, please. Saltzman? Second.
 Once again, thanks to the Technology Oversight Committee and welcome to Ms. Garcia for joining the committee and your first appearance here before us. I think we always feel it's important to have somebody, at least one member from the TOC, present at these meetings, so appreciate you making the time to do that. And certainly, as Paul indicated, ITAP is certainly on the top of my agenda as Commissioner in Charge of BDS, and we're going to work through these issues. Thank you.
 come up with some solutions that may be sticking to the course, but they may also involve some changes. In fact, I have a retreat scheduled on Saturday, August 15th, with the key players on the team to discuss the future of the project. Thank you. Aye. Novick. Thanks to TOC and thanks to BDS for their presentation. Aye. Ritz. Aye.
 Thanks, Ms. Gossier, for being my representative and for your excellent first presentation. I hope to see you again soon. Thank you for all the time that the citizens put in into this process and Commissioner Saltzman for setting it up.
 I guess one of the good things is it will be no surprise to folks when the ITAP project isn't done on its original schedule or even on the schedule after the schedule after the schedule. There's been multiple, there's been four or five, well, back to Commissioner Saltzman, five different commissioners in charge of this project. I was glad to hear Director Scarlett mention that we did reach a turning point back in March where we started getting things turned around with the new team that we insisted on being brought on.
 So I'm looking forward to continuing to support the project, and I appreciate all the work of the Technology Oversight Committee. Thank you.
 Well, I appreciate the discussion and the good oversight being provided by the commissioners in charge of the Bureau during the time this work has been going on. And Paul, to you and your team for endeavoring to make this, to get this done well, timely, and at a reasonable cost. Those are still the goals.
 Big, complicated information technology projects are fraught with peril, whether you're in the public sector or the private sector. I can speak to that from both points of view, having been involved in those kinds of projects in both environments. The trouble is, in the public sector, ours are done in the light of day, and if there's a cost overrun or a delay, it's a public issue.
 and it also affects the credibility of government every time we have to change the schedule on something. So we have to be really clear about what's going on and why, and why changes happen, and if there are additional costs, are they reasonable, and are they fairly apportioned between the city that might have caused some costs or delay, cost increases or delays, and a contractor. Having, again, worked on the other side of that ledger, sometimes contractors make mistakes and they shouldn't expect us to pay for them.
 So, that's why we do have to have the city attorney involved whenever there's a situation like this. We keep working with a vendor. We try to make it succeed. In rare cases, we have to start over because a vendor is unable to perform.
 Obviously, no one wants us to get to that nightmare scenario in this case, but sometimes it happens. So this process is good. It's painful and uncomfortable to have to look at each of these projects in public and examine their status. I think this process is working. We're doing a good job of managing these projects and managing risk, and there's a lot of risk here.
 That's why the rhythm of these presentations at the council is very important. It's not an exercise. It's us exercising our responsibility to do oversight of every dollar that the city spends, whether it's for an internal function or a project out in the community like a new park or a paving project where we also have a responsibility to come in on time and on budget every time that that's possible.
 So the pressure's still on, Paul. You know that, and so does Jeff and his team. So we look forward to hearing your next report. We look forward to improvements and clarity and certainty coming out of this work because those are the goals. Thank you. Aye. Okay. Let's move on to 802. Approve innovation funding for 12 microgrant proposals for fiscal year 2015-16.
 Well, speaking of the public sector doing things a little differently, we have Director Miller here and his team. I've got to relate a conversation I may have mentioned. I was at a U.S. Conference of Mayors meeting in my first month in office, and the mayor of Louisville, a guy named Greg Fisher, who had, like me, an extensive private sector background before deciding to run for public office,
 I was asking him, how much time do you spend on this extracurricular stuff as opposed to running the city? How much time do you spend trying to learn from your colleagues and get new information? And again, being the sort of person that Greg is, he looked me right in the face and said, well, how many people are working for your city? I said, well, about 5,600. Why? He said, well, how many of them are charged with big picture thinking and research and development?
 I said, oh, I guess that would be me and a few others. You made your point. Thank you. And the point of the innovation program here is that all of us ought to be thinking about research and development and new ideas, and we ought to apportion some of our time and budget to fostering those new ideas. And that's really what this project is about. And this council decided to start doing this in a budget where we were cutting $21 million out of the city's general fund budget, and we've continued it as better times have come back.
 And I'm really proud of the fact that we've done that, that we've stuck with it, and that we've now encouraged bureaus to think about new ways of doing things, new ways to serve our citizens, new ideas, and, again, taking a risk with a small amount of money that something might work out or it might not.
 but people won't be punished for trying new things and failing occasionally. We want them to succeed in most of the instances, and they are, and that's great, but we're deliberately trying to take Mayor Fisher's advice and have a little bit of effort at big picture thinking, new ideas, and research and development. And I'm pleased at the progress and looking forward to the report.
 Thank you very much. Fred Miller, Director of OMF. I'm here with Jane Brayton and Janet Storm who have been doing lots of work and will say more about the program. I just wanted to kick it off.
 and say you should feel good about this because it's designed to promote a culture of innovation, and we're finding a tremendous amount of interest on the part of employees. And today you have 12 grants to approve and presentations by four of the potential grant recipients that I think is always a very positive, upbeat time. Thank you.
 This is now our third year, and we've provided something like $1.7 million so far in grants, and now more coming, and it's in the budget for next time. There have been 144 ideas generated, and in the last two times when there have been our committee that makes the decision or makes the recommendation, we've had 40 to 50 grants.
 grant submittals each time. So employees are really taking this seriously and coming in with a variety of ideas that I think otherwise wouldn't be tapped. And you'll get some sense of the enthusiasm for that as we go.
 This next year we plan to do two rounds because we want the process to go through so that recommendations are ready for the fall bump and the spring bump. And there's one out right now outstanding that we'll get the submittals by August 10.
 And just, we've tried a couple of new things. Yesterday there was something called a citywide innovation fair where we had people from different bureaus sitting there that would help people with their ideas and say how they fit or give them ideas.
 60 people or there about showed up for that and there's just some three hours in the morning where they could drop in but there's there's clearly lots of interest and It's working. So I I think we'll continue in these next two sessions and you'll see the results But we're really happy with the interaction and the help of our outside committee. I don't think I saw anyone here, but we've got a
 a selection panel that has been very helpful. Because this is a little bit of work to go through all of these and give the feedback. So anyway, I give it a really good bill of health. I think the program is working, and you'll hear more, and I'll get it out of the way in a minute when you actually hear some presentations from successful submitters.
 Thank you. I'm Jane Braden from OMF Business Operations, and we are delighted to be back again with another group of our proposers. Again, they put in some good thinking in their bureaus. They took a look at the criteria, and they got an endorsement from the review panel, and we hope get your endorsement today.
 We do want to thank the Mayor and Council for this opportunity. We continue to hear from proposers that they didn't think their project could happen any other way without this funding. And interesting enough, we also hear from proposers who are not recommended for funding and they're
 thanking you as well, but they're thanking you for the opportunity to bring ideas forward and get them seen by people in the different parts of their organizations. So they're coming back and saying even if something didn't get funded, you know, that idea got some legs to it and we actually were able to get it done. And so I think that's that momentum, that culture of innovation in the city that Fred was really talking about when OMF embraced this program.
 So we do want to thank some of our proposers and just going to ask them to wave because we've got a few of them here today. If you can wave. Good morning, good work. For the council. We'll be bringing up a couple of them to share their good ideas with you. Again, just for background, this round was strictly micro grants. So those things are $10,000 or less, although they could go up to $20,000.
 We received 43 proposals from 14 bureaus. So again, we're getting a nice broad swath from throughout our city partners. We shared these proposals with bureau directors for a period of time so they could take a look at them, review them, provide some inputs, and also identify some cross-bureau partnerships.
 The review panel had a very tough job in looking at these as you can imagine They used the criteria that these proposers needed to promote equity and opportunity They needed to improve customer service They needed to save time or money And that would be time or money for either the city partners or community members and they needed to improve city services and make things better
 We invited all of our proposers in for a facilitated meeting with the review panel where they could answer questions, receive feedback, and then they narrowed it down to the 12 that you see in the ordinance with you today. As Fred mentioned, we did have our innovation fair
 uh... yesterday and it had a couple of components so we had the fair with many bureaus participating both providing resources and getting questions answered uh... we also had our partners in hr doing a strategic creativity workshop
 that I believe one of her sessions even had some standing room in that. So we know that that may generate even more getting ready for our next couple of campaigns, or even if it doesn't touch an innovation funding request, it may generate some good ideas in those bureaus.
 So now I'd like to introduce Janet Storm from my division. She's really served as the primary contact for proposers and the review panel, and she'll be introducing a few of our proposers. We're going to step away but be back for questions. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you both. Morning, Janet. Good morning. My name is Janet Storm. I'm a management analyst with the Office of Management and Finance Business Operations. And as Jane said, I coordinate the grant process for the Innovation Fund.
 I'm just going to give you a little bit of background on this particular process. On April 27th, OMF Business Operations put out a call for microgrant ideas citywide. All city employees were notified that the city was looking for creative microgrant proposals that, as Jane said, accomplish one or more of the following. Promote equity and opportunity in city government and our community. Improve customer service to the community and or city customers.
 Save time or money for the city, its partners or community members, and improve city services and generally make things better. Interested employees submitted their one page micro grant proposals. The proposals were then sent to all bureau directors for input on those proposals from their own bureaus as well as to identify cross bureau partnership opportunities. We then forwarded 43 micro grant proposals submitted by 14 bureaus to the innovation review panel.
 The panel was asked to evaluate the proposals based on their ability to pass the following five filters. Number one, do you think their proposal is innovative? Is it original? Does it show strategic creativity? Number two, taking other funding sources into consideration, such as the sponsor bureau's operating budget, is the innovation fund the most logical funding source for this particular proposal?
 Number three, can this project actually be carried out? Do you believe that the proposed project can be achieved within the estimated budget provided? Number four, are all of the key partners confirmed to be on board with this effort? And number five, are there benefits to the proposed project? Does it advance equity? Does it save time or money? Does it provide opportunity? Is there a potential for greater benefits with broader applications?
 On June 9th, the review panel met and through a facilitated discussion with proposers agreed upon the funding recommendations for the 12 proposals you see before you today.
 We've invited five proposers to come up and share a little bit more with you about their proposals. And first up, I'd like to introduce you to Captain Greg Ennis from Portland Fire and Rescue, who will be speaking about the solar water heater demonstration project. Captain Ennis. Good morning, Mayor and Council. I'm Greg Ennis. I work for the Portland Fire Bureau, and I work at the logistics section.
 A while back in April, we had a citizen approach Fire Station 13 about a solar project. We looked at his ideas and decided that we would like to look at incorporating a solar hot water heating system at Station 13, which is in the Lloyd Center District.
 The solar heating system works by increasing the temperature of the water flow that flows into the regular water heater so that the water heater doesn't have to work as hard and use as much natural gas to create the hot water heater for showers, dishwashers, and other things. It consists of a solar collector on the roof and a storage tank for the warm water.
 uh... the uh... project that we could station thirteen uses approximately uh... about thirty one hundred dollars around three thousand dollars worth of natural gas each year uh... we estimated by looking at but at uh... amounts of bills that we paid out that uh... approximately about fifteen hundred dollars of this is every month is strictly for the uh... hot water here and did that by looking at
 winter months versus summer months. Summer months mostly is just going to be hot water heater. We're not going to be using the furnaces to heat the fire stations. So we estimated about $1,500 in that. We had a contractor, Syncro Solar, come out, take a look at, give us a bid on the system there so we could get a little bit more harder numbers. We initially thought it would be around $12,000. Turns out their initial bid was around $15,000.
 But they did tell us that they thought they could save about 50 to 75 percent of the use of the natural gas for the hot water heater through the solar system. I presented you with some handouts that you can look at how it's designed, and hopefully that gives you a little bit of idea of what it's going to look like. We think that –
 If we do get those kind of figures, 50 to 75%, we could save approximately between $750 to $1,125 every year in natural gas usage. And if those numbers are correct, it would pay for itself in 13 months if it's 75% savings and 20 months if it's 50% savings.
 So the cost, the savings cost above the cost of the project over 17 years, we're looking at 50%, about $13,800. And if it's 75%, we're looking at about $20,700. So we could utilize that savings for other things, saving taxpayer monies, putting in another system and another fire station, or replacement of the system in that one because they estimated it would only last about 17 years. Okay.
 I'm happy to take any questions that you might have. Great. Well, I think this is one of a lot of projects where obviously we're interested in not only having you try this but also having the information come back to us about how well it worked because obviously if we get those kinds of, that kind of performance in terms of
 of reduction of energy costs in a city that has an aggressive climate action plan and a council that wants to make those kind of projects happen, it'll be very useful to us to see how many of those we want to replicate in other fire stations or other facilities after you get the numbers back from actual gas bills as opposed to the ones you've estimated. Yeah, we're very optimistic about it. We hope it works the way that Synchro Solar told us, and it'll be a great project. Good question. Thank you.
 I noticed you were originally looking at solar electric and decided after consultation with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability that solar hot water made more sense. So we have a fire station, I think it's on Southeast 52nd? Yes. It does have solar electric? Yes.
 I'm not sure of that. I didn't know that there was one already in existence right now, so I can't talk to that. Yeah, I remember going out there to do a dedication years ago. I guarantee you I'll find out now, though. Yeah, I was just curious how that's doing. Maybe you could send me an email. I could look at that, and I'll definitely send you an email on it. Okay. It would be good to know because, yeah,
 Again, we've got a climate action plan that says we're serious about this, and we are, and the price of panels has fallen quite a bit. So solar hot water has always been a good idea in a situation like this where you have a lot of hot water volume. It makes sense whether it's a community center or a fire station. But now that the cost of photovoltaic panels has fallen so much, there may be more places where it's cost-effective to do that, fire stations and otherwise. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Next I'd like to introduce Margaret Evans from Portland Parks and Recreation who will talk with you about community center kiosks. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. It's good to be here this morning and want to thank you for allowing us the opportunity to talk about the Innovation Fund grant that we requested. We have been looking at our recruitment and outreach strategies for the last several years and how we can reach the community.
 much more closely and offer resources for them. A big thank you to actually one of our park rangers, Sam Sachs, the individual that brought forward the innovation grant, in seeing an opportunity to put the two together, be able to take what he's seeing out in the community and also partner it with our outreach efforts.
 The kiosk at the community center will allow community members to come in, have a tool, a resource, a computer, and information about City of Portland jobs and opportunities. In looking at the Innovation Fund and also looking at the project, we reviewed our various community centers and also the communities that we serve, and we selected East Portland Community Center to be our pilot project.
 It has the ideal facility if you've been out to it, the front area. We will have the ability to have a workstation, also computer and a resource center. We are going to utilize our community center shutdown this fall as an opportunity to do the build out. We've been working with our IT staff. They're already ready to go once we have the build out completed and being able to install the equipment.
 One of the great things that we've been able to do with this project is also look at, as was mentioned, cross-bureau partnership. We partnered with the Bureau of Human Resources to see how can we partner together in this project. And what they have agreed to is help us with marketing materials. Also, we're going to have information there and they're going to have staff available during normal working hours that people can call and ask how to maneuver our NeoGov system.
 which sometimes is a barrier for individuals. And then also part of this project is that they will provide staffing in the evenings and the weekends when most people are looking for that opportunity for assistance. Maybe they're working during the day and they want to be able to sit with somebody in the evening and walk through it. So that's one of the great things about this is being able to partner with them.
 Like I said, timing of the project, we're taking advantage of the fall shutdown, so we're looking at starting this in September. Our facilities maintenance team is already queuing it up as far as materials and how they will put it together. We're also starting to work on our marketing materials so that we can reach out with our community partners that we've been doing outreach now.
 Because one of the goals that we're really focusing on is not just providing the resource, but how are we doing our outreach to increase our equity efforts and reach the community, especially in East Portland where East Portland Community Center serves a very diverse population. So there is the project overall in general and then if you have any questions. Questions?
 So the kiosk is all about applying for jobs the city has? Correct. Okay.
 So the kiosk will be a computer kiosk. It will provide information out. They'll be directed immediately to our job information page. So it's not just Portland Parks and Recreation positions, but all of City of Portland positions. Also, Bureau of Human Resources, once they have their video available and how to apply with the city, will actually be able to have that continuously running.
 They can actually go online at the computer and set up their NeoGov account, be able to apply for jobs online, be able to call for questions or also ask for staff assistance. Let's check and make sure that the BHR video is captioned. And then how are we dealing with language translation? Okay.
 Yes, so one of the reasons that we selected East Portland Community Center was to make sure it was accessible for all, our first pilot project. The location provides accessibility for wheelchairs. Also, we're looking at sight and hearing impairment as well as language.
 So we've already started translating some of our own materials, like our career opportunity brochure, into Spanish as our first one. And then we're moving forward with other languages. And we also want to have the language line available and have that. So in addition to the technical piece of it, be able to have a resource guide there available. So languages, if somebody needs a particular language, we'll be able to connect them with the right person. Great. Thank you very much.
 Now I'd like to ask Mike Reed from the Bureau of Environmental Services to come up, and he will speak about permit coordination for a better river. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Mike Reed. I'm with the Bureau of Environmental Services. My proposal is titled Permit Coordination for a Better River.
 This proposal seeks to partner with PSU's Center for Public Service, asking them to conduct an assessment of a proposed expansion of the City's streamlining team process with federal and state agencies and the Bureau of Development Services. Our streamlining team is the entity that coordinates permit review of City capital projects and has assisted with joint public projects such as the new Tillicum Bridge across the Willamette River.
 Streamlining has been successful at reducing the amount of time and money spent during the permitting process, but is not currently available to private applicants. This innovation proposal seeks to create a coordinated permit review process for private applicants. The Bureau of Planning Sustainability is a co-partner in this innovation proposal and will take the results of this study to request formal adoption of the newly coordinated permitting process through the River Plan.
 The River Plan is an update of the 1987 Greenway Zoning Code and Plan. The coordinated permit review process will have the following desired outcomes. Development of a one-stop shop process for applicants to understand all the permitting needs for projects, reduced time and money spent during the permitting process, and meet multiple objectives for protecting and enhancing the environment while supporting redevelopment along the river.
 This innovation proposal will meet many of the City Council's priorities for this innovation fund. A coordinated permit review that facilitates permitting of private projects will support and foster investment in living wage jobs, which is an important part of the City's equity goals and the comprehensive plan policies. It will also assist small property owners and single-family residences with navigating the permitting process while ensuring fish and wildlife enhancements are encouraged and promoted.
 Thanks, Mike. Yeah. Questions? Good work. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Thank you. Thanks, Jim. And next we'll hear from Lieutenant Mike Fort from the Portland Police Bureau, who will speak about great families training for the Hispanic community. Good morning, Lieutenant. Good morning.
 Thank you all for having me. I'm Mike Fort. I'm a lieutenant with the Police Bureau Youth Services Division, and I'm happy to be here to talk to you just briefly about the GREAT program as I propose to bring to the Hispanic community. The GREAT program is a national program. The acronym stands for Gang Resistance Education and Training. It's a copyrighted curriculum that has been created over many years.
 The program is proven and evidence-based and not new. The innovative part is specifically engaging the Hispanic community, which is what this proposal is about. We have the opportunity to present this program. It's a six-week, two-hour a day, one day a week for six weeks program to families in the Hispanic community.
 It is designed for the parents or guardians of children aged 10 to 14. The program is taught by police officers and a co-facilitator that is selected from the involved community, in this case the Latino community.
 the reason to engage this community specifically is that they are that the latino community grew by sixty four percent over the last census in the state of oregon and currently nine point four percent of the population in portland that they they they there seems to be a need to to create and build a trusting relationship between police officers in the hispanic community specifically uh... or particularly i guess the uh...
 The immigrant Hispanic community that is often reluctant to report crimes and or report crimes against them, this is an opportunity for us, the police officers, to build that relationship so they're more comfortable. The cost involved in this is primarily, it costs about $5,000 for each six-week session to put on. We reach about 32 or so people, or we hope to, each session.
 The food is primarily the biggest call. We feed people. It's a gathering opportunity. It's an opportunity to communicate.
 um... over over food it's uh... i believe that will be successful the other part of that is uh... is personnel costs it cost us money that we don't have budgeted to do this for a police officer and we have an administrative uh... support staff one person that also helps to to put these on i've uh... a lot more detail though it wanted to keep it very short but then
 ask if you have questions that I can address specifically for you, I'll be happy to. How are you going to identify the families that will be served? The families we anticipate to be identified by the – so we've reached out to the Hacienda Development, the Ortiz Community Center over in northeast Portland. They will –
 Once we are ready to facilitate this they will have a sign up or they will post it in their community They will select the families that come great excellent. I shouldn't use that word, but it is great This is one of several proposals from the police bureau a couple of which have been approved that are really trying to do deliberate careful Outreach and equity work and we appreciate the fact that that's where that are the energy the bureau is going and you're putting this proposal Together thank you. Thank you
 Okay. Our final presenter today is Cameron Glasgow from the Portland Bureau of Transportation who will speak about mobile technology reporting of post earthquake bridge inspections. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Cameron Glasgow. I'm a bridge engineer with the Bureau of Transportation and I'm here to present to you a valuable innovation for the Bureau of Transportation's post earthquake bridge inspection response plan.
 In the early hours and days following an earthquake, a damage assessment and rapid reporting of the city's infrastructure status is critical for the city's operational and economic recovery. To that end, PBOT maintains and periodically practices a post-earthquake inspection plan for its bridges, which I brought today in my inspection satchel.
 Unfortunately, the current plan relies heavily on hard copy route maps and handwritten notes that are radioed to the local dispatch center and later conveyed to the citywide 911 operations center for wider dissemination. The proposed innovation would bring the bridge inspection plan out of the paper age into the mobile technology era.
 This transformation would be accomplished by equipping the bridge inspectors with tablets for recording and transmitting damage information instantly to the citywide 911 operations center. Immediately after the inspectors input their observations into the tablets, the data would automatically populate maps on the city's GIS servers viewable on the city's network.
 Additionally, the bridge closure maps could also be made available to the media and to citizens alike via the Portland Maps website. Bridges often serve as a critical link in our transportation infrastructure over or around both natural and built obstacles. Bridge closures can often serve as pinch points along entire corridors and can result in long detours.
 Publishing bridge closure information as soon as possible would limit demands on first responders who may ordinarily be fielding calls for this information, greatly improving our customer service. Through funding this innovation grant, thereby equipping bridge inspectors with mobile technology, the speed at which bridge damage information is disseminated will be significantly increased and will contribute to getting the city back on its feet after an earthquake. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. This is very exciting. Good work. I'm excited. Good work. Thank you very much. Any other questions? Thanks a lot. And those are your four? Those are our five, I think. Five, yes. Five, so we're open to questions from you, and thank you very much, proposers, for coming in. All right, questions about the whole package?
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Let's see if there's anyone in the public who wants to testify on this item. Yes, we have two people. Lightning Watchdog X and Sam Sachs. Come on up. Sam was here. I saw him. He's probably going back to work. But, Lightning, good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning with Lightning Watchdog X. I've really enjoyed the presentation of the speakers. I think some of your creative ideas are very innovative, and I look forward to seeing the final results.
 from my position, absolutely approve of any and all grants, if not even more funding to you in the future. What I like about the speakers, as you noticed on this innovation grant process, is that everybody kind of had an excitement about what they were talking about. And innovation, creating something new, presenting it, is very exciting, and you can see that within the speakers, that they really enjoy this process and what they're doing.
 And we need to look at on the bigger picture throughout this city is that we have a tremendous amount of creativity happening in the transportation. All different areas, if you look at Uber, Lyft, and some of the great innovators that we see. But we also have to look and understand that we need to create job retention when we're creating new innovation. Right.
 And we want to look at real close to understand that because we're seeing that in the city that we need to focus on that and make sure that the new companies coming into this city also understand that, that we want to protect the current jobs and add more and benefit all the people in the city, all the people in the community. And innovation can do that if we create ways of doing that.
 And again, looking at this project here, we're seeing that. You're creating ways to benefit the community, benefit people, benefit the city, benefit all. And that's very important on innovation because it can be done if we create it, think about it, and then we pursue that. And that's what we're seeing with all these projects here. So again, I commend all the presenters and what we're seeing.
 Creativity is, there are no limits on that. And creativity is giving people the freedom to do that. And again, I commend the mayor on this, is that you're seeing the freedom to do this, and it's very beneficial, not only on the new projects, but also on keeping things exciting. That's very important, to keep things exciting, move forward with new ideas, keep the employees happy on what they're doing.
 And then I'd like to even see this expanded on a larger scale, even into other cities, other states, and even into Multnomah County. I'd love to see them begin this process, Metro, and to begin just circulating those ideas. And again, it's keeping the employees in that excitement within.
 which will definitely benefit this city. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Anyone else? Then let's take a vote, please, on the emergency ordinance to approve these grants so they can get to work. Saltzman? Well, thank you to the Office of Management and Finance for overseeing this process, and it is very exciting to see a lot of the great ideas that we'll hopefully all pencil out. But even if they don't, that's part of what innovation is all about.
 Trial by error. So thank you and I hope they do succeed. Aye. Novick. I really think this was an excellent idea and thanks to OMF and everybody who worked on making tough choices between the various proposals. And I think Lightning is absolutely right that we'll get some good ideas out of this but also it's sort of just having this program creates a sense of possibility and excitement that I think is very important to the city as a whole.
 So thank you very much, and I'm excited to vote aye. Great. Glad to see three of the 12 being from Portland Parks and Recreation yet again.
 Thanks to the OMF team and to all the folks in bureaus who came up with great ideas and brought them forward and got them evaluated and many of them approved. Budgets are how we put our values into action. One of the values here was that we want to foster a climate where our employees can bring new ideas forward. You can hear here in the room that people feel that they can do that and that's a really good thing.
 Another value here is that we value our employees, that it's a climate in which we say, if you do have a good idea, you're not going to be slapped down. You're going to be encouraged and bring it forward.
 Another is that we've got a mixture here, which I think is really interesting, of projects that make us a more efficient service provider and also make us a more effective community partner. So I want to commend the evaluation process for getting that balance. We've got this PBOT project that we just heard described, another one in the police bureau is a crime scene processing camera that will cut our crime scene processing time from 60 minutes to 8 minutes.
 That makes us more efficient but also makes us more humane because we don't have victims and citizens held up in uncertainty for all that time. So the mixture of doing a better job as an organization, as a big service engine that delivers all these services to the city is a piece of this but also that we're thinking about being a better partner whether it's the project that Lieutenant Fort described or the other one in the police bureau that Professor S.
 It provides driver safety manuals in English and Spanish so that we have drivers better aware of their responsibilities and rights as they exercise that privilege of driving a car in our city. So I think this is just a great package of projects. I really look forward to the next round, and I'm really glad that the enthusiasm across the city's workforce is growing for this and that we have a chance to say, yes, go give it a try. Thank you very much. All right. Good work.
 Okay, let's move on to item 803. Revise noise regulations for pile driving. Mr. Van Orden, come on up. Commissioner Fritz, do you have some opening comments? I certainly do. Thank you, Mayor.
 So we have actually a substitute ordinance that we're entering. I apologize for it not being in the record. And essentially, I've requested that we spend more time processing all but two of the proposed code amendments that we heard testimony on several weeks ago. And the council clerk has copies of the strikethrough version if anybody is wanting to see those copies.
 So what we're doing today is proposing to adopt the mechanisms on pile driving, and then we will be setting up a task force and doing...
 quick but thorough more work on the other issues related to the whole issue of how you get variances, how you appeal them, and some of the other noise issues. I know that there's a concern in the community to maybe ban all construction noise at certain hours. What our proposal today does is to add to subsection F of the proposed
 City Code 18-10-060 of the Noise Code to make pile driving have to comply with the table on decibel limits. And the practical effect of this is that pile driving will no longer be allowed on nights, weekends, or holidays. And so that pile driving will not be allowed between the hours of 6 p.m. and 8 a.m. on nights, weekends, and holidays.
 So with that, Paul Van Orden, the noise officer. Good morning. Members of the council, Paul Van Orden, the city's noise control officer. Just to add a little more detail, the two main items that we would be adding to the noise code, the requirement that pile driving not start until 8 a.m. would still, as we chatted about at our last hearing, facilitate the...
 development industry and pile driving companies to begin the setup process, which is not a noisy process, and then when they actually are ready to start driving piles at 8 in the morning on Mondays through Fridays.
 they would be able to start right at 8. So I think it's not a giant impact as we chatted about last time. And one of the things that we've been chatting about at the Noise Review Board and citizens have been vocalizing to us was the second item which is starting to make modifications to our notification process. And in this case we're very clear that mailing notifications to all residences within 500 feet of a project that's going to have piledriving and doing that at least
 30 days before the project. And just to help clarify our interpretation of that in the past in terms of mailed notifications on variances like Portland International Racetrack, for instance, in cases where we required mailing as a direct mailing to the residents, we obviously can't always know in a neighborhood
 who those folks are, so it might say occupant in apartment 6, occupant in apartment 7, but it would be an actual mailed notification, not as we've chatted about in past dialogues about appeals, some kind of hand delivered notice. So we would literally be talking mailed to each apartment and residential single families and homeowner in their residence in the neighborhood where this is happening. So just as a clarification.
 So can you, maybe you Commissioner or Paul, explain that, understand the change in the substance that you just went through in subsection F, but why the change, why the strikeouts or the removal in the findings? Because we're not going to be moving forward on the changes to the appeals to council or on the reclassification of the EX zone to be subject to.
 to the commercial zone regulations. Those need more work, and so we'll come back with those in September probably. Okay, I get it. Okay, thank you. All right, any questions for Paul? So I just want to make sure the pile driving time limits also apply on the weekends?
 Yes, so... Or they're forbidden on the weekends. Well, at this point with the new change, we already do not allow pile driving on Sundays. Right. And you would now not be allowed to do it on a Saturday unless you can meet the baseline zone, which really no form of pile driving can meet even the most loud form of, the most
 descriptor in the noise codes. That's 75 decibels in an industrial area. So they're really, other than some really large pieces of property like the Port of Portland, if you were doing pile driving in the center of the Portland, Portland, you might be able to meet the standard, which would mean neighbors wouldn't even have an issue with the pile driving. So it really limits in any residential type neighborhood pile driving on a Saturday, as well as the existing Sunday. Okay. Thanks. Okay. Other questions for Paul?
 Thanks, and stand by so commissioner Fritz moves the substitute right second So further discussion on accepting the substitute, and then we'll take testimony on that so roll call on accepting the substitute, please Saltzman I know Vic hi Fritz hi Hales hi, okay? Thanks, Paul, so I know there's some folks here to testify some may have signed up So do you have a sign-up sheet did not have a sign okay? So does anyone like to speak to the council on this item I?
 Come on up. Oh, sorry. Sorry. We do have a sign-up sheet. All right. We'll catch up to ourselves here. Hang on a minute. It's always good. And we know who you are, too. In the interim, I will say thank you very much to the community members as well as the city staff and the Noise Review Board for their willingness to continue working on this. I am convinced that we can do even more to protect neighborhood livability, and I'm looking forward to having that ongoing discussion.
 Thank you. Sorry, it looks like we have seven people. The first three are Brooks Hickerson, Patrice Hansen, and Mary Helen Kincaid. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Go ahead. You want me to start? Sure, go ahead. Okay, well, good morning. It's so nice to see you all again. So I'm Patrice Hansen, and I live in the Sitka Apartments in the Pearl. And first of all, I want to say in regard to the proposed changes about limitation of hours and...
 notification of residents that this is, there's a distinction that needs to be made between the effect of the impact hammer pile driver and other loud methods of inserting piles and the quieter methods. You know, because the auger drill and other quiet methods just blend in with the regular construction noise. When the four developers switched in our area,
 Didn't even know when they were putting piles in because you know you just it's just like everything else. It doesn't require anything special It's really that impact hammer that That needs control
 So I wanted to say that. And I'm just going to keep this short and sweet this morning, but something I thought that was also very interesting is in her research, our amazing researcher, Mary Sipe, discovered that what is happening here in Portland is actually happening nationwide, and we are not an isolated incident. And in other words, we are not alone.
 A similar conversation is taking place during the same time period in cities across the nation, and that includes Seattle, New York, South Brooklyn, St. Petersburg, Tampa, Tampa Bay, Charleston, and more. And I'll be giving you a packet of information that has quotes from some of those cities.
 But basically, developers are switching to quieter methods like the auger drill in populated areas, and regulations are being changed. And I was going to read some of those quotes, but since the conversation is basically what we've been discussing here and it's very similar, I don't think I really need to do that. I also included in your packet a quote,
 some of the stories that we collected about how the impact hammer was affecting the lives of residents in the Pearl when it was happening before the switch and
 But what I've come to realize out of this is that the demand for switching to quieter, more humane and modern methods for inserting piles is, in the words of Victor Hugo, an idea whose time has come. And this thought is going on across the nation. And so it's no accident that it's happening here. And also that there is nothing more powerful than an idea whose time has come.
 And so, you know, Portland is such a progressive city and it's at the vanguard of so many things. And I think this would be a very important positive change, you know, to have a lot.
 you know, to just have that kind of concern for citizens and to use the modern methods that are so much quieter and so much more workable in a city environment. As we get more dense, that impact hammer gets louder and louder because the sound reverberates and it echoes off of buildings. You can't even tell really where it's coming from as more buildings are developed. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your leadership on this. So I just wanted to check.
 By changing the sound limits in the quiet hours, that does address the issue of impact hammering versus augering, right? Because if the augering is quiet enough to meet the standard... Then it should be fine, yes. So you approve of what we're doing here?
 Yeah, I just wanted to be clear that it wouldn't limit the auger drill or quieter methods. I just somehow want that to be clear. Yeah, the general construction noise, Paul can correct me if I've got this wrong, general construction noise would still have to meet the standards of the ordinance, right? So they're not accepted from the requirements. But because of the technology, as you described it, it's usually able to stay below that threshold. Yeah, okay.
 Thank you. Good morning. Hi. I'm Brooks Hickerson, and I live at 1255 Northwest 9th Avenue in a building called the Pinnacle. And the beat goes on. As the last three years, seven buildings have been built within three blocks of where I live. The first three use the impact pile driver, and the last three use the auger cast, so apparently it does work. I counted over 800 impacts to drive in a single pile. Actually, my wife counted it.
 She's a lot more patient than I am. And sometimes they require 200 different piles in order for a foundation. So that's more than 160,000 impacts over a period of six or seven weeks, all at about 110 decibels. Now, the OSHA standard for the maximum allowable noise over an eight-hour shift is like 90 decibels.
 and they have that for every five decibels over that. So if you were working in an environment that had 110 decibels, the limit would be 30 minutes in an eight-hour shift. This is because 110 decibels is actually 10 times louder than 90 decibels. Now, Dr. Charles Lieberman from the Harvard Medical School studies the pathway between the ears and the brain, and he has an article in this month's Scientific American
 And he talks about that, hidden hearing loss. And what he talks about is that the inner ear, how the inner ear converts the energy from the sound waves and converts and sends it to the brain. And he said the gold standard for this test, it measures the loss of the damage to the cell damage to the cilia inside the ear. It doesn't measure the loss of the nerve damage.
 It says we don't really have a good way of doing that currently. It says the audio nerve damage doesn't not only is it not measured, it actually doesn't recover. So what happens is that you can get in a noisy situation, you can't understand speech. I think we've all experienced this at one time or another. So we really need to, we're dealing in an area where hearing loss does occur and it's not recoverable.
 Now, Williams and Dane plans a construction project of a nine-story building in block five of Station Place property in Northwest 9th and Overton. I asked about their foundation plans, and they plan on using the impact pile driver, just as they had with Station Place and the Marriott construction. The beat does go on. So what are you to do?
 You have to decide what is hearing loss is acceptable and what portion of the Portland population. I urge you to be very conservative and I approve of what you did here today. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning, Mayor Helen. Good morning. Just for the record, I'm Mayor Helen Kincaid and I live in the East Columbia neighborhood. And once again, the testimony I wrote yesterday changed until today because of the substitute ordinance. And I think that's...
 It's a good step, small step in the right direction. And I was encouraged by Commissioner Fritz's statement of setting up a task force, because I've been pushing for that since, I think, February, because it worked for demolition and it worked for deconstruction, so why not take on one more contentious issue with the subcommittee? But we need to get the right people at the table and a broad spectrum of folks. And I don't know if this was the noise gods leading me yesterday, but...
 My husband was at Chuck's Trophies on 12th, and it's right next to 12th and Jefferson, where there's a huge construction project and they've just remodeled a huge building over at Chuck's Trophies. And the woman was, we've known them for years, they've been in business for 40 years.
 She was near hysterical because she said the noise has just driven her nuts. She couldn't stand it. And when he was there, I guess they drove a pile because he said it felt like an earthquake and everything on the shelves rattled. And she said, oh, we finally put things back on the shelves. They didn't tell us that they were going to do this. Things had been falling off the shelves.
 So we hadn't heard about those. This was happening everywhere. So he came home and said, can't the city do something about this? And I was like, where have you been? Have I not been ranting about this for a long time? So even he experienced...
 a really bad event and that the people and so then she went on to tell him that there's a woman there who didn't have a car had moved there so that she could use mass transit but she ended up buying a van so that she could drive to Laurelhurst Park and sleep during the day because she worked at night so that she could sleep on the streets and the police had come because the neighbors had reported her sleeping in her van but that was the only place that she could go to get sleep so that she could work at night because of the impact and that's just one person and I guess there were hundreds of stories of
 because there's businesses all around there and they've been told they went over like these citizens did and talked to the contractor and they were told that oh this is going to go on for a year and I know the pile driving won't but there'll be noise. There was no notification, nobody told them what to expect and this is just this woman talking to my husband and him relaying it to me but
 They reached out, called the city, they said, and I don't know who because I haven't researched it, but we're told there's really nothing we can do, what they're doing is legal. So she thought it was criminal. And then that kind of leads me to a testimony I sent to you previously about the code is to protect the livability of citizens, and I think we're missing the boat on that because
 I'm going to say noncompliance of code because we're not protecting the citizens. So I really want to emphasize that the subcommittee be formed, that the notification be looked at and the one question I have about this is how are the interested persons, if they can appeal to council, one of the issues that has been before is how are they even going to know a variance has been issued because there's no notification process for that.
 Yeah, I'm thinking that we're going to change the whole variance process and do it in fairly short order. Right, but if, for instance, something comes up between now and we change, how are the citizens, since they only have 10 days from the issuance of a variance to appeal to get on the city council, how are they even going to know unless they go every day and look at the website? And looking at the website, trying to find a variance is...
 Challenging. We'll have staff address that issue when it's up to testimony. Thank you for bringing that up. Good point. Good point. Thank you, Mary Helen. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Okay. Let's hear from the next group. The next three are Stan Penkin, Judy Bradley, and Tom Foster. Good morning, everyone. My name is Stan Penkin. I'm a resident of the Pearl District, and I am a board member and officer of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association.
 I testified several weeks ago on the same topic and I am testifying again on behalf of myself and as a board member of Friendly Streets, a non-profit organization that advocates for quality of life and livability issues across the city. As I testified previously, while I appreciate that the current proposal to limit the hours impact hammer pile driving,
 is a recognition of the problem, I want to reiterate that more can and should be done. This barely scratches the surface. And I do appreciate Commissioner Fritz's attempt to dig deeper into the issues and the possibility of establishing a diverse task force to look into this. The harm of impact piledriving to the health and livability of neighborhoods has been aptly described by many before me
 and in countless articles and government documents. The auger drilling method recently used in a number of construction projects in the Pearl District is a far more acceptable alternative that does not contribute noise, not to mention vibration, in excess of what one reasonably expects during the course of a construction project. At the last hearing on this topic, you heard extensive opposition testimony from DeWitt Construction,
 a major contractor who utilizes impact hammer drilling. While I try to listen sympathetically, as a former builder myself, to their claims of extra cost, lost time, and other woes, and understand that they are heavily invested in this method, I am not convinced that their argument is persuasive. To my understanding, DeWitt has been utilizing this method for many years, and I believe has a substantial self-interest in preserving it.
 especially if they have not invested in and kept up with new technologies. I do not fault DeWitt for taking this position, but it seems to me that the larger interest in the health, well-being, and quality of life of ordinary citizens should take precedence.
 I also find it ironic that the previous presentation talked a lot about innovation. And there is innovation in the construction industry, and the August method is one of those innovative methods. Do which claims of extra costs have not been quantified? So we don't really know what that means. Can we measure the cost of excessive and incessant noise to the health and well-being of our communities? Should that even be a comparison?
 We know that there are geotechnical reasons why the auger method may not always be viable. While I support the proposal before you today, now is the time to go farther and look to develop a code that will prohibit impact hammer pile driving in residential areas
 and allow for exceptions only when it's appropriately certified that the conditions are not suitable for an alternative method. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Judy Bradley, and I live at 937 Gleason Street in the Pearl.
 I'm relatively new to this discussion. I've never been to provide testimony before, but was persuaded to do so because about two years ago in San Francisco, I lived through a long siege of pile driving that literally went on for months and months. Believe me, it is both psychologically and physically extraordinarily invasive
 It's just, and stressful. You can't get away from it. And so I applaud, you know, what you're hoping to do by setting up a task force to look at alternate methods to the impact pile driving. I just, I look at where I live. I'm about 50 feet in a, you know, high-rise building away from a new, where a new hotel will be going in later this year.
 there are two other major condominiums facing on that block. And that's not to mention all the businesses below. You know, there's a dentist, there's an acupuncturist and a wellness clinic. There are restaurants that have outdoor seating. All of these, you know, the residents and the businesses will be severely affected, you know, if they are subjected to months and months of this impact.
 activity. You know, you can't hear yourself talk if you're outside. When you're indoors, and I said I personally experienced this, at an even greater distance from, you know, I think what I'm anticipating is going to happen in our building, which is probably not any farther than the, you know, the length of this room here.
 With your windows and doors shut, you still can't think. It's like this metronome, this rhythmic pounding, pounding, pounding, that you feel like you just want to scream and have to get away from. So I realize we're making some strides with this ordinance correction, but I would urge...
 However fast and however thoroughly you can get to a discussion of the merits of going to the Augur Method, I would really appreciate it. And so would the hundreds of other people that are living around these situations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. It's been well known that in politics... Just put your name in the records. Oh, Tom Foster. I live at 1255 Northwest 9th Avenue.
 It's been well known in politics that when you have a stand, you have what's called talking points. And what I've noticed is even if your talking point is not true, if you repeat it over and over and over and over again, it becomes known as true. It's what I call the Fox News effect. So you're being told.
 that setting piles with an auger drill is way more expensive than impact drivers. But is that true, right? And if it is more expensive, how much is way more expensive? We were at the last testimony. One of the commissioners asked Dewitt Construction, how much more expensive is it? He said significantly more expensive. Well, do you have numbers? We know it's significantly more expensive. I have some real numbers about the impacts of pile drivers.
 I work as a realtor out of my house. For years, one of the sources of me getting new business is to call the canceled listings right after they expire. Now, it's very, very competitive. If I call somebody at 9 o'clock, I'm already too late. So I have to call right away at 8 o'clock. And if we're having an impact pile drive session, I can't talk to these people. Now, I can close the windows.
 with normal construction lawyers and continue my life. When that's going, I have to just take a time out. So here's some real numbers. Average listing, I get an average of two listings a month at $350,000, commission of 2.5%. I figure I lose about 50% of my business because the other agents beat me to it. So seven weeks for the Marriott, seven weeks for Block 17.
 I figured I lost about two and a half listings. Doing the math, $21,875. Those are real numbers. I wish DeWitt would provide you with some real numbers. Okay? I'm just one person. He pointed out, hey, there's other people. How about the expense of taking to your vet and putting it on medication? How about Marriott losing $319 a night? Boy, I would like to stay at that place.
 The point is the proposal before you today is limiting the number of lashings that I can get from 40 to 38. It's still inhumane. We need to set up the task force. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Don't make this your only appearance here. Great. Do you have others signed up? The last two who signed up are Joel Burt and Mary Seip. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Do you want to go first or? Go ahead. Joel Burwood, DeWitt Construction. I've sat through this whole process almost from start to finish, and I guess there might be a misconception that DeWitt's the bad guy here. I just want to state that we're just contractor. That's all we do. We just bid on the work. We don't design it. We don't have any skin in the game.
 And if the price goes up, if the hours are reduced or whatever, we'll just raise our bid accordingly. So I just want to make that clear that we don't do anything except bid on what's designed and build it as it's designed. I think one of the key points here is that...
 I've heard testimony several times where people refer to auger cast versus pile driving. Well, there are two different methods. But what you need to consider is that there are certain times that auger cast will not work. Now, Scott Mills of Geodesign, who designed most of the downtown work here, testified at Noise Review Board on two occasions that,
 Agri-cast simply will not work some places in the Pearl due to the soil. And concerning Block 17, he made a statement that he would never, he will never design agri-casts in place of pile driving in certain soils. And he alluded that Block 17 was a good candidate for pile driving.
 So I just want to make sure, and I urge you to consult with your own engineers on methods of construction. The Noise Review Board wisely steered away from trying to dictate what type of methods pile driving should use, agri-cats versus pile driving.
 So, again, I just want to make sure that you understand the difference and that it's not just a matter of choice and as a contractor, we have no say so. We just do what's designed. As far as the cost goes, Hoyt Street Property testified at a couple of noise review board meetings the cost from a developer standpoint, I don't have those numbers but you can consult with Paul.
 I'm sure he's got those. It is significant. But, again, as a contractor, we'll just raise our bid accordingly. So I don't have those figures because it's dynamic changes. So that's basically all I want to do is just set the record straight on a couple of things. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. You get the back clean up here. I'm Mary Seip, and I would like to talk about something that the Noise Review Board is not recommending.
 The Noise Review Board is not recommending to require the AugerCast method for placing piles because, number one, according to project engineers, the AugerCast is not appropriate for every site, and the engineer should make the professional judgment as to whether and if it can be used.
 Secondly, because the Pearl District is being built on a landfill where unknown organic material has been deposited and the spoils brought up by the AgriCast must be treated as hazardous waste, increasing both the risk and the cost of this method. I agree that the AgriCast method may not be appropriate for every project and that the decision should be made by the geotechnical engineers.
 However, the engineer should be required to provide sound geological evidence that the auger cast cannot be used. The auger cast has proven to be a viable alternative in some extremely challenging conditions. It was used successfully on a 28-story and a 38-story building in the Pearl District, Block 15 being one.
 At the March 11, 2015, Noise Review Board meeting, as Mr. Burt has referred to, Scott Mills, a geotechnical engineer with GeoDesign, the engineering company on Block 15, stated, and I quote, As an engineer, my duty is for the safety of those occupants of the building, and I would not put continuous light augers under any of those high-rises again.
 because he believes that he does say that he believes they're safe, but he lost and I quote a year off of his life Just worrying about the installation. He said they are quiet and everybody was happy But I'm not happy with the extra tension that we had to put into making sure that the building was safe Mr. Mills believes that the continuous flight augers are safe But because he lost a year out of his life worrying and experienced extra tension He wouldn't do them again
 Should the neighboring residents have to suffer the negative effects of the impact hammer so that the geotechnical engineer does not have to experience extra tension? The arguments we keep hearing against the agaricast are, it takes more time, it costs more money, it cannot be used safely because of the contaminated soil. They don't just place the agaricast in the ground, cross their fingers, and hope that the foundation is safe.
 GeoDesign employs state-of-the-art technology to test these piles. On their website, GeoDesign boasts about the abilities of their state-of-the-art equipment to test for safety, save time and money, and reduce the cost and mitigate the risks associated with contaminated soil. I've provided some copies of the information from their website. I have them here.
 The technology to use the auger cast safely and cost-effectively is available. This technology protects the safety and well-being of residents and construction workers and should be utilized when appropriate. We need to take the steps necessary to change the City of Portland's noise regulations and or construction regulations to limit the use of the impact hammer to those situations where sound geological evidence proves that other quieter methods cannot be used safely.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Okay, anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then this is not an emergency ordinance, right, Commissioner? So this will come back for second reading next week. Have I got that right? I thought it was. Hang on a minute. Let me see. Would anybody mind if we add an emergency so that we can get this going faster? Sure.
 Any objection to that? So I move we add an emergency close for public safety. I have an embarrassing procedural question, which was I missed the previous hearing on this, didn't have time to review it. So can I still vote on this substitute ordinance today? Yes, you can. It's an ordinance, not a land use case. So although you have to be in general familiar with the issue before us, I don't think you have to have reviewed the entire record. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. Besides, it's a substitute ordinance. Thank you, President.
 All right. Then let's take a roll call on adding the emergency clause, please. Who seconded it? I did. Commissioner Saltzman seconded it. Thank you. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. We just want to get the answer to the question. Yes, and a further discussion with Paul here now that we've changed the ordinance. So the question was about notification before the task force gets done with how we're going to do variances and appeals and such.
 So I think throughout this process there's been some notable confusion about notification, how it works in the noise office. The greater majority of the 600 plus variances we issue we don't ever get a complaint on. So with three staff, which is the same number we had back in 1976, what we have to do is Kathy Couch, who's our main admin person and myself,
 look at the issues, use our professional judgment on which ones are going to be most problematic. The ones that are really problematic, we actually use a GPS mapping system, GIS mapping system rather. We create a notification mailing list. We give that to contractors and to events and actually require them to go to the specific addresses we've given. We don't always require mailing with that, so it sounds like we're probably in the future heading to more descriptive mailing requirements.
 The other question was on relative to notification that the website is not
 as helpful to be able to find the information. So one of the suggestions that Kathy and I have made to management is that we find some funding for IT to help make ONI's webpage for noise variance information more searchable. Right now it's not very searchable, but we have checked with all the coalition offices, and they have at least given us feedback that it's been really helpful that it is on the web, and that if someone were to ask us a question, we can send them an email and point them right at it
 A general citizen looking may not understandably be able to quickly find that currently. And I think the third answer to the concern is that the noise office does have the authority with the noise review board to say no to variances or to require additional evidence that alternative methods won't work. Commissioner Salsman, I'll be looking to partner with you and the staff in the Bureau of Development Services to use the inspectors, the geotechnical expertise there to figure out
 Can we come up with a process that requires proof that you can't use ORGA's process, perhaps? And we'll do that in consultation not only with the task force, but with the Development Review Advisory Committee. But in the meantime, obviously you, Paul, have heard all of the concerns and the evidence that's been put in the record, and so you're going to be looking extra carefully at variance requests. Yes, most definitely. Thank you. Any other questions for Paul? No.
 Then let's take a vote, please, on the emergency ordinance. Saltzman? I appreciate the work of Commissioner Fritz and our noise control officer and our noise review board in crafting this ordinance, and I believe it's very important to have some well-defined parameters that give people some peace of mind and the opportunity to sleep between the hours of 6 p.m. and 8 a.m., to have both.
 And I look forward to the additional discussion we may have on the future changes. And I think this is definitely a step in the right direction, and I'm glad we're doing it as soon as possible. Aye. Novick. Aye.
 I second Commissioner Sussman's comments on this is a pro-sleep ordinance. There's more and more research that shows the centrality of sleep to human health. If people get enough sleep, then they're less likely to overeat. They're less likely to get into car accidents. So some research is suggesting they're less likely to commit crimes. So I see this as a blow for sleep, and I'm proud to vote aye. Prince. Prince.
 Thanks to everybody for your engagement on this. I think it's something that we can quickly, given the work that's been done over the past couple of years under Mayor Hales, that we're ready to move forward with a focused task force. I leave for England tomorrow, and I'll be back in three weeks, and I expect to have you there.
 Thoroughly working hard at that point, Claire Adamsick in my office is going to be taking the lead on this process. And I do hope that we'll be able to come back in September with maybe October by the time we've gone through the different review bodies with some additional changes. And I appreciate the work that's been done of staff and volunteers as well as the construction industry. We really are all in this together, and it needs to work for everybody. Hi. Hi.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your work on this. I also want to thank Chad Stover from my office who's worked on this as well. And Paul, as always, you're very valuable to us. And David, you and other members of the Board put in a lot of time on this. You know, we occasionally, I just want to comment on the evolution of this discussion here at the Council a little bit.
 We occasionally hear from people, we actually heard from one earlier today on a different subject who say, you know, I'm worried that I can't really make a difference and I'm not sure showing up at city council will really change anything. We hear that worry about government and this is one more indication and I hope that folks
 neighborhood that have brought this issue forward feel the same way where this issue has evolved in our understanding and in our forward motion on changing things because people from the community came forward with a problem and said here's an issue, will you please pay attention and do something about it. And so I'm proud of us for being able to respond that way and things do change and we have to react to those changes and respond and try to shape the growth of the city as it occurs because of course there
 There was a point not long ago, I remember that point, at which no one really lived in the Pearl District.
 And the first two projects were built perhaps with impact pile driving and no one to be bothered. But we've asked people to live in the urban environment. We've asked them to live close to one another and in proximity and in community in a different way than was true in the past. And thousands of people have taken us up on that idea. Said, yes, thank you, we would like to live in the urban environment, we would like to
 in a dense urban neighborhood where there was no such place before. And that's not just true in the Pearl District, by the way, as we've talked about in this discussion. That's true in the South Waterfront. It's going to be true eventually in the Rose Quarter when we make a neighborhood out of what's an empty corner of downtown or the central city today. And it will be true in other places as well. So we have to figure this out. If we ask people to buy in to the urban equation, we have to make that a good...
 decision for them over time and this is one of those cases where we have to make good on that so again I just want to thank people for being willing to engage being willing to bring a problem forward having both staff and Citizen experts who bear down on it give the council good advice Obviously there's more to do here, and they will have to keep evolving it has been it has been my experience in dealing with issues of regulation of construction and
 that if we are clear about what our expectations are, if we write good rules and they are practicable in the marketplace, the construction and development community here will respond. That has been the case with good design. That has been the case with green buildings. It's been the case with a lot of things. So this is one more instance where I do believe the private sector will be capable of doing the right thing, but it's up to us to articulate exactly what that looks like or, in this case, sounds like.
 So, thank you all for good work so far. I do, as well as my colleagues, look forward to more. Aye. Thank you all. Okay. Let's move on to the regular agenda. Let's deal with the poll items first. Yeah, I think we should. We had a couple of items pulled from the consent calendar. One is 805.
 8.05, pay claim of Jimmy Duffy in the sum of $45,000 involving Portland Police Bureau. Okay, come on up. I think there was a, who asked for this to be pulled? Mr. Lightning. Is he still here? So if he's not, unless there are any council questions, I think we should, sorry to bring you here without cause, go ahead and take action. So let's take a vote, please, on 8.05. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 Thank you very much. Okay. 806? Authorize a partial compliance agreement between the city on behalf of Portland Parks and Recreation and Labor's Local 483, Labor's International Union of North America that partially implements arbitrator David Stitler's opinion and award concerning the bargaining unit work grievance filed under the Recreation Collective Bargaining Agreement.
 Mr. Frist, you have some opening comments before we ask our HR director to proceed here. Thank you, Mayor. I'm very pleased that this ordinance has come to council and appreciate the partnership with Laborers 483. Erica Askin, the business manager, is here and will be testifying also. Ms. Canwit, good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Anna Canwit, Bureau of Human Resources Director, here before you with an ordinance where the title is probably longer than the presentation.
 But the ordinance before you asks you to approve partial implementation of Arbitrator Stitelard's award. This concerns a grievance that was filed by laborers, Local 43, regarding the use of casual slash seasonal employees to perform bargaining unit work. The recreation contract covers recreation leaders, rec coordinators,
 The description of the work is very broad, but it also states that seasonal recreation support persons, our seasonal employees, are limited to 1200 hours a year and will normally not be upgraded to the classifications covered by the contract except on an incidental basis. And that was the crux of the dispute.
 The arbitrator did rule that the city violated the collective bargaining agreement by assigning bargaining unit work to these rec support persons and ordered the city to cease and desist. However, there was zero clarification of what that meant in the award and the union and the city have been in negotiations since the award in May to come to an agreement about what it means and how the city will comply.
 So, as you know, this is just the first step, stage one. We will be negotiating with the union over the next several months regarding phase two. This first phase, which is the agreement that is attached to the ordinance, provides one-time funding for 86 limited term positions. They're limited term positions because there's no ongoing funding. It's just for the current fiscal year.
 It's 37 customer service representative, two positions, 22 assistant pool managers, 24 preschool, and then there's three regular positions to work on summer camps.
 So we are asking you to approve the funding for these one-time positions and to maintain, which will help the Bureau maintain programs through this fiscal year. Under the agreement, the city will stop using casual employees to do the work performed by the CSA2s, the preschool teachers and the assistant pool managers. You have a range of the cost.
 of the phase one of this agreement, it's approximately 1.6 million to 2.3 million until we actually do the conversions. It is difficult to have a more exact costing of what that will be.
 This is, as you know, an issue that has been brewing for some time. The city has continued to provide an excellent recreation program throughout years of budget cuts. And we anticipate moving forward that they will probably, to achieve full compliance with the arbitration award, will probably be having to make cuts in the program in order to continue it in an affordable way.
 With that, I have Heidi Brown who is the union attorney who was instrumental in negotiating the settlement as well as John Uto.
 who was here and was also the other member of our bargaining team. I do want to thank them both. This was immensely complicated in large part due to the lack of clarity of the arbitration award. That did not assist either the union or the city. With that, I don't know if you have any questions for either John or Heidi. I know Erica Askin is here as well. Okay. So questions for other members of our bargaining team at this point? Okay.
 So, just from our understanding, are complying with the arbitrator award, I mean, we could have chosen alternative courses of compliance. I mean, we could have chosen to appeal that award. No, an arbitration award is really, in essence, unappealable. The only way is if the arbitrator goes outside of his authority or issues an award that's contrary to public policy.
 as few and far between and this award did neither. It was certainly within his jurisdiction to decide whether the work was bargaining unit work or not. And you know the award is not outside public policy. The issue is it's you know
 a poorly written award because the arbitrator didn't take the time to tell the parties what that meant. There was evidence about positions, bargaining at work, non-bargaining at work, and he certainly could have provided more guidance, but for whatever reason chose not to. But we really cannot appeal this. So you worked with Local 483 in good faith to take an award that wasn't very clear then and sort of provide some clarity and a...
 phase proposal for dealing with this. Is that correct? Yes. We could have had the option of going back to the arbitrator to ask for more clarity. We decided it would be more constructive to work with the union. The other option that we could have done was just to stop doing the work overall. But this...
 ruling came in just before the budget was announced and just before the summer season, and we didn't think it was, well, we knew it wasn't fair. Indeed, that's one of the reasons that the union came to us right afterwards and says don't cease and desist as the arbitrator directed. Don't do that right away because they were very aware that that would mean a lot of people being laid off. Thank you. Great. Other questions? Maybe more. Eric Askin, come up, please. Maybe more later. Stand by. Yep. Come on up. Good morning.
 And I'll just introduce this by saying again how very grateful I am to Laborers 483 for working so constructively with us and for agreeing to the phasing of the implementation. We're going to start work on Phase 2 tomorrow. So thank you for being here today. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you.
 Thank you, Council. I want to introduce Tom Collette, who is working with us on recreation as a government liaison. And I don't want to feel lonely up here. I thought I was going to be up here with Anna, so I brought him up. I'm very happy to be here today. With approval of this agreement, the city is taking a big step forward.
 This is a fair agreement that not only assures the city is complying with an arbitrator's ruling, it also improves the lives of the frontline staff that make our community centers great places for our families in Portland to learn and play. After we got the arbitration ruling, as Commissioner Fritz said, both sides, both city management and the union, with the assistance of Attorney Heidi Brown,
 made a good faith effort to comply. And this wouldn't have been done without Commissioner Fritz and your leadership. So thank you especially to you. Even though he's not here, I do want to acknowledge Commissioner Fish, who tried to address this issue five years ago as I was first hired as an internal organizer with Laborers Local 483. And I remember at that time that Commissioner Fish collaborated with my boss, business manager Richard Beadle, who all of you remember,
 to initiate a process that would address the use of what is inaccurately called casual work in the City of Portland. Addressing the wages, rights and benefits of city workers, as has been said, has been a long road. For all involved, we've had good intentions and we wanted to solve the problems, but we didn't quite get there on a joint process for a long time.
 After coming up against many roadblocks, Leuna Local 483 filed this grievance in 2013. At the end of bargaining, we decided to take it to arbitration. We're not done yet. As has been said also, this is a partial agreement that covers a portion of the work that's being done by so-called casual employees. We're excited, though, that we're going to continue down this road finally with all parties working together.
 and it's a necessary one. We're going to be doing it through the next several months. Taking this step today means the city stands on the side of fairness, giving our workers a voice in their workplace, basic job protections, and job security. For these so-called casual workers, many of them have worked year after year, and today they are ending a long journey through job insecurity. Their commitment to their community is finally mirrored by the city.
 So now we're working together to begin the reversal of more than a 10 year trend where union work was being given to misclassified staff. The city then was balancing the budget on the backs of low wage workers while undercutting living wage jobs for union workers. All residents of the city of Portland will benefit from the recognition of these workers as protected under our union contract. That's because recreation staff don't just serve our community, they live in it.
 This will bring up more city workers from low wage work who often rely on food stamps and social assistance programs to work that allows them to finally afford housing, transportation, and food in a city that's growing more and more expensive. When talking to the staff in the recreation centers, we're consistently seeing two issues that's impacting their delivery of services. The first is the difficulty that recreation has keeping long-term employees.
 And the second is the heavy workloads that existing staff face from year to year as they see more people have to leave their jobs because of not having health care, not being able to afford living here in Portland. And building community takes time. Employees at our community centers become experts by being in the community for years. This institutional knowledge will increase because of this decision. You can just look at Dishman Community Center as an example of this institutional knowledge.
 The preschool teacher that I know there has worked for the city for 24 years and started the preschool program about 20 years ago. There she ensured early learning for the kids through play, including French, Japanese, Spanish, sign language, tennis, cooking, art projects, and lots of field trips. The teacher there is a part of a historic institution at Matt Dishman that we all know and love.
 At the time we filed this grievance, this teacher had not even had a cost of living increase in her whole 20 years as the preschool program coordinator. And now as a result of this decision, she's going to have an opportunity to have a fair wage and covered with benefits for the first time in her career. She's also seen other hardworking people at the community centers forced to give up the jobs that they truly love because they needed benefits and better wages.
 So this is a very good thing today that we're doing. To approve this partial compliance agreement is also a step forward for the people who take or send their kids to camp and classes at our centers, the sun schools and the pools. They'll receive a better and longer term service from employees who are not overloaded and who are getting better wages, benefits and protections. These will be more stellar employees who are valued now as a part of the recreation program.
 I'm looking forward to phase two and I'm looking forward to taking an objective look at the remaining positions doing union work. We're committed to a fair and honest process that's based on facts and takes into account the input from both management and the union. We want this to be a comprehensive agreement that offers opportunity and fairness to more recreation workers. And of course we also want to be able to sleep better at night because of this. So, thank you. Thank you. Questions?
 So, yeah, did you want to say something? Anything at this point? Oh, no. I second everything that Erica said. Someone's asking, I guess, do you believe that successful labor negotiations require an underlying code of ethical behavior and respect amongst the parties negotiating? Yes, definitely. So a few years ago, or a while back, I'm not sure if it was a few years ago, Local 483 said,
 The other unions in the city were all assessed, found guilty of committing an unfair labor practice and were assessed monetary penalties, of which all unions have paid except local 483. Your penalty was $80,000. Are you planning to pay that? We never had an unfair labor practice charged against us, but I do believe that's a separate issue, and I'd be happy to talk with you about that next week. Well, it's not separate to me. It's an underlying issue.
 sign of me of disrespect and unethical behavior. I don't think you have any intention of paying it. You may want to talk to me about it. That's great. Talk is cheap. But I think as a matter of fairness, and this will govern my vote on this issue, because I don't draw a separation between ethical behavior and respect of parties. And when we lose, we pay, and other unions have paid
 what they owed us to, but you are thumbing your nose at us, quite frankly. You can talk to me all you want about it next week, but you can tell me right now you're going to pay the $80,000 and I'll vote for this, but if you're not, I'm going to vote against this. Commissioner Saltzman, with all due respect, I think there's a disagreement about the facts here. I think that we do believe we have been put forward ethical behavior in regards to this matter. We would be happy to talk to you further about it, but we're not sure if this is the correct venue right now.
 Well, like I said, I'll listen to the talk, but I'm interested in what I believe is a sign of mutual respect that is not being shown here. And we can argue until the sun goes down about facts. And that's, in fact, that's why a code of underlying ethical behavior is required in the labor relations process, because oftentimes there's never any agreement on the facts. That's why we go to arbitrators. That's why we go to the IRB or we go to the courts. And I believe this has been subject to proper fact-finding and,
 Penalty has been assessed and you're simply not paying where other unions have paid. Commissioner Saltzman I do want to make a correction there has been no penalties assessed We have not gone in front of the Employment Relations Board. We have not had an unfair labor practice charged against us We had a motion to dismiss that we filed in a court case against the city management and HR who filed the complaint against us in court and
 so we have not found any of those charges to be substantiated and neither has a court or the Employment Relations Board however I do look forward to
 Talking with you, and I do look forward to getting past our disagreements getting past both both of our wins and losses we've suffered a lot of losses as well and I look forward to getting past that to finally get something getting something done for the recreation staff who work in the centers Which is a separate contract a separate bargaining unit, and I don't think we should be using the the
 the disagreements that we've had in bargaining from 2009 to 2010, before I was even hired at Laborers Local 483, to prevent us getting something done for these recreation staff today. What about the fact the other bargaining units have paid? The other unions? Yeah, the other unions. I can't speak to their position on that. Commissioner Saltzman, would you like me to add some context?
 Would that be helpful? I'm sure it will. I would. Okay. So this is a matter that started in 2009, and the city did not bill our unions for union-paid union leave. We have a contractual agreement with our unions that when employees take union-paid union leave, we will be reimbursed.
 We discovered the error and we back-billed the unions. Needless to say, none of them were very happy about the fact they were getting bills, some of them very large, particularly to ask me. But every single union, with the exception of laborers, paid their full bill understanding they received the services. Yes.
 We did have an unfair labor practice charge around bargaining and this was, there was an issue around union paid union leave from 2010 forward. That was settled, Local 483 has paid monthly the amount they owed from 2010 forward. However, we have an $80,000 outstanding debt.
 that 483 incurred prior to 2010. We did attempt to go to collections. As expected, the determination was that the EER, Employment Relations Board, had exclusive jurisdiction. So that's the reason there hasn't been any other finding. We were well past the statute of limitations because we were making every effort to work with the unions, understanding that there were some large amounts to pay.
 The 43 disputed the amount, although advised us they didn't really have good records. And we would have certainly taken a lesser amount, but that offer was never made.
 In the context of just settling this, the only settlement offer we got actually combined this very grievance with paying that. It was, we recognized 100 plus positions into the bargaining unit and they would pay $40,000, I believe, starting in 2016. So they have been tied together.
 I think it was part of what was in the arbitration as part of the evidence that was provided around positions doing bargaining unit work. And I think that was approximate the list from one of the experts the union provided. So this issue actually was tied together by Local 483, although it's not part of this agreement today. But there is an agreement?
 for payment in 2016? No, there's no agreement. The $80,000 is an outstanding debt and there's no agreement by 483 to pay any of it. So what's the $40,000 that you just mentioned? That was part of a settlement that 483 offered to pay half of the $80,000 if we recognized the 100 positions into the bargaining unit was post this arbitration, before we got the decision.
 My apologies for mischaracterizing the $80,000 as being part of an unfair labor practice. I was confused about that, but the fact still remains is there is an $80,000 balance owed to us. Other unions have paid that amount, and you haven't paid. I do believe this is a separate subject and that we did make an offer of settlement, and the city didn't accept it. Okay, further questions or discussion on this question? We'll make sure it's been aired. Anything else you want to add?
 No, thank you. Thank you. Anyone else that wants to speak on this item? Anyone signed up? We had someone who wanted to speak on this. Come on up. Sorry, Commissioner Saltzman, but I do not plan on speaking. Put your name in the record, sorry. My name is Robert Wheaton. I am the president of DCQ at this point. I chaired the negotiations and I'm also with AFSCME Council 75. I want to make sure that we add some additional context to this. Yes, we agreed to pay the $250,000 of lost time. We walked by a valid legal defense.
 in order to pay that. We did so in order to foster a more cooperative relationship with the city of Portland. At this point, I must tell you that I think that that was a mistake. I have yet to see the city of Portland walk by a specious procedural legal defense in order to fight a claim raised by one of these unions, let alone a valid one.
 I don't blame 43 for not paying that $80,000 because frankly they had no legal grounds to. Just like the city of Portland doesn't pay out claims to its employees when they have no legal grounds to. Just like the city of Portland doesn't pay out lost time or excuse me, they don't pay out back pay if the employee doesn't file its grievance within the 30 days that are required.
 These things happen on a regular basis, and they're positions that are taken by your human resources department and your city attorney. So, I mean, I find it very disheartening to hear you holding this against them when it was just a matter of a valid procedural legal defense that they raised. If the city had a problem with this money that was due, they should have raised the concern in a timely manner.
 That's all I have to say. And as far as respect goes, yes, there was an allegation of disrespect that was filed across the table. Frankly, it was included in the ground rules. I agreed to that initially. I will never do so again because I'm not going to litigate over hurt feelings. I felt disrespected several times during the process of that negotiations. We did not file a charge over disrespect.
 Unfortunately, the city did. So we were able to reach a settlement and frankly, I thought that issue was behind us. I'm appalled to see it raised here today. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. I just have a question of clarification from Ms. Canwit, please. Come on up, Anna. You said something about the statute of limitations.
 Well, there's a 180-day filing period for an unfair labor practice charge, so we were well beyond that with the amount we're talking about because it predated the 2010 bargaining, which was part of the settlement that we all entered into. Does that answer your question? It doesn't look like it. So is it still on the books? What I'm understanding is there's a dispute about whether it's owed or not.
 I don't think it's a dispute about whether it's owed. I think there's a dispute about how much is owed. I think there's certainly no issue that union-paid union leave was taken and the unions were not billed for that timely. Now, the amount, I think, is in dispute. The fact union leave was taken, I don't believe that is not in dispute. But it is on our books still.
 I don't know the process for removing the unpaid debt is perhaps, I mean, Andrew's here. He could talk about that perhaps. I don't really know, but thank you. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Well, I guess I have a question for Commissioner Saltzman. What do you want to do about this? Well, for the reasons I stated, I believe it's important to foster ethical behavior. I don't believe Local 43 has acted ethically in this particular instance, and I intend to vote no.
 So in that case, I move to remove the emergency clause. Okay. Is there a second? I'll second that. Further discussion on removing the emergency clause, then a roll call on removing the emergency clause, please. Saltzman? No. Novick? Fritz? Does that make any sense? Aye. Hayles? Aye. I'll talk more about the substance of this in a minute, but there are a lot of good reasons to move forward on this. So the emergency clause has been removed.
 I want to thank you two for being here, and go ahead and stand down. Let us finish our work here. Okay. Then we've removed the emergency clause, so this will be back on second reading next week. That's the problem, so we need to set a date for that. No, it can get voted on with three people. I thought you were not here. I'm not here next week, so unfortunately I won't get to vote on this. I'm so proud of, but that's the latest. Mayor Hales will be gone too? Yes, but we can still pass it with three. Okay.
 It'll be the third person. Commissioner Saltzman has to have three votes. It's not just the majority of those who are here. It has to have three votes. Everything has to have three votes to pass, but I'm here next week. I'm understanding, Mayor, you may be here in the morning of the 5th? That's correct. Okay. That's right. Or else somebody else may have plans for you. Has not yet been informed. Okay. So can I make my speech now? Yes, you may. Thank you.
 It's really I'm sad that we have had this diversion because this is a wonderful step forward for the people of Portland as well as the people of Portland Parks and Recreation. As Ms. Askin noted, Commissioner Fish started this work more than five years ago. We've heard multiple times, particularly in the $15 an hour discussion that Commissioner Saltzman led.
 that we need to pay our city workers fairly and that we need to get folks off of food stamps and public assistance when they've worked more than 20 years without even a cost of living raise. That's just appalling. I'm very proud that under my tenure at the Bureau of Development Services, we established more than 100 new union positions in that bureau. When this passes next week, we will have more than 100 new unions
 I will have overseen having more than 100 new union positions in Portland Parks and Recreation and as an ongoing member of the Oregon Nurses Association, that gladdens my heart. And it shows why unions are important, because people have not been fairly paid. And as Nazaskin noted, the notation of folks being casual workers, they're not casual workers. They're absolutely integral to how we do our business in Portland Parks and Recreation.
 So although this could have been a bad thing coming out of the arbitrariness decision, the union and HR, the city attorney's office, our office worked together to come to agreement on the first step, and then there will be a next step. So I'm really, really grateful for that, for everybody's participation, starting with Commissioner Fishh,
 Local 483, Erica Askin, everybody who worked well, the phenomenal parks team that did Yeoman's work in compiling information in a very, very short time frame. Eileen Argentina, Terry Davis, Doug Brenna, Joss Green, Jeff Schaefer, Heidi Brown from the City Attorney's Office, John Uto, and Anna Canwick from Human Resources, and Tim Crail, who has been integral in our labor negotiations and has been my labor
 liaison since January 1st of 2009. So this agreement does have a hefty price tag and it doesn't even achieve complete compliance, so there's going to be a phase two, which as I said will start tomorrow.
 This is the right thing to do. Funds will be one time this year, and we will be making a request next year to get ongoing dollars in the budget cycle. I really appreciate, Mayor, your partnership on this and your recognition that, indeed, we need to pay city workers fairly and do well by our workers as much as by others in the city. We are even now convening the $15-an-hour discussion that the council agreed my office would lead.
 After this, there's going to be thousands of Portland Parks Recreation employees who don't yet make $15 an hour. Not thousands, but a lot of city employees who don't make $15 an hour, and we need to address that issue.
 Although this work is difficult, paying our parks employees a reasonable wage is one of my top priorities as parks commissioner and actually as a human being. And I am thrilled to be taking this action that you will take in my absence next week. Thank you for your partnership in that. Thank you. Mr. Novick, any comments you'd like to make?
 We'll take a vote next week. You can do it then if you want. I can wait until next week. We'll be here. Go ahead. I very much appreciate everything Commissioner Pritz just said. And it's, darn, I was about to say something in politic. But no, I mean, well, actually, I'll say it. Every once in a while, it's nice to be forced to do the right thing. Yeah.
 Well, I want to thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your work on this, and all the folks at the Parks Bureau that you mentioned. I also want to thank my Chief of Staff, Josh Alpert, who's worked very hard on this issue as well. And I want to commend Local 483 for the approach that you've taken with us because we are required by an arbitrator to do this. And this could have been a much more difficult process
 implementation than what we're faced with here today, which is a case of the city and its workers, represented by a labor organization, doing the right thing in a responsible way. Yes, it costs money, and that's a budget burden that we need to accommodate as we develop future budgets.
 and that we'll need to accommodate this year. And our budget director and his staff have obviously figured out how to make this work, and we appreciate that good work as well. But it's...
 the right thing to do and we're doing it in a constructive way. And I just want to commend that work. Other issues obviously have to be resolved and should be. And I hope and expect that that'll happen. But this is really good work. And we're also right now asking a lot of our parks employees, and I want to commend that as well.
 Some of the folks that Erica mentioned are working really hard right now because this council has asked the Parks Bureau to do more for our kids in this community. There are 1,900, maybe now 2,000 teenagers availing themselves of free summer recreation at the Dishman Community Center and several hundred at East Portland as well.
 and our workers are rolling up their sleeves and working really hard to accommodate more youth who need to be engaged in positive activities this summer so we have to have a spirit of partnership with our workers and that has to be reciprocal in both directions and I believe it is so thank you for good work look forward to having this back on council calendar for second reading next Wednesday morning
 Okay, let's try to power through the remainder of the agenda, which I think we can do And then take a break before we're two o'clock session, so Let's move on to 810
 ratify a successor collective bargaining agreement between the city and Oregon asked me council 75 local 189 dash 3 relating to the terms and conditions of employment of represented employees at the Portland Housing Bureau for 2015 2019 welcome back Miss Camelot, Mr.. Salsman you have any I know I don't know that's real good work. Go ahead. Okay, um I
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners, Anna Canwitt, Director of the Bureau of Human Resources. I have with me Cheyenne Scott who was the lead negotiator for the agreement that's before you, who did an excellent job. This was also her first contract that she's negotiated for us and I'm really pleased with the results. And Leslie Goodlove from the Housing Bureau who provided a lot of support through this whole process.
 We reached a successor agreement, we reached the tentative agreement on the successor agreement June 23, 2015, which we were really pleased about. Because we reached that tentative agreement before the contract expires, the agreement does provide for the cost of living increase to be retroactive to July 1, the beginning of our successor agreement.
 This will be a four-year agreement from July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2019.
 In addition to the 2.1% COLA increase retroactive to July 1, employees will receive a COLA increase each successive year on the contract, which is with a floor of 1% and a maximum of 5%. That's similar to what is in our other contracts. The agreement also sets the stage for,
 focusing on wellness in terms of an incentive and our health benefits plan, which we think is really important. As you know, we began the negotiations with a city court plan, as we currently have, with a 95-5% premium split, with the employees picking up 5%. In our discussions with council around our goals for healthcare, we needed to make a move. It's important to make that move.
 to encourage behaviors, healthy behaviors by employees to continue to decrease the rate of increase. It's not that the cost of healthcare won't continue to increase, but the lower that trend can be for the city, obviously the better it is for our bureaus and for our employees. But besides the monetary value, I think is the more important human value, the incentive plan,
 The component of it is that an employee needs to have the regular visits with their treating physician. We know from past experience that's hugely important. So many potentially even fatal conditions such as colon cancer have been caught early from employees having these visits, having the tests that they need. So literally this can save lives. What we negotiated with housing.
 was this incentive plan if an employee does not comply the premium share will increase to 10% to the employee and the city still paying 90%. We didn't have an interest in a great deal of difference because in essence our goal is that every employee will remain in that 95 plan and we will not have employees fall out of that.
 The other issue that we've put to the side but are going to be working on, and once this contract is ratified, be working on over the next, well I'm not sure how long it will take, certainly probably six months, is
 Looking at foreign language and what we need to do around incenting people who work here who are fluent in more than English. Looking at what we should be doing when we ask employees, as has happened in the Housing Bureau, to stop performing their regular job duties and assist in interpretation. Thank you.
 So because that's a citywide issue, what we agreed to with AFSCME is that we'd set up that work group to look at it citywide. We have a number of bureaus who have an interest in fluency in foreign languages and again, how we utilize the staff that we have. So that's a work group, a labor management work group that will be set up.
 over the next, well, be set up soon, but over the next, you know, six months to a year if it takes that long to come back with recommendations that then would be bargained with the individual units.
 I think that is really it. Oh, the one other thing I should mention, because housing was the first bargaining unit to agree to the incentive plan, the premium split, we also agreed with them, much as we did with CoP, if you might remember, who were the first union to come to an agreement a few years ago with a half 50% and agreeing to 50% COLA when we were still in the recession.
 We did agree with Housing that if we were to negotiate a more beneficial arrangement for employees, then we would come back to them with that so they are not at risk in terms of being out in front and having other unions have a deal that's more beneficial to employees. I think it's a very fair successor agreement. I'm really pleased that it was done before the contract expired. Thank you.
 Well done on that one. What's the status of the incentive program as to the elements of it? Where are we at with that? On the foreign language? No, for the health care. Well, what we put into the contract is it will be starting July 1, 2018. And so the labor ban, this, we have a unique contract.
 We have a somewhat unique situation because we do negotiate premiums in our collective bargaining agreement, but we have, as you know, a highly functioning labor management benefits committee
 that works on plan design. And so the plan design has been discussed with the LMBC, but eventually they will make the recommendations. But what we are looking at is again, as I said, starting now in 2018, start looking at, that's when we want to implement the plan, but it really, the design we're looking at is the regular visits to the treatment provider.
 Right, and I want to make that clear because those of us who have had spouses of the state system know the nightmare of their online classes and such, which don't work very well. So the proposal, but it's not yet been finalized by the LNBC, and would council approve it later? Yes, plan design changes come to council. One of the things the LNBC had looked at is that...
 They don't have a lot of interest to date anyway in the health assessment type questions or monitoring what activities employees are engaging in. We have discouraged that in part because it's an administrative burden on my benefits team. We also know from feedback from a few years ago from employees, they're not really interested in us sticking our nose into their business, so to speak, about that.
 One of the things that did come out, in fact, in the LMBC that Commissioner Novick attended is
 That health assessment questionnaire that's used for some of the wellness incentive plans might be a useful tool for an employee or the dependent to fill out and take to their doctor as really a script to talk to their physician about their health issues, what's going on, what kind of things they're trying to do because most of us, I think, have a lot of trouble figuring out what questions and remembering the questions we want to ask our doctor when we go.
 Essentially, though, the elements of what we needed to get the incentive percentage, the compliance, that will be finalized before 2018. Oh, yes. And it hasn't been yet? No, it has not been yet. Okay. Other questions? I should mention Rob Wheaton is here, and I think he's going to speak on this issue as well. Okay. Yes. All right. Other questions for our bargaining team? Okay. Then let's hear from Local 989. Come on up. Okay.
 You want me to stay so you're not alone? No, I'm fine. I don't have that issue. So I'm Rob Wheaton with AFSCME Local 189, as I just introduced myself. You know, I would like to say we approach this negotiations prioritizing three things, three values. One was diversity. The second was equity. And the third was fostering a cooperative relationship.
 I wish I could say that we were successful on all those fronts. I don't think that we were. Regarding diversity, we did push for a language premium and although we have formed a committee, we don't think that that's a necessary step. We think that this is nothing innovative.
 22 years ago and the City of Portland wasn't one of the only public employers that doesn't recognize its employees from a diverse cultural background by paying a language differential, that would be something. But it's not. It's 2015. There's plenty of other policies that we can cut and paste and implement here at the City. We don't need to spend a year with an LMBC process. As far as values go,
 Equity. We were attempting to add what is called a deep classification series to a number of the classifications that are represented at the Portland Housing Bureau. The deep classification series is actually like Cheyenne Scott, your chief negotiator, is part of. The labor relations coordinator is a deep classification series. Just recently they hired an employee into that series with absolutely no experience. This is a good thing. This is a good thing. It allows you to recruit from a diverse workforce
 develop the skills from within the position, promote and advance from within the employers ranks. We like this program. We would like to see the successes at human resources duplicated in other bureaus throughout the city such as the Portland Housing Bureau. As you may know, the Human Resources is one of the most diverse bureaus throughout the city. And we think it's programs like this that make it so.
 The irony with the deep class series is that many of the classifications that we're asking to have deep class series designation were previously deep class series. They lost it when they chose to exercise their collective bargaining rights.
 when they chose to join a union and they had the housing title added to them. So if you're a program coordinator, you are part of a deep class series unless you work at the housing bureau and are represented by a union, in which case you're not, which we find kind of heartbreaking. And finally you know, we're disappointed with our inability to
 build or foster a more cooperative relationship. Our proposal with the wellness plan, it's something that we absolutely and full, we agree at AFSCME, we push for it at the state of Oregon. We push for it throughout other employers around the state. We were hoping that we can use the COPEA success from King County, one of the models that we modeled after, one of the models of a wellness plan to help implement something that could work for all employees here.
 Not only were we rejected in this idea, we didn't have our concerns even addressed in the proposals. Concerns such as this incentive. The incentive is actually a doubling of healthcare premiums if the employees don't see a physician. According to every study I have, the RAND Corporation did a study, 2% of employers opt to have a penalty only approach such as the city is using. According to a journal of health policy and wellness,
 It suggests that the prudent employer uses a carrot and stick approach, a blended approach, because it has actually improved results in having people actually see their physician and having follow through with, you know, good medical practices afterwards.
 So, we're pretty disappointed with it. We ended up accepting this agreement because the pressure to have it done before we expired, so we can have a fully retroactive COLA. The fact that it's only 17 employees and it's economically where we need it. We just wished it would have reflected our, what we thought were shared values with the city of Portland. So, we reluctantly accept it and would urge you to ratify this agreement as well. Questions?
 Thanks, Rob. Okay. Other questions for Anna? Looks like she has something she wants to add. Yes, I do. Thank you, Mayor. I do want to point out a couple things. One is the vote on this contract from the employees was unanimous.
 all 17 eligible voters did vote for it. Second, the Housing Bureau is one of our more diverse bureaus. I'm very proud of the fact that they are 36% people of color in that bureau, which is excellent. So while we certainly do share those values, it's not a case where the bureau has not made excellent strides and it's something to be proud of.
 The last point around King County is that is a plan that shifts the cost to the sickest members who participate in the health care. That has not been the city's value.
 It's something we have talked to council about and I think we have agreement that people who need medical care should not bear the full cost of that and that is exactly one of the things the King County Plan does. So if you don't have to use the services, there is no premium share but the out-of-pocket costs really hit the sickest members of that population and that's one of many reasons why we have not looked at that plan very favorably.
 So I just wanted to clarify that. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate those points. Okay. Any further questions for staff? Then this is an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote, please. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank Bureau of Human Resources, Cheyenne Scott, Leslie Goodloe from the Housing Bureau, and Anna Canwitt, and AFSCME 189.
 for coming to this agreement and Miss Scott congratulations having unanimous support for your first agreement you negotiated I think this is a good fair agreement, and I think that's evidenced by the unanimous Ratification of it. I know Vic I will vote for this agreement, but I do have some concerns about it I agree wholeheartedly with the idea of shifting to a model will provide incentives for engaging in healthy behaviors and
 But as Mr. Wheaton said, I would rather move to that model in the context where we're offering carrots and sticks rather than just sticks. And I have some concern about adopting this model first in the context of a very small unit. I'm glad that there's a me too clause that if they were more favorable terms for the rest of the city employees, this unit will be able to buy into them. But I still wish that we had a broader discussion with all of our employees against this model before taking this move.
 I also have to say that I actually have a different recollection of the LMBC meeting that Ms. Canaway referred to where we talked about the possibility in the future of adopting, in addition to, you know, visit your doctor rules, the possibility of having an
 employees' health self-assessment, plus perhaps a commitment to engage in certain healthy behaviors other than just going to your doctors, such as the state has and King County has. I thought that there was some receptiveness in the LMBC to considering that option. So I wouldn't want...
 the council to think that we should dismiss the idea of having somewhat different incentive model. So, again, I wholeheartedly agree we should move to a model where we have incentives for engaging in healthy behaviors. I think that we should have a discussion in the future about what exactly that model should be. I mean, this is one model, but there are others. And...
 I do think that the next time we do this, we should have some sort of combination of carrots and sticks. I will note that ASME, at least, has a contract with the state, and I believe that Mayor de Blasio has negotiated an agreement with New York City employees where they set health care cost targets for the government. And if...
 the employees and the city together or the government together are able to beat those targets, then some of the savings are shared with employees in terms of increased salaries. And I think that's a very interesting model to explore. All right.
 Well, thank you to the team on both sides for negotiating this agreement. Obviously, the health care issue is one that affects us all. Let's remember that our health care costs have done better in the city over the last six years than the general public. And, Commissioner, I would say that we actually do have an incentive program. It's the wellness program. So we've had lots of carrots and opportunities for city employees to be assisted in health,
 engaging in more healthy behaviors, including the program that we did in the height of the recession to do blood tests and blood pressure monitoring and all those good things, along with counseling at various opportunities in various places around the city. I think it's probably at this point in time, especially in light of the Affordable Care Act and not wanting to get dinged for having a Cadillac policy, we've had the carrots, and I think that it might be worth it.
 having a stick or two. Of course, we will all get to discuss what's in that program, which is why I asked that question, and I'm looking forward to a very robust discussion of that.
 Thank you to everybody for this labor agreement, and congratulations for getting it done before the contract expires. I don't think I remember the last time that we did that, and it's partly due to your leadership, Ms. Canweth, that you have been very firm that there needs to be a consequence if contracts are not done on time, and I appreciate your doing that in the last set of rounds, and it's showing fruit now. Aye. Nails. Thank you. Aye. Okay, let's try to get our last three items done, and then we'll take a break. Item 811. Thank you.
 Approve recommendations made by the Children's Levy Allocation Committee for grant funding July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2017. Commissioner Salzman. Thank you, Mayor. I'm pleased to bring today before you and seek your approval of additional funding for the children's services provided through the Portland Children's Levy.
 Due to increased property tax revenue, the five-person allocation committee has made funding decisions to allocate an additional $8.1 million in funding to organizations providing proven programs over the next two years. These allocations include expansion of Head Start programming, as well as funds for child abuse prevention and intervention programs.
 programs that help foster kids succeed, and additional funding for after-school programming and hunger relief. Here to give a quick PowerPoint overview is our Assistant Director of the Allocation Committee, or I'm sorry, of the Portland Children's Levy, Meg McElroy. Good afternoon, and thanks for having me. I just wanted to make sure before I get started that you all have access to what was Exhibit C and the materials prepared for you as it lists the specific grant allocations, and if not, I have extra copies if anyone needs one. Thank you.
 Exhibit C? Exhibit C, yes. Got it. Great, thanks. Everybody have it? Yeah. Okay, got it. Perfect. Perfect.
 So as Commissioner Saltzman noted, this is before you to approve the allocation committee's decisions made over the course of this spring. Our allocation committee is a five-member public board that is required as part of the ballot that approves the children's levy. It consists of Commissioner Saltzman, Chair Kofori of Multnomah County, Julie Young, who is a city-appointed representative,
 Serena Stoudemire Wesley, who is a citizen appointed by the county, and Mitch Horniker, who's a representative of the Portland Business Alliance. Just a little bit of background about the levy. It was created in 2002 and renewed in 2008, and again in 2013, overwhelmingly each time. It's a five year levy, and 95% of the revenues that it collects are granted competitively to services in our community for children.
 It is audited annually and the levy has three main goals that were adopted by the allocation committee. To prepare children for school, to support children's success inside and outside of school, and to reduce racial and ethnic disparities in children's well-being and school success outcomes in our community.
 So last spring, you all approved the allocation committee's funding decisions that was based on a year-long process of competitive grant applications informed by community input. And you approved those grants in our program areas of early childhood, child abuse prevention intervention, foster care, hunger relief, after school, and mentoring.
 At that time, the allocation was $32.8 million over three years for fiscal year 14-15 through fiscal year 16-17, and those grants are renewable for two more years through the end of the current levy.
 As Commissioner Saltzman said, we received revised revenue projections from the city economists that indicated that we had an additional $8.1 million between fiscal year 14-15 and fiscal year 16-17 to allocate. So over the course of the spring, the allocation committee
 was asked by staff to look at, or they asked staff to look at what was done in prior levy periods with unanticipated additional revenues. So we provided that context. And so some of the things that we did in the past were the same types of things that they decided to do again, and I'll get into those in a minute. And then they also asked us to revisit the 2014 applications and to look at a handful of
 criteria around whether to consider increasing grants that had been made in 2014 or funding applications that hadn't received funding in that time. So those are kind of the major categories of funding that was decided upon for the $8.1 million. So there are COLAs that were provided to current grantees for fiscal year 15, 16, and 17.
 There's expanded Oregon Pre-K Head Start slots in our community at $2.5 million for the next two years. There is a child care affordability initiative for low-income families that we had previously funded but was reduced from funding when revenues from the levy decreased during the pandemic.
 economic downturn few years ago. There is increased specific funding for increasing some of our current grants. Those are listed on the Exhibit C that I asked you to have available for your reference.
 There were some allocations made to grants that were, excuse me, to applications that were submitted in the 2014 funding process but not funded at that time. And then there was some set aside for some work for all of our grants to receive technical assistance support and training around quality improvement of the services that they currently provide as well as some set aside for work with some of our system partners such as Multnomah County and the many.
 uh... systems that we interact with uh... with the types of services that we fund so at the end of this uh... decision-making process of the allocation committee has conducted so including this new eight point one million dollars uh... this is there's a the following breakdown is kind of how the total amount of money uh... from the levy is being allocated to the different program areas that we have so thirty percent of revenues are being allocated to early childhood nineteen percent child abuse prevention intervention
 17% to after school programs, 10% to programs in our foster care program area, 9% to mentoring programs, and 8% to hunger relief. 38% of funding are, is allocated to culturally specific services. 36% to services that serve families that reside and or attend school east of 82nd Avenue.
 Less than 1%, 0.6, to our training professional development and quality improvement efforts with all of our grantees, and a quarter of a percent in the system building and supporting system partners. And these are the awesome logos of the organizations that we support. So any questions? Questions for Megan. Great report. Thank you very much. You're welcome. I don't believe there's anyone here to speak on this item, but I want to check on that to make sure.
 And then if not, we'll take a vote, please. We'll call vote. Saltzman. Thanks, Meg, for sticking around. And appreciate the support of the voters for the Portland Children's Levy and this opportunity to invest an additional $8 million in critically needed services for young people in our city. Aye. Novick. It's a shame to have such a small crowd for this item. But thank you very much, Commissioner Saltzman. Thanks to the voters. Thanks to you for your good work. Aye. Thank you.
 When taxpayers are getting their property tax bills in November, it's good to remember that this is the kind of services that those shock increases are funding and that this money came in. I'm particularly glad to see the allocation for cost of living adjustments for the grantees. And I suggest that in the future now that you've moved to doing multi-year grants that you build that in an expectation that there will be cost of living adjustments.
 We had done that for years in the past until the economic downturn forced us to reduce so much of our funding to our grants. But, yes, thank you. So you will return to that practice? As long as revenue is allowed, that's an anticipated assumption on the part of staff to continue moving that direction. Right. Of course, during the recession, we found we didn't get much cost. There wasn't much of an inflation. So I think...
 Whatever city workers get, our contracted workers should get. Of course, with $15 an hour, we've done it the other way around. It is definitely considering the same principle of fairness to people who do really great work. And that's the other part of this ordinance is it reminds us about these great folks in the community doing wonderful things for children. Aye. Niels? Well, I just want to thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, and the staff of the Children's Levy for...
 just a thoughtful allocation of these new resources pretty consistent with the approach that you and the Children's Levy team have taken. And I also want to appreciate your constant diligence about making sure that the huge
 preponderance of these dollars go out into actual services and that we keep the costs of administration and overhead and even these training and professional development expenses very carefully under control so that a huge preponderance of the resources that the voters have approved are going to the purposes the voters intended them to go for.
 So I think that quality of administration deserves to be called out as well as the thoughtfulness of allocation and making sure that we really are making a difference. The more we look at issues that we're addressing in the city...
 the need to get upstream, whether it's mental health and the impact on the police bureau or nutrition and the impact on kids' propensity to succeed in school or otherwise in life and everything else that the children's levy does. This is really working smarter on the taxpayer's behalf, and we've earned the confidence of the people that vote for the levy again and again. But you have to keep doing that every day, and I'm certainly satisfied that that's what this represents. So thank you. All right.
 Okay. Good work. Let's deal with 8.07. No, sorry, wrong one. 8.12. Amend intergovernmental agreement with TriMet for the Eastside Street Car Close the Loop Betterment Project and increase authorization by $100,000 for safety improvements and settlement repair. Commissioner Novick. Okay.
 Colleagues, in December 2012, the City entered into an IGA with TriMet for the Close the Loop project to complete the full streetcar loop of the Central City. During the course of the work, PBOT has identified additional safety enhancements, including guardrails at the OMSI Streetcar Station, that we think are necessary but the cost of which is not incorporated in the original IGA.
 PBOT would pay for what we're asking for here is simply to increase the authorization within the IGA by $100,000. PBOT can pay for this work within the 15-16 adopted budget. It's not asking for additional funds, only budget authority under the IGA. Have I got that right, Kyle? Yes, you do. Kyle Chizik with the Bureau of Transportation. This is for some repair work that's underneath the structure.
 that connects to the Amsi Street Station and also for the additional guardrail. Basically what we're asking for is authority under the IGA to pay TriMet when they invoice us. The existing work, the work on the Amsi Street Station, the reason we had that larger amount of $100,000 in there
 Was because we were worried that the storm line that dry that drains the bridge actually was damaged by some settlement we've been able to get in there since then and have been able to scope the Sewer line as storm sewer line. It doesn't appear to be damaged. So we think we'll actually spend significantly less than than that full amount but we Won't know completely until we're in there any other questions. I
 Anyone want to speak on this item? Then let's take a vote, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thank you for your work. Aye. Hales? As it happens, while we were having this morning's council meeting, we got the latest economic impact report from Portland Streetcar that shows that $4.5 billion in market value has been created along the streetcar line since 1998, an extraordinary return on investment.
 and the money that we're now investing in closing the loop is going to pay off just as handsomely. Looking forward to that. Aye. Okay, let's do 813, please.
 amend contract with Greenworks PC to 343 thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars to complete design and construction Documentation for Couch Park as part of the parks replacement bond program commissioner Fritz Thank You mayor this ordinance is part of implementing the parks bond passed by voters last year. Thank you very much and
 And the Cooch Park Playground was one of the signature projects that we highlighted to show the need for the bond. In fact, I was very grateful that the bond is available because it's definitely a very well-used playground. And Greenworks, Parks uses many outside consultants to complete design and construction documents for park projects. Greenworks PC is next in line for an on-call design contract, but the contract needs to be amended to account for the amount of the contract.
 So Mary Ann Kasson, the park's bond manager, will provide more details about this ordinance. Thank you, Mayor Hill, members of the council. My name is Mary Ann Kasson. I am the park's replacement bond manager and with me is Lauren Nath. She is with the Friends of Cooch Park Playground. The ordinance before you today is crafted out of a desire to be responsive to the community's quest for expediency.
 Even before the equipment was removed in May of 2014, we were aware of how traumatic it would be to have the neighborhood lose their play equipment. Candlelight vigils and children's notes on the fence made it clear to us that this was a much beloved community amenity despite its dangerous condition.
 Cooch Park became a poster child for why a park's bond was necessary, and being able to replace it expeditiously will help us show the community that their trust in us was well placed.
 Securing this design team today will save nearly four months that would take for an RFP process, which contributes to nearly a year saved overall because we will be able to construct in the summer months. That translates to approximately $60,000 in cost escalation savings. The consultant team has been working with us to refine the scope, and they've assembled an exemplary group of subconsultants to engage in the group.
 including five of the eight subs with MWESB credentials. Thank you. Want to add anything to that? Sure. Lauren Nathie, Friends of Cooch Playground, MLC parent, and I'm here to speak in support and to be in support of this for the parks to move forward as expeditiously and thoughtfully as possible. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your advocacy. Questions? Yes.
 Anyone else wants to speak on this item? Doesn't look like it. So let's take a vote, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Those pesky voters are proving that bond and creating all this additional work. Aye. Thank you for your partnership in being here, and, Marianne, for your leadership of this entire challenge and opportunity. Aye. Thank you.
 Well, this is a great case of community advocacy and the city responding, so I just want to celebrate this. I've heard from a lot of kids that care about Cooch Park, as we all have, so it's nice that we can deliver for them. Mary Ann, it would make your long title, Park Replacement Bond Project Manager, even longer, but based on my experience with you, I think we should redesignate you as the Irreplaceable Parks Replacement Bond Project Manager.
 So it's nice to have you back in this capacity. Thank you. All right. Thank you very much, and we're recessed until 2 p.m.
 Good afternoon, everybody, and welcome to the afternoon session of the Portland City Council for July 29th. Would you please call the roll? Seltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Fish? Hales? Here. Commissioner Fritz should be joining us momentarily, and Commissioner Fish is out of town. Good afternoon.
 So welcome, everyone. This is the continuation of the hearing on the Southeast Quadrant Plan, part of an effort that a lot of you in this room have been involved in for some time. And, in fact, part of the larger effort to update our comprehensive plan that will be completed over the next year.
 As I said last time, we gathered on this. This is really a big deal. It's an exciting time for the Central East Side and for the Central City as well as the rest of our community just because of the growth and change and dynamism that we have underway in our city. So the whole purpose of this kind of a planning effort is to try to manage change to get things
 the change that we want and keep the things that we want to keep. And those are, frankly, a struggle in our city, and it's certainly a difficult set of problems in the Central East side. But we think that the Southeast Quadrant Plan team have done a good job and that the blueprint for change that we have in front of us is a good one. There's still more work to do and there are more people to hear from today. So we heard from a diverse group of people at the July 8th hearing recently
 You know, I think one of the things that was impressive to me about this process is the high level of agreement we've reached even on issues like transportation in the Central East Side, where we've had pretty sharp divisions of opinion in the past. So, again, we don't think that everything has reached 100 percent unanimity here, but there's an awful lot of agreement. And I want to thank everybody involved in the planning process and commend, again, our team from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability here.
 for creating that kind of environment where people have been able to come together and work out a lot of issues. We have some responses to some of the things that we heard in previous hearing in the form of amendments today, so we'll be taking those up in a few minutes. Again, we're going to give people a chance to speak who were signed up last time and did not get a chance to do so, as well as others who may be here today.
 So, with that, I think I'll call on Sally Edmonds and the team from the Bureau to start us off. And I know Patrick Quinton and folks from PDC are here queued up as well. So Sally, thank you. Sally Edmonds Excuse me, Mayor. I haven't read the title yet. Mayor Redekop You sure haven't. Go ahead, please. Sally Edmonds Sure. Item 814, adopt the Southeast Quadrant Plan as direction for updating the Central City Plan. Mayor Redekop Thank you. Now, Sally. Sally Edmonds Yes, hold. Mayor Redekop We're legally able to ask you to speak.
 Okay. Good afternoon, council members. I'm Sally Edmonds, and I manage the Central City River and Environmental Teams at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Before we get started, I just wanted to point out that the Southeast Quadrant Plan is part of a larger effort to update the Central City 2035 Plan. And once this is complete, our next step is to dig into the details and put together the policies and the code and everything to go along with it.
 We there will be a number of other opportunities for the public to be involved as we do that. We plan to have some open houses in November and December with the first draft of that, of that package.
 So anyway, so today we'd like to begin by presenting some additional information regarding the basis for expanding the employment opportunity sub area in the Central East Side. Analysis conducted by BPS and PDC support this expansion as the best way to address workspace demands for all sectors within the Central East Side and as a means to create space for the employment increases that are projected.
 uh... in this district so uh... i'd like to turn it over to uh... uh... pc director patrick went in thanks a lot uh... good afternoon mayor hales commissioners uh... happy to be here to to uh...
 provide a little context kind of from the PDC perspective on what we're seeing in the local economy and how that relates to the proposal before you. Before I do that, though, I want to take the opportunity with the mic to really express my gratitude for the great work of the BPS staff on all this, on all the Southeast Quad work, all the comprehensive plan work. They've been working on this for many, many years. What we're talking about today is an incredibly thoughtful proposal.
 that I think, and I'll share that in a second, I believe effectively balances the interests of a variety of stakeholders here.
 And they got to this point through very extensive review and analysis of data on the local economy, on what's going on in the district, as well as broad outreach to many stakeholders over many years. We at PDC have been partnering with BPS on this work as kind of one set of eyes and ears on what's going on in the economy, and we do think this is responsive to what we're seeing across a variety of business sectors.
 So I think we all know why there's so much interest in this topic and it's because despite many constraints, essentially, SIDE is an incredible success. It is home to roughly 17,000 jobs. It's either the densest job district or one of the densest job districts in the state.
 And this density, this job density has evolved over the years or grown over the years because it's home to so many sectors. If we were just a kind of single sector district, you wouldn't see this kind of concentration of jobs, you wouldn't see this kind of firm growth. It so truly hasn't been one sector dominating this district, it's been kind of the interplay of the sectors that's made its work, that's made the district work.
 But we're at a point now, and this is one of the things that PDCC sees in our work, is that unless we figure out a way to provide incentives for new commercial industrial space to be developed, I think job growth is going to plateau pretty much across all sectors. And the reason that is is that we're really at the limit of what private –
 investors are going to invest in terms of projects. They really do need to see a return if they're going to take on whole building renovation, if they're going to take on new construction. And we do have
 underdeveloped parcels not just buildings in the central east side as we get closer to the light rail alignment that really do offer the opportunity to create a lot of new industrial space for the district but there needs to be incentive for investment to to occur and you know the current overlay doesn't doesn't
 And, you know, we don't need to get into economics 101 too deeply, but I think we all know with a fixed supply or a pretty constrained supply, it's highly unlikely that rents are going to go down and it's quite likely given what we see in the economy.
 And in terms of demand, that rents will continue to go up under the current framework. So really, I do think we're in a position in which some kind of change is needed in order to meet the demand. And once again, that's demand across all sectors. It's not just talking about demand for office space, whatever.
 But what's nice about this is that we truly do, if you once again ask the planning staff, how many places around the city can you make changes to the zoning and have a pretty clear path to development of new space across, once again, a range of sectors and job creation like we have here in the Central East Side? I mean, Tyler is going to walk through the projections in a second, and obviously none of this is guaranteed, but there's reasonable assumptions that these changes can add over the next,
 20 years, about 12 million square feet of space, including about 25% of that is new industrial space and about 9,000 jobs. That's over a 50% increase in the job base of this district.
 I think we would all choose to have that outcome if we could magically wave our wand and say yes, and how that job growth occurs, the kind of job growth obviously is part of what we're talking about today, but I think we can all agree that this is an opportunity we should be taking advantage of and it's not really about choosing one industry over another.
 All industries suffer if we don't figure out a way to attract new development into the district. I do think we benefit a range of industries if we can make these kind of changes because they do incent both new industrial development as well as other types of development. I just want to end on just two things. First one, I don't know if you've heard this, but I don't know if you've heard this,
 I don't want to give the impression that we just say let the market work and it will take care of itself. So we shared with you in advance of your last hearing a table of all the assistance that we provided to businesses on the Central East Side. There's about 25 businesses over I believe the last eight or nine years.
 That includes direct financial assistance as well as access to programs like the Oregon Manufacturing Extension Partnership, which provides lean technical assistance to manufacturing firms. We provide the enterprise zone is available to companies in this district. And when you look at the companies that we've worked with, it's, once again, it's across this range of sectors that, you know,
 you know that that classify as you know traditional industrial craft manufacturing non-manufacturing it so it so there's there's a range of companies that we work with and we are committed to continuing to do that as long as we do we have the the them the money in the tools available to do that and I know that
 There are two amendments that have been proposed that we're supportive of to take a look at what else can be done to support the small manufacturing, craft manufacturing in the district as well as citywide. And we do think that should be a priority to make sure that we continue to think about how we make Portland a home for manufacturing, particularly small manufacturing. Which leads me to my last point, which is...
 We need to be having this conversation about the entire city. It's essentially a sign of success and I think there's a lot more job growth that we can get out of it, but we're not going to be able to meet the demand
 for space for jobs to be created on the Central East side, and it's all sectors. So this can't be the end of the conversation. This is the closest industrial neighborhood to downtown. It's obviously in high demand, and we should do our best to maximize job density across all sectors. But we really do need to be thinking about how we get that growth to occur in East Portland and in North Portland and other places, and I'm not just talking about –
 small manufacturing firms are talking about design firms, creative firms. We need to be expanding the conversation about what the city is doing to help the firms that we're talking about here on the Central East Side because eventually, no matter what we do, we aren't going to have enough space and we need to make sure that we're thinking about how the next
 The next place where companies go is ready like Lentz or or or Cully or elsewhere so You know we're hopeful that this is going to move through because we do think it's it's gonna It's gonna mean a lot to the broader business community But we also want to continue the conversation about how we make all of Portland a home for small small companies small manufacturers Thank you. Thank you
 Thank you. Well, before you transition on to Tyler, I mean, bear down on that issue a little bit and get you to, as you make your presentation, Tyler, reflect on this and maybe Patrick talk about it some more when he concludes, and that is,
 We've heard a strong interest not only in growth in the Central Eastside but also in retention. Ken Klock is here. He gave the council a letter, which we all have, that a lot of the existing manufacturers in the district remain concerned about the continuing viability of manufacturing in the district. We heard that from Kelly Roy and the Portland Made group.
 group as well. So I guess I want you, as you give us this economic analysis, to look at both scenarios of with and without the overlay. What are our prospects for both growth and retention?
 in each scenario because I think everyone involved wants both, right? Debbie Kitchen's here. I think the Central Eastside Industrial Council wants – we want to both retain the employers and particularly the makers and manufacturers that are there now. That's a struggle because costs are rising. So what are these strategy choices in front of us –
 portend in our ability to do that we're trying to see around that corner together here about which of these approaches will best both facilitate the growth that you talked about and that rightly is a concern of the comp plan and therefore this piece of the comp plan but also we care about retention so what are our prospects and what are the trade-offs if any
 if we do adopt the recommendation that's in front of us of expanding the EOSO-related, basically the entire industrial part of the district. Do you want me to tackle that one now or wait? Start now. Yeah, I mean, when we say job growth, it's easier to retain a job than it is to grow a job. So when we say growth, it's assuming that we maintain our base. It's not like we maintain every job because there's always –
 different things that impact company success. So absolutely the goal is to maintain companies there. I think this is a common sense approach because we will provide more opportunities for companies to expand in the district.
 and provide more opportunities for companies that want to locate in districts to locate, so they're not all competing for the same limited supply of space. So I think there's a retention aspect to this as well, but the other piece is there's,
 I think everyone jumps to the cost as being the primary reason why companies locate elsewhere, but I also think what's driving companies that expand into other industrial areas in the city is that they can't find the space they need. So companies that are successful and need to go from 5,000 to 10,000 square feet or 10,000 to 20,000 square feet, it's not an easy task to just go find 20,000 square feet of space, industrial space, and essentially sign. And that's...
 That's not because somehow it's all been gobbled up by other companies. It's because there's no incentive right now for anybody to develop that space. It really is a constrained market. So companies are able to find bigger spaces in places like the Northwest Industrial Area and other places. If you go there, it's a somewhat different pattern. It's got bigger lots. It has bigger buildings. So that's what we're seeing. We're seeing companies finding bigger spaces elsewhere in the city
 And, you know, from where I sit, that's not necessarily a bad thing. I don't like, that was my last point is if they go from the central east side and they expand and they end up in the northwest industrial area, I think we should be somewhat indifferent to that as long as they're still prospering, they can still track the employees they need. But if what they really want to do is expand in place or expand in the same neighborhood, then I think we do need to figure out how to grow the supply of space.
 All the while being attentive to what is happening with lease rates in the district. And so I share everybody's concern in that we should not just step away and watch the market take over. If we do see that space is becoming increasingly unaffordable, even as supply increases, then I think we need to step in and either take action from either Laney's perspective or incentives, programs designed to make it more affordable.
 I mean, that's what I would say now, but we're operating in somewhat of an artificial environment right now, so the conversation is conceptual because it's just this bubble. Essentially, site is this kind of zoning bubble where we don't really know how much supply can be created if we allow it for more development of kind of mixed-use industrial space. So I think partially we're...
 We want to see what we can do to track that new supply. And so I think we're going to learn some stuff along the way as well.
 Thank you. Go ahead, Tyler, please. Sure. Thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm going to answer some questions that came up in the previous hearing and then address some of these retention growth issues going throughout these slides as well because I do think throughout the Southeast Quadrant Plan we have heard a lot of issues related to small business retention and industrial business and manufacturer retention in the district. We do have some proposals that have addressed those issues. I'll go through those as we go through the presentation.
 Just as a big framework here, the centrally side, when we think about employment districts in the context of the comprehensive plan update right now, and specifically the employment opportunity or the economic opportunities analysis, is the centrally side falls into the central city aggregate geography. So it's an industrial district, a central city industrial district that functions more as an incubator district and a mixed employment district. And as Patrick mentioned earlier, some of the larger industrial users that are in Columbus,
 Columbia East or some of our airport and harbor districts or even the Portland Harbor waterfront Have different building needs have different business needs that are more reflective of those specific geographies So in the central city geography this red line on the left side here is Really the job growth that were the 9,000 jobs that we're anticipating in the central east side So it's a small share about 20% of the overall job growth in the central city but a very very important part of that job growth because it is a mixed employment district for the central city and
 The Central East Side has really, as Patrick mentioned, performed extremely well throughout the previous business cycle from 2000 to 2008, as well as growing jobs during the recession. This was one of the only employment districts in the city that grew jobs during the recession. And it continues to have significant job growth in a post-recession recovery. From 2000 to 2008, the average annual growth rate for employment was 3.7% compared to 1.5%.
 0.1% citywide. So significantly more job growth has occurred in the Central East Side. That's across all industries. So a lot of growth has occurred in the sort of industrial office tenant type market. The industrial market, transportation distribution, what we kind of consider the traditional industrial users, has remained relatively flat. There's been a little bit of job growth, more firm creation, a lot of people doing businesses doing more with less space.
 creating more products with less employees. So there's been more firm creation. But compared to other industrial districts, it's performing really well, where we've seen decreases in manufacturing employment over the last 10 years or so.
 I want to go into the existing supply and the 2035 demand relative to what the proposed zone changes and the EOS overlay would accomplish in the Southeast Quadrant Plan. This is the demand, existing supply and demand by building type. So the 2035 demand is this sort of grayish bar there and the existing supply is the blue. And the orange line is the capacity increases that we would see as the result of the Southeast Quadrant Plan.
 That's a total theoretical. That's a total theoretical. That's looking at all of our vacant lots, that's looking at sites that are likely to redevelop. The majority, and I should note the majority of this big orange bar that you see here of capacity increases for office is really along some of the
 more the larger parcel parts of the Central East Side. So like OMSI has a lot of vacant surface parking lots. There's a lot of vacant lots that are around some of the new station areas and also in the Southern Triangle that has a lot of capacity and opportunity for economic development, employment development over the next 20 years. But what we see here specifically for industrial is that given the existing zoning pattern and what we see as demand for industrial uses.
 We won't be able to satisfy that demand if we leave the zoning as it is today. The proposal in the Southeast Quadrant Plan does a few things specific to address the industrial issues. One, it's reducing the retail allowances that are allowed by right in the current IG-1 zone, which frees up some theoretical capacity, Mayor, as you mentioned, for industrial uses in that sort of theoretical building envelope area.
 We're reducing the traditional office allowances as well. New development on vacant lots will have some industrial component to them. I think Patrick mentioned earlier, we are likely to see some sort of industrial office mixed use development type that's going to come into the central east side. We see some of that occurring right now, some of the projects that Beam has.
 There is the Pitman building at third and clay that has a lot of food manufacturers on the ground floor with offices above it. In the Northwest district we have the New York which is a multi-story industrial building. So I think as we transition and further intensify the uses of our land around the central city we will start to see more of that multi-story industrial office mixed employment development.
 Throughout the Southeast Quadrant proposal, we heard a few things. One was that, specifically from small manufacturers and some of the larger folks, is that industrial businesses are sometimes dirty and smelly and noisy. And so one of the things that we've done with the Southeast Quadrant plan is to put in a –
 industrial disclosure statement for the office employees in the district. So if an office moves in upstairs from an industrial user, there is an expectation there that that industrial activity is going to continue to occur. A lot of what we heard from small manufacturers that had moved from
 the Northwest District over to the Central East Side over the last 15 years, is that there were some conflicting use issues around noise and smell with some of the residential populations that moved into Northwest. So we were trying to get ahead of that for the industrial users and retain those businesses.
 and the ability for them to function in the district through that. One of the other things is really the focus on the freight strategy and the sort of separation of uses between the freight and active transportation in the district and the alignment in the transportation approach in the Southeast Quadrant Plan to be able to continue to move trucks through the district, continue to have deliveries, and to mitigate the impact between those users and make it a safe district for everybody to utilize.
 So from a retention perspective, I think those are two big things in the Southeast Quadrant Plan that we've heard and that we're responding to. And. The, the disclosure waivers also
 apply to residences that may be adjacent to the central east side? If they're in the district, yes. So it would be not users outside the district. Actually, it's worth noting that I think most, if not all, of the industrial properties are already buffered from the residential areas that are to the east. But if it's new residential development within a station area or along the main street corridors, they would also be subject to this disclosure statement. Like the Killian Pacific, the goat blocks,
 That's residential, right? Yes, that would be the type of project that would be subject to this. So I'm going to go into the rent levels. We've heard a lot about increasing lease rates and what's been happening functionally on the ground for a lot of these users in the district. These are a lot of crazy colored lines here, but the blue is the office, the sort of trends in office rates.
 The orange is industrial, the green is flex space, and the purplish color is retail. Pretty much all rates across building types have been steadily increasing over the last ten years or so. Significant increases, price increases for the office market in the last two years. We see that across the board that's putting more pressure on the supply of both industrial space and office space in the district. And the industrial lease rates are up to about $10 a square foot.
 which is fairly close to where they were. They got up to about $8, $9 a square foot on average just prior to the recession. And so really what's happening is our economy continues to improve in the recovery that these lease rates are starting to tick up past what they were in the previous boom cycle.
 And so this chart goes a little bit more into those lease rates relative to vacancy rates. The centrally side industrial vacancy rate is 1.5%. That is an extremely low vacancy rate, and those increasing prices are responding to that vacancy rate. There's more people that want to be in the district. There's more industrial users that want to be there. There's more industrial office users that want to be there. And so the Southeast Quadrant proposal in allowing flexibility of uses for industrial and office
 we're hoping will have some impact to reduce the cost pressures on some of the users that are currently in the district and Allow new users to come in as we anticipate this 9,000 new employees over the next 20 years So with that I think so let me just get you this pause there. I mean I Realize the central east side is is not very many equivalents of it to it anywhere in the country if any right other cities experience with adding capacity and
 in a market situation something like this? Any lessons to be learned from San Francisco or Brooklyn or, you know, any of these other hot markets where a convergence of tech and traditional manufacturing are all in a relatively confined space? Yeah, you know, there's some things been happening in different cities. I think we're being a little bit more conservative about what sort of uses we're really allowing in this district.
 A lot of those other cities have allowed residential uses by right in these industrial districts, which have dramatically transformed the landscape and the prices and really the speculation around land purchases that drive rents up. I know in cities that are more similar in a real estate economic perspective, Denver has done some interesting things.
 tried to address some of these price issues with an industrial mixed-use zone that's in their form-based code. They've succeeded in some areas and not in others, but they are starting to see some of this EOS-type development that we're talking about, and some of it's in the traditional industrial districts, and some of it's more in the sort of mixed-use office cores that are adjacent to downtown. So they do have a zone that seems to be working well and delivering a product in the market specific to Denver that I think is –
 It's something that we could be hopeful for here. Okay. Thank you. Questions? Troy? Go ahead, Troy. Well, as an offer, we did make some changes to the amendment table from the last one, and specifically to address these topics. So if you'd like, I could walk you through the changes to the amendments. Yes, please. Walk us through the proposed amendments. I think we'll need a motion at that point after you're done with that to put these additional amendments into consideration.
 You should have received a table and it would have the date 7-27-2015 on the top. On page two, the first change to the amendments from the last hearing are we're pulling Amendment 2, which was dealing with maker economy. However, that one's being replaced by two additional amendments, which I'll cover in a second.
 The next change is on page 3. There was Amendment 4, which was dealing with removing a master plan requirement for the Clinton Station area. We're going to keep the action as is, so we're going to pull that amendment entirely. So the master plan process would still be in play there. And then on page 6, you'll find Amendment 10 and 11 are really replacing that Amendment 2. So the first one is,
 looking at industrial space affordability, and the action calls for us to conduct a best practices study to understand how other cities are addressing the needs of manufacturers with a focus on but not limited to the ability to obtain affordable space, the economic growth of the sector and the local economy, and synergies with other industrial sectors and the role of government assistance.
 That would be, the implementers would be Portland Development Commission and BPS and that would be an ongoing study. We would start that sooner. It's actually, sorry, we amended this yesterday. We did change this. So the date would be to amend it with the plan 2016. So we'd be moving that up. We'd be doing this immediately. And then the second amendment is looking at
 really best practices strategies, research, and then developing that into new strategies. So we're taking what we learned from the First Amendment, putting it into practice with the second. That would be an ongoing process. So we would try to develop some strategies as soon as we've learned more in this next year or so. But I think we want to keep coming back to this over time and redeveloping our approaches as new techniques come along. And then the last amendment, Amendment 12, is just a modification to an action that's already in the plan.
 It deals with publicly accessible open space. The language here was crafted with Commissioner Fish's office and really what it's looking at is just kind of broadening what we mean by publicly accessible open space. It could be looking for opportunities to create open space on both public as well as privately owned land. It broadens the timeline for doing so and also includes a list of implementers that really are citywide in terms of city government and then also the private sector.
 So those are the only changes we have. Okay. Questions for Troy or others on the team about the proposed amendments? And then should we take a motion to put those under consideration for the council and take testimony on those as well? So is there a motion to accept these amendments for discussion? So moved. Second. Further discussion. Roll call, please. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Ritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Thank you.
 Okay. Thank you all. We'll take testimony and have you back. So, again, let's go to the sign-up sheet from folks who signed up before first. Okay. The first three I'll call are from the list previously. And if I don't call your name, please let me know. I have Doug Klotz, Tom Rocha, and Ryan Hashoggin. And then they'll be followed by Dana Krawczyk, Hatham Toulon, Riddard Schutten, and then Dave Ott.
 Okay, thank you. Doug, I think you're on first. Yes, hi, I'm Doug Klotz. I'm on the city pedestrian advisory committee and I represent that committee on the stakeholder advisory committee. And you have a letter from them. The pedestrian advisory committee supports the majority of the plan.
 We could not come to a consensus on the issue of housing at OMSI so we leave that aside But there's a lot of things we do support. We are concerned about the central east side Continuing to serve its role as providing jobs that are close in accessible by biking walking transit while it's still Acknowledging that there's a lot of pressure for people who want to live close in too, so we feel the plan is
 He's working toward balancing this. We're still out on the on the station issue. We support the EX designation in the Clinton Triangle. We support the changes that would add signals at various locations to optimize freight movement but would also benefit pedestrians such as Ankeny and Martin Luther King, Salmon at King, Grand, and 7th and enhanced crossings at 11th and 12th at Salmon and Harrison.
 We support the green loop, especially the two bridges, one at the north end of the pedestrian and bike bridge over I-84 around 7th and at the south end over from Martin Luther King across Division Street and the Union Pacific tracks down to the vicinity of the OMSI station parallel to the streetcar bridge.
 The ground floor character regulations are a new thing and we support those, especially since they do. They have been modified to ensure that pedestrian friendly building fronts are allowed along all the city walkway designated streets in the district. And the last thing, we urge the planting of the broadest street trees.
 the most spreading street trees to provide the most shade that will still fit within all the parameters of the industrial district and truck movements and so to work to decrease the heat island effect that is certainly pervasive at that district now and So we generally support the plan and we feel it was pretty it was a good process There was a lot of diverse opinions there and the staff did a pretty good job balancing that all out. It's a difficult issues I
 Great. Thank you. Thanks for your involvement in it as well. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Ryan Hashkin, and we operate a small manufacturing business in the Central East Side. We love the location, the proximity to our suppliers, and the ease of freight access. We ship and receive freight daily from all of the major freight carriers, YRC, SCs, USF Right-of-Way, SIA. And all of our staff also bike to work, walk to work, or take transit. Great.
 By biking and taking transit to work, our staff frees up space for freight deliveries and for freight shipments. One of the biggest drawbacks of this location, though, in the Central East Side, is the lack of safe, all-ages active transportation routes through the district for our staff.
 I feel that active transportation and freight are not in conflict in our neighborhood. The freight drivers we work with on a daily basis are courteous and professional operators. The conflict and delay in freight shipments that we see is from typically single occupancy vehicle congestion, parking, and lack of traffic management. Please support the Green Loop and other active transportation improvements in the Central East Side so our staff and others can walk, bike, and transit to our neighborhood and free up space for freight delivery and pickup.
 As I said, the Central East Side is great for our business because of the central location. We appreciate the diversity of nearby businesses that allow us to make work trips on foot or by bike. And we'd like to see more active transportation infrastructure to make doing business safer and traveling the neighbor safer. We specifically ask you to look also at the last-minute amendments like Amendment No. 4 and to continue to support Vision Zero and prioritize active transportation investments in the neighborhood while also balancing the needs of freight.
 I also ask you to look at Amendment No. 7 and not to classify Northeast Davis as a major truck street. That street is where our business is located, and it's classified as a city bikeway in the 2030 Master Plan. It's a crucial east-west route. It's one of the only safe routes to get from the Burnside Bridgehead area through the District East-West, and it's one of the only signalized crossings of MLK and Grand. One other note on the industrial affordability, I'd like to...
 mention as well and mention about mixed-use industrial space.
 I used to run our business in Vancouver, B.C., and there they have a similar area that became the Olympic Village. It was the False Creek industrial area. What they did there was they created industrial condos and live work spaces where you actually have retail on the ground floor, but then a variety of industrial condos up above. These were much more affordable as a business owner or as a business operator than any other business location.
 The other nice thing about the Vancouver, B.C. example is that they made an emphasis on different size footprints. A lot of times we hear about creating industrial spaces 5,000, 10,000, 20,000 square feet. But if you really want that startup, that entrepreneurial maker space, I'd encourage you to look at the smaller footprints and formalize that in code, the 500 to 5,000 square foot spaces. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor. Tom Rocca from Seven Hills Properties. We've been developing up here for approximately the last 10 or 12 years, have a few projects going on the inner east side.
 California and San Francisco. I've heard the other, this, this argument previously down in San Francisco. Our company is, is based actually south of Market. Mm-hm. And we've seen significant changes there over the last 28 years that we've been located there. Mm-hm. I come, first of all, I want to thank staff for doing a wonderful job on the presentation of this. It's been,
 really interesting and really good to see the work that's gone in, excuse me, and the product that's come out. I think they're to be commended for their work. We basically agree with everything, but we really want to support the extended EOS over all of the
 It's good for the district. I think any time you limit supply, and we saw that in the early 90s in San Francisco, that it drove. There's some other intrinsic factors south of market that aren't similar to the east side, but it did drive up prices. The other thing is I think that I've never seen it work where industry didn't pick how the mixes went in a mixed-use district, which is what we're trying to do here. And I think by
 codifying areas as solely IG and not EOS over the whole thing, people outside of the industries are going to be picking the mixes, and that usually doesn't work too well. Personal experience in that, but I think it's something that's worth considering, and we would support the EOS extension over the IG fully. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? Thank you all very much. Okay. Let's take the next three, please.
 The next three are Dana Kroschek, Haitham Tulan, and Rinder Chutin. And then the last person on the previous sign-in would be Dave Ott. We'll call in a moment.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, counselors, Dana Krafchak. I'm here actually on behalf of two different people. First, Ecotrust LLC. They've submitted testimony, and Sam Beebe is here if you have any questions. As you know, they have an innovative food manufacturing project called the Red on Salmon, and they are in favor of the expansion of the EOS. Thank you.
 Secondly, I'm here on behalf of Haitham Toulon, who you will hear from next. And he's going to describe his vision for his really outstanding property that's located at 306 Southeast Ivan. That's in the southern portion of the OMSI station area. And you'll hear from him his vision for an iconic project that's employment-driven, engages the water, multimodal,
 What we're here to talk about, or what I'm here to talk about, the testimony that was previously submitted and you have has a few images because really it is worth a thousand words. It's an amazing piece of property. It's three acres, currently undeveloped, so you're not going to have any displacement issues. 300 lineal feet of waterfront, a terrific beach opportunity. It's where the Greenway Trail goes. This is really...
 like I said, an iconic development opportunity, one that shouldn't be missed. We were initially concerned that the recommended plan was unduly narrow in terms of the opportunities on this site, that it was a one-size-fit-all approach that didn't recognize the opportunities in a three-acre undeveloped site. We've worked closely with BPS staff, council staff, mayor staff, and have come to understand, and I think as the mayor said, there is more work to be done.
 And in that next phase of more work to be done, we understand that BPS staff is going to remain, maintain some flexibility in terms of the intensity and types of uses that are appropriate on unique sites like this. And that's something that we support. And we request your affirmative direction to allow for that nimbleness with BPS staff.
 Patrick Quinton said, you know, we need incentive for development to occur, particularly on a complicated, contaminated, large site like this. So I think through this more refined co-drafting process that we'll have plenty of public review, that's the time to really evaluate what's appropriate for this site. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners. My name is Hytham Toulon. I am a managing partner of OSB Toulon Management.
 I wrote a short blurb and I'll try to stay on it. So I believe we have the opportunity to create a building that supports Portland's people, Portland's economy, Portland's environment. Today I'm here to ask for continued planning. The problem is there's an undeveloped parcel on the east bank of the Willamette.
 Three acres, 300 lineal feet, 45,000 square feet of a DSL water lease are the numbers to describe this site. Amazing city, river, and West Hill views are what you see when you're on the bank itself.
 Without continued planning, those numbers and views will be underused. The site poses some challenges, some environmental cleanup is needed, also extensive soil work to build a solid base. With continued planning, those challenges can easily be overcome.
 We have options to build a public beach, a public boat launch, and affordable maker space. So when we say yes to continued planning, it opens up the opportunity for us to have those options, while also continuing the greenway path, connecting to the spring water corridor, and engaging the river.
 Mayor Hales, city commissioners, as I know, there are concerns that historically the site has not had a residential use or the concern of bringing in big box retailers versus local makers.
 and the concern that a building will create more vehicle traffic. That's why we should say yes to continued planning so we can work together to combat these concerns to progress the city of Portland for generations to come. Let's work together to make sure to use this space to avoid big box retail, to support local makers. Let's explore ways to limit vehicle traffic, promote public transportation, saying yes to continued planning is an answer to leaving a legacy.
 supporting local businesses and growing Portland. I want to be the developer that works with you on this when you say yes to continued planning. I will dedicate my time to find the best use for this site. I'll start planning with feedback from early assistance meetings, setting up the master plan review process to come to a collective agreement. This is more than a building to me. It is an opportunity for me to give back to the city that I have always called home.
 In the years to come, the planning we are doing today will open up the property to amazing views of the city, to Portlanders enjoying public beaches and green spaces. It will allow local business owners to create their products in the central city and attract businesses from outside of Portland to generate new revenue in Multnomah County. Saying yes to continued planning is more important than ever. Portland is one of the fastest growing cities in America. Families and businesses are moving here at a rapid rate.
 The timing and location of this property fits in perfectly with the Tilikum crossing connection, the river being its cleanest, and the growing demand for commercial, residential, retail, and makerspace in our city. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Rinder Schutten. I own a small business called Schutten Works. We work. We design and manufacture accessories for iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch.
 Right now I operate out of the basement of my home. So I'm one of those Portland-made makers here in Portland that helped actually put Portland on the map as a leading community for artisanal manufacturing. New businesses that produce in general high quality, often produced in small batches, products, a lot of them can be seen at a made here PDX store,
 Just opposite Powell's. If you have not been there, go there and buy something. Good stuff there. As many of my fellow makers in Portland, my business is growing. And I expect to have to move into a new space early next year, which is great. I would love to move to a location in the central east side. Many reasons for this. First of all, many of my suppliers are located there. Many of my maker friends and design services are there.
 and obviously there is very good food and very good beer. Moreover, it is close to where I live right now and where prospective employees live, so we can actually bike to work. And as we all know, traffic is bad enough in Portland and we do not need to add more traffic to the commute that some of them, I don't, but some of them experience every day. So I would urge you, Portland City Council and Major Hills,
 By the way, I voted for all of you, so I don't know. Thank you. To ensure that affordable space for pot and makers not only remains available, but also to actively promote and support new development. And this was, sounds very interesting what you're just telling me here. New, sorry, where was I? I think we have the opportunity to show how urban manufacturing can really work, create jobs and create opportunities for anyone that wants to build
 a business by manufacturing actually physical products, which in fact truly is the backbone of our industrial endeavors. So maybe in a few years, if we do it right, the Central East Side Industrial District will be the example for the rest of America on how to create a vibrant multi-use district where design, fabrication, manufacturing and distribution functions, integrated and seamlessly working together.
 So I only saw today amendments 10 and 11, and I think those are great amendments and great additions to the Expo plan. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. Okay. Others on the list? I have Dave Ott and Rehana Ansari, and unless Bill Stites or Jackie Winkler are here, that's all I show on the previous sign-up. Okay. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 Thank you, City Council and Mayor Hales. My name is Dave Audie representing Holst Architecture 110 SE 8th and the Central Eastside. You have our written testimony from Holst, but I thought rather today I would give you a specific example of small business retention from a different perspective, from that of the industrial office user rather than the so-called makers. Holst has grown up in the CEID for over 20 years.
 At Southeast 8th at our location in 1992 there were three employees in the building. In 2010 we had 11 employees and today in 2015 we're about to hire our 40th employee. Needless to say we are outgrowing our space and we need to move. We did a staff survey of all of our employees and the overwhelming desire was for us to stay in the Central Eastside Industrial District.
 We have roots in our district and we feel ownership of its success. And we've been looking around. We will probably need to leave the Central East side without the EOS expansion. We feel that we too are makers. We help make our city and we feel great pride in that. And so we urge you to expand the EOS and let us stay in the district that we love. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioners Rehana Ansari here to support the Southeast Quadrant Plan on behalf of the Portland Business Alliance.
 First, we'd like to applaud staff for preserving the industrial sanctuary and expanding the employment sub area to keep pace with emerging trends and broaden middle income job opportunities to include light industrial and maker space.
 We believe that special attention should be made to maintaining the role of the central east side as a designated freight district. While balancing and improving access for other modes. We recognize that the green loop is conceptual at this point and recommend thorough analysis and identifying potential bike pad alignments that will not compromise freight operations.
 We'd like to thank city staff for working with the Portland Freight Committee and the Central East Side Industrial Council to modify plan language and maintain southbound freeway access from the Morrison Bridge for freight trips originating from the Central East Side. We look forward to enhanced synergy between downtown and the Central East Side. Each offers distinct employment opportunities, but together serve as partners.
 an economic hub for the Portland metro region. So thank you. Thank you. I have a question for Mr. Adi. So you're currently in space that's zoned IG-1? IG-1, yes. So by extending the overlay, it will allow you to stay there and expand? That's correct. Okay. Great. Thanks. Thanks a lot. Thank you both. Okay, then let's move to the Senate sheet for today. Okay.
 For the amendments-only testimony, I have Micah Mischkel, Marcelino Alvarez, and Debbie Kitchen. Go on up, please. My comments weren't specific to the amendments. They were...
 Yeah, we can take testimony on the whole thing. Okay. Mayor and commissioners, my name is Micah Meskel. Thank you for having me here today. I work for the Audubon Society of Portland, and we've submitted electronic comments, and I am testifying in addition to that.
 Audubon is deeply concerned about the proposals being considered in the Southeast Quadrant Plan that would up zone existing industrial lands to other uses. Or expand allowances of non-industrial uses on existing industrial lands. Specifically, this includes the up zoning of lands around OMSI and the application of employment opportunity sub area overlay and central employment zone on existing industrial lands.
 So we want to make it clear that we can see merit in many of these proposals when viewed in isolation, though when considered within the context of other city quadrant processes and the alleged industrial land deficit that is writ large within those processes, in addition to the comp plan, these policies within the quadrant, our southeast quadrant, seem to conflict with that.
 As proposed, the southeast quadrant plan could lead to a significant reduction in industrial acres in the coming years and could set the stage for full scale conversion of the district over a more extended time period. And this is due to the potential tipping point effects. As we get more and more commercial and residential and retail, these mixed use areas could raise rents, which then could raise higher property values and then lead to major shifts.
 The plan, as we see it, could perpetuate a recent trend of industrial land conversions without meaningful consideration of industrial land supply. This happened at South Waterfront, Cascade Station, in addition to the Pro District and Terminal 1. Additionally, added flexibility of use and upzoning appears fundamentally at odds with certain policies of the draft comprehensive plan, and those include no net loss of industrial lands, strict...
 Restriction of non-industrial uses of industrial lands on the shifting of administrative functions and non-industrial uses of industrial lands, in addition to limiting potentially conflicting uses surrounding industrial lands. Yes.
 We fear that in five years when the city at the direction of the comprehensive plan reassesses whether industrial land needs are being met and then further proposes strategies to address any of these deficits, it will regret decisions made in the southeast quadrant plan. The proposals in the central city plan would appear to almost guarantee
 The fact that the city will find itself in an even deeper deficit situation, even if all of the measures outlined in the comprehensive plan, including brownfield remediation, intensification, et cetera, are achieved. If that is the case, history shows that the burden to address the deficit will fall on natural resource lands and open spaces, as well as pressure to limit or roll back environmental regulations on industrial lands.
 The alleged existing industrial land deficit has in recent years already resulted in efforts to restrict new environmental regulations on industrial lands, as well as proposals to convert open spaces such as golf courses in natural areas like West Hayden Island to industrial use. This presents reality that a logical decision today, the Southeast Quadrant Plan, will lead to logical decisions in the future as the city attempts to remediate its deficits. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. Let me just address that, because my understanding, based on the memo that was introduced today on the industrial demand and capacity, that this change in zoning actually triples the amounts of industrial land available in the Central East Side, so it actually helps with the capacity.
 issues that Audubon is concerned about? Yes, so we understand that, but we're also concerned about the tipping point, which I pointed out earlier could increase rent and incentivize other uses of lands within the same area, which could further lead to conversion. But those other uses aren't allowed. Right.
 So there's very limited housing, and it has to have a conditional use, and OMSI has had that conditional use process available to them for a long time. So I think we're all agreed that we don't want it to be the Pearl or South Waterfront, that it's an industrial sanctuary.
 So I'm just not quite understanding Audubon's – I understood the concern, but then when I heard it's been addressed by this, and maybe Debbie and others could comment on this.
 Do you have further comments? I don't. I wasn't lead on this project. Bob Salinger might be the better one to answer his concerns on that, but he couldn't make it today. Okay, great. If you could make sure that you give him this memo that was handed out. I don't know if you have a copy of it. Well, yeah, I grabbed a copy already. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Mayor, thank you. Commissioners, thank you very much as well.
 I'd also like to thank Marcelino Alvarez, Chief Executive Officer of Uncork Studios Company in the Central Eastside. First off, I wanted to thank members of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee for the work and the effort that was put into this document. I think it did a magnificent job in balancing both the history of the district as well as looking forward towards the opportunities that lie in front of us
 I think when you look at the district and you look at the history of industry and how it's grown over time, and you look at the opportunities that have been fostered by the development of businesses such as ours,
 We're at a pretty unique point. And I think for us, this is a really great opportunity to maintain that history, but also build a foundation for the next generation of companies to grow in the district. Our own company history is pretty inextricably linked with the Central East side. From our humble beginnings in about 1,500 square feet of space to over four times that now just four years later.
 We have gone from a company that designs and builds products for larger companies from outside of the state of Oregon to one that has been able to incorporate startups and residents, small companies, individuals, and freelancers, and kind of see their growth path, both from a collaboration standpoint as well as from a cooperation standpoint. As we look ahead, you know, kind of the idea of makers in our community, I think Portland is uniquely poised –
 to connect old industry and new industry in ways that we don't see anywhere else in the world. Particularly when you look at Portland's rich history from a technology standpoint and chip maker and manufacturing, and you look at kind of the emergence of makers who are looking to prototype and build things with their hands and bring them to market and scale them, there's an amazing opportunity to connect things that are prototyped,
 the things that have polish and get delivered to thousands of people. There's an opportunity to balance the idea of handcrafted products with those that are manufactured. And if we look at kind of the corridor that runs from Sandy down to OMSI, across the river, across Tilikum Crossing, into OHSU, into some of the other districts, all the way over to Hillsboro to our friends over there who make a lot of chips,
 There's an amazing opportunity for small companies to take their concepts from just renting a couple desks to potentially owning a building just a few years down the line. So for us as a company, we're in favor of policies that expand the EOS with an eye towards balancing the needs of makers, of designers, and of entrepreneurs while maintaining a balance, a connection and a collaboration between the industrial elements that made this district possible.
 along with the ecosystem between old styles of manufacturing and new styles that will set us forward 10, 20, 30 years down the line. So thank you. Great. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for the opportunity to speak about the amendments today. I'm Debbie Kitchen and President of the Central Eastside Industrial Council, and I'm here to support Amendments 10 and 11. As you know from our previous comments, one of our key issues is the affordability of industrial space.
 for the manufacturers and industry that are in the Central East Side. So I feel these measures will help with that, at least give us better knowledge and better perhaps develop some new tools that we can use
 So I'm testifying in support of these and would like to have those included, or these amendments included. I am concerned a little bit about the discussion earlier about continued planning for that BPS apparently has offered because I don't know if that's open just to one developer or if it's open to anyone in the district. But I think that's
 I would like to see some direction from city council about that issue because I think we need to know what the parameters are as we go forward into the more detailed analysis in the coming year. But thank you for the opportunity to speak today. Thank you. Two more people. Emma Pellett and Jim Howell. Good afternoon. Go ahead.
 Afternoon, thank you so much for the opportunity to come and talk to you today My name is Emma Paulette and I'm part of city liquidators and pull up properties My family has been stakeholders in the centrally side industrial district since 1977 We have over 14 parcels in the neighborhood and we call it our home I've spent a lot more time in that district than I have in any other place in the city of Portland and It means a lot to me
 Today, I'm here speaking in favor of UD6, which is about creating publicly accessible but privately owned parks. The Central Eastside Industrial District is one of the most park deficient districts in the city. There's not a lot of places for people who work in that district to go outside and enjoy anything other than the East Bank Esplanade and then down at the end, the Springwater Corridor.
 So on a day like today where the heat's really hot, there's no relief from that. We hardly have any tree coverage and we have very few parks to go enjoy. So although the change does change the language, I don't believe that it changes the spirit of UD6. And so I'm still in favor of that, but I would like to ask for continued support from the
 Mr. Nick fish who's not here and BES that they help us kind of navigate the waters of putting a Publicly accessible park on a piece of our property that has a BES easement on it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you welcome Thank you mayor Commissioner's name is Jim Howell Thanks for letting me testify on something. That's not an amendment to
 I'd like to talk about something that hasn't been discussed at all in this whole process. It's missing link. This is a 20-year plan, and there's going to be a definite need for a light rail connection between the Rose Quarter and the new Tulip Bridge on the east side. There is not the capacity on the steel bridge for light rail of the future. In fact, it's pretty well clogged up today.
 and that should be a consideration in this planning. Now I know this is a city of Portland plan, not a Metro or a TriMet plan, I'm afraid,
 Those agencies are somewhat challenged when it comes to long-range visioning of what needs to be done. But this is going to be needed. There is a huge problem with I-5 now. It's clogged up every night. It's going to be clogged up all day long and 20 years from now if we don't have an alternative to that, and this would definitely help that by extending the light rail system that could
 could eventually go from Vancouver to Tolenton through this corridor. And it would also allow the Tolenton-Klausing to be used in case of emergency. Now, if the steel bridge breaks down, you're kind of stuck with buses. So that's what I think should have been in here. I wish that you could convince PBOT to be serious about light rail, even though it's not their domain.
 And I'd be glad to answer any questions. I think they're serious about library. Good point, Jim. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Thank you. Do we have any others that are signed up or who are here and want to speak and didn't sign up? Okay. Oh, come on up, please. Come on, Ken. Yeah, I had – Just put your name in the record, Ken. Yeah, Ken Clock, Clock Associates in Southeast. Mayor, councilman, woman.
 There was a letter that was put in by a group of businesses, which I'm sure you have, and I thought I'd provide perhaps a little more explanation behind the letter, what the reasoning was, and give you a little background on the group in general. Southeast Industrial Businesses are a pretty quiet bunch. They largely keep their nose to the grindstone, and they pay their bills, and they pay their employees.
 They're good citizens, they keep their property and their buildings up, they keep the street trash picked up, they report crime, and they're a very independent bunch, and they don't ask the city for much. Basically, the freedom to do their business in an efficient manner, all they're asking here for is existing business to be afforded the protection of a doctor's oath. First, do no harm.
 With the current disconnect between the plan verbiage and the plan detail, the overriding concern of us, the group, is that without a renewed commitment by City Council to protect existing industrial business and their requirements from harm, there would seem to be little reason to expect that in the next planning phase, enough substantive changes to the plan would be allowed in order to provide that protection. So that's the main concern.
 It seems that, and this is just my take, this is not the group, it seems that government often focuses on what it might get rather than what it already has. If this industrial community loses its critical mass or its critical efficiency and disperses elsewhere, the city could never put together an industrial community like it again. We have grown up together, we interact, we complement each other. In fact, this industrial community complements this city itself tremendously.
 I know several businesses that manufacture or supply various components or provide services for departments of this city. For the city of Portland, you can't get more sustainable or efficient than that. Where as stones throw away. Thank you. Chair Jerry Cook So if you don't mind, let me ask a
 I'd like to ask you to elaborate a little bit more because you and I have had a conversation or two and we appreciate the letter. One of the things that's striking about this letter is just the length of time that a lot of these businesses have been operating, so you went to the trouble of compiling that, so thank you. But what's the harm or what are the harms that you're most concerned about? I think, as I say here,
 the freedom to have an efficient movement throughout the system. Freight movement in particular? Freight movement and intercompany movement, you know, between businesses that we do business with or that other, you know, anybody in that whole group, they do interactive business with a lot of other
 lot of other businesses in there, you know, whether it's for pipe or for parts or for bearings or, right? So there's a lot of interaction within the district, too. So it's not good enough just to think about freight that's coming in off of the freeway and or going back to the freeway. There's a lot of interaction in there, and I guess the things that we see that are a bit of an issue there are, as I've spelled out, you know, new bike lanes, new
 uh... there are existing bike lanes that that that bisect the the district and we're not talking about those were talking about new lands that would further bisected and and uh... bog traffic and quite frankly i think it would make the district in general uh...
 a less safe place because there would be more places where, you know, people would be looking out for bikes. I mean, you're talking about areas here, this is not downtown Portland, you're talking about areas here where I don't know what size trucks Franz runs, they're really big, but ones that would come into our area. You know, you could easily see a truck that's a 53-foot semi-bed, so you're talking about a 75-foot truck.
 You know, and that's backing into businesses and pulling out of businesses that are in that district. So, I mean, it's definitely, it's a more dangerous place than an area that's primarily small delivery vehicles and cars. So I see that as an issue. You know, I see something that's undefined, and the group does too, of course, as the green loop.
 It's an undefined area, and I guess that lends a bit of instability in the sense that if you don't know what that contains, it's pretty hard to feel like you can invest more in your business. Does that make sense? Mm-hmm. Yeah. So I appreciate the point about large over-the-road trucks that you just mentioned, but I assume most of those are,
 most those in truck company or intercompany and local deliveries are in smaller trucks I assume that's the case relatively they have to appreciate that that that you know a lot of things will come in on on forty-foot flat flatbeds that make that would shorten that particular rig by 13 feet or something else is still talking about a 60 some odd foot vehicle overall that there would be delivering steel
 That sort of thing that's long long pieces of steel so it's going to be an over-the-road vehicle That would be delivering to you know a local business in that area yeah, okay? And and and or picking up for you know for a for plating operation or something like that that There is gonna be a probably a 40 foot over the road vehicle that's gonna be picking up for that they'll try and put as much on there as I can before they go back to the plant and
 One of the things that your testimony raises and also just this list does is that obviously there's a supply chain thing going on here. You supply France Bakery yourself and other businesses there are supplying you. I think we learned a little bit about how the Central East Side works from just the list of who you had on this letter, so I appreciate that. Okay.
 I guess we want to make sure we'll get staff to respond a little bit to this too, that does the transportation component of this plan work for those kinds of, for that kind of truck circulation is really another way to state your question. I want the answer to be yes.
 I can't answer that because I don't know that for sure. I want them to look me in the face and say that. You and I might have our opinion, but they're the professionals, and I want to hear them say that they believe that that will be the case because I think that's the goal here. Yes, and I would dearly love for somebody that had that size vehicle, like, say, Franz, for example, or whatever, somebody to actually drive that.
 Is it practical? Well, France is actually running triples. Well, I know they run triples, yeah. So that's sort of the ultimate test of whether we can get a truck into this district or not, because they're actually, I mean, granted, it's a limited route. They come in off the freeway, they take a left on the 12th, and they take...
 Yeah, that's right. We know that it's possible in an industrial district with a small street grid and a lot of other things going on to still get big trucks in, but the devil is in the details. It is. Go ahead, Dan. Is it your preference that the existing industrial zone property remain as it is and not have the employment opportunity
 subarea overlay? Is that? I think the, you know, if, well, I guess there's a couple of components to that. One would be the so-called disclaimer. Is that right? Yeah, the disclaimer. Right. Yeah.
 I think that needs to be a lot stronger than what it is right now. As I understand it, it would be something that would be read to the people that would be occupying that. But I think it would need to be a lot stronger than that. It would have to be something that city council would probably take a position on, something that's actually on the books. Meaning if you've moved into this area, you've signed something, you know that that's fact and you know that. If you have a complaint about smell, if you have a complaint about noise –
 whatever the case might be, that it's just not going to be heard. Yeah, I mean, that's my understanding. It's just not going to be heard, and it will never get to us. So you won't have somebody here show up, you know, five years from now that has an office there and it's being disrupted by noise or whatever the case is, and then you have 60 people show up here at this meeting and say, hey, we can't put up with this. It would be more like you're not on the agenda because you're
 You chose to be here in this area. Okay. So you're concerned. Stronger than something that somebody has just read and said, yes, I understand that. The city is not going to hear that complaint. Okay. Good. That's good. Other questions? That's my understanding of the intent of the.
 Yeah, and I agree. I think that's the intent. I'm not sure it goes as far as the city won't hear this complaint, you know. You've signed up for that.
 before this is adopted. This is a preliminary approval. There's going to be some refinement. So I agree with you. I think we all share your concern that in the future it would be nice for me to have a tool in some other situations where it's very clear that this was an adopted position of the council and you knew it when you came in here. Right. And long after perhaps you've gone on to something else. I'm going to leave you with that.
 Whoever sits in your place would thank you for the fact that. Yeah. It's important to have it clear so that it doesn't matter who's sitting in this place. Yeah. Thank you. No, that's a very sound point. I mean, regardless of how long Commissioner Fritz chooses to endure in this role, one of the things that actually the city's been pretty good at in these kinds of planning efforts is, you know, even though people in these chairs have changed, we've been pretty consistent about that.
 some of these policies, and one of them is the industrial sanctuary itself. You know, there's the line down Vaughan Street in the Northwest Industrial Sanctuary has held, despite entreaties, lobbying, and other political machinations over the years, and that's not just one or two or three of our opinion. That's been the opinions of
 probably more than a dozen members of the city council over a long very long time period and same thing with the centrally side industrial sanctuary So this stuff it does matter that it be durable and we take your point about that. So we'll look carefully at that language. I
 And I was actually a community advocate when the first EOS spot zonings were done or the trial. And we had exactly the same conversation, concerned about whether it would bleed over and change the nature of the district. And from my part, it seems to me that that experiment has been successful, that it's allowed some different kinds of industrial changes.
 activities to come into the district, but we haven't yet lost it. But I absolutely share your concern that we not get to that tipping point.
 Another point that you've raised that I guess I just want to get us all to think a little bit more about, and that is I know there's some nervousness by some of the traditional manufacturers. You may be included about the bike access piece of the planning effort here, but we've also heard, in fact we heard today from manufacturers in the district who have a very large preponderance of their workforce arriving by bicycle, and they're actually freeing up.
 road capacity and parking spaces for industrial operations by the fact that that's how the employees, for example, at Spool Town get to work. So, you know, we have an interest, I think, as an industrial district in making it a bike-friendly environment, but it also has to be a freight-friendly environment, and that's the challenge that the whole team of the citizen committee and the staff have been trying to accomplish in this effort.
 We think that's possible. Yeah, and I think that a major, just looking at the plan itself, a major focus of the transportation discussions was that, just to quote from the plan, a lack of fully defined routes identified by bike support of infrastructure and signage results in many cyclists dispersing on multiple routes throughout the district. This increases conflicts with freight activities and raises significant safety concerns for cyclists. So...
 the improved signalization and other measures being taken on salmon, Harrison, Clay, and Ankeny are designed to reduce that kind of conflict. Right. And I appreciate that that's probably particularly true for trucks off of the freeway. No, your point is there's a lot more local circulation going on. There's a lot of inter-
 inter-Southeast, if you will, interaction between companies that won't necessarily fall into that pattern. Good. Well, we appreciate you continuing to raise these issues, and hopefully over the course of the next few months we get to the level of clarity you're looking for. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, anyone else? Come on up, please. Sam Beebe with Ecotrust. The last time I was here, the last time I sat here, I was testifying legalizing skateboarding.
 I remember that hearing. That was a long one. Yeah. I remember that. Thank you for your support on that. You and our Chief Executive, Chief Administrative Officer's son. Just wanted to say thank you to Dana for sharing her time expressing our support of the EOS overlay. Thank you for the Mayor's Office and the Commissioner's Times coming out to the Red On Salmon and their support and Troy Doss and the Bureau's support.
 We've also had the support of the Central Eastside Industrial Council and the PDC. So we support the EOS and adoption of the plan. I assume the EOS is necessary for your plan to really work on your site? Yeah, it's very helpful. Yeah. Thank you. And B-Line is a terrific example of freight and bicycle. Right. Yeah, I was thinking about that, that some of those local deliveries ought to be feasible that way. Mm-hmm. Good. Thank you.
 Okay, can we have the staff come back up and see if there any further questions? There may not be but we can at least check in with them I guess it you know I have a couple of requests and that is just that the points that mr Clock made about the disclaimer and about local truck circulation We don't necessarily need all the answers now, but I just want to get your sense about how those are going to get to
 further, those issues are going to be developed further in the next phase of the planning process? Sure. So the disclosure statement will be coming back in the next phase of development for the entire Central City 2035 plan.
 When we're done with this quadrant plan, we will be all moving into that phase of development where we will be bringing you a document, I believe it's targeted for next July, that will have all of the policy for the entire central city and each sub-district as well as all the zoning improvements. So you'll have a chance to look at things like the disclosure statement, like the final zoning language for the EOS. All of that will be embodied in that.
 I think getting at some of the points that was raised in terms of, I think it kind of gets to what's the legislative intent behind the disclosure statement. We can make a very strong statement in that as well as the statement itself that people will be seeing out on the street. But I think the legislative intent will be very clear in there because it will allow staff going forward as well as all future councils to be able to look back and say, this is what we were trying to achieve with this. With regard to... So just to take an example, a multi-tenant office building,
 each lessee would sign this statement? Yeah, so what would happen, the developer, so let's say you have a vacant parcel, but it gets developed as this multi-story project.
 The developer would have to record a disclosure statement. It would be acknowledging that I and all my future tenants, my successors in interest will be informed that this is an industrial district. There's going to be truck traffic. There's noise and fumes. It's all the charm of being here. And as long as you're operating, as long as these businesses are operating within legally established boundaries, the city's not going to take action on that.
 I mean, we can't stop people from complaining and we can't and we are not going to stop fielding complaints But we will be looking at it with the well If you don't like the fact that they're loading trucks in the street the fact of the matter is is they're allowed to do that And we're not going to be taking action on that and it is worth noting that we do not have a severe problem with That currently we have had extensive conversations with the Bureau of Development Services and I was very relieved to find out that in the last 10 years they fielded no complaints and
 Now with regard to the truck bike movement, I might want to have Grant come up to answer that question from PBOT just so I don't stumble on it. Chair. Yes, Grant Morehead, Bureau of Transportation. I think Commissioner Novick stated it very eloquently as he read from the plan that our intent here really is to provide additional predictability for all modes as they move through the district, particularly the truck bike.
 the potential truck-bike conflict. As you look at the improvements that we've proposed, they really focus on, frankly, some low-hanging fruit in the infrastructure realm. When you get to the district, the routes that are pretty predictable and established east of the central east side tend to break down. So as you're riding a bike, if your destination is either in the district or downtown, if you're riding through the district,
 Often there aren't really good ways to get to bridges or to major destinations. So some of the signalization and traffic control improvements that we're proposing will help to enhance that. I also want to state that we don't have all the answers at this point to everything. There is one of our action items, T13,
 is to conduct a loading needs analysis and to recommend policy changes on truck loading and access on a local scale. And that project is funded. It's getting underway. We had our kickoff meeting actually just this Monday. So we will be rolling that into the PBOT's larger citywide parking strategy. Implementation adoption of that is on a similar time frame to Central City 2035. As you can imagine, there's a lot of overlap there. So we'll be looking at those issues pretty closely over the next year or so.
 And I would want to just point out one reminder that we did get, we had freight interests as well as bike interests represented and pedestrian interests represented on our stakeholder advisory committee. And we had a bit of a hat trick of sorts. We had both the bicycle advisory committee, freight advisory committee, and pedestrian advisory committees all offer endorsement of this plan. Good. So there was a testimony from a gentleman about concern over traffic or truck traffic on northeast Davis. Okay.
 Yeah, it was changing the designation to a major truck street. I'll let Grant follow up on this. But what I would argue is yes, it is one of the last streets that allows for that conductivity for cyclists as well as for vehicles.
 But it's also a significant freight route for people like Brands Bakery and others who are utilizing that. It's not a heavily used route I think there's enough lane capacity there to accommodate both And just because it would be a major truck street does not mean it could would not also serve as a bike way in fact There are a number of bike ways in the district that also and throughout the city that also have a freight designation on them and then
 Hopefully, Amendment 12 captures the issue that Ms. Pellett brought up about
 We're trying to make sure that we've got the bureaus working together to, quote, explore opportunities to create publicly accessible open space and recreational opportunities on public and private land throughout the Central East Side. So it includes but it's not limited to the parcel that she's talking about, right? MR. Exactly. MR. Our hope and expectation that we'll try to make some of these ideas work because, as she pointed out, there's not really any open space, public or private, other than
 in the district. There's not. And one thing I would just point out on that, I want to applaud Emma and Walt Platt because we would often come up with a notion of, boy, could you make publicly accessible open space on private land? That's always kind of a hope, but you don't see too many people come forward and say, I want to do that. So I would thank them for that. There's some nonprofit groups like the Trust for Public Land that might be able to assist in actually making that happen. So, yeah.
 Okay. Other questions or clarifications needed before we act on the amended resolution? I just want to clarify on the record that my understanding of your memo is correct, that we are increasing the amounts of industrial land by making the EOS overlay. Yes. And if we can bring Tyler back up for that. Just yes is fine. I don't need any more than that. We are. Thank you.
 Okay. Let the record know there was a head nod there, yes. He said yes. Yeah, I know he did. So anything else before we act? Steve's got a question for staff there, so we'll get that addressed. Okay, so then I believe it's time that we take a roll call on the resolution as amended. Saltzman? Saltzman?
 Well, this is great. There seems to be a lot of consensus. I realize there's still some concerns of some of the long-term manufacturers there, but I do think that there's a determination on our part to make this work, to preserve those types of jobs and employers that have really made the Central Eastside and given it its character, but also to recognize the changes that are underway and that there are compatible uses, and I think there are maybe a
 appropriately constrained under this southeast quadrant plan that we're about to adopt. And I think we all very much care about maintaining that job base, but we also recognize there's a lot of other compatible opportunities
 employer uses and I think with the limitations on retail uses, it seems as I think Troy just referred to, it seems to be maybe more than a hat trick, but when you have the freight and the bicyclists and the pedestrians all on the same page, that's good. And I think we have a substantial number, Central Eastside Industrial Council, a substantial number of people seem very pleased with this effort, so I really want to commend the
 Bureau of Planning staff and PDC and Bureau of Transportation, everybody else, and the tremendous public involvement. I think it's really been an outstanding product, and I'm very pleased to see all the pretty much consensus around this plan as being a good visionary product. So thanks to all, and pleased to vote aye. Thank you.
 First of all, just as an aside, Commissioner Fritz, I was delighted to hear you're going to be here for 30 years. I was just thinking I'd really like to see North by Northwest and Cathedral Park in 2045 in June. So could you set that aside? Okay.
 So I second what Commissioner Saltzman said. It's been remarkable over the past couple of months to see what looked like was going to be a pretty contentious debate turn into, as Commissioner Saltzman said, a fair level of consensus. I mean, not total consensus among everybody, but a remarkable level of consensus. And I'm...
 I'm really grateful to Troy and Tyler and all of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff and Debbie Kitchen and everybody in the CIC and the folks at OMSI who were able to come to an accommodation with other people in the affected parties.
 I would like to thank especially Grant Moorhead and Art Pierce and the PBOT folks who worked on this. I think that this is a remarkable resolution and of course the work continues. But it seems to be one of these instances where our wanted and often criticized Portland process actually worked and it's really worth celebrating.
 Thanks to Claire Adamsick and Tom Bizot and my staff and all of the staff who have worked on this, especially Bureau of Planning staff who have briefed me on multiple occasions. Also the hospital of the Nethi Neighborhood Association and the Central Eastside Industrial Council, both of whom have been part of my education over decades here in Portland. First with the neighborhood associations and then when I was on the planning commission, the Central Eastside Industrial Council made it your business to make sure that I knew what you do and why and how.
 And that has been enormously helpful over the years. And I want to be continuing to participate, whether in this chair or somewhere else, to make sure that we do continue to monitor the plans and that they don't sit on the shelf, that they get implemented appropriately. And we can always come back and look again if it turns out that it's not moving as we expected that it would. That's another great thing about planning is that we don't just do it and hope for the best. We go back and look again and keep revising it.
 So I do agree with the concern that we are done with this phase and we need to not be doing multiple changes until we've got the whole comprehensive plan done, and then we might consider them. And still, it's a very good start. And I also particularly appreciate keeping the master plan process for both OHS, OMSI, and the Clinton Triangle because that, again, is going to have the appropriate public process as we move forward on those particularly difficult areas. Hi. Hi.
 Anything else? MR. Well, again, I want to thank everybody for the good work that's been done here, both the huge amount of hours that have been put in by community volunteers, whether formally from an organization like HAND or the Central Eastside Industrial Council or the other organizations that have paid attention to this effort or just individuals, many of you here that have worked so hard on this. It's a great example of the grassroots planning that we believe in and that you
 that usually ends up with a good product sometimes ends up with this level of agreement, but not very often. So that's really pretty remarkable. And Troy, you and Tyler and Sally, the others from the Bureau that have worked so hard on this, job well done. Or this part of the job well done, because there's obviously more to do. But you deserve at least a day off or something after all this. You know, I was
 quizzing Tyler a little earlier about looking at best practices from other places, but I think as we all know There's really no place like this And there are other sort of analogous situations in other cities, but you know here We are with this very compact core of a city that now is one of the most livable and walkable and best transit served urban environments in the country and
 with people choosing to move here in great numbers today, tomorrow, and next week, and as far as we can see, and real manufacturing still happening in walking distance from, say, City Hall, big law firms, you know, and great restaurants. I don't know very many other places like that. I've spent most of my life thinking about or working on the growth and development of cities, not just this one.
 I don't know of any place else like this. Yeah, there are pockets here and there in Denver or Miami or used to be in Brooklyn and Queens, but I think they're pretty much gone and replaced by 40-story condo towers now in my daughter's neighborhood where she'll soon be priced out. So, you know, this is a really unusual situation. And so, therefore, there's a lot to keep.
 in a pressurized environment and we're going to really work together and try to accomplish that because we want these long-term employers to stay there. And I hope you know that that's a serious commitment here. And seeing, or in Fred's case, smelling the good effect of those jobs and of having those businesses be here and be able to remain viable here, that's pretty important for us as a city.
 So we're going to try to make that work, just as we have in those other industrial districts. Again, some of us have a little history on some of these issues. I remember a couple of big fights, particularly one about a Costco store proposed in the Northwest Industrial Sanctuary where we've tried to make these judgment calls about what's it going to take to keep the industrial base, the makers as we now call them, making things. And we're going to keep trying to do that, and I hope we're going to keep succeeding because this is pretty special.
 Secondly, we're trying to use an improvement of supply of space and opportunity as a way to make this work, much as we are actually also in housing because we have huge competition for housing in this city. And there was an excellent article this week that my staff circulated about all the mistakes they made in San Francisco, about how they tried to stop.
 change, and they ended up pricing everybody or most everybody out of the housing market.
 And they didn't think much about the supply side, a phrase that has earned some discredit at the national level in politics. But here we are actually trying to make a supply side element of the solution work. And I've been persuaded, although with some repeated effort on their part by these professionals sitting in front of us here, that that is the right and prudent thing to do here, to have a supply side element.
 of this strategy so that we create more space and therefore maybe a little less competition for what's there now. I hope that we can make that work because I'm pretty sure that trying to freeze the Central East Side is not going to be a viable solution just like the efforts in San Francisco to freeze the housing market didn't work out for anybody except a few people there.
 So I'm cautiously optimistic that this is the right set of strategies. The details about which street works which way still need to be worked out. Your point today about the disclosures and the other communication that we have with current and future occupants and residents and property owners and investors and tenants in this district, very important.
 So, again, I was teasing Troy a little bit about taking a day off and then having a lot more work to do because there is a lot more work to do just as there is on the rest of
 Again, I want to return to Patrick's statement. We do sometimes tend to get pretty mesmerized in this room and in this process, but we've got to think about makerspace all over the city and in places where people aren't making things now. We've got to think about 82nd Avenue where we're making deals on used cars but not much else right now, and maybe we can have some higher and better uses in terms of employment density other places that are still pretty close to the heart of things in Portland.
 And where, again, not everybody has to find a cool old building in the central east side in order to start their business. So Patrick's right about that. And I think we and PDC as well as in the planning bureau and elsewhere have work to do to try to widen those opportunities elsewhere in the city. So that's why this does fit into a bigger piece of work. And we have to think about the whole city.
 while we complete this plan. This is a very important piece. I'm obviously very excited about it. I think it's great work. I want to commend Jackie Dingfelder on my staff and the folks from all the bureaus that have worked hard together with this to get us this far. So one more very important building block in place. Job well done. Thank you all. Aye. Thank you very much, and we're adjourned for the week. No, we're not. No, we're not. No, we're not. Sorry. We've got one thing we've got to return to, but it's not this.
 I was getting excited and getting ready to adjourn and remembering that we've got to go back to item 810, right? Right. 810. Item 810, ratify a successor collective bargaining agreement between the city and Oregon AFSCME Council 75 Local 189-3 relating to the terms and conditions of employment of represented employees at the Portland Housing Bureau for 2015-2019. Okay. We'll see if our staff is in the room yet or whether I surprised them.
 There she is. Okay. Thank you. All right. Why do we have to do this now rather than just next week? I don't know. Okay. Cheyenne, why don't you, Cheyenne, explain where we are here. We have some notes to reconsider first. I think we need the explanation first, and then we can take the motion, right? Okay. Okay.
 After this came to my attention after this council voted to ratify the contract this morning, that the language in the ordinance needed to be changed to reflect the fact that the cost that increases that would be associated with the contract will be coming from not only the general fund but other city funds as may be available. So we're moving to amend the ordinance to reflect that. Make that motion. Is there a second? Second.
 Okay, now Yes, you're right now now I'm sorry we have to first move to reconsider and then take the motion so is there a move to preserve motion to reconsider So move all right. Let's take a roll call on the motion to reconsider Saltzman I know Vic I fritz I hails all right, okay now There's a motion and a second to move the amendment I
 Further discussion? Roll call on the amendment. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. And is there anyone that wants to speak on the amended ordinance? If not, then we'll take a roll call vote on the amended ordinance. Thank you.
 Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Just so you know, folks, there may be something on next week's vote on the other union ordinance because since it won't go into effect for 30 days, that is going to cause challenges for people getting paid. So the staff are trying to figure out what to do about that, and I'm sure you'll do that in my absence. Aye. Hales. Yes, they are, and we will. Thank you. Aye. Now we're adjourned.
 Thank you. Thank you.