Good morning, everybody. Welcome. This is the Wednesday morning, July 25th session of the Portland City Council. Carla, good morning. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Wheeler? Here. Good morning, Robert. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business.
 The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record.
 Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up.
 If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass.
 Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you, Robert. Communications, Carla, 782, please. Request of Lightning Super Creativity Watchdog to address counsel regarding federal bias of investigations. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity Watchdog. I'll start out with a video.
 Nobody knows what the heck he was doing. Why would Robert Mueller on behalf of the Secretary of State be carrying uranium to Moscow? We understand Putin was directly involved in some of this. The Russian collusion investigation is a smokescreen for what was really going on. I'll show you that later.
 He approved amongst others, the other eight members, the sale of uranium even though he knew this espionage activity was going on. I'm telling you, this man needs to be held accountable for this. This is serious. This is a serious threat to national security that this guy let happen. The question, again, once again, is why? Because this was involving the Clinton Foundation. He ignored the national security threat.
 Russian nuclear officials routed millions of dollars into guess what? The Clinton Foundation. I think it's a hundred and officials, Saudi Arabia and others, but in this case Russian officials. She formed an international super PAC routing millions of dollars into her presidential campaign. Evil, but brilliant. How did she do it? Well, if these are foreign contributions, then, and they were in offshore accounts, they're not bound by US law, are they?
 So they're outside of U.S. law, which means no one can get the information on these donations. They're not subject to congressional subpoenas because it's foreign money, offshore accounts in foreign countries. They're also not subject to Freedom of Information Act laws. If Judicial Watch, which is an outstanding organization, I'd encourage everybody to contribute to them.
 filed the Freedom of Information Act law to get the information on these donations. They couldn't do it. They're out in foreign countries. She circumvented FOIA laws on this information. She circumvented congressional subpoenas, and she got about $4 billion into her campaign through Uranium One. That's what it was about. Concealed it completely from Congress. Got away with it.
 So $2 billion in the Clinton campaign over four years, that should have helped her get elected if it wasn't for the revolution that we saw in this country, man. And that's what it was. It was a revolution of the people, man. Or a miracle. Or a bohoot. Again, I've always stated, Hillary Clinton is the target for the FBI. If you proceed farther with President Trump, the FBI will be tarnished indefinitely. Pivot, make your move.
 Hillary Clinton is your target. And remember, the dossier was funded by Hillary Clinton to get the FISA warrant to put the special counsel into place. And if you can't see that FBI, you are blind. You are blinded by Hillary Clinton. Open your eyes, do your job, and save the FBI institution. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next individual, please. Carla, my understanding is 783 and 84, those two individuals would like to come up together? I believe so. 783, request of Donna Cohen to address council regarding the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2. And 784, request of James Linsky to address council regarding the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Do you want to go or? I'll go. So, I'm Donna Cohen. By the way, Judicial Watch is a right-wing website and...
 What else can I say? Focus, right. So, Dan and Amanda, you are familiar with the story of how Peabod forced St. John's to dedicate two years. Tell me if I'm too close, okay? You're good. Okay. From 2011 to 2013 and go through mediation for the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 plan, which was approved for funding in 2013. We could have eliminated better than a year of the planning process had Peabod been sincere about public involvement.
 Finally, a good plan was created, and yet although construction was to originally be done last year, PBOT had the audacity to come to the community last summer and say they weren't going to do the most important things for which we spent all that time negotiating. But the community united again, including spending almost $400 for a records request, and all features were put back into the plan.
 In fact, after our literal rally last November in Fessenden, attended by 50 people during work hours, Leah Treat gave the community a letter committing to construction this year, starting in August. And you have a copy of this that I just gave to Carla.
 Well, here we are again with pretty much the same old story. PBOT wants to push the project ahead and has given some newly manufactured reasons as to why. The community only found out about the proposed delay in a PBOT response to a letter
 that the neighborhood association sent a few weeks back supporting added safety changes to lombard these results of discussions of the past year between people and new neighbors along the lombard carter the secure and this is one of those who sit here
 spurred in part because Amazon and other businesses are coming to Rivergate, which will result in even more traffic on the truck route. The neighbors felt the project manager agreed on implementing some minor adjustments, not the type that would cause delaying the project, with an opening for further discussion on future changes. Not only did the project manager reply that no additional changes would be done at this time, but...
 It was only then that the community was told the overall project would be delayed. PBOT's perpetual inability to communicate proactively and in a timely manner with the community is because they know the community will be upset and they don't have valid reasons for their actions. Many, many people have no faith in PBOT and, in fact, faith in the City of Portland has suffered because of this unrelenting assault on the commitments that were made to the St. John's community.
 Please stop this nonsense, stop the disrespect, stop the grossly unprofessional behavior. This project should start and be completed this year. As a personal note, I'm truly disgusted that the project manager gets paid while he knowingly wastes our time. His behavior is unprofessional, unethical, and he does not deserve to hold his position. Thank you. Thank you. Perfectly timed, by the way. She's a pro.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. My name is Seamus Linsky. I'm a resident of the St. John's neighborhood of Portland, and I served as a community representative of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee of the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 back in 2012. I'm here today to talk about the unacceptable continued delays from the Portland Bureau of Transportation in actually building these critically needed safety improvements on a couple of major streets in St. John's.
 I'm going to quickly run down the timeline to give you a sense of the trail of broken promises and the frustration that we have.
 The recommended design plan was accepted by City Council in 2013. PBOT released their final report in October of 2013, and in September of 2013, we were lucky enough to be awarded a State Transportation Improvement Program grant for the 2016-2018 funding cycle to actually build these improvements, which is all great news, but getting a firm commitment from PBOT on when this project would actually be built has proved difficult.
 Hold on because this changing timeline I'm about to go through is dizzying. In August of 2014, I asked when the project would actually break ground now that it was funded, and we were told no sooner than late summer, fall of 2016. Now, that's understandably vague. It was pretty early in the process.
 In March of 2016, a pedestrian was hit at North Pheasant and Burr, so I asked again for an updated timeline. PBOT's reply was, quote, I suspect we'll get going on design engineering within the next four to eight weeks, so the clock really starts ticking in May of 2016. Then I believe we'll be in a position to start construction by late next summer, which I clarified he meant summer of 2017.
 Then the community members of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee checked in again around November of 2016 and much to our chagrin we were told it had been bumped to 2018 with not much explanation.
 We next heard from PBOT in June of 2017 when they came to the St. John's Neighborhood Association, and they presented a PowerPoint which told us, quote, 100% design and ODOT approval would be fall of 2017, bidding in late 2017, early 2018, construction begins spring of 2018.
 That November, November of 2017, 24-year-old Daniel Ramsey was killed crossing at North Midway and North Pheasanton, which is an intersection that's supposed to be fixed by these improvements to Pheasanton. For some reason, it also wasn't until that fall, fall of 2017, that PBOT started community outreach for specific recommendations to the S-curve on Lombard, a process that should have started years before.
 June of this year, PBOT gave us another update saying, quote, if the July plan specifications and estimates meeting goes well, the project will break ground right around the end of this year. Now keep in mind that PBOT said in March of 2016 that the PS&E was going to be done in May of 2016.
 So the city's constant delay of construction is frustrating, and we want the city council's commitment to getting these improvements done this year. Thank you. Thank you. By the way, there are three of us that are here that were on the original stakeholder committee, myself, Seamus, and Barbara Quinn. Thank you. We appreciate that very much. Thank you. Thanks for the rest of you being here.
 So, colleagues, Item 785, it's my understanding that the individual cannot be there, but legal counsel has advised me for accommodation purposes we should accept another individual in place, so I will abide by that. Okay. I'm sorry, I don't have his name. Mr. –
 Do you want to go ahead and just read what you've got? Yeah, 785 was request of David Nelson to address counsel regarding issues with the Portland police. He has rescheduled. Very good. And, sir, if you could just identify yourself for the record, we'd appreciate it. When is the time? Jay. Jay Shore. I am asking that the remainder of my time, my statement is about a minute and a half, I'm asking that the remainder of my time be observed in silence for those who cannot speak or cannot speak this truth. To die a courageous death.
 is to look your killer in the eyes without fear as they take the life from your body. So today, I wanted to look in your eyes and see the people intent on murdering me, my family, and the multitude of other homeless and transient people by legislating them into a constant status of prey for your predatory police. All we want is the right to exist without fear of abuse. When the government is the abuser, who is the mandatory reporter?
 Today, I am the mandatory reporter. I'm not here in fear. I'm here in rage. You can't spell courage without rage. You can kill me, my family, and others similarly situated, but you won't make yourself honorable by doing so. I'm here in your face, inviting you to have the courage to kill me now, rather than continuing to send your badged bullies to do it slowly for you.
 If your position of preying on the homeless is just and moral, then you should have no problem killing me right here, right now. I'm here in courage. Are you going to join me or are you going to remain in fear as the coward you are? Today, I look my killers in the face and in the eyes with courage. Thank you. Next individual, please, Carla.
 Item 786, request of Christina Hartnett to address council regarding Inner Powell Street Skate Plan. Good morning. Nervous. Don't be nervous. So thank you, Mayor Wheeler and fellow council members. I'm Christina Hartnett, and I live in the Foster Powell neighborhood. My house is located at the intersection of Southeast 80th and Powell Street.
 I and five of my neighbors own houses that share a border with a berm located on Powell Avenue between 79th and 80th. A property owned by Portland's Bureau of Transportation, an agency under Commissioner Saltzman's jurisdiction. Now, the Bureau's irresponsible neglect of this property has threatened our homes, our safety, and our lives. In the last four years, illegal campers and drug users started two fires on the berm.
 Now, it's bad enough we live in fear of a third fire that is inevitable, but the berm is also a health hazard because it's littered with used condoms, used needles, and human feces. The neighborhood has been complaining to PBOT for years, but the agency was largely unresponsive until the last fire, which took place in January of this year.
 and was reported on by KGW. My neighbors and I were told countless times something would be done, yet PBOT still hasn't taken any steps to protect its property from the drug abusers occupying illegal encampments.
 But now we've followed PBOT's instructions and we've reported illegal campers to one point of contact and we've reported and we've reported and we've reported. One point of contact has been incredibly responsive and for that we are extremely grateful. But there's one thing that they can't do and that's restore loss and property and life that could easily be caused by a third fire on PBOT's unmanaged property.
 Now, I'm not here today just to complain about this. I actually sit in front of you because I think I have the solution. The city recently accepted $2 million for the 70s neighborhood greenway. A bike path for this project cuts directly through this berm, and the project is slated to start in 2019. Now, that sounds like good news, but the berm was a tier one priority.
 in the Inner Powell landscape 10 years ago. And the project, of course, as projects do, it ran out of money and the berm was never dealt with, even though the city knew back then that drug users and campers were terrorizing the neighborhood and nearby businesses. So I'm asking, please don't let this happen again. The city now has the money to fix this issue and all the safety concerns that we have on the berm. Our neighborhood and local businesses asked that you start the 70s Greenway project at 80th and Powell.
 And if you can't start there, if that's not feasible, at least use part of the $2 million to begin the groundwork for the bike path. Flatten the berm. Extend the sound wall and landscape. Or at least lay down boulders as soon as possible, please.
 Our community desperately needs the relief of the constant harassment we've been enduring over the last decade. I'm asking, please, put the $2 million where the empty platitudes have been and show Foster Powell that you really are concerned about our safety and well-being. I thank each and every one of you for your time. Thank you.
 All right. See if I can trip on the way out of here. Yeah, no, those are cumbersome to say the least. Thanks for coming in. Carla, have any items been pulled off of the consent agenda? I've had no requests. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. First, let's see, regular agenda item, item number 798.
 Do you want to do the time? Certains. Oh, I'm sorry, Carla. Where did I lost them? 787. Yeah, thank you. There they are on the other page. 787, please. Declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Southeast 102nd Avenue and Woodstock Boulevard Local Improvement District.
 Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. This is a local improvement district on Southeast 102nd and Foster that will bring much-needed improvements to the area. I want to thank all the staff and the community members who have worked tirelessly to move this project forward, and I'll now turn it over to Andrew Abbey from P-BOT.
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. Joining me today is one of my newest colleagues in the Portland Bureau of Transportation, Jaren Shankar, and he will tell you about an adjacent project that will fit into this LID.
 So the first slide that I wanted to show you is that we have made a lot of progress in the Lentz neighborhood and the Lentz urban renewal area. So the purple area that you see here on the map is the original Lentz urban renewal area that was formed in 1998. And the urban renewal area has four years left on it.
 The gray area that you see there, kind of the spine along Foster Road, for example, was part of an amended urban renewal area.
 What I've shown there on the map is the area that we're proposing to improve is circled with the blue circle, and that is just east of I-205 and west of the Foster floodplain natural area. All of those black polygons you see in the Lentz urban renewal area represent the eight local improvement districts.
 that we have completed over the past 20 years that have significantly reduced the backlog of unpaved streets in Lentz. So if council approves this LID, it will be the ninth LID formed in the Lentz area over the past 20 years to help reduce the backlog of unpaved streets. The slide that you're looking at here is a project map. We have two streets, 102nd Avenue and Woodstock Boulevard, that we're proposing to improve under the LID.
 I think Council is aware that PBOT has made some significant investments on 122nd Avenue to improve transit service on 122nd. What you may not be aware of is that the bus line that goes out 122nd also uses Foster as part of its routing, and this LID is adjacent to a new frequent service route that TriMet will be starting in September 2022.
 So we're very pleased to partner with our transit partner. This project will help improve access to that frequent service route starting in September. And if you wanted to walk to transit today, this is the street that you'd be traveling on as a pedestrian or as a bicyclist or a motorist. You can see that in the right side of that picture there, there looks like a...
 Bobcat and you can see that to the extent that it may have been filling potholes, those potholes on Woodstock are starting to come right back. And here's 102nd Avenue. Arguably this is one of the worst condition streets in the city of Portland. Property owners have simply been unable to keep up with the maintenance of the streets so we're looking forward to getting this resolved.
 Just wanted to give you a quick recap of the progress that we have made in Lentz and how this fits in. So currently we have three and a half miles of unpaved streets in the Lentz Urban Renewal Area, which is chiefly comprised of the Lentz Neighborhood Association and the Powellhurst Gilbert Neighborhood Association.
 The second little area there on the slide that I wanted to show you is that the enemy of getting these projects done cost effectively is time. So there's been a pretty relentless increase in cost over time. When we started doing this, finishing this up in 2002, we were paying a little under $500 a running foot to get our streets built, crept up to about $600 five years later.
 We had a pretty big spike from 2007 to 2014. That particular project had right-of-way acquisition. The LID that we closed out last year was almost $1,000 a foot, and then we're estimating this at $1,700 a foot. So really I just wanted to emphasize that
 we made a good decision to knock out several miles of unpaved streets many years ago when it cost a lot less money. What I have there in the middle part of the slide is that BES partnered with us to eliminate some unpaved streets in Lentz, that's where they put in their Foster floodplain project, so we actually spent no money to improve those projects, excuse me, to eliminate those streets. So overall we have eliminated 2.8 miles of unpaved streets in Lentz,
 Had we not done that, we would not have seen a 45% reduction in unpaved streets in the Lentz Urban Renewal Area. And council approval of this LID will result in a further 8% decrease in unpaved streets in the Lentz neighborhood.
 So just a few blocks away from this LID area is a completed project by BES, the Foster Floodplain, which eliminated a number of unpaved streets and replaced it with a regional asset for stormwater management. And then just in closing, before I turn it over to Joanne, I just wanted to mention that this project,
 These improvements that we've done in Lentz have not only moved the needle here, but also citywide. So currently we have 55.8 miles of unpaved streets around the city. Had we not done these, we would have almost 59 miles of unpaved streets. So our unpaved street backlog would be 5% higher without all of the progress that we've made.
 The LID that we're proposing is very high on the equity score on a 2 to 10 scale. It's a 9. So this is an area that is low income, has very high racial diversity. One of our property owners participating in the LID has 36 living wage jobs, and we're very happy to build that infrastructure to serve the businesses there. So with that, I'll just...
 turn it over to Duran to close, and he's going to tell you about this adjacent project that literally touches the northwest corner of the LID boundary, and we're looking forward to surveying, designing, and constructing these two projects together for economies of scale.
 Yes, good morning, Council. The project that's currently going to be undergoing is eastbound faster. We've got new traffic signals at 97th, new sidewalk, curb and gutter and bike lanes. And the LID project, Woodstock to 102nd, will connect into this project, allowing easy access to TriMet's green line. So it's for connectivity purposes, seems like this is the best thing to do.
 And then just before we turn it over to council testimony, I've got some property owner testimony that I'll pass out. Thank you both very much. So if there are no questions by council, I think we have some folks here to testify. Very good. Public testimony, Carla, please. Thank you. Charles Lawrence. Okay, that too. Good morning, sir. Good morning to all of you. Appreciate this opportunity. Charles W. Lawrence, 4430 Southeast Belmont Street. Thank you.
 I own some apartments and a single-family residence Just on the other side of the spring water corridor and the street improvement would immensely accommodate my tenants that use mass transit and bicycles to get to and from mostly to work and much of the year
 They're not potholes, really. They're small ponds or small lakes. And for them to try to get over to Foster to get mass transit or ride their bicycles, it's extremely difficult because there's several inches of mud and water. And this is not very inducing to trying to use mass transit or their bicycles.
 And also the street improvement would greatly improve the accessibility to the apartments and also the single-family residence. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any questions? No, thank you. I appreciate your time. Thank you for the packet. We appreciate that.
 Next individual, please, Carla, or is that it? That's all who signed up. Very good. This is a resolution, colleagues. Please call the roll unless there's any other questions for Andrew. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? It's exciting to see the improvements in Lentz, and it's kind of like how do you eat an elephant one bite at a time, and each of these projects will greatly improve the Lentz area, and I appreciate you coming in, Mr. Lawrence, to testify in support. Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 I think this is a great step in the right direction, and these projects are large, they are complex, they are expensive, that we're plugging away. And I appreciate your leadership, and likewise, Mr. Lawrence, thank you for making the trek to City Hall. We appreciate it. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you. Next, item 788. If you could just read that, we're going to move it.
 update the City of Portland Sustainable Procurement Policy. Colleagues, we are moving this to August 22nd time certain. I don't know if we have a time yet. 10 a.m. So August 22nd time certain 10 a.m. And the reason that we are moving this is there are a couple of organizations that have been instrumental in working with this working with us to put this together. They would like to be present for that and so we are going to accommodate their schedules.
 So again, we're moving that to August 22nd, 10 a.m. time certain. And with that, we will move to item number 798. Okay.
 accept bid of Bricks Paving Northwest, Inc. for the 2018 Heavy Vehicle Tax Paving Projects, North Marine Drive, North Lombard Street, North Going Street, for $1,575,107. Very good. Larry Platt, you're up. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you very much. I have to push back so I don't create feedback.
 This is a short day for me, only one. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Bricks Paving Northwest for the 2018 heavy vehicle tax paving projects on North Marine Drive, North Lombard, and North Going Streets.
 The project cost $1,575,107. The engineer's estimate for this project was $1,627,049. The Bureau's confidence level at that point was optimal. On April 18th, Council approved the Ordinance No. 188894 for us to competitively solicit this project. The project was advertised on the City's electronic procurement system. Bids were opened on June 7th. Four bids were received.
 And Bricks Paving Northwest is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $1,575,107, which is $51,942, or 3.2% under the engineer's estimate.
 The Bureau of Transportation and Procurement Services identified an aspirational goal for disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business subcontractor and supplier utilization at 20% per our standard SEP. BRICS Paving Northwest, acting as the prime contractor, identified the following areas as opportunities for subcontracting, flagging, trucking, concrete work, and excavation.
 There is a total of $643,513, almost 41% of identified disadvantaged minority women emerging small business subcontractor participation for this project. Supportion as follows. Disadvantaged business enterprise, $362,513. There's five firms and one supplier. Emerging small business, two firms performing trucking and excavation at $281,000.
 Briggs Paving Northwest, acting as prime contractor, is located in Tualatin, Oregon. They are not a state-certified DMW ESP firm. They do have a current City of Portland business tax registration account and are in full compliance with all of the city's contracting requirements. If the council has any questions regarding the bidding process, I can answer those. Because the city's aspirational goal was actually doubled, we didn't ask anybody from Portland Bureau of Transportation or the contractor to be here.
 Very good. Colleagues, any follow-up questions? If not, I'll entertain a motion. I move adoption of the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Thanks for this report. I just wanted to note this is one of the first projects that is being paid for by the heavy vehicle motor use tax that was a companion piece to the gasoline tax that Portland voters approved a couple years ago.
 You, Daly? Aye. Fritz? Thank you very much for your work, and thank you for pointing that out, Commissioner Salzman. Aye. Wheeler? Larry, I can't believe we only get to see you once today. I'm in shock, too. I am. Maybe something will pop up. I guess because it's July. Thank you for your hard work. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thanks, Larry. Item 799. Thank you.
 amend the business license law to enact a residential rental registration program, create business systems analyst position to implement the program platform. Colleagues, this is the first step in standing up a rental registration system that I've committed to make more informed policy decisions around housing.
 This is about making sure that what our Housing Bureau does is effective and addresses the problems we hear about every day in our community. I'm committed to ensuring that we have good data to make sure that we're making smart decisions and that we can judge the effectiveness of policy actions the City Council takes rather than relying on either anecdotal evidence or conjecture.
 I want to reiterate, there is no fee or penalty in the first year, and I'm directing the Portland Housing Bureau to work with advocates, landlords, and our Rental Services Commission to craft a system that makes sense for Portland.
 I also know that while Portland is joining other municipalities like Gresham and Eugene, as a region we must understand that housing affordability crosses boundaries, and ultimately a regional or statewide system is a better answer. Most jurisdictions, including Seattle, San Francisco, and Denver, already have data and registration collection systems. It makes sense for us to join them.
 For Portland, I can't wait until our regional partners coalesce. We need to make progress now. The purpose of the City of Portland's residential registration effort is to create a current and reliable inventory of rental housing units within the city to provide essential support for tenant protection policies throughout the city.
 Some of these include rental unit health and safety inspections, landlord and tenant education and training, low-income household legal aid outreach and education, landlord-tenant mediation services outreach and education, landlord standards training and certification, sales and use conversion of rental units,
 Just Cause Standard Administration and exemptions, mandatory relocation administration and exemptions, and rent stabilizations administration and exemptions. All owners of residential units within the city will be required to register their residential rental properties with the Revenue Division. This filing should accompany their business tax filing.
 The registration requirement will be for the tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018. For calendar year tax filers, the original due date will be April 15, 2019. And as I said, there's no fee or penalty in the first year. We want to make sure that we get the system stood up and that it works and we work through any potential issues.
 This will provide the opportunity with low compliance of standing up a system that works and where we can work out technical issues.
 I've directed the Housing Bureau to lead education and outreach to the community in conjunction with the Revenue Division. And finally, I just want to say this. Quality data in our rental system is something that both tenants and landlords have been asking for. And in the absence of this system, there has been no single source of reliable quality data.
 Matt Scheibold from the Housing Bureau. And is Thomas Lanham also here from Revenue to provide an overview? I don't know if there is. There he is right on time. Boy, that is punctuality. Matt, do you want to go ahead and start us off? Yeah, sure thing. Thank you. So the mayor covered Matt Scheibold, Housing Bureau for the record. The mayor covered a lot of the context, so I'll just fill it in a bit.
 So rental registration requirements are very common throughout the United States. That's a prelude, one, to better understand the number of rental units operating in cities, as well as a prelude to other policies or services provided to landlords or renters. So this is a first step.
 is to enact it as a requirement with the business tax filing. The Housing Bureau will be working in partnership with the Bureau of Technology Services and the Revenue Division over the next year to build out three major components. The first is to provide education and outreach to the community as well as members of industry on the requirement, this year one requirement due in April of next year.
 The second component will be to actually determine what the best technology solution is for the actual registration system. We're working in partnership with Revenue to use the data system they use for tax collection, but to the extent that other information needs to be collected, the Housing Bureau will need to stand up a...
 system that can capture the registration information, integrate it on the back end with revenue to capture any fees. And so we're working closely with the Bureau of Technology Services, as I said, to determine if we wanted to build something in-house, buy something off the shelf,
 buy something off the shelf and modify it or build something. And so that will take place over the next year. And then the third component will be working with, again, industry and the community on the policy framework for the city's registration requirement and any fee or penalty associated with that, as well as what services should be prioritized for the revenue collected through a potential fee. So with that, I'll turn it over to talk about some of the specifics on the revenue side. Thank you.
 Thanks, Matt. Again, I'm Thomas Lannum, Revenue Division Director. And as Matt said, the ordinance before you today would begin requiring landlords to register their rental locations effective for tax year 2018, which for most filers is due in April of 2019, but all filers are allowed to have an automatic extension of six months. So we might actually start getting a lot of the data until late in 2019.
 The program will be administered as a schedule to the business license tax return. So this is a return that many of the landlords and owners of rentals are already completing or could be completing the exemption return. But many others will have a first-time filing requirement, because if they don't gross more than $50,000 a year, they're not currently filing our return. It's just an exemption. So they would need to file this schedule as a new piece of their filing requirement.
 Just a note on the budget, I want to be clear about kind of where we are in the budget. As you saw in the ordinance, it's a little bit of a patchwork quilt in terms of a new program, so I want to be clear about that. We have tapped $375,000 of existing one-time budget, $200,000 of that sits in housing, and $175,000 sits in the CAO's budget in OMF.
 to stand the program up. So that includes building out the database and the website environment and program materials and outreach, again, as Matt had talked about, the outreach to the impacted landlords. That budget does not include the staff that we will need beginning in January to handle the workload associated with the new 20,000 accounts and the 126,000 rental locations that we're going to need to be maintaining going forward.
 So there will be three additional positions that will be needed for that beginning in January. The bulk of the work will consist of customer service, phone calls, data entry, non-filer identification, and the enforcement work associated with this. So revenue and housing will be requesting $273,000 in the fall bump to fund these positions.
 And without the added funding, we will not have the staff to implement this program. So this is part one of two conversations in terms of standing up the program for funding. Would that be a one-time and then expect to get the money back through fees? Yes.
 That would be a one-time request this fall, and then if the council desires, disordinance will empower revenue to implement a fee beginning in 19-20. I would look to the mayor's office for direction on that. But I think the idea is, yes, that we would begin implementing a modest fee in 19-20 to cover the cost of the program so we're not in the general fund competing against other programs. Okay.
 And so really that's the – I'll wrap up there. If you have any questions, I'm happy to answer them. Before we get to that, I'd like to introduce two amendments, please. And the first, of course, amendment is to remove the $500 noncompliance penalty. This is for year one, as I just suggested. Could I get a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Just to clarify that, that's just to remove it for year one? That is correct. Okay.
 Just voluntary in year one. And we're not expecting broad compliance in year one because we just have not had the time yet to be able to notify people. And through the single point of contact through the revenue office, that's a fairly easy notification for us to make, but we agreed that it would probably make sense not to impose that fee in year one while people are getting used to this. Thank you.
 So just by way of clarification, there's no penalty associated with this particular code piece that you're looking at today. The $500 penalty resides in the business license tax code, PCC 702, which is any violation of the tax code generally, Mayor, would be subject to the $500 penalty.
 So we would need to actually go amend a different piece of the code unless we want to insert. Did you have some specific? We can do some specific language here for this particular piece. Do you have any recommendations? You could state that the penalty provisions of the code that you are referencing do not apply in the first year of this program.
 That works. Thank you, Robert. Yes. Do I have to pay for a full 15 minutes? And you can put that in paragraph B of the first item under 702.890. And that would be to apply to this program for tax year 2018. Correct. And I agree with Commissioner Fritz in terms of the location under paragraph B. Because that's talking about the first tax year.
 Okay. Perfect. Good. Thank you. Can you please call the roll on that, Carla, on the amendment? Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment passes. Colleagues, I'd like to introduce a second amendment to add an emergency to this ordinance for the purpose of getting this running as soon as possible. Please call the roll. Oh, I'm sorry. Second. We have a second from Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Commissioner. Please call the roll.
 Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Great. Any further clarification of the amendment? Yeah, a couple questions. So I think you sort of answered my question, but I guess my question keeps running through my mind. Are all landlords necessarily business tax filers?
 They should be. They should be. They should be. So if you have a business income producing activity in the city of Portland, and that includes renting out a room in your home for more than 30 days, well, actually for any number of days, or a whole home, those rentals should be in compliance with the business license tax code. Okay. And then what is our plan to notify the...
 people that haven't been, the exempt universe of landlords out there that haven't been filing. How are we going to let them know about these changes? So we've got to look into Multnomah County property tax records. We will be taking a look at that. For people that seem to own two homes, that would be a real strong indicator. And really the compliance work is really going to center around
 the 10,000 or so people that own two homes. Obviously, larger complexes and things, we would pivot to housing, and I think they have a pretty comprehensive data set as far as the majority of the dwelling units that are out there that would be subject to the rental registration requirement.
 We'll be working closely with the industry associations to communicate this requirement, engage with industry partners on making sure they're aware of it, and then working on the permanent policy framework for reporting requirements, fees, penalties, and whatnot. Okay. And I guess my advice, it's not really a question, it's an expression of belief.
 Matthew, you mentioned the software necessary to get this up and running, and you mentioned a variety of options like off-the-shelf, in-house, combination of both. I strongly counsel to buy something off-the-shelf. Don't get us down the road of trying to design our own software system. If we've got cities like Seattle, Denver, whoever's doing this, let's get their software or find out who they bought it from. Let's not go down the road of trying to design something ourselves. Sounds good.
 Commissioner Fritz. So presumably you could work with the Bureau of Development Services to get information to the accessory dwelling unit owners to ask them if they're renting out their accessory dwelling unit? Yes. Yep. Thank you. Very good. Public testimony? Yes. We have one person signed up. Anthony Benzian-Bengo. Come on up. Welcome and thank you for being here.
 Thank you. My name is Anthony Benchivango, and I'm here representing Portland Tenants United. I unfortunately don't have my shirt today because the police confiscated all my stuff when they swept the Occupy Ice Camp. But I'm not here to talk about that at the moment. Right now I'm here to talk about... Excuse me. Folks, please do not interrupt this gentleman. He is here. This is his time to speak. Thank you.
 I was okay with that particular interruption, but that's not what I'm going to talk about at the moment. I'm not, because I'm the presiding officer. Anyway, talking about this specific policy.
 So first of all, I want to say that even though I would love to see rental registration and the establishment of fees that can fund a strong, dynamic, and proactive rental services office as well as mandatory inspections program which can ensure that all units in the city are being brought up to code and brought up to health and safety standards.
 I would love to see that move faster, but obviously I recognize that there are logistical difficulties, and so this is still a really positive step forward, the fact that this registration is being required now. So thank you for taking that step forward. And what I really hope will come out of this, and I'm very encouraged by some of the things that commissioners and the mayor have been saying about that today, is...
 What I'm hoping will really come out of this is as we see how many rental units there are in the city and really, you know, how many of these renters are not necessarily even aware that there is a rental services office that can exist to inform them about their rights and help them get connected to resources to advocate for themselves.
 I really hope that in the same way that homeowners are often made aware via, for example, mailers of zoning changes that will impact them. That once we actually have the addresses of many to most of the rental units in the city, that the rental services office will get funding to be able to expand its operations, including through a proactively reaching out through mailers and other means to some of these tenants to let them know that there is this office and let them know that, you know, that they
 ways that they can advocate for themselves. Very much need to make sure that the Rental Services Office can grow dramatically if it's to carry out all of the programs that Mayor Wheeler mentioned. All the programs that are in the Tenant Bill of Rights which people like Commissioner Udailey and Mayor Wheeler endorsed in their election campaigns and
 If that's to happen, it's important that this registration program, which is a step in the right direction, really grow next year and that we make it a lot stronger. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. For colleagues, any further questions? Very good. Please call the roll on the item as amended. Saltzman. Aye. Aye.
 You, Daly. Well, I'm pleased that we're taking the steps we need to get a more complete picture of our private rental market. We often hear from the industry that we should be utilizing data-driven strategies to guide our policy initiatives, which is difficult when we haven't been collecting any data. We also hear that landlords don't feel like we do a good enough job informing them of important changes or involving them in policy conversations. Right.
 With that in mind, I hope that every landlord in Portland recognizes how important a registration process is to accomplishing those goals and signs up quickly so we can engage them more directly and effectively moving forward. I want to thank the mayor and his staff for coming up with a way to move forward despite our lack of a comprehensive data system.
 And I look forward to being a part of the conversation about the kinds of data we'll need to collect in the future to make sure the Rental Services Office eventually reaches its full potential. I vote aye. Great.
 I believe this is a good first step or good step among many to improve our rental system. And I believe it can work well for all three parties, for landlords, for tenants and for the city. Because it's going to provide a way of communicating as well as potentially improving how we do inspections, various other things. And it will take a commitment on all parts to communicate so that once the city knows
 where the rental landlords are, that they are included as our tenants should be, because, again, we will know which properties are being rented out. So I applaud this as a good step, and thank you, Mayor. Aye. Wheeler. There's lots of people I'd like to thank, but the first question,
 thing I'd like to notice about this is we are using the Housing Bureau and we are using the Revenue Bureau platform. And so they've had to work together in a unique partnership that they have not
 had to navigate previously, and they've done a fantastic job, and I want to acknowledge their work. On my team, Cupid, Alexander, and Michelle Plembag, and Sophia, who's here, who's done a great job of helping communicate the work that we're doing. I want to thank all of you for that.
 And I want to thank my colleagues for acknowledging that this is not only a good first step, this is an absolutely necessary first step. Without quality data, we really don't have a good understanding of the hydraulics of the rental market.
 and beyond that, it's anecdotal or conjecture. And this gives us an opportunity to bring all of that data together in one place. We can lay it out on the table for everybody to see, and that will help us inform good policy decisions going forward. So I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you, everybody. Next item is 800.
 Authorize a five-year lease agreement for office space located at 1001 Southwest Fifth Avenue to accommodate increased staffing and operations of the Bureau of Transportation estimated at an average annual cost of $1,000.
 of $612,500. Colleagues, this was an item that was heard last week. We continued the hearing because we did not have a quorum, but there's been a presentation and there's been public testimony, so today we're just voting on this. Are there any further questions? Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 801 is the second reading.
 authorize limited tax revenue bonds to provide up to $18.3 million to finance tenant space build-out and furnishings in the Portland building. This is a second reading. There's been a presentation and public testimony on this item. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 802.
 amend Joint Office of Homeless Services Intergovernmental Agreement with Multnomah County to authorize fiscal year 18-19 budget allocation to the Joint Office of Homeless Services. This item was also continued. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 803.
 authorize 11 sub-recipient contracts totaling $4,190,763 for services in support of providing affordable housing. This item has also been continued. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. And that completes our business for today. We are adjourned. I think that's a record. It is. For this morning. Correct.
 Don't get me excited. I know, really. Hello. Looks like we're going to have a relatively boring session by comparison. Are you ready to go? We are. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday, July 25th, 2018 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Welcome, everyone. Carla, could you please call the roll? Seltzman? Here. Udaly? Fritz? Here. Fish? Wheeler? Here. Okay.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you're a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on, and when your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and you would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up.
 If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting.
 After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you. And again, welcome, everyone. We have some special guests in the chamber this afternoon. Betsy, where are you hiding? I saw you walk in. Could you just come to the microphone and tell us a little bit who our special guests are today? And if you could introduce yourself, please, as well. Okay.
 Hello, commissioners and mayor. My name is Betsy, for the record. I work for Commissioner Nick Fish, and so today we are honored guests. They come from Beijing, China, middle schoolers from Beijing, China, and they're here with the Portland International Academy. And, yeah, so I'm just giving them a tour around the city. Very good. Thank you. Could we suspend the rules and welcome our guests? Thank you for being here. Yes, sir.
 Please come to the microphone because there's lots of people watching on TV and they'd like to know. Thank you. If you could just state your name for the record, please. Thank you. My name is Steven Ying. I'm the Chinese. I guess so. I'm a Chinese. I'd like to ask if the student can take a picture with the city mayor and councilman. Without objection? Very good. Come on up. Thank you. Thank you.
 Betsy, I'm glad to see you in one piece after your skydiving adventure this weekend. Thank you.
 When did you go skydiving? I went on Saturday. Have you been? You have to. Come on. Hello. Welcome. Nice to meet you. Hi. We can have a seat. Hello. Welcome.
 If you got tall, lean down a little bit. Okay. Easy. You're tall. Come back here. Tall. Come back here. Very good. Okay. I think you're tall. Back row. Tall. All right. Okay. Here we go. Yeah. Right. With the children. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was nice. Yeah. That was great. That was great. That was great. That was great.
 and I have a couple more. Alright, one, two, three. One, two, three. Right here now. Wow, one more, one more. Right here. Perfect. Awesome. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry.
 Well, that's fun. We love to have visitors, and we appreciate the young folks coming from Beijing and touring our city and coming to City Council. So the first item, Carla, is Time Certain 804. Adopt the safe routes to school, primary investment routes and project list, including Fix Our Streets project. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. So, uh...
 For 13 years, Portland has been a national and statewide leader in safe routes to school, both education and encouragement programs, and continues to support families in walking and bicycling to school. Over the past year and a half, the Portland Bureau of Transportation staff engaged school communities and a stakeholder advisory committee to create a plan for prioritizing citywide transportation safety projects.
 and I'm pleased today to introduce a resolution to adopt primary investment routes and a robust project list that will guide our investments in neighborhoods throughout the city and help kids get to school safely. I want to thank the community members, some of whom are here today, who have participated in this planning process and continue to support healthy and safe streets. And they'll continue to support a test, I think,
 Our concern for kids throughout our city and their well-being. Today's resolution allows PBOT to move forward on a funding strategy to implement a focused set of projects that increase street safety for students and families in Portland. So I'd now like to invite the PBOT director, Chris Warner, Art Prius, Catherine Charlo, and Dana Dickman for a short presentation. Welcome. Thank you.
 I'll kick it off. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, Chris Warner, I'm the interim director at the Portland Bureau of Transportation. As you know, Safe Routes to School touches every part of our community. It has been and was a huge priority for Leah Treat, and so we're just here to continue the cornerstone work that she's been working on through the policy, programmatic, and outreach work. Today, the Safe Routes team will share the work over the past year to create a Safe Routes projects list.
 Construction has already begun on a few of these projects. The next installment of these projects will be built in 2019 and 2020 as part of the Fixing Our Streets funding measure that passed in May of 2016. So I'm going to turn over to Art. He can kind of give an outline of the broader picture. Then we'll go down to Dana and Catherine. Great. Art Pierce, Policy Planning and Projects Director for PBOT.
 So this next slide illustrates the many benefits of the Safe Routes to School program. I think we're already starting to be familiar with how this benefits youth. So youth specifically increases their activity, connects them more with their neighbors and with the community.
 with the surrounding community. It really also fosters independence. My own 11-year-old biked to school this past year, and it was a notable change of the independence of him leaving on his own and returning home on his own. And so I think it really can see a confidence building in the youth as they're experiencing mobility in the city on their own. I think what we maybe are less cognizant of is how much this benefits all of PBOT's system management goals as well.
 When we're looking at how congestion impacts our system, I think we underestimate the role of school traffic and school logistics in contributing to that. National statistics tell us that about 14% of morning commute trips nationally relate to school trips as part of their trip. So if you picture someone able to send their child off independently, they're then able to make the broader set of decisions that they might otherwise feel weren't possible in terms of taking transit,
 or cycling or other types of means, carpooling. And so I think it's very important for us to continue to sort of remember that some of these seemingly small moves are what make the broader ecosystem continue to function. One of the other things that's really important to note is that it won't be just students who are making use of these safety improvements, particularly in crossing on busy streets.
 all of the community can, seniors and others that want to take advantage of these crossings because they will also access parks and other community locations. I think one of the other things, of course, we're very proud of the significant role that this Safe Routes to School topic area fits within the broader Fixing Our Streets program. This was really sort of a cornerstone element of that broader Fixing Our Streets program, and a significant funding stream towards this project list is coming from there.
 So what we have brought for you today really does, again, relate back to the transportation system plan. We are asking for your adoption of the primary investment routes and giving direction to incorporate those routes into the update to the pedestrian plan, which is currently underway. And the pedestrian plan would then bring that through into the next update of the transportation system plan when we initiate that.
 And this direction also directs PBOT staff to use this new project list as we're looking at ongoing programmatic investments. We now have an annual funding stream for small projects, one of them being for Safe Routes to School projects, and we can use this list as the list to work off of. It's already been heavily vetted and prioritized, so it's a great place to start for those annualized programmatic investments.
 I'm going to pass it over to Catherine, who's going to tell a little bit more about the details. Could I ask you a question? Yeah, sure. Can you go back to that slide? It's a very basic question, but it's one I've often wondered about. One back. No, this one here. Oh, this one. Oh, sorry. This is perfect. So, you know, obviously the primary purpose of this resolution is the first bullet point, to identify the primary investment routes.
 Could you just tell me from a code perspective, why does it have to be integrated into the TSP, the transportation system plan? Is that because through code the investments have to go through the TSP? Yeah.
 They do, yes. What's procedurally what's going on here? There's a couple places in which I think it'll influence. One is about prioritizing our investments. So it's telling us where we should be focusing our efforts and influencing the project list formation. Another piece is if we're looking at the classifications of streets,
 This adds a new lens around child safety to the classifications we already have. We already have local streets for driving, for walking, for biking. We don't necessarily have this youth lens brought to that. And so I think it really helps emphasize the importance of these specific projects. So would the TSP, the Transportation System Plan, does it also give us the guidance then between different sets of priorities? So the safe routes...
 to school is obviously a priority, but we have many transportation priorities is, is the TSP where we reconcile the relative weighting of those priorities. It,
 It is. It certainly gives that guidance at the large project scale, so more than half a million. We have a major projects list in which we currently have them sorted into a year 1 through 10 and 11 through 20, and we're working on a 10-year investment strategy. At the programmatic level, it's really the funding allocation between the various programs. So we have a bike network completion program, a safe house to school program, a pedestrian network completion freight deficiencies program,
 that's really where we start making some of those emphasis choices between how much funding we put in those various buckets. So at this point, it's relatively evenly distributed. Over time, as we have more funds, we'll probably be emphasizing differently. Okay, and that's helpful. And just one more 101 question for me here. So is the TSP, is that as a result of city policy, or is there a state policy that mandates we have a TSP? Yeah.
 How does that work?
 and sort of various other elements. In the next round, we'll have the freshest information around pedestrian, and we're just now scoping the Freightmaster Plan, which would be another new element to add into the next stage. Okay, and I lied. I actually did have one more question.
 Are other bureaus engaged? Once you have the TSP, obviously I can think of all kinds of overlays with other bureaus. Do other bureaus acknowledge the TSP, or is it somehow used in other bureaus' planning exercises? It is, I think, to varying degrees. We have partnership relationships with a number of bureaus. Probably the best example that we're working a lot on right now is with the Bureau of Environmental Services,
 where we're overlaying our investment priorities with them very directly. Thank you, by the way. No, but it's been a terrific partnership. We really are breaking new ground with them. Okay, good. Thank you. I appreciate that. Sorry for the digression. No, it's fine. Great. Thank you. So we're going to dive down just a level to talk specifically about the Safe Routes to School program work and project prioritization work that was done as...
 as part of the plan that I think is in front of all of you. But before we talk the details of the project selection process, we wanted to give you this slide, our umbrella slide, which just sort of lays out this five E's approach, which more and more is becoming a six E's approach.
 I think many of you are familiar with this, but this is this integrated approach to getting kids to school safely having to do with engineering, which is mostly what we're going to talk to you about today, infrastructure, but also wraparound programs that educate kids on how to move safely through the community.
 that encourage walking, bicycling, and transit use, and often help families feel more comfortable and understand how to integrate that into their daily routine, that really evaluate the effect of improvements and programs, and that incorporate partnerships with enforcement to make sure that we're really engaging.
 achieving the safest environment possible. So we have those five E's and then more and more, our Safe Routes to School work is becoming grounded in equity as so much of the city's work is, looking at ways to address both displacement and historical under investment. So you're gonna hear a lot about that today, how that informed the process we went through.
 So both Art and Chris alluded to the fact that this $8 million that we're talking about
 that's already dedicated to the plan was included in the 2016 Fixing Our Streets measure. And it was a little bit different than a lot of the other pots of money in that measure in that those were attached to projects when the measure passed. This money was set aside for Safe Routes to School, but then in part as a result of conversations with some of you,
 PBOT was directed to put together a very inclusive and fast process to do some community engagement and project selection. And so that's what led to this, and that's what we're going to describe in a little bit more detail today. Okay.
 Before we go into detail on that though, I wanted to just make sure that we established the basis for the allocation of funding. And what you're looking at in front of you here is the map that essentially was a part of or came directly after the Fixing Our Streets measure. This is not part of the project decision. This was the pre-dedicated allocation of the $8 million.
 The purpose here was to look at where population is and where the highest levels of need were, and also make sure that because this was a citywide measure, there's some investment in all parts of the city. So this was our starting point for the project prioritization process that we went through. And then...
 This map I'm putting in front of you, it's pretty hard to look at. Really, this is – you're going to see some more maps today, so don't worry about it. But this is really just a snapshot to show general distribution of projects around the city. And Dana's going to show you a couple more maps that illuminate some different things about the way the projects are distributed. But –
 This is just a snapshot of what went public in May. It's an online map. It allows people to zoom in and see projects by high school cluster or zoom out and see projects citywide. It's going to allow us to track progress, record funding for projects, and record when projects are built so people can sort of see very transparently the effects of their investment through Fixing Our Streets.
 It was translated into Arabic, Russian, Spanish, traditional Chinese, and Vietnamese. And the map itself also includes information about the selection process and the way the community was engaged.
 And then the last thing that I want to just touch on briefly is the project timeline. You can see, and we've mentioned before, we were asked to do something very quickly. The voters in 2016, I think, weren't interested in a four-year prioritization process. They wanted to see things on the ground. We wanted to see things on the ground. So what you see in this project timeline is that
 In the early parts of 2017, we gathered quite a bit of community input, and Dana will talk a little more about the process there. And then in the later part of the year and this year, we did the technical evaluation work that she'll describe. And as a result of that came out with the project list that we're going to share with you and the primary investment routes that are being adopted into the TSP.
 As Chris mentioned, a few of these projects are actually under construction this year. The bulk of them will be built in the 2019 and 2020 construction season. The farther out ones are the bigger ones that take more time to tee up, like sidewalk projects and the bigger signal projects.
 So I want to turn it over to Dana. The last thing I want to do, though, before I do that is just thank Dana for her amazing work on this project and thank the team who's in the back. We had a really remarkable staff group, Janice McDonald, Zhao Zhang, Abra McNair, Laleh Santelises, and Taylor Sutton. Each of them brought so much to this work and this project, and we really couldn't have gotten where we are without them. So thanks, Catherine. Thank you, Catherine.
 So when we started the process of figuring out how to take this $8 million and figure out what the project should be, we knew that we first had to really talk to people about what their concerns were around the schools, what was keeping them from feeling safe no matter how they were getting there. Ultimately, these projects are walking-focused projects, but we really had conversations with community about what their concerns were around safety no matter how they were accessing the school. Thank you.
 So we worked in close partnership with the five school districts within the city and determined what was going to be the best way to reach out to the community members in their schools. With PPS, we partnered very closely on eight open houses, one for each high school cluster. We also did an open house with Park Rose. It's a smaller district, and having one open house at their middle school really served that population well.
 For David Douglas Reynolds and Centennial, we did some very targeted outreach with schools. And those...
 targeted outreach pieces ranged from meeting with parent groups that were Spanish-speaking parents to going to a middle school classroom. In each case we had great robust participation and learned a lot. We had almost 300 folks attend the open houses. With those school events we had over 460 attendees and
 We also were fortunate to have Oregon Walks partner with PPS and lead 10 walks at high-need Title I schools to just dig a little bit deeper on what the needs were for families at those schools in walking and accessing the school. Thank you.
 And our Safe Routes to School team did an additional three walks. So we had 13 walks with over 170 families or participants engaged. We knew that not everyone could come to one of these events, so we also created sort of a parallel online open house that asked similar questions and gathered information that was similar to what happened at the open houses. We had an additional 400 people comment there through the open house.
 And then, because as we've heard, we have a 13-year-old program,
 Our staff went through, I think, over eight years of parent surveys and pulled out comments, over 3,000 comments that we had about specific concerns that parents had about issues on their streets. So we were able to take all of that information and really have a good understanding of the concerns that families had in walking and biking and taking transit to school. I also should mention that, again...
 When we asked people at the open houses and in these events how they got to school now, it was about a 50-50 split. About 50% walked or biked and about 50% were driving or taking the bus. And so we felt like we got a really good understanding from families that were coming to school in a variety of ways about their concerns.
 I also want to mention before I move on from the overview of the engagement that one of the things that we wanted to do in talking with families was both gather information from them, but also share information that would help them understand how we were going to use their feedback. And then also just help them understand the decision-making process.
 So we created interactive exercises that shared information about infrastructure and costs and just how we make decisions at the Bureau. We heard many, many times how helpful that was to have both opportunities to give feedback but also to learn something at these events.
 So one of the things we heard loud and clear, I'm sure this is not going to be a surprise to any of you, was that safer crossings were the number one concern. This was true across all neighborhoods. People are really concerned about kids crossing major streets.
 We also heard fast traffic, high levels of traffic, and lack of sidewalks were primary concerns. I do want to point out that there were some nuances there. While across the board, crossings were the biggest issue, in the David Douglas High School cluster and in the Wilson High School cluster, sidewalks was parallel to crossings.
 For obvious reasons, those neighborhoods have fewer sidewalks, and so those issues were elevated in those places. We also saw some nuances that we were able to bring into kind of the route planning piece around where students and families preferred to see routes. Okay.
 For example, in some of the inner neighborhoods, there was a strong preference for local streets, as much as possible getting off major streets as they were going to school. In some of our neighborhoods in Outer East Portland, we heard from parents and students that they preferred some of the larger streets where there was more activity and more eyes on the street. So the outreach really helped us to understand that we couldn't use a one-size-fits-all analysis. We really had to look at the individual situations happening.
 for each school. In addition to that outreach, we had a stakeholder advisory committee that met six times throughout the course of the process. We had a member from each of our five school districts. We also had Safe Routes to School practitioners.
 folks from school-based programs, Oregon PTA, and then also community-based organizations that while they may not be engaged deeply in safe routes, we're really representing groups and families that we knew were living in under-invested areas or places where we knew we wanted to invest.
 So with all of that information, we still had to figure out where to focus our investment. And so what we determined was one of the best ways to do that was to identify primary routes and really focus the investment. What you're looking at on the screen is a kind of a graphic depiction of how we determined or how we thought about how kids move.
 All of us have kind of watched kids go to school through the neighborhood, and they move really organically. They move sort of similar to this, where it's kind of like a stream order, and they move on to major streets and funnel down to the school. So we used that thinking to help us develop a computer model. As you're looking at this, think of the blues and the greens as kind of individual kids interacting.
 individual trips coming from their house and funneling down to the street that's the most direct path to the school. And where you see the orange and the red, that's where we're going to focus our investment. We knew that the need is great throughout the city and that we really needed a way to target our investments to make the biggest difference for families and students trying to get to school. Can I ask you a question on that? That's interesting. So...
 Investments are prioritized based on volume rather than safety? Let me tell you more. So what we did was we looked at this was sort of the high-level model. And then with the help of a consulting firm tool design group, NCH2M, now Jacobs, they helped us develop a model that looked at first at housing density,
 So where were the trips most likely to be generating from? And we were again able to look at this in a nuanced way. There were neighborhoods where it looked like there was a lot of housing density, but actually that was the senior residents. And so we were able to know what exactly was happening and where kids would be living. We also looked at shortest path.
 and combine those two pieces of information, knowing that pedestrians, but especially child pedestrians, tend to take the easiest and the shortest path to get somewhere. And then we looked at existing infrastructure. So where did we already have safety improvements made that we could route to?
 Now, I want to call that out specifically because one of the things that we heard over and over again in our outreach, and it's something that we kind of know intuitively from other pedestrian outreach, is that kids and families won't go much more than a block out of their way to go to better infrastructure. So if you think about that, our...
 Our kind of past practice has been like, well, there's a crossing three or four blocks away. They can go around to go to that. But what we've found out and what we've heard over and over again, that they're going to take the shortest path. And so what we did was we looked at where we could reasonably find a shortest path that had existing infrastructure. And where there wasn't that infrastructure there, that's where a project was. Does that make sense? Yeah, that's interesting.
 So the primary routes looked at density, shortest path, existing infrastructure, and then where we heard from school communities there were already kids walking, like paths that were already established. And we overlaid those to identify approximately four to six routes per school.
 From there, we still had to identify projects. So what we did was we took those routes and identified safety issues or lack of infrastructure on those routes, and that's what created the project list. From the project list, we then worked with our advisory committee and the work from the community to prioritize that list, and then that's what became the Fixing Our Streets projects. That's kind of the graph that you're seeing in front of you now.
 The types of projects that came out of that analysis varied greatly. In some cases, we just needed a marked crosswalk. But in a lot of cases, the routes that were preferred based on shortest path, most likely, and preferred, we would need to do sidewalk infill or we need to do a significant updated crossing. So the project list has over 1,200 projects.
 and ranges everywhere from, like I said, a $3,000 marked crosswalk to a half a million dollar signal, depending on what the need is on that route. We have over 600 crossing projects, over 500 walkway projects. Walkway projects can include shared use path connection or sidewalk infill, and the total project list is over 1,200 individual small projects.
 Of those projects, about 88 of them are funded through Fixing Our Streets. We took that information, and I'll talk a little bit about the prioritization criteria in a minute, but we took that whole project list.
 looked at what the priorities were and identified 88 projects. We have an additional almost 70 projects that are funded through existing pieces. One example is Glen Fair Elementary, 155th and Gleason was an identified priority crossing, but our federal project, the 150s Bikeway, is already going to improve that crossing. So that's when you see the funded by other projects, that's what that number represents.
 With that, we have about 1,000 that are currently unfunded. We'll talk about that in a little bit. I know that equity is important for everyone on the council, and we really wanted to highlight how much that influenced this whole process. Our stakeholder advisory committee worked with us on developing the criteria by which we took that massive project list and identified which projects to move forward for this first phase of funding.
 Equity and safety were the two primary criteria that we used to identify what are the projects that we want to move forward first. When we talk about equity, we're meaning race, low income, and limited English proficiency. Those were the categories that we looked at. And for safety, we looked at whether or not it was on a high crash corridor. We looked at speeds and volumes on streets and the number of lanes and really looked at what was happening on that street and what could be causing safety issues for students. So you did...
 You didn't look at people with disabilities under equity? We didn't. When we spoke about this with our equity manager, our understanding was adding that, and when we looked at the data, adding that piece in didn't change the overall allocations. The disabled population is more dispersed in the community. And that adding that in is,
 we're not including that as a specific metric in PBOT's equity matrix. That wouldn't... I wonder how it might have changed because there are some schools that are more accessible and therefore tend to have higher populations of students experiencing disabilities. And so, yes, I hear what you're saying in terms of whether they would be driving anyway. And still, that is somewhat of a concern to me.
 Great. I think the way that our program tends to really think about disabled students is through the programming elements.
 For example, when we have a bike education program and we work with a specific organization that delivers bike safety skills specifically to disabled students, and then also our provider, the Street Trust, will look and see if there's any specific accommodations that need to be made, like bringing in trikes or other types of bicycles to engage kids that...
 in the regular programming. So that's typically the way that we've engaged with disabled students. But there'd be an opportunity moving forward to combine with the recent settlements on the sidewalk ramp improvements to make sure that where, I mean I know that that project is trying to partner
 And if there's an opportunity to look around the area so that if we're doing this nice improvement on the arterial or on the main, I forgot, the number four, whatever that was, if there are any sidewalk impediments in the area, that might be a way to look at it. Because, you know, our city's equity policy does look at race and disability. And so transportation is one of the key bureaus for implementing that. So just something to think about moving forward. Thank you.
 It's actually already come up as we've been looking at the details of these projects. Because of that settlement, we are looking more broadly at the curb ramps around a specific project. Like if we're doing a sidewalk infill project, then the ramps kind of attached to that are also being done. So I think that's already happening. But thank you for bringing it up specifically. I'm actually kind of shocked that that's not a consideration. Okay.
 I'm a parent of a Portland public school student with a disability who uses a wheelchair, and when I get Safe Routes to School materials,
 In his backpack, I roll my eyes because they don't include or accommodate my family. So thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for bringing that up. And I would certainly hope that curb cuts and ramps would be part of this. Absolutely. They absolutely are. In fact, thank you for bringing that up. In some of the cases where it's just a marked crosswalk and it's considered a small project,
 Part of it is getting the curb cuts in too because we have plenty of routes right now where the curb cuts just aren't there. So while the census data for disabled students and families wasn't included as part of the equity criteria, it's absolutely being considered in the project development and project design. Okay. Thank you.
 So I just wanted to share this as we're thinking about moving forward. You saw that we have over 1,000 projects that aren't currently funded.
 This map shows kind of the overlay of investment need with that data related to race and income. The darker orange represents higher populations of people of color and more families that are low income. The circles that you're looking at represent the costs associated with the projects.
 So if you look at East Portland, you can see that there's a significant need for investment overlaid with people of color and low-income families.
 If you look at kind of the central east side, there are certainly projects there, but they are on lower outer streets, so it's a marked crosswalk. In East Portland, we're looking at crossing Division and Stark, and so those investment needs are greater, even though it's still just a crossing need. So now I'm just going to turn it back to Chris to talk a little bit about what our next steps are. Sure.
 Thanks, Dana. Kind of to round it up, I think the next slide kind of shows you the situation that we're looking at. As you can see from the slide, even with the major investment from Fix Our Street, which is the $8 million, and the additional work we're doing, which is about $17 million, we still have work to do with about $253 million of identified Fix Our Street –
 safe routes to school work we need to do throughout the city. So we'll be back to you later this fall. We will be applying for a grant through ODOT and the 2017 money in terms of Fix Our Streets. There's some money dedicated to that. We'll be bringing a grant application to you to move forward with that money. We're also looking at – there's, I know, talk of a regional bond measure and a
 Fix our streets. Safe routes to school is going to be a part of that. And we are going to be looking for every pot of money we can find. So whether it's federal grants or whether it's other state or additional local funding, we really want to maximize the investments in these routes because we think they're so important. And certainly I think it's something the community has really been asking for and we're able to deliver.
 on some of this, but there's still much more work to do. So I would also, we're going to...
 We're going to turn it over to some folks from our advisory committee, but I also wanted to echo what Catherine said about Dana and the work that she did and the whole team. So this has been a very long process in a very short amount of time. So I just want to thank the work they've done and the community's work as well, because without their input and their kind of speaking up and helping guide us, we would not be where we are today. So thank you.
 I think you have the list of community members. Yeah, thank you, Chris, Art, Catherine, and Dana. And I'd now like to invite up members from the Stakeholder Advisory Committee to hopefully speak in support of the Safe Routes to School program. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Would you like to start? Okay. Okay.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Sorry, could you turn that? Just leave the microphones on. Yeah, that'll be fine. Thanks. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Brendan Haggerty, and I represented Multnomah County Environmental Health on the Stakeholder Advisory Committee. Part of my job is helping our partner jurisdictions create healthy communities, healthy neighborhoods for all. So it was a gratifying experience, and I was very glad to be able to bring a public health perspective to the discussion today.
 I view this project list as a real investment in public health, and I'm just going to take a moment to highlight a couple of reasons why. So safe routes to school are really important for kids' health, and they're really important for a couple of main reasons. The first is that they protect kids from injury, and injury is a leading cause of premature death for young people in Multnomah County. The second main reason is that they promote physical activity, and physical activity is important because kids,
 It directly prevents obesity and chronic disease. But it's also important because it helps kids concentrate. It improves cognitive function. And when kids show up to school and they're able to pay attention, it sets them up for success at school. And we know that that creates a foundation for lifelong health and well-being.
 So I'll finish by commending PBOT on a prioritization process that puts health and equity at the center of the investment plan. I think it's notable that there was strong agreement among the stakeholders about the importance of emphasizing equity in the prioritization. And for me, that's really important to see because we know that there are disparities in the built environments that kids experience every day.
 And over the long term, those can manifest in disparate health outcomes. We see different rates of diabetes in different communities, for example. So for me, this plan represents a really positive step toward correcting some of those disparities. And I'm glad to be here to offer the full support of Multnomah County Health Department.
 Hi, good afternoon. I'm Michael Lopes-Sahal. I am the new superintendent in Park Road School District. And I worked with the Safe Routes Program, I think since its inception 15 years ago, as a principal and then as a district administrator and now as a superintendent. I'd like to cite significant reasons why the Safe Routes Program has benefited our community in East Portland.
 Number one is the safety of our students. We are one of those communities that lacks sidewalks so many of our students when they do walk to school must walk on the side of the road and many of them if you watch our kids walk to middle school and high school down Shaver Street they actually flock down the middle of the street which is also a TriMet route and a route that many parents take to school. So obviously there's still great concern in our community about safety. However, for
 Safe Routes has been instrumental in reaching out to our community and asking the more important questions about what are the safest ways for kids to get to school and what are your concerns. I've seen this demonstrated not only over the last year, but I've seen it demonstrated over the last 15 years I've been in the district. These meetings have been intended to inform families about the process of prioritizing routes to get kids walking and biking to school.
 Even though many of our elementary schools are walkable, most of our parents drive our kids to school due to the lack of safety and their concern for their child's safety.
 We've really been appreciative in our district of the encouragement programs, the questions that came up earlier about students with disabilities. One of the remarkable things I've seen from the Safe Routes Encouragement Programs is they include all students. That includes in those bike safety programs where they've provided a lot of accommodations to include all kids.
 I think the encouragement programs, particularly in districts and areas of the city that are under-resourced when it comes to safe routes, these encouragement programs are vital to helping kids learn to navigate the neighborhoods they currently live in. And we want them to be able to know how to do that, particularly as they get older, because most of our kids, once they turn 11, 12 years old, they want to walk to school. They don't want a ride to school. And we want to continue that encouragement.
 The other significant reason is access. It's been instrumental in working with our schools to provide quality educational opportunities, as I mentioned. The ongoing bicycle safety, I think, has been very important because there is a drastic difference between the Park Rose community. I live in southeast Portland. Just the number of routes that kids can actually take in a safe way to our schools in Park Rose is limited. That's been a big part of the conversation that the Safe Routes folks have had.
 included me on and been very interested in in our community and I have genuine interest in continuing that work.
 And last is equity. Park Rose is very appreciative of the work. We have a lot of underrepresented families in our community, and they many times have expressed concern of whether the city is involved. And I think Safe Routes has been a great representative of the city of Portland in Park Rose. It's been a constant effort. And I think that their presence in our schools has made a difference.
 and you can see it not only in our kids, but you also see it on the streets. You have speed bumps that mitigate some of the speed issues that we have in our neighborhoods, but you also are starting to see improved crossings that allow for students of all ages to cross 102nd, 122nd Avenue, which are both very busy roads and key pathways for our students to get to school.
 I am just here to advocate for the program because I see the difference, not only in the practical structures we see in our neighborhood, but also in the encouragement that our kids see in our classrooms. Thanks very much.
 Hi, my name is Lisa Kintzel and I am the former Portland Council PTA president. For four years I was the Portland Council president, overseeing 75 PTAs in the Portland area, PPS 50,000 students in our district. I'm currently the VP of Leadership for Oregon PTA and I participated in the Stakeholders Committee. My interest first began
 In Safe Routes, a few years ago, I have three students who attend PPS. I have three boys, and they're all in a K-8 building. And we identified that safety was a concern for many of the parents in our building. So we set about creating a committee within our PTA to focus on traffic safety and reached out to Safe Routes to help us with that process.
 We participated in creating a mapping situation where we worked with our school secretary to get all of the information necessary to create a map of where all of our students were coming from in order to get to our building. And from that we worked.
 broke it down based on K-5 students and then our 6th through 8th grade students because our middle school students tend to travel in a different way to the building. When we identified the routes that they were taking and some of them were crossing Foster, Powell, and Cesar Chavez, we realized we had a significant safety concerns for the students in our building.
 So we reached out to Safe Routes at that time, and they came out and they assisted us with creating a situation or a scenario where we changed our bus routes because we have multiple buses that come to our building. The Columbia Regional Program is housed in our building, which draws students from all over the city. So there's about seven buses that arrive to take those students home every day.
 and we have two regular school buses that also come to take students that live within more than a mile from the building, and all the children that walk and bike to school, or don't because of the lack of safety. So Safe Routes was very instrumental in coming out, meeting with us multiple times that year as a committee, and prioritizing ways that we could create a safer zone around our building. That was my first...
 you know, experience with Safe Routes in working with them at that level. I was asked to participate in a stakeholders advisory committee and I was drawn not only for my own safety concerns and my students' safety concerns in my area, but overall the impact on student safety and the impact on the community and living in Portland for 27 years I've seen a lot of changes.
 in our city and the number of people and the number of people that are out and about and more cars on the road. So that was a big concern for me. I also realized that this committee and their focus on equity was in direct alignment with PTA's mission, and I was very happy to be part of the process.
 So right now our next steps for PTA is we are working with Safe Routes to continue this conversation, encourage our PTA leaders to have health and safety committees within their own board structure, and work directly with Safe Routes to impact student safety in their own buildings. Thank you. Hello, my name is Sumitra and I work with IRCO as a program coordinator and
 I'm really glad to be part of the Sivaratsu School Committee and give inputs from the community's members and community leaders.
 At IRCO, we've heard a lot of concern from family and kids again and again about not wanting to walk to school because there is no sidewalks, there is no safety when they walk to school, especially in the winter season. So I was really glad to be part of it and give inputs about what works in our community and how to engage our community in the process. So I'm really glad that equity is one of the top priorities for our stakeholders and families.
 That's something really important that when we look into these residents coming from working the family in East Portland, that should be prioritized because when we put
 put sidewalks or create sidewalks in the communities where it's most needed, families have more access to those things, and they are more willing to walk to school. So as I work with refugee and immigrant families, and I'm a resident myself at East Portland, I know many families who don't often want to walk to school because their kids are simply, you know, there's no proper sidewalks and everything there.
 Also, when we talk about safety, it is really important that we not only talk about building or creating sidewalks, it is also ensuring that it is safe for kids to walk to school, especially a lot of minority students or kids or families do not feel safe to walk.
 because they might be mocked by who they are and their skin color. So it is important to kind of add that component that it is safe to walk to school and that whole neighborhood engagement component should be kind of added to that community engagement. So making sure that families know it is safe to walk to school and the family engagement part is important. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. That completes the invited testimony. Very good. Carla, is there any public testimony on this item? No one else signed up. All right. Very good. Any further questions of staff before we take up the vote? Carla, please call the roll on the resolution. Seltsman? Well, I want to thank our stakeholder advisory group committee members, all the people who showed up with their students at the open house events, and one of which I attended myself and did a walk.
 I forget the name of the school, but I was there. And I really appreciate all the work of PBOT staff. And, you know, thanks to voters once again for approving the funding of Safe Routes to Schools, along with all the maintenance and road rebuilding projects we're going to be doing. These are very important investments in our future for our families and for our residents. So pleased to support it. Aye. Aye.
 You, Daly. Well, thanks for the presentation, and thanks, everyone, for coming to give testimony. We have only received supportive comments from constituents in my office, and it's exciting to move forward. Aye. Fritz?
 Well, first, thanks to Commissioner Steve Novick and former Director Leah Treat for their championing of the Fix Our Streets projects and bond measure as well as this entire program. Second, thank you to staff for implementing it even better than I had hoped for. I was particularly grateful to hear about your outreach and the things that you learned. And just really well done. Thank you.
 Thank you Commissioner Saltzman for your ongoing leadership of this. Thank you to the young people who came and sat very quietly and well behaved and reminded me at least that you're part of why we're doing this and that your city, your city council and the people of Portland care about your safety. And so that's the same for all of the people at home. I just flipped through the project list.
 I'm almost tearful to see that the South West 35th from Huber to Stevenson is finally on the list. 2020, I hope I live long enough to see it. And thanks to Adam Grimshaw in the West Portland Park neighbourhood. That's the street by Jackson and my kids couldn't walk there. It's less than half a mile from my house and I had to
 drive them every single blooming day because it's simply not safe for anybody. So not only will it help the students getting there, it will really open up our entire neighborhood to have a way to get to shopping, to this transit center, to various other places. So this benefits all of us. And thank you to the taxpayers of Portland for paying for it. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 I can do nothing but heap on more praise. Thanks to the people of the city of Portland who voted for this, who supported it. I'm in the same boat as Commissioner Udaly. It's a good day at Portland City Hall when the email you get on a particular item is uniformly positive. And I think that speaks volumes about the need and the public support for this program. And certainly Commissioner Saltzman, I want to thank you for your leadership as the Transportation Commissioner. Thank you.
 and to everybody in the Bureau who's worked so hard on this and will continue to work so hard on this. Commissioner Fritz called out the young people and thanked them for their good behavior. I think it's only fair that I thank the older people here for their good behavior.
 As well. That's an inside joke. Maybe, maybe not. At any rate, it's a great resolution. I support it. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you, everybody, who worked hard on this. Carla, without...
 Any dissent on this? I think we can read 805, 806, and 807 together, although we will have to dispose of them separately. 805 is a resolution, so we will be taking a vote today. 806 and 807 are non-emergency ordinances, which will be moved to second. But we'll hear the presentation on all of them, and we'll take testimony on all of them today. Thank you, Carla. Thank you.
 805, adopt the performance-based parking management manual to establish guidelines for the Bureau of Transportation to manage public parking in the city. 806.
 806, resend resolution number 35486 TRN-3.102 and adopt new parking meter district policy to better manage parking in the city. And 807, adopt new parking pricing and event district policy as outlined in the parking management manual to establish guidelines for managing public parking in the city. Very good. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 Today we are bringing the parking management manual forward again as a resolution and two ordinances. The resolution adopts three of the five chapters of the parking management manual to provide consistent guidance for parking time limits, parking management districts, and truck loading zones. These guidelines are based on policies in the transportation system plan and in the comprehensive plan.
 The two ordinances are for the remaining two chapters of the parking management manual. These chapters fulfill council direction from an April 2016 ordinance directing the Bureau of Transportation to create a plan to implement performance-based pricing. These items before us were revised by PBOT since they were brought before council on June 13th.
 based on input and suggestions from my council colleagues, as well as public testimony that we received. Mauricio Leclerc, Supervising Transportation Planner, and Melissa McCready, Parking Operations Division Manager, will present the Stakeholder Advisory Committee recommendations for the Parking Management Manual, and then they will also highlight the changes that have been made based on feedback we have received. We greatly appreciate the work of everybody who's been involved in this process. Thank you.
 Chair Ortega-Buricio. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Mauricio Leclerc, PBAT Planning. We have a brief presentation, and we hope to clarify why we have to do one resolution and two ordinances. We'll have plenty of opportunity to go through that, starting with this slide. The manual has six chapters.
 with the introduction. Chapter 2, 3, and 6 can be adopted by resolution, non-binding city policy. However, Chapter 4 and 5 regarding rates, setting meter rates, they need to be via ordinances, which is why we're doing it this way. And we'll walk you through each of the steps.
 So that's why we have a resolution and two ordinances. With me is Mr. McCready. As well, we have the consultant, Rick Williams, in the back, as well as the Benson parking division manager. So moving forward, we're following up the Resolution 37204, as Commissioner Saltzman mentioned, and
 But also, we wanted to step back a little bit to remind the council that we've been working on parking for many years now. We updated policies in the 2035 comprehensive plan, the transportation system plan. We developed a citywide parking strategy that laid out the foundation for our work, and we worked very hard with the community on that. Central City 2035 plan has parking amendments included, mixed-use zones project.
 Last January, we were here to, and Council adopted the Centers and Corridor Parking Toolkit, and now we're bringing you the performance-based parking management recommendations from the Stakeholder Advisory Committee that again follow the resolution that you adopted in April of 2016.
 So in the years plus that we've been talking about parking, some key themes have emerged, and we've been trying to implement them into policies, and now we're trying to implement them into guiding policy for how we operate parking in the city and direct this for parking operations team.
 So some of the key themes include better use of existing parking, unanimous support, I would say, that existing parking assets sometimes are found underutilized, sometimes because of rates. And therefore, in a growing city, we need to do a better job making sure that we make best use of that scarce asset.
 that we have. Also redefining the role and function of parking in the curb zone. We were here not too long ago in Haines Transit corridors. We may have to have some space on the curb for a bus lane, for example, sometimes a bicycle lane. But when it's parking the proper use, we want to make sure that we get the best use of it so that it supports adjacent commercial corridors. Thank you.
 and manage parking that we have, you know, again, to achieve the highest and best use. I think I repeated myself a little bit. Secondly there, better on-street parking management. Parking supply is getting tighter, not just in the downtown area here, but also through our commercial districts as redevelopment happens, excuse me, and demand for limited parking spaces increase. So this parking management addresses not just the existing meter areas, but also commercial corridors.
 And also more demand-responsive management. It is challenging today to adjust parking rates and initiate parking management plans. Council has done it like seven times since 1970, and it's always been a rate increase. Today we have new technologies, like you see in the picture, but also applications like Parking Kitty that allows us to have more responsive management of the parking system and better customer experience.
 So with that in mind, we developed the parking management manual that is before you.
 We also have strong public support through the years. We had direct communication with over 1,000 people and with strong support, again, for data-driven management. We have the endorsement of several committees to adopt the toolkit in performance-based parking management, including the committee that recommended the rates in 2016, that we went from $100.60 to $2.00.
 They went through the existing process and they said, please, move to performance-based parking management. There's a much better way of doing this than what we had to go through in 2016. So this is where we are today with that resolution. Just to go through the same slide, the first resolution, the resolution talks about chapters 1, 2, 3, and 6. I can briefly cover them. But first, acknowledge the partners. We had a committee, including Portland Business Alliance and Gold Lloyds.
 Oriental College of Medicine, Pearl District Neighborhood Association, Venture Portland, Central Eastside, Portlanders for Parking Reform, Portland Downtown Neighborhood Association, Portland Freight Committee, and Northwest Portland Parking Group Committee. And Venture Portland, if I did not mention that. We also had outreach. We had an online open house translated into 10 languages.
 which received many comments in support of data to set rates. We also have received many letters of support, including from organizations such as Lloyd & Goloit, PBA, Freight Committee, and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And here are some quotes that we pulled out for you. So just to go very briefly, we went through this in June 13, so we don't have to spend too much time on this. But just to remind you, Chapter 2 is about new parking management districts and the process for it.
 And it is here that we have some amendments, some language, that introduce working with Commissioner Salzman and particularly Commissioner Fritz. So we wanted to highlight this during the presentation, that we have two word assets on the second page of the first of the resolution that basically about the composition of the workgroup or a parking committee for the setting of new parking management districts. The resolution reads, it should include ten stakeholders consisting of three business owners,
 five residents, two employees of the proposed parking management district who live outside of the area. The list has been expanded. That is a concern. Make sure that we have a more inclusive, equitable process because these areas can affect many people. And the second one is to add language that we should consider the equity implications of the changes to the parking system in the parking management districts in the area.
 We appreciate the comments, and we certainly would like to – we will incorporate them into the final parking menu that will be published if it's adopted by council. And I believe there's an amendment to do that, right? Okay. Okay.
 On Chapter 3, time limits, again, just we want to provide some certainty to our folks that work in the parking operations, but also the public. There's a standardized process, and we'll work through the problems as we go, as we tackle commercial districts. And we can also customize times to meet people's particular needs.
 And then finally, Chapter 6 is about truck loading. We have 44 signs. Very difficult to manage. Very hard to read. You park in one, you don't realize exactly what you're parking. So you need to be very careful reading these. So now we've standardized them, and I think that's gotten their support, the Portland Freight Committee. These are the five? I think these are the fives, yeah. Okay. From 44. Okay.
 So that was quickly, but that's basically the meat of the resolution that adopts those chapters. Now I'll explain, unless you have questions, I'll move on as to what makes up the ordinance. So basically, I'll go back actually.
 talking about chapters 4 and 5 of the manual. So those require changes to TRN 3.102. These are ordinances. So 3.102 was adopted in 1996. It's a lengthy policy that has two key components. We're only changing one, so therefore we need to create a new ordinance
 that we maintain the language word for word for the other elements of the policy that we're not addressing today. So basically, TRN 3102 talks about parking meter revenue allocation, what to do with the funds. That is a part in which we're not changing today. And the new ordinance...
 We're changing the parking meter setting part of the ordinance. So to do that, the city attorney's office and the auditor's office recommended that we do it this way. Basically, TRN 3.102 goes away. It gets replaced with one with no changes, word for word, for the parking meter revenue allocation policy. And then another ordinance that adopts a new way to set meter rates in the city for events and for general day-to-day operations.
 So any questions on that? Okay. Thank you. So I think I covered that, the mystery of this. It was a bit complex for us to understand, so hopefully we can understand. It translates to the public as well. So now is the one that adopts a new parking and event district policy, Chapter 4 and Chapter 5. These are based on performance-based parking management.
 What is that? It's a data-driven, clear, and transparent way of managing parking. It relies on performance metrics that are simple to read and act on. It maximizes customer experience and efficiency of the parking system.
 following supply and following demand. It's not driven by revenue. However, in the areas that have been implemented, our sister cities in San Francisco, Vancouver, B.C., and Seattle have shown no net loss in revenue. It's just a better way to manage. Price goes up, rates go up where it needs to be, and it goes down where it doesn't need to be, and things come out roughly net neutral.
 It improves the reliability of the transportation system and overall livability. People are not cruising looking for parking, adding congestion, taking road space for transit and walking and bicycling, and includes industry best practices for parking management, which we'll go over in a little bit. So to do this, the guidelines that need to happen are listed below, and we'll walk you through some examples.
 Performance-based parking sets a target. In this case, we want to reach occupancy, meaning the number of parking spaces on a curb, to reach between 65 and 85 during the peak period. 85 is about leaving one space available on average. So if you're going, if you're late, going to the dentist or whatever, you will find parking pretty much where you need to go on average.
 And also we don't want it to dip below 65 because then we have half a curb empty. There are better uses of the right-of-way. So you want to make sure we're getting good use of the curb when it is for parking.
 So to do that, we'll change the rates. I'll go through an example. We are proposing a predetermined rate range. So it will not go below $1, which is the cost of running the system, and not beyond $5 an hour. If we ever need to change that, we'll have inflation many years from now, whatever. We'll come back to council to adjust that rate. Thirdly, the council can recommend no change because demand has not changed so much.
 or adjust up and down in increments of 20 cents, 40 cents, or 60 cents. That's the maximum that can be changed in one year, 60 cents, based on data.
 And the final rates are approved by council. They will be coming through the yearly adoption of the budget and the fee schedule process. And finally, enforcement hours, you know, determine when the meeting starts running. That would also be a decision that is to date for council to decide if we need to extend it or so forth. So that's the parameter. So how will a driver know what the price is? Will the price be the same throughout a whole district?
 Likely not. Today we have a downtown of $2. It is likely, and I think I'm going to have a graphic that will explain that based on what we have now at proxy,
 Things will begin to divert a little bit. So, but starting as an example, going again, PIVA will collect data and recommend. The Bureau Director will recommend to the Council a change or no change. Again, City Council will consider the recommendation and would adopt it. We can do no rate change, increase or decrease. So, as an example, what we have now is a...
 You have on the white axle, measure occupancy. So we have a band, 65% and 85%. Within that range, we will recommend no rate change. Above that, we will recommend a rate increase. Below that, we will recommend a rate decrease. Is it 20 cents, 40 cents, or 60 cents? It would depend how far we are from this band. So as an example, today the whole downtown from the Pearl to South Waterfront is $2 an hour.
 It could be that it is fine next year when we do the analysis and we bring you something. Or it could be that some areas or the whole area needs to go up or down. So it would be an increments of 20 cents. It could be up to 60. So in this case, it would be if occupancy was 95, we're probably recommending something like 260. This is an example, but this is how we see it working. As well as you can see range. It will not dip below 1, and it will go beyond 5 cents.
 So I understand that. Yeah. But now there's places in downtown that are easier to park than others. So presumably in the areas where it's harder to park, you'll put the price up, correct? Yeah. So here I'm jumping to this example. This is what we have is a proxy. We're using the electric parking stations that we have. We can collect number of transactions. That is a proxy transaction.
 Today, as an example for council, of what may happen, areas in red, lots of activity. We're likely seeing that high demand, the rate may go up. But if you see in the central east side, in the North Pearl, South Waterfront, we're now seeing the same level of activity. The rates may go down. And in this case, in this existing district, we will be recommending some different rates depending on what the market is.
 is telling us. Right, but looking at the waterfront where there's a blue dot next to a red dot, how are you going to let the driver know that if you just go on to the next block it's going to be less money?
 We would set up logical, you know, within the market. We don't have the ability to set block by block things. We will determine... Oops, sorry, I believe. But there's always going to be an edge to whatever block you use. So how will the driver know if you just park on the other side of the street? It's going to cost you less. I think what I can defer to Melissa, other cities have done that. They have the ability to demand...
 of information that the rate is changing, and this is the rate also that gets posted in the right-of-way and in the stations themselves, and also online in Parking Kitty, you know, that would alert people what the price is. It could be – it's advantageous for some folks in which if you know where you want to go, you may want to choose
 to park a little bit off to take care of the lower right and so forth. So clear this is going to be hopefully addressed in my amendments that are looking at equity because some people just can't afford to pay more so that they may be willing to walk a little further in order to be able to pay less.
 So one suggestion that I have, currently in the stadium district, there's a marker right on the meter that says stadium district rates may be in effect. And yes, it's on the meter as well. But before you even pull up to park, there's a little sign that says you are. And so if you don't want to pay the stadium rate, you keep going until you don't see those little signs. So maybe that's something that you could look at putting in. This is zone A, zone B, zone X. That's...
 That's exactly, yeah. Because you don't want to have to park. You go to the meeting, you know, blooming heck, I don't have that much money, so I'm going to have to go back again. Correct. Today you have no choice. It's $2 or wherever you go. In the future, do you have options? Do you be able to, in a way, shop around within, if you're doing trip change to three places, you want to go... Right, but you're going to need to make it clear to somebody who doesn't have a smartphone. Yeah, certainly. So you cannot rely on the parking kitty.
 Yeah, we'll rely on signage and other information, websites and other ways to clearly communicate that. That's one of the things that we've been hearing. Some people want certainty. They want to know where they're going, what their rate will be, and that it will be a parking space and so forth. But we don't want people to have to be consulting their smartphone while they're driving to be able to find the right parking spot. Yeah, signage will be clear, and you can see it as you're driving what you're buying into, what their rate will be.
 We haven't done it, but other cities, Seattle, again, Vancouver, and San Francisco have done this, and we can certainly – that's the intention of where we're headed. Those cities are known as places that people with low incomes have a hard time getting around and parking. So that's one of my concerns. Yes, we're very well taken. We'll do – I think I need to go back a little bit. So that would be the recommendation. Also, as we –
 collect data, we will publish it. Here's an example from Seattle, Ballard core district, what the occupancy has been through the years and what the likely recommendations are going to be based on data. So, PBAC will publish a report that once we collect data, folks will understand, again, we're trying to come up with clear, transparent way of managing parking and driven by data, so a report will be available for folks to understand what the parking demands are in a certain district or a certain meter district.
 So we went through this. Another thing to note is that PIVA receives a few comments on that the rates are too high, but we hear a lot about having trouble finding on-street parking. You know, that's particularly time-sensitive activities such as going to work, punching the clock, as well as going to dentists and so forth. So for the information also on who uses public parking and the equity concerns that the commissioner was raising here,
 The parking that we're talking about is largely for short-term uses. That's been a practice throughout, actually, the world, but Portland since the 40s, to encourage turnover. That encourages the best use of parking. So it's basically, we usually sign up for four hours or less, often in the downtown, one, two hours, sometimes 30 minutes.
 That encourages the turnover. So we did an analysis during the increase in 2016. Who comes and parks in our system, and what is the trade purpose? 25% was to work, mostly. It is to shop.
 tourism, meetings, so forth, which is consistent with what we expected but also with policy. However, we chose 4 to 7 because that's the area in which if you have a night shift, you're likely to park for two, three hours, and then you can get free parking after that. So this is likely to be on the higher end of how many people come to work and park. Still only about 25%. And within that, we had another question. How many are actually service workers? Sure.
 which you can say as a proxy for low income, it was a third of that. So basically it would be a 6% of the total of the parkers here in the downtown area are service workers.
 everybody else has another job or another trip purpose. So just to understand who we are likely to affect positively or negatively, depending on the rate. Also, PIVA has two programs using SmartPARK to help people with low income. And we can go into more detail as you need to, but they are great programs in my opinion. I'm not in parking lots. I can be a little bit more impartial. So that's how we are addressing. But again, the rates may go up. The rates may go down.
 And that's the recommendation. Now moving forward on events district, same process, except that there's a criteria for when do we set districts is for in events that are likely to generate 10,000 trips or more.
 That only includes Providence Park today, which has an existing district, the Rose Quarter and the Convention Center. The same mechanics would apply with rates based on data, in this case to incentivize the use of alternative modes, and also the upper determined rate. Council would have the final authority, and enforcement hours would also be up for council to decide. And so far we have a good...
 reception. Oops, positive. Sorry, I got lost here. Oh, we went too far. I apologize. We have good feedback from the Convention Center and Rose Quarter folks that this is something that meets their needs and is likely to work if we ever get to initiate a conversation to initiate a new event with them, event district with them. So again, just to
 Be very clear, PIVA collects the data and recommends a rate. City Council has the final authority. In this case, the range is different, 3 to 10, and the rate is more like a dollar. That's how we operated today. And what's the process for deciding where those event district boundaries are? The convention center and... The criteria for 10,000 trips... But where's the boundary of that? That would also follow...
 I can push the button. That would also follow the same, how we would form a parking management district, that language with the committee forming. So it would be working. Would that come to council? Yes, everything would come before council. So all those parking districts come to council? Absolutely. Yeah. And yeah, that's governed by code. We have to bring everything to council. Thank you.
 Yeah, so that's pretty much it. I'm sorry that some of these policies are in different places. So in this case, that's Title 16 that determines parking meters. So it will come to council as well. So that's basically to summarize what's in the parking manual. And again, one resolution and two ordinances for the legal mechanics that we had to go through. Thank you. Thank you.
 Any questions? Could I ask just one question? Yeah. So it goes from my past, it's coming out. It's the price elasticity of demand. And you said that it's 20 cents or it is 40 cents or it is 60 cents. How did you pick the 20 cent increments being up to 60 cents, number one? And number two, how do you know that it impacts demand? Are you basing this on pricing surveys or studies of some sort? Yeah.
 The $20.40 and $60.00 are recommended by the Stakeholder Advisory Committee. That is what they arrived at as what they felt would have an impact on – Based on what? Based on what they felt was reasonable.
 It was based on data. We looked at Seattle. We looked at San Francisco. We looked at how they were doing rates. So any kind of an increase does have an impact on human behavior. Any kind of a decrease has an impact on behavior. And we can provide a lot of detailed information on that if you'd like to see about price elasticity. We did it when we did the last year. I'm a huge fan of it.
 executive summary. I'd just like to know if there's some basis of data. So we had done a lot of data collection on price elasticity when we did the last meter rate increase. And so some of it's based on that information. So if I recall, in 2016 we recommended 60 cents. We thought that that would be what would get us to move the needle. At this point, so it's a combination of data. We think that 60 cents should be okay. And doing it enough over time maybe takes a couple of years to adjust.
 So we're balancing trying to get the rate right, but also not to surprise people too much, not to introduce too much change at once. So it's a compromise, again, driven with council having the final authority so people can react to the information. We're presenting the data. We're presenting to the best of our ability.
 availability 20, 40, 60, but at the end of the day, you will have the decision, but also we allow people to hear. I appreciate that, but when it comes back to council, I really want it to be pegged to actual data as opposed to people coming in expressing feelings, emotions, anecdotal stories about the last time they went shopping or whatever. Correct, and that's what this whole process is for, so it does tie everything to data. Excellent, fabulous, thank you. With our annual data collection that will help inform it.
 Cool. And is the Parking Kitty giving you more data than you had before? Absolutely. As of last week, one in four transactions in the city are Parking Kitty transactions. So we're at 25% adoption out of 38,000 transactions a day. Impressive. Okay, good. Thanks. With Parking Kitty, you still are limited to the two hours in a spot. Is that correct? Yes.
 Correct. The parking rules have not changed. It's just a different way to pay. So you can't, at the end of your two hours, pay with your phone and get another two hours? If you're in a time limit zone that you haven't paid. So if you're in a two-hour spot and you've paid two hours, no. But if you're in a four-hour spot and you've paid two hours, you can extend up to the four hours. But the kitty won't let you just keep plugging it? Only to what's allowed on the curb. Thank you.
 Great. Shall I move my amendments? Yeah. And colleagues, I apologise for not getting to these to you earlier. Commissioner Saltzman's office and mine were still working on them right up until the deadline here. So, OK, I apologise for not getting to you. So, amendment to the Resolution 805 to start with, now therefore be it resolved that the City of Portland directs the Bureau of Transportation to amend the Parking Management Manual...
 to reflect the language in this resolution, including a review of the equity implications and procedures to ensure equity in the establishment and implementation of parking districts. And then the second would be, be it further resolved, that the City of Portland adopts the parking manual subject to the amendments directed above. Second. Thank you.
 We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz and a second from Commissioner Udaly. We'll call it Fritz number one. And then number two, which is on the other side, is the amendment to the ordinance 807. The directions would read, now therefore the council directs the...
 A, the Bureau of Transportation to conduct a review of the parking management manual in consultation with the Bureau's equity team to recommend any changes necessary to advance equity in the event district parking management programs. Actually, that should just say district management parking programs, sorry, not event district. And setting parking meter rates. Yes.
 Second. Thank you. A motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Saltzman. That's Fritz number two. And I don't have- And just to be clear, you removed the word of that. Right. OK. Sorry about that. And I don't have this in there, but I would like to just request staff and the commissioner in charge and the mayor that council would get copies with strike through underline of the revised parking manual so that we can assess
 because I still, as you know, do still have concerns about how people who don't live and own property in a district, their needs are going to be considered when we're setting up these districts. I have a question.
 I'm sorry if I missed this because I had to step out for a few minutes, but who is currently authorized in the community to initiate a PMM process? Does it have to be a neighborhood association, or could it be some other interest group? Right now we don't have a process. So we get this helps establish guidelines on how we would be able to get a process going. We have five-meter districts. They've all been formed in different ways. Okay.
 But then this establishes how we would do a parking management district, and that would be the committee that we are including people from everywhere. I think the rest of my questions will receive a similar answer. I'm just concerned, I guess, about community engagement and how we're reaching the whole community and not just a small subset of particularly interested parties that might be making decisions that would adversely affect...
 others and also have some equity concerns similar to Commissioner Fritz. So what does the manual say as to who gets to ask for it under your new proposal? Anyone can ask. We get calls all the time. So again, the district, there's a parking problem in an area. They get together along the lines that are in this amendment.
 They come to us and we work with them and we set serious recommendations. More likely, they will not have impacts on pricing. They're not talking about meter rates. One avenue would be that the area needs one, in which case we would take that path with that committee. But then that sets us into a path in which it comes to council.
 I appreciate you asking this question. So any 10 people with no process in the community can get together and say, we have five business people, three residents, whatever it is, and then you go ahead and start going on it?
 No, we just talk to people first, and then we'll do data collection. And then we don't really have a process right now. We just talk to people a lot every day. It probably is usually neighborhood associations and business associations, though, that are coming to you with these. And we have just individuals who are frustrated with their parking situations. I mean, we take calls all day long. We have multiple stakeholder groups. So any ten people, as long as they represent the groups in there, can push this whole thing into motion, and you go ahead and –
 We don't do anything now. How can I phrase this conversation? Well, the parking manual, we want to manage the system as best as we can in a certain area.
 What the manual says is we will have a public review process with a committee to tackle some of these how to proceed and how to address parking operations in a certain area. And we have the manual specifies time limits, loading, and so forth. So it is a mechanism to work with the public to address concerns at a local scale. But Commissioner Uday's question is the good one. Who...
 Any 10 people in a given area can get this whole thing going without, even if everybody else in the area doesn't agree with it. Where's the 10 people coming from? They've got committees. They've got to have 10 people on the committee. But who decides, yes, we as an area want... Well, these are voted on, but... Yeah, yes. But you could spend an awful lot of time with 10 people going through all of this. That's not quite what we do. It's more complicated than that.
 It depends on the parking issue. So we get asked about residential parking. We get asked about commercial corridor parking. We have different ways of addressing parking demand and parking needs and managing those needs. So if we have a business call us wanting time limits in front of their business, we work with them. If they want a truck loading zone, we work with them. But we don't really form committees ad hoc to just talk about parking. Okay.
 It's not quite how we do it. Supposing I believe there's a problem with parking at a particular commercial area in my neighborhood. So I get five business owners and three residents and two people from who work there. And we come to you and we say we want a parking district. How do you decide whether or not to start this whole thing in motion? We start with data collection and to learn what the parking issue is. And then we talk about different tools that we currently have and how we can address it.
 But there isn't a specific formal committee. We don't have rules for that right now. That's what the parking management district committee guidelines are for. But the decision to form a district ultimately is in the hands of the residents. It's actually in the hands of council. Well, that's true. For meter districts. But we do ask. For any district. Yeah, for meters. We ask residents and business owners to answer.
 Typically, several of our meter districts have come about because of transportation and parking plans. Like Northwest took 20 years to form. Central Eastside is completely different. Goloid is completely different. So every district has been formed differently, and we don't necessarily have a lot of conversations with the community about forming another district. That's not what we typically have conversations about. It's a specific thing in front of their house or a specific thing in front of their business.
 I'm sorry, Commissioner, I didn't mean to interrupt you. Oh, no, no, no. I was done. I just wanted to lay out a couple of my concerns, and it sounds like those are the concerns that are going to be addressed. Very good. Public testimony. So we have one person signed up, Terry Parker. All right. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Parker. It's just you today. Just me today. All right. You're on the people in here, too. All right.
 Good, I get three minutes then, right? There you go. It's all yours. Okay, my name is Terry Parker, and based on your last comments, I'm a vintage Portlander.
 Very good. Excellent. Us too. Do you remember the fuel shortage of the 1970s? That was manipulation by big oil. How about Enron and how they manipulated the power grid to increase electricity rates? Now we have PBOT in the city of Portland artificially creating congestion with road diets along with instigating a parking shortage by not requiring adequate off-street parking with new development. Converting on-street parking to bike lanes expands the shortage.
 and now the ploy, charging residents for on-street parking due to a shortage instigated by the city. Per TriMet's latest survey, congestion, road maintenance, and the need to increase motor vehicle capacity was among the top priorities not directly related to transit. Where's the government support? Even though the city has a huge fleet of passenger vehicles,
 that are commonly driven as single occupancy vehicles, or in the case of elected officials chauffeured. Over the last couple of decades, both PBOT and Metro have developed an exceedingly evident car-hater mindset. Portland now has a street and highway system that is deficient in motor vehicle capacity.
 Instead of making more room for cars to accommodate unrestrained population growth and supporting nearly 10% of the jobs that are tied to the automobile, the city has been tinkering with social engineering and attempting to discriminately dictate how people travel. All combined, it is creating more mass congestion and parking issues.
 Making use of gas tax dollars from the Federal Highway Trust Fund, it is the people that drive in this artificially contrived congestion that pay the largest chunk of funding for mass transit. Transit fares barely cover 25% of the operation costs.
 Likewise, it is the people that drive and pay gas tax dollars, which also fund the privilege of having a specialized bicycle infrastructure that bicyclists utilize while paying no user fees. You can't help but notice it is always those same freeloaders that show up to support charging drivers even more.
 Due to creating the most demand and to establish equity if curb space is treated as a commodity and a permit system is expanded or adopted, any residents without off-street parking must be charged significantly higher fees than those that have driveways or off-street parking. Equity and justice would also require value pricing be assessed on bicyclists where bike lanes occupy curb space significantly.
 has reduced or eliminated parking. Likewise, transit riders must be assessed when bus lanes or transit stops occupy the curb space and reduce or eliminate parking. Whereas motorists already pay for the streets curb-to-curb with gas taxes and other motor vehicle fees, curb space should not be privatized or treated as a fee-based commodity space for parking. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Colleagues, any further questions before we take up?
 The votes on the resolution and the amendment. I don't have a question, but I just want to thank the staff for providing us with the written documentation, because it's actually the business district that has to initiate it first. Is that correct? I'm seeing nods. And then you set up the committee.
 So this is specifically related to businesses. I'm sorry I forgot about that. It's been a while since the previous hearing. Yeah. Okay. Very good. So we'll take up first Fritz Amendment No. 1, which is germane to Resolution 805. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. Please call the roll on the resolution as adopted. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz?
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for all of your work on this. Obviously, it's a work in progress, and it's something that can be changed. And so I will have to say that as I go around Portland, certainly people are very concerned about people who are living outside and various other kind of issues like that. But it's parking that when anybody brings that up, that people get absolutely irate about it.
 particularly about new apartments and other homes being built without parking, which puts a lot of pressure on the public realm, so that the private sector is not paying their fair share. And I'm concerned about we're having to do a lot of management of the public right away because there's spillover from not providing it in other places. And hopefully we'll start to address that. So thank you very much for all of your work on it. Thank you.
 Wheeler good work. I vote aye the resolution is adopted as amended
 Any further discussion on 806? I just want to add, I have had some conversations with Commissioner Fish, who unfortunately is not able to be here today, with his staff. And so I just wanted to put a couple of issues on that previous item on the record so that you can think about it as you move forward. And those are to look at specific types of parking, including for quick pickup areas with 15-minute or 30-minute parking. I think that's important.
 looking at parking management during construction, which obviously is not the parking district, but that is something that comes into play, especially with all of the construction that's happening in the business districts. And then the loading zones, yes we're making some improvements on the signage and making them more simple,
 We've had some controversy around Director Park, that park staff get ticketed even though they are loading and unloading. They're not counted as the kind of commercial vehicles that are allowed in the loading and unloading zones. So people who have big equipment like musicians can't use them because they're not commercially loading or unloading. And I do think, again, as we're looking at
 finding places for people who need it, that those are things that, um, commissioner Fish and I would like you to look at. Thank you. Very good. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It was the second reading. Uh, and that would be on August 2nd. May I make some remarks? I didn't realize this was the first reading. Uh, I just want to say that, uh, you know, I appreciate all the work that's been done by all the stakeholders and by, uh, people at staff. And, um,
 And you may or may not thank me for this at some future point in time, but earlier iterations did have a lot of discretion to Pivot in terms of making decisions about how to change the parking rates under the foreign space process.
 and things like that. And I was very insistent that those decisions be made by the City Council. So you may or may not thank me at some future point in time for that. But I do feel it's important because, as Commissioner Fritz just said, this is an issue that all Portlanders get excited about. So I think it's important to keep the ultimate authority in the hands of the City Council. But I do appreciate all the work and the behavioral analysis that's gone into this work and the notion that, you know, people...
 need to be able to find a parking space when they want to shop or work or recreate in the downtown or in the central city. So thank you for allowing me to make those remarks. Very good. We'll take up the amendment Fritz number two, germane to ordinance 807. Please call the roll.
 Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Well thank you Commissioner Saltzman for agreeing to this amendment and my colleagues for the support on that. Thank you for making the change on keeping the buck stopping here literally with the City Council. I think I would not have voted for it without that. Also thank you for removing the clause that said it's binding city policy in the resolution. I think it's important for this manual to be a work in progress and to be amended with due input from the community and the council.
 While we definitely expect it to be used, it's important to allow that flexibility. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading on Thursday, August 2nd as amended. And we are adjourned. Thank you, everyone.