Good morning. This is a pre-Gavel proclamation today. Welcome, everyone. We have some incredibly special guests today. We have four members of the Portland Thorns team here today, and we're going to... their excellence in the FIFA World Cup Championships. Could I ask Adriana, French, Tobin Heath, Emily Sonnet, and Lindsay Orin to come on up? And just have a seat. Wherever you'd like. Yep, have a seat. That's the hot seat. Thank you for being here. And before I get to the proclamation and before Commissioner Fish has some opening remarks, we thought it would be really interesting if maybe just as an icebreaker, you could maybe share a couple of sentences about what your favorite moment was in the World Cup. For me, it was going around the stadiums and seeing Thorns in France, And being able to point to those fans because that's what started everything for me moving forward. Just the support that we have here. Awesome. Thank you. From each of us. You can move the mic a little closer. Okay. I think my favorite moment was probably going back to Paris. That's where my career started, and that's where I started playing with Tobin as well, so I think that was a really special moment for us, and playing there, playing in front of that city, and yeah, truly remarkable. Thank you. I would just say winning the World Cup was the best part. Thank you. I would also like to say winning the World Cup. Just sharing it with these three and having familiar faces there, it was pretty special. Awesome. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you for being here today. Appreciate it. Commissioner Fish. So there's a lot of young people here today, and not all of them are going to play for the Thorns or play for the national team. But they're going to play soccer in high school and maybe college, and they love the sport. Any advice for that next generation coming up in terms of how to approach soccer and just any advice that you as professionals want to share with young people who are watching and who you've inspired? I would just say want to make mistakes. Don't be afraid of failure. Walk straight into it. Be excited when you come before challenges. And be pioneers. Pave a different way. Be different. Lindsay, why don't you jump in? Because you took a somewhat unconventional route. You went, if I'm right, you went from high school to professional? Mm-hmm. So that's not the path everyone takes. Any advice for people who you've inspired? Go to college. Don't say go to college. By the way, the University of Portland is your two-time national champion. I don't know. You don't like to travel to the places, you know, the East Coast, places like North Carolina? You've got plenty of options here. No, I think what I would say is just keep loving the game as much as possible and don't ever let anyone take that love away from you. And whether that's soccer or anything else that you're passionate about, Don't let anyone take that from you. Keep loving it, keep working so hard for it, and as much as you love it, I think that's where the hard work comes. So keep doing that as much as possible. Thank you. Thank you. I put my flag home. It was really great being with the Riveters. That was one of my favorite parts before the final. I only got to go to the final, but... I got to go to the final and we, the rigatists, there must have been 150 people from Portland there, you know, doing the PTFC and Mona Shim was there and she was so nervous for you, former player. And it was just brilliant. I've watched it three times since I've got home again. I was sitting right on the corner line in the sun, so it was kind of hot. Tobin, you'll run into the penalty box when you... You had, like, four defenders on you and none of them knew what to do and you were just kind of, like, teasing them like a cat with mice. It was just absolutely fantastic. And I just appreciate all of you for what you do here in Portland as well as on the national and international scenes. You are role models for so many people all over. And thank you for what you're doing for Equal Pay. I really appreciate that. I read... APPLAUSE I read The National Team by Caitlin Murray on my way over and on my way back and it was really inspiring to see how much you've had to fight for what you've got and how you're continuing to have to do that. I also read a book called Soccernomics, which is really interesting. And it said that to get proficient at anything, you have to practice for 10,000 hours, which which is about four years of being on the City Council. That's a lot of practice. You didn't get where you are by goofing off. You worked really hard to get where you are. I just want you to know that we really appreciate it. Thank you for choosing Portland as well as for your great performances. By the way, just I know we're going to be a little pressed for time and I want to acknowledge before the mayor reads the proclamation, I'd like to acknowledge the coach of the Thorns that's here. Mark, where are you? Would you stand and be recognized? Congratulations for being first on the table and I know you've got some tough games ahead, but we are looking forward to having a ticker tape parade to honor the Thorns at the end of this season. So congratulations, coach. I feel like I have to say something. Well, I just want to welcome you to City Council. Thank you for everything you do. Little known fact about me, I was a soccer player throughout my school career, and I loved it. I was good at it, but in the mid-'80s, there wasn't really anywhere to go with it after high school. Yeah. I think I would have stayed out of a whole lot of trouble if there had been. And I just want to congratulate you again. All right. So as we discussed upstairs, a proclamation is really the highest honor that we can give as the city council. This is a statement of our collective values and the importance that we hold you in this community. And this is really on behalf of the entire community. As you can tell, we're all very grateful. Whereas the Portland Thorns FC is the Rose City's premier professional women's soccer team, and whereas the Portland Thorns FC won the National Women's Soccer League Championship in 2013 and 2017, and whereas the Portland Thorns FC has set attendance records across all of women's professional sport, And whereas the FIFA Women's World Cup is a global phenomenon involving 24 countries and showcasing the best women's soccer players in the entire world. And whereas during the 2019 World Cup, nine members of the Portland Thorns FC played for four countries. And whereas Kaitlyn Ford, Hayley Rosso, and Ellie Carpenter represented Australia, Andresina represented Brazil, and Christine Sinclair represented Canada. And whereas Tobin Heath, Lindsay Horan, Emily Sonnet, and Adriana French helped lead the United States women's national team to their second consecutive World Cup title and their fourth World Cup championship. And whereas, all 28 members of the United States Women's National Soccer Team are plaintiffs in a lawsuit seeking equal pay. And whereas... The players on the national team are great ambassadors for their sport on and off the pitch, and whereas the Portland City Council, representing Soccer City USA, thanks all nine members of the Portland Thorns FC for their performance in the 2019 FIFA World Cup and congratulates the United States women's national soccer team on their championship. Now therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, the mayor of the city of Portland, Oregon, the city of Roses, do hereby proclaim July 2019 to be Portland Thorns FC Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. We're going to ask you to come here and we're going to join you for a photograph. And if I could also, Commissioner Fish, if I could also acknowledge we have the state attorney general here, Ellen Rosenblum is here, and our district attorney, Rod Underhill, is here as well. And we ask them to come up as well. Thank you. Yes, sir. Everyone look here. One, two, three. One, two, three. This is not normal, by the way. And one more here. Can we give these players another round of applause? Applause Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. difficult. I do. Carla, are we ready? Yes. All right. Good morning, everybody. This is the slightly delayed morning session on July 31st. 2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Udaly. Here.
 Fritz.
 Here.
 Fish.
 Here.
 Wheeler.
 Here. And thank you, everyone, for your patience. I hope you found that presentation with the Portland Thorns as exciting as I do. They're amazing, amazing women. We're going to now hear the rules of order and decorum from legal counsel. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome to Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping keep your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Great. Thank you very much. First up is communications, Carla. Item 698, request of Gregorio, Mr. Gregorio, to address council regarding sidewalks and streets in very poor repair and how difficult it is for persons in wheelchairs to get around. Is Mr. Gregorio here? Doesn't look like he is here yet, Carla. Next individual, please. Thank you. Item 699, request of Chuck Crockett to address council regarding contracts with sex offenders, civil rights violations, government and law enforcement authority. Good morning. Good morning. Hello, Wheeler. Hello, City Council. Morning. Like I said, I signed up for communications because I emailed all of you about the situation with the sex offenders and Pastor Hennessy and the IPAC group. And I'm concerned with that is that, you know, Pastor Hersey and the city council made a out call to the streets to form some kind of program or situation which would come gang violence and we responded to that. But we responded to that and we didn't know that the city council and the Portland police and all of these groups were actually sitting in a group with a known sex offender and were condoning to it. And we don't condone to that. So we reached out to you in our concern with that and why the Portland police would be claiming to have some kind of peace and action coalition with the sex offender that's actually a threat to the community. And we know that's not the only sex offender involved in that group and involved in those kind of meetings. And our concerns are kind of validated as a community when you outreach to what you consider the gang community and they respond. And the response is met with that of sex offenders. That's not a good... you know, thing to see. Also, the civil rights violations that have been going on in the city of Portland with the Portland police and the city government involving ORS 199.410, which mandates the city to review the community needs and provide services and programs to the needed community which the city has not done. You yourself, Ted Wheeler, have failed to permit it that the city has failed to provide housing for the displaced African Americans in Portland. Also with those RS violations we have yet to see any improvement with the police. If you look at the quarterly review you can see that African Americans are still being pulled over at three times the population. Basically one, basically one third or one fourth of the total traffic stops of what police are doing. And that is also a concern a couple years ago where a study was released that 59% of the African American, I mean 59% of the people that were stopped were African American. We've yet to see an actual direct impact of what the city has been able to do regarding the police. We also have chief outlaw who just came from a situation involving a child that was being sex trafficked inside of the Oakland Police Department who actually seems to be compliant with the sex offenders in the IPAC meeting and in those meetings and also we saw that she said that she was not you guys are not going to be arresting ICE I mean assisting ICE with immigrants but we have yet to see you take the same stance towards African Americans and what the city government has been doing so we're very concerned with what the city government is going to do regarding our community because it seems as though The city government is aiding everybody else, but the African American community is not in compliance with ORS 199.410. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Next individual, please. Item 700, request of Livia Morello to address council regarding zenith and fossil fuel related issues. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and council members. My name is Yuvia Magali Morello, and I'm here today as the Energy Justice Organizer at Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility. A concerned mother, a local business owner, a community member, and as an indigenous woman. Oregon PSR is an organization of health professionals and public health advocates working collaboratively with community partners to educate and advocate for societal and policy change that protects human health at the local, state, national, and international level. Thank you for the community forum that you hosted July 15th. I attended and testified, and although I understand that the permits allowed were in some regards a safer choice, I still stand firmly against any expansion and or any permits to continue to operate or expand operations at the Zenith facility. I felt as though the community came together in numbers and strong messaging that we are completely unified against the danger that Zenith carries into our communities on a regular basis. It was encouraging to hear that the Council and your colleagues in the Bureau of Emergency Management and Planning and Sustainability are looking for creative solutions to benefit the community and the environment. Like the idea of requiring that fossil fuel companies pay for an emergency fund? I know that we can find and fight for real solutions that consider more than just the needs of foreign investors. So thank you again for hearing the community concerns July 15th and for hearing me speak today. The storage and train traffic of fossil fuels like tar sands oil locally at Zenith pose serious public health and safety concerns. The forum and public materials from the city offer little answers or public confidence as to how prepared our local agencies are to respond to a likely spill or accident. I was glad to hear Mike Myers of PBEN say that communities have a right to know. Our community does have a right to know when these harmful chemical agents are traveling through and alongside our parks, schools, and homes with potential for explosive train derailment. We all have a right to know, but moreover, we have a right to feel safe and be safe in our communities. The Multnomah County Commissioner recently committed to $50,000 for a risk assessment of local fossil fuel infrastructure. so that our local governments and communities are aware of the exact risks that we are facing. We ask City Council to match this commitment by setting aside $50,000 towards this project to collaborate with the county on risk assessment. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate your being here. Next individual, please. Carla? Item 701, request of Mary Ann Schwab to address council regarding 3.96 code, current system of recognizing neighborhood and business associations is the city's human infrastructure and must not be discarded 92%. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Mary Ann Schwab, a community advocate. Let me start today by saying thank you to the members of the 396 Code Advisory Committee representing a wonderful cross-section of ages, occupations, religious affiliations for volunteering their time, and I sincerely hope they will consider serving a little bit longer. What I find troubling is the committee went the opposite direction as directed by Council under RES, 37373 by not formally recognizing other groups and dismantling the neighborhood association system. Especially when learning the code committee was not given no reference to the auditor's report, the adopted public involvement principles, or Chapter 2 of the comp plan, which deals with public involvement. The auditor said in her report, the neighborhood associations need to be strengthened, not dismantled. I respectfully suggesting that more work is needed on the code language before it is viewed as completed by the City's Auditor, Mayor and Commissioners prior to the first reading October 3rd, 2019. The ONI system is recognizing the neighborhood and business associations as part of the City's human infrastructure must not be discarded. The CFA needs to strengthen and build upon the strengths of existing neighborhood association while broadening it to involve full diversity of our communities. The OCCL draft patrols in front of city council to eliminate neighborhood associations effectively guts the city charter 396 code. It will eliminate opportunities for funding staff to help constituents solve problems within their community. The city charter is designed to make amendments when needed. However, you don't tear up the city charter. Chapter 396 only, which is the foundation of how people have interacted with the City of Portland. To help guide each of you, I'm asking the City Code, the City Council, and the public at large to strongly consider Robert McCullough's response to the Office and Community and Civic Life Corps change frequently asked questions, which helps illustrate the depth of the issues within the OCC Code Committee's proposed amendments. In closing, Council, please consider telling Civic Life to start over entirely with a new committee involving neighborhood associations as key stakeholders at the start of the community-based organizations and the historically underrepresented groups. Albeit, with all this discussion about updating city code and standards to update and improve city civic engagement framework, should happen in the context of and after City Council addresses City Charter, which is up for review in 2020 or 2021. Thank you for using this process to hear from people and constituents like me who care. Little proscript. Don't bend, don't water it down, don't try to make it logical, don't edit your own soul searching to fashion. Rather, follow your most intense obsessions mercilessly. Franz Kaffee. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Udali. Marianne, thank you for being here today. You know I appreciate you. And we're not going to have a dialogue on this, but I'm going to comment on what you just said. because you are spreading misinformation along with media outlets and other community members that I can't let stand. We are absolutely not dismantling the neighborhood associations. Nothing is changing for them. They will continue to exist. They will continue to work with coalitions, which we will continue to fund. They will continue to be notified, to receive notices from bureaus, and they are actually included in the code change. As far as the auditor's report, we are making great strides towards addressing the issues raised by that report. And this code change is actually part of that. It does not eliminate any opportunities for neighborhood associations to participate. We are simply adding chairs to what has been a very exclusive table. And finally, Starting over with a new committee is very disrespectful to the people that volunteered their time to this process. And these are esteemed community members. And I'm just very disappointed to hear what you had to say. Let's have a debate about what's really happening, not spread misinformation about it. Thank you. It's not a dialogue. We're done. We can agree to disagree. I'm absolutely not going to do that. Thank you, Marianne. Next individual, please. Item 702, request of Tiffany Hammer to address council regarding Southwest 14th Avenue and Montgomery Goose Hollow area boulders and body removed from sidewalk. Good morning. Thank you for being here. Good morning. Thank you for your time. I have three little kids at home, and I got an ear infection, so I'm going to go ahead and pass the mic off to my neighbor to represent. Gusell, if that's okay? Certainly. I feel like I can't hear very well. Sorry, you're not feeling well. It happens. Thank you. Bad timing. Thank you for being here. Does this microphone work? Yes, thank you. Thank you. And if you could also state your name for the record, please. Good morning, Mayor Weir and city commissioners. Thank you for your time today. My name is Marlene Aviles-Cable, and I'm a resident of the diverse Goose Hollow PSU area. I was also present on May 8th, along with other neighbors, to support Tiffany Hammer, another crime victim who testified on behalf of our neighborhood. The city of Portland is promoting a program through the Office of Civic Life called Neighbors Together. Goose Hollow neighbors came together because we felt we were left to fend for ourselves to address our public safety issues. Us neighbors back in February reclaimed the ODOT land at Southwest 14th in Montgomery. We replanted 90 rose bushes in order to replace the ones charred by propane tank explosions and devastated by excrement and needles. Sadly, one of our volunteers was the victim of an unprovoked attack by a man with a brick who was out on probation. While he was ultimately convicted of a felony, we recognized maintaining the roses would put us in harm's way daily. Other neighbors continued to be harassed and threatened by the criminal element. People have yelled at me to go back to where I came from and have warned me on my own driveway to stop speaking Spanish to my teen son. I am also a crime victim. A brick was thrown through our front window while I was home alone during an attempted break-in. And unfortunately, that was just the first violation of my home. Because of the lack of funded jail space, the criminals who were picked up here on our ODOT land for warrants kept returning. As a last resort, ODOT came in and recognized the safety issues for everyone and dropped boulders. Post-boulders, we were not able to walk through our community with our families and pets. After a year and a half of constant crimes, it finally feels more safe and livable, so we are grateful to ODOT for helping us. The last time we came before you, our neighborhood was encouraged by you to remain focused on criminal behavior because, and I quote, that's what we can do something about. The boulders were a solution of last resort after neighbors and crime victims came together to engage in safe, level-headed problem-solving as neighbors together. Considering we are trying to proceed in the city's direction, working as neighbors together, why are the results now being criticized? Mayor, can I just make a comment? Commissioner Fish. First of all, thank you both for being here and if you're not feeling well, especially thank you for. I have spent the last ten years on the council or maybe a little bit more being one of the champions for humane and rational approaches and solutions to our homeless crisis. But we've always been clear as a council to separate out status from behavior. That is, we do not allow someone to be demonized in our community because they are poor or because they have been evicted or because they're mentally ill or because they have a substance abuse problem or whatever. And it is one of our great challenges to get people off the streets into housing. We're making progress, but as you know, the problem is swamping this city and cities up and down the West Coast. What you have described now on two occasions is not about someone's status. You've not come in and said that someone is camping and you find that somehow offensive. You have said there are people in the community breaking the law and doing things which make you feel unsafe. That's an entirely different matter and frankly, I think what you have done in framing this issue has given us an opportunity as we start talking about police reform. And about how we invest in the police budget and about who does what. To start thinking about how we deploy people to address these kinds of issues. So your testimony is not going to maybe move the needle today. There's nothing we can do today other than to say we regret that you've had these experiences. And thank you for sharing your story. But I do think that it invites us to think more creatively about how we engage bad actors on the street. Again, in a respectful way. And how we keep people in neighborhoods safe. So thank you for joining us. And I assure you through the fall we will be talking about this in the context of how we deploy police officers, both armed and not armed, and also how we craft a budget. So thank you very much. I also want to thank you for being here, and I know this is the second or the third time that you've had the opportunity to be here. And I think it's important for people to hear all sides of this conversation. And what I hear from Portlanders is they want a humane solution to the homeless crisis. That's here. Nobody wants criminal activity. And certainly violence is unacceptable. And so I appreciate the fact that you continue to have the dialogue with us and with my office and Robert King and others. So thank you for that. Thanks for being here. Sorry you're sick. I hope you get well soon. Ear infections are no fun. Ask me how I know. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. Before we move to the first time certain, can we just welcome and acknowledge some special guests that are here? We still have... I'm sorry. No, you're right. I'm sorry. Go ahead, Commissioner. That was the last one. Do we have the BES interns here? We do. So would you all please stand for a moment? Mayor and colleagues, I want to acknowledge some special guests this morning. Every summer, a group of Bureau and Environmental Services interns attend a City Council session. I think they chose a pretty good one today. The BES internship program brings eight Portland students to the Bureau for eight weeks. Each student rotates through different sections of the Bureau to experience and contribute to a variety of our work. And every Wednesday, the group gets together to learn about the city, like today's visit to City Hall. This summer, we have a really outstanding group of young people. Three high school juniors, two seniors, and three 2019 graduates from Roosevelt, Park Rose, Grant, Cleveland-Madison, and David Douglas High Schools. I guess those are for all the kids. That's where they're from. And I just want to acknowledge and introduce the students. They are Eric Barintos, Brenda Chavez, Malik Kuma, Aiden Lenz, Olivia Martinez-Garcia, Bonnie O'Neill, Aliyah Starman, and Miles Takaguchi. And let me close by saying not only are we grateful that you're joining us, but we hope that from this experience you'll consider potentially a a career in public service at the city. So, Mayor, can we suspend the rules and welcome our special guests? You bet. Thanks a lot. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Carl, have any items been pulled off the consent agenda? Yes, we've had a request for item 710. 710 has been pulled. Call the roll on the remainder, please. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Consent agenda is adopted first time certain. Item 703. 703, report on recent work from the city auditor, Portland Parks Golf, fixing our streets program, Portland building follow-up, and housing bond. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I am City Auditor Mary Hall Caballero, and we are here to present results from our most recent four audits, And I'm going to jump right in since we have a lot to present today with introductions of my staff. We're going to do the honors of the presentations. First, Audit Services Director Kari Guy is going to present the Portland Parks Golf Audit on behalf of Bob McKay, who led the audit team. Jennifer Scott will discuss fixing our streets. And then after those two presentations, Tenzin Gonta will come up and she will talk about the Portland Building Audit. And Martha Prince will report on the Housing Bond Audit. Before we begin, I want to mention that we also published an audit about the cannabis tax revenue, which I presented at the budget work session. And we're going to have a related audit on cannabis regulation in the fall. And you can also look forward to another audit of the Portland building, which focuses on cost compliance and change orders. We contracted with construction experts for that work. And one final note, Mayor, I'd like to remind you that no council action is necessary at the end of our presentation. We are here strictly for information sharing purposes. So let's begin with the golf audit. Okay. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Again, I'm Kari Guy. We published this, produced this audit in May of this year. Portland Parks and Rec is intended, golf program is intended to be self-supporting. However, in 2017, it required an $800,000 infusion from the general fund to remain solvent. Golf has been in decline both locally and nationally for a number of years. In the five years of our audit, the golf rounds at city courses were down about 6%, and over 25 years they're down 46%. We audited the program to see if it is now positioned to be financially stable and if the program is managed effectively. For background, the city owns five courses, four on the east side of the Willamette and one in Beaverton. In general, city staff maintain the courses in most clubhouses while daily operations are managed by private operators under contract with the city. But the city's involvement in each of the five courses varies. Currently there are five unique contracts, four different operators, and three different agreement types, each with different terms. This complexity creates challenges for oversight. There are many variables that influence the success of the golf program. Some within Parks control like the fees and some completely out of their control like the weather. After the general fund transfer in 2017, Portland Parks Golf improved practices to address some of these variables. They reduced maintenance costs by cutting positions and sharing maintenance staff and equipment across courses. They also hired a new director and they put a lot of effort into increasing outreach to more diverse communities to recruit new players to the game. But parks hasn't yet addressed some of the other variables that affect success, such as the deferred maintenance at the courses. The result is that financial risks remain. Some courses are doing better than others. Three of the courses had positive cash flow in all of the five years we reviewed. But the negative cash flow at some courses combined with the golf program's administrative overhead costs of about a million dollars per year. Means that the program had an overall negative income in three of the five years that we looked at. In addition, the newest course, Colwood, which was purchased in 2014 with a loan from the Parks Capital Improvement Fund, the debt repayment will continue to impact the golf fund for four more years. So financially, this leaves the program with a very tight margin. In a good weather year, if the recruiting new players is successful, they will have a positive balance. And in fact, Parks reports that in fiscal year 19, after our audit was completed, they did end in the black. but another rainy year and slow recruitment of new golfers may leave the fund again in trouble without further action by council. We also looked at Portland Parks administration of the operator contracts. As I mentioned earlier, there are five different agreements including one lease, two concession agreements, and two management agreements. We found lax contract management relying more on trust and relationships with the operators. For example, some contract provisions were not followed, such as not asking for required marketing plans or not conducting the performance reviews. And although the contracts require parks to perform routine maintenance, deferred maintenance has been mounting for most facilities. Finally, the five courses were not identified as part of the larger parks program. So a visitor to these courses doesn't necessarily know they're part of Portland Parks. The only indication they were part of a city system that our auditors saw when they were on site were no smoking signs. Parks has now aligned the east side contracts to end at the same time and is planning on soliciting bids to operate under a more streamlined system. This move provides an opportunity to address some of these issues that we identified in the audit. We had two main recommendations. First, that parks develop alternative financial forecast scenarios and present them to City Council for direction on how to proceed. And including in those forecasts a way to address deferred maintenance and some of the other issues in the audit. And second, as they renegotiate contracts, they reflect current program conditions and increase the monitoring of contract provisions to ensure that contract provisions are followed. Mayor? Commissioner Fish. Because you said they're going to be rotating out auditors, Madam Auditor, is it okay if I just make a comment now? Please. First of all, I have been the commissioner in charge since last September. And obviously, the Parks Bureau welcomes this audit. We have in the letter that's attached to the audit, we have embraced the recommendations and we thank you for them. You were exactly right in what you said earlier about one of the key variables for us, which is the weather. And who can predict that? But as you said, it turns out that in 2018, 2019, we had decent weather. We're having great weather now, and frankly, I think it's going to have a significant impact on revenues. But to the points that you made, I just want to say to the new leadership team that was put in place before I took over at Gulf, in the last fiscal year, they made over a half million dollars in net revenue. So that's at least a positive sign, again, reflecting good weather and good management. We have in our reserves now a million dollars and you've pointed out that those reserves are vulnerable to some of the costs that we have, but we're pleased that we've got the reserves up to a million and we intend to set a more ambitious goal. We'll be looking at a sustainable path forward and the next milestone for us will be coming to council in November to talk to council about options for putting parks on a more solid financial footing going forward. Now while we're looking at it enterprise wide, it's going to be fair to ask how does that impact some of our enterprise businesses like golf. So to the auditor and her team, thank you for a thoughtful audit. It raised a number of issues that we're tackling as we speak. And I spend every night saying an extra prayer that we have decent weather. So thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Hi, my name is Jenny Scott, and I led the audit of the Fixing Our Streets program. We released our audit report called Fixing Our Streets, Some Accountability Commitments Not Fulfilled in May. Portland voters approved a temporary gas tax in May 2016 to fund a Bureau of Transportation program called Fixing Our Streets. Council passed a separate tax on heavy vehicles to help ensure that all vehicle owners fund the program. Two years into the program, we assessed how the city is delivering on these Fixing Our Streets accountability and program commitments. I'm going to walk through our findings related to each one of these commitments. We assessed whether 45 gas tax-funded projects and 14 heavy vehicles tax-funded projects were completed on schedule and within budget. Of the 59 projects we examined, 38 were scheduled to start before 2019. We found that only 12 projects had started before 2019 and eight were completed before 2019. Bureau staff said the schedules, which were developed after the gas tax was approved, were not realistic and that it took longer than anticipated to break ground because the scopes of individual projects were not well defined. Of the eight projects that were completed before 2019, four were on budget. Two were over budget and two were under budget. Overall, these projects were 900,000 or 15% over the budgets communicated to voters. Bureau staff said that the budgets were only estimates subject to change. Council adopted the heavy vehicle use tax to help ensure that heavy vehicle owners pay their fair share of the program since they do not pay the gas tax. We found that heavy vehicle owners did not pay into the program commensurate with what experts calculated was their share of city street maintenance operations and improvement costs. Council required that the tax paid by owners of heavy vehicles generate $10 million over four years. And code required that the tax rate be adjusted if it generated more or less than $2.5 million in its first or second year of collection. During the first year of the tax, heavy vehicle owners paid $1.8 million, well below the $2.5 million goal. However, Council eliminated the requirement that the rate be adjusted to meet the revenue goal, citing concerns from the Freight and Fixing Our Streets Oversight Committees. The Fixing Our Streets Programs Oversight Committee is comprised of volunteers who meet quarterly. The Bureau provided the committee with volumes of information. However, we found that the committee could not effectively fulfill its monitoring role because the project lists and financial reports the Bureau provided them were incomplete, inconsistent, and outdated. We also found that the committee did not fulfill their reporting requirements. City Council made three commitments regarding audits, each suggesting a different type of review and focus. We found that the Bureau was not inviting the oversight, transparency, and accountability that Council's commitments implied because it was not obtaining annual program audits or sharing results. The City committed to maintain a precise expenditure split between street repair and safety projects. It was difficult to determine if the Bureau had maintained the spending split it promised. A project list available to voters didn't indicate that street repair projects may include safety elements, and a plan to prioritize Americans with Disabilities Act curb ramps was classified as a safety project. The Bureau included new curb ramps in the budgets of all of the Fixing Our Streets paving projects, with the exception of base repair. On the other hand, when safety projects needed paving done, that work was not included in the Fixing Our Streets safety project budget. For one project in our sample, the paving work was funded from the Fixing Our Streets street repair budget. And for the other safety project, the paving work was paid for with funds from outside the Fixing Our Streets program. Since the gas tax measure included a commitment that future funds be allocated 56% to street repair and 44% to safety, the Bureau needs to clarify what constitutes a street repair project versus a safety project and how those funds are accounted for. To ensure that monitoring and oversight of the Fixing Our Streets program is effective, the Bureau of Transportation should provide the Fixing Our Streets Oversight Committee with information needed to understand and carry out its responsibility. To meet public expectations, the Bureau of Transportation should track and publicly report on Fixing Our Streets projects as they relate to public commitments, explore opportunities to ensure that heavy vehicle owners pay their share of the program, specify the type of audit desired and ensure that audit commitments are fulfilled and reported, and make ballot commitments that are clear, realistic, measurable, achievable, and time-bound. To ensure that funds are tracked and spent according to commitments made to voters, the Bureau of Transportation, with the input of the Oversight Committee and Council, should clarify language regarding the split of funding for street repair and safety projects, and informed by the clarification, the Bureau should track and account for spending to ensure that the split of funding for street repair and safety projects is maintained. Thank you.
 Mayor. Commissioner Daly. Well, hello.
 Hello. Thank you. I always look forward to these audits and if the public's interested, you can read our responses at the end of this report. I'm pleased to say that we agree with all the issues that you highlighted and that we either were already making progress on them by the time the audit finished. was completed or we have now begun. So I always appreciate the feedback from the auditor's office. And, but I do want to add that I'm really proud of the work that the Bureau has done and note that we are on track to finish 20 projects this year and break ground on an additional 21. So I think our one-year review is going to be a glowing report. At least that's my goal. Thank you. Commissioner? Yes. Can I just use this opportunity to thank you for something?
 Certainly. I don't know whether – has the auditor – have you done an audit of Vision Zero? No. That was one of the options we considered that we focused on fixing. Not specific, but – well, I just wanted to say that, you know, We reached out to Commissioner Udeli's office recently and said, we'd like to go out into the field and see high crash corridors and for ourselves. And I'm sure you as auditors like to get out in the field and actually see the work. And so we had an all-star team that spent a morning with us showing us high crash corridors and intersections. And our head was spinning with all the information we got. But there's nothing like seeing it. first hand and also to see the remarkable investment that the city is making throughout the city. So we learned a lot and we're really appreciative of the extra mile that PBOT went to give us a front row seat on what's happening and I tell you my take away is that I'm even more committed to finding the dollars to help you meet the mission goals of Division Zero. Thank you. Thank you. So we're ready to move on to the Portland building audit. Good morning. For the record, my name is Tenzin Gonta, and I served as the lead auditor for the Portland building audit. Our June report is titled Greater Transparency Needed About Project Costs, Tradeoffs, and Missed Equity Requirement. The Portland building is an active construction site, and the renovation is forecasted to be completed ahead of schedule. Our first audit of the renovation covered the planning phase and ended in July 2016 after the city's selection of its construction contractor. At that point, crucial decisions remained during the design phase, most notably about the project's defined scope. This second audit follows up on the three areas we identified that the city should closely manage for the Portland building renovation to be a success. Our follow-up fieldwork period ended in December 2018. Unfortunately, the city did not fully implement those early recommendations. While the opportunity to revisit decisions has passed, we make new recommendations for the remainder of the project. We'll now go into each of the three follow-up areas that align with these 2016 recommendations, project costs, tradeoffs, and equity grants. The first follow-up area focused on project costs. We found the budget transparency is still needed for the collective costs associated with the Portland building. The public narrative about the Portland building is focused on activities tied to the $195 million budget. This is the budget shared with council and the oversight committee and posted on the city website. However, this public narrative does not include all the components critical to delivering a functional building. As of December 2018, projected costs for the Portland building grew to $214 million once these side projects were included. Here is an example of a side project. When the project scope began to be defined in December 2016, the $195 million budget excluded the build-out of two and a half office floors in the building. Later in March 2017, the project team requested to finish these two and a half floors, and Council approved the additional $7 million. These collective Portland building costs are important because they will be allocated to tenant bureaus and ultimately will have a long term effect on the city's capacity for direct services to residents. The city's downtown tenant rates will go up by 102% between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2021. And this is primarily driven by the Portland building's collective costs. About one quarter of these increased costs will be borne by the general fund, with development services, transportation, and utility funds responsible for most of the remainder. Over the years, the project team has been transparent with council about each individual budget request, but there has been no presentation of the collective costs that result from these piecemeal decisions. Given the significance of the side project activity, we recommend the collective Portland building costs be described when presenting budget to actual reports to council and the oversight committee. The second follow-up area is about trade-off decisions. The project team committed to minimum requirements and also introduced the opportunity to pursue additional goals and aspirations, as shown in this image from their July 2016 presentation to council. We found the city is on track to meet minimum requirements, for example, the requirement to eliminate water intrusion. However, the city did not report on trade-offs that affected other opportunities to reach beyond the project's minimum requirements. The city will fall short of the goals and aspirations stated in the project charter and the areas of accessibility, sustainability, and historic preservation. For accessibility, the city anticipates some previously inventoried barriers will remain in parts of the building not included in a renovation, such as stairway and elevator areas. For sustainability, the building is on track to achieve LEED gold certification, but the city pursued exemptions for three other policy requirements, and we found no evidence that the project met another two policy requirements. For historic preservation, the city chose an exterior design to address the building's water leaks, which will result in a building's delisting from the National Register of Historic Places. There are still compliance actions for the city to take. We make specific recommendations related to the Americans with Disabilities Act and historic preservations at the state and local level. Our third and last follow-up area examined the Portland Building Equity Grants. In 2016, council set aside $1 million of the renovation budget for community benefits to address historical inequities in construction and improve diversity in the workforce and among subcontractors. Council also required that community benefits, quote, be dispersed in phases through the life of the Portland building project. And the chief administrative officer will report back regularly to the council on activities and results, end quote. We found the city missed these equity requirements for the Portland building. As of December 2018, there has been no report to council about the status of these activities or results. We found no community grants were made to support disadvantaged workers and businesses. And the city had no plan to ensure the money would be dispersed by the time the building is complete. Given the unspent funds, it is unclear how about $360,000 from water and sewer rate payers will remain accountable to these restricted sources. Lastly, with less than one year of construction remaining, the city missed a strategic opportunity to use community benefits funding to help meet its stated equity goals for the Portland building. Given the challenges that remain with the Portland building's community benefits, we recommend that the chief administrative officer report to council as required by the original resolution and inform 2018 applicants of the city's grant making status. and remove ratepayer funds from the community benefits budget if future grants are not reasonably related to the provision of water and sewer services. That concludes our presentation of this audit report. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. I have a number of comments and I feel like I've already made most of my comments both in terms of defending the work of the city and validating the information that the Community Oversight Committee has already provided, which disagrees with many of the findings in this audit. So I don't want to go in that direction today. What I want to do is talk about what I think is a fundamental disconnect in the way we are – evaluating large-scale capital construction projects because as you read the audit and then you read the responses to the audit it's very clear we have a disconnect. There is not agreement, for example, on what the original scope of the project is. And as somebody who has come in and the chief administrative officer who came in after this project was already scoped and underway, I find that somewhat remarkable that there wasn't a meeting of the minds, including the audit team, the auditor, to clearly define what the scope of the project is. And so the response has been... that the audit says that the project team did not begin, quote, excluding some elements from the project scope to stay within its $195 million proposed budget. But the response, both from the CAO as well as the Community Oversight Committee, which is composed of experienced developers, says that furnishings, technology, equipment, and child care build-out were never part of the project scope. What happened in fact was additional packages were brought to the City Council for approval and they could either vote it up, which would increase the cost of the project, or they could vote it down. One project that was brought to the City Council that was approved, for example, is the... space optimization project. And this was an attempt, there is a cost to the space optimization project. It brings more people into the building. It lowers out your costs by about 25 million dollars over the next 20 years by bringing more people in so we don't have more leases outside of the project. My concern if the standard by which we are judging projects in the future is you said it was going to be X. In this case, X is $195 million. If somebody brings new ideas to the council, for example, technology could be implemented better, space could be utilized more efficiently, and these things could save the city ongoing operating costs, getting to the first sentence that you mentioned about how the capital construction piece potentially limits other resources for other city services. If the council votes for things like space optimization, or technology that in fact give us an even greater opportunity to save out your funding. I'm afraid that the council will choose to not vote for those things, nor will those things come to the council, because people know that that will, by definition, make the project over budget. And the project oversight committee took a good hard look at that question and they said, no, these things should not be part of the baseline by which you are judging this project to be either on budget or off budget. budget. We can have an honest disagreement about that, but I think going forward, we need to have that conversation about whether or not these things are going to be considered included in that original estimate or not, because that's the difference between us being either on budget or not being on budget. And so I just think there's sort of a leadership question there, maybe more than an accountability question. Okay. By the way, the space optimization issue, it's my understanding that that will be covered by the contingency that remains in the budget. You made a recommendation that we post additional budget information on the project website. It's my understanding, Tom, has that been done? And that is continuing to be done. I thought that was a great recommendation, so that information is available. Regarding the equity issue. The way it is being presented is as though we have completely blown it off. And that could not be farther from the truth. The COEP dollars that your team identified, which is I believe more than $800,000. That's going to be released once the COEP is established in Prosper Portland through the direction of the city council. In short, the opportunity, though delayed, will in fact be realized as part of this project. And last but not least, I'm not sure we have clarity on what the role of the citizen oversight committee actually is. I personally have viewed that, and I won't speak for the chief administrative officer, but I believe he has viewed that as highly experienced, knowledgeable citizen eyes looking at everything. And their response, I'll just read a piece of this, is that That committee says this letter is to underscore that in our view, the city staff have been very transparent with our committee on every aspect of the project, including granular matters concerning the budget, the scope, changes, and timing. There have been a number of difficult decisions relating to the building and they've been shared with us. And to our knowledge, none of these have been contrary to the recommendations that we have made. And then they go on to talk about some of the other issues. I have a tremendous amount of respect for Madam Auditor and for the auditing team. I think you can look back on my history as an elected official, you will see I have a tremendous amount of respect for the audit function. And I value the audit function as a way to sharpen, to improve, and to call attention to really important issues. But on this one, I and the Chief Administrative Officer and the Citizen Oversight Committee, fundamental disagreements and it's my estimation that those disagreements should have been resolved at the beginning of the project. We should have agreed what are we going to be judged on? What are we in agreement on in terms of the budget and the costs and what is going to be expected in terms of the council's participation and inclusion in these matters. And I look forward to working with you because I know you have a number of ideas and suggestions, as do I. So that's just sort of my commentary for today. Mayor, if I could speak broadly, not to the specifics of what you're saying, but our process starts with the documentation. So I was here when there were lots of discussions about that $195 million document. I am also aware that people were uncomfortable with such a hard and fast 195 million, not one penny more. I do think that's a dangerous way to approach a capital project. I think now we're at the point where we've borrowed $214 million, and that doesn't include the debt service on that borrowing. And so we have tracked back to the beginning of this project to where we are now, And so I appreciate what you're saying that maybe it wasn't as organized at the beginning as it should be. And that's some of the things that we're pointing out, is that there were representations made to the public. And I am not sure that the public understood that they were going to get a $214 million bill for this building. And so what we've done is from the beginning of that to where we are now, looked at some of the things that we you know, led us to where we got to 214 million. And in the original report, there were recommendations made saying, hey, you should pay attention to these areas, and there was some lack of clarity around the oversight committee and what their role was and who they were reporting to. And so we've just come back around with a second audit with some new recommendations from that point of view. Great, and I look forward to that. Commissioner Fish? It's a good conversation, and so – It seems to me there were four people that were actually here at that time. This is part of the challenge of our former government with people coming and going. You were the auditor. Commissioner Saltzman was sitting next to me and he was the author of that line, not a penny more than 195. How many times we heard that? That was his mantra. And then Commissioner Fritz was here. The thing I've struggled with a little bit in terms of the cost issue is that I remember cost coming up in the context of us looking at the alternatives here. to the Portland building. So we put together a blue ribbon group. They came back and looked at demolishing the building, renovating the building, selling the building, looking for another building, leasing. I think they looked at a range of choices. I think we were all somewhat surprised when they came back and said, renovating this building is the low-cost option. That that was not intuitively what I thought was going to land. But an independent panel came back and said, your most effective use of taxpayer dollars is to renovate what you have. for a variety of reasons. I have to go back and look at the conversation, but I'll be honest with you. When my recollection is when Commissioner Saltzman used to say not a penny over 195, it was his way of saying don't come back and say we're going to have a new siding or don't put in a new dining room or don't come in with some, you know, new bell and whistle. My own view is And again, my memory isn't as good as it used to be, so I'll have to go back and look at the record. Is that things like desks and equipment and how we organize the space and technology was going to be a cost no matter where we went. And I did not at the time assume that was within the 195. I'll just tell you as someone who voted on it, and partly because I didn't think those were costs we had quantified. And in fact, we were still doing all this work with staff about how we were going to configure the space and how could we, how many people could we fit and other things. So I may be wrong. I mean, I, but I, I'm going to go back because Dan, Dan was the most vocal in terms of the hard cap. But just my, my recollection is that the cost that you've identified in your report that are above the line, above 195,000. My recollection is those were not costs that we considered as part of the 195. Maybe I'm wrong, but at least when I cast the vote, I thought we were talking about hard construction costs, not the soft costs of filling the building. So- Can I speak to that? Yeah. So I wanted to go back to our original audit report because if you remember, and this is again years ago. There was an original estimate of $95 million back in 2014, and then that went up to $175 million to reflect the additional scopes of work. So it wasn't just going to be the envelope fix that they were – to address the water intrusion. That's when the seismic upgrades as well as some of the interior improvements were reflected in that cost. And then when it came to our audit report, we were looking at the 195 and we couldn't see the delta, the $20 million difference between what was in the supported estimates of $175 million and then the $195 million. So at that point, the project team at that time, under the previous chief administrative officer, gave us more detailed line item information and if you look in our audit report, There was actually a line item for furniture, fixtures, and equipment of $10 million. So to me- In the 195? In the 195 that they provided to us. So part of the challenge is then- This CAO? No, the previous CAO. The CAO. Yeah, this is all before December of 2016. When we're tracing that information, moving it forward to try and see what that $195 million activity, how that's reflected in current approaches to the renovation, that's where we see the disconnect. That's just one example. So to get back to what the auditor said and what the mayor alluded to, Lesson for me in this is to be even more rigorous in terms of identifying the hard costs and the soft costs. When we say the hard construction costs, we're talking about maybe having – my understanding is that if you start bumping up against hard construction costs, you can always do some value engineering to come below if, let's say, your costs and materials go above what you expect and other things. I think we have to be clear as a council in distinguishing that from soft costs, because the soft costs could change all the time based on, let's say, changes in technology or changes in how we want to configure the workplace. And I believe they are separate and distinct. So I think you've raised a question that we can address more rigorously in the future about being clear. So I appreciate your point. And I think just to add on. I think this bill, and we haven't done a lot of construction, capital construction audits, but I think this project is a little bit different, that the scope was meant to be flexible because of the fixed – time and budget elements. So if you think about the project management triangle, those there's three different elements and one is going to be the one that moves if there's any kind of pressure on the other two. So I don't know if the project definition issue is going to be something you would see in other capital activity here at the city. Yeah, that's fair enough and I appreciate that. And this is a really good conversation and I guess if I had to boil it down into one sentence, it would be how do we set the original objective, be transparent about the objective, but also have the opportunity. If we see opportunities through technology configuration or whatever to be able to reduce ongoing operating costs on a permanent basis, a permanent basis or even for a number of many years. I want this council to feel the ability to take that option. And I don't want the council to feel that they would be penalized for having found a way to reduce costs over the long term. But for me, the big lesson in all of this is I don't think we agreed on the standard up front. And so this is, for me, a really good learning opportunity going forward. And I stipulate all the things you say about transparency and putting budget data online. I know a ton of people don't look at it, but it should be available there. I concur with you 100% on that because there are some people who will take a good hard look at it. So I appreciate your work on this. Thank you. And we're going to wrap up with the housing bond audit, which has some very good news in it. Good morning. My name is Martha Prince. I'm a performance auditor for the city and I completed our June 2019 audit of the city's housing bond. We took on this audit to check on the housing bond relatively early in the life of the bond, a little less than halfway through the life of the bond. And just for some background, Portland voters approved the $258 million housing bond in November 2016. Our audit looked at whether the Housing Bureau established and was applying clear criteria for project selection to ensure bond goals would be met. We also looked at whether the bureau had systems in place to make sure bond funded housing served intended populations. Thank you. Our audit looked at the city's first five housing bond projects, totaling 593 units that are either already existing or planned. The first project, a building called the Ellington which had 262 units and is on Northeast 66th, already had tenants when the city purchased it soon after the housing bond was approved. In September 2017, the Housing Bureau purchased a lot with a building on it at Southeast 30th and Powell with the intent to demolish the building and develop the lot into a 160 unit building. The city purchased a new apartment building at Southeast 105th and Burnside in June 2018, which has now been leased out. That building has 51 units. In July 2018, the Bureau purchased a lot with a house on it, slated for demolition and development of a 50-unit building at Northeast 58th and Prescott. Finally, the city bought an existing 70 unit apartment building, the West Wind in Old Town, which serves a very low income population. It's in poor condition and the bureau plans to replace it with the same size building serving the same population. Leading up to the election, the city told voters that the housing bond, which was to be repaid from property taxes, would house families, seniors, veterans, and people with disabilities. The bond was meant to fund 1,300 housing units over five to eight years, serving households making no more than 60% of the median income for the region, and in some cases, no more than 30% of median income. Half of the 1,300 units would be family sized, meaning two bedrooms or more. And if non-bond funds are available, 300 of the very low income units will be designated as supportive housing units, which means they include help for tenants with complex needs. When the bond passed in 2016, state law said that only a public entity could own bond-funded properties. Typically, the Housing Bureau acts as a lender rather than an owner, and that meant they'd be taking on a new role. The Bureau turned to Multnomah County's Housing Authority, Home Forward, for help with its new ownership role. Overall... Our audit found the housing bond to be off to a solid start. First, we found the Housing Bureau developed project selection criteria that were mostly in line with promises to voters. The criteria were developed over several months by a group convened by the bureau after the purchase of the Ellington, which prompted some housing stakeholders to argue for an overall strategy before additional bond purchases were made. City Council adopted the criteria in October 2017, around the same time that the second housing bond purchase was adopted. That criteria, known as the policy framework, when compared to the ballot language, introduced new areas of focus and de-emphasized or eliminated some topics. Veterans, although included in the ballot language, were not included in the policy framework. seniors and people with disabilities, although included in the framework, weren't emphasized as much as might have been expected based on their prominence in the ballot language. Our second audit finding was that the housing bureau appeared to apply project selection criteria consistently when choosing which bond projects to pursue. I'm sorry, consistently? Consistently. Do me a favor, move the mic just a little closer. Sure, yeah, just a little off. Well, it's acoustics in this building are also off. Yeah, sorry. We were able to piece together an understanding of the rationale behind each bond purchase using various sources, but couldn't find a concise record explaining why each property was purchased and how each decision advanced the goals of the bond. More transparency would have been helpful, and the first annual report on the bond was only completed recently. Each project was justifiable in helping to further bond goals, although it's too soon to say if the overall effect will be that all bond goals will be met. Finally, we found the Housing Bureau, working with Home Forward, developed a targeted approach for getting tenants into bond units. Data on the two housing bond projects that have tenants show that bond projects are serving diverse populations. Thank you. Voters approved a change to the state constitution in fall 2018, allowing the city to loan bond proceeds for affordable housing to private entities, rather than owning all the bond projects themselves. That change will upend how tenants are placed in bond properties. Instead of overseeing leasing activities directly or through home forward, the Bureau is shifting gears and setting expectations for developers and property owners about how to find tenants from the priority communities included in the policy framework. We made three recommendations in this audit. The recommendations focused on the Housing Bureau better meeting voter expectations for future bond projects, improving documentation and communication about the rationale behind future bond projects, and evaluating how successful future bond property owners are at reaching target populations. That concludes my presentation. Thank you. Good. Thank you. We appreciate it. Thank you. Excellent. Those are our four audit reports. Thanks for coming in. We appreciate it. Thank you for the discussion. It was a good discussion. Madam Auditor, you're the first auditor that Commissioner Fritz and I have served with who has made a regular habit of presenting your audits to the council as a whole and having this discussion. And that's a level of transparency that I'm not quite sure why we didn't do that before, although there were some issues. interesting personality issues I think involved, but really appreciate that you've made this cornerstone of your service, that you come and present directly to the council and by extension to the public. and give us a chance to have this conversation. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, Commissioner Fish is going to be excused. And speaking of Vision Zero, I have some traffic enforcement folks who are here and need to leave very quickly. I believe we can get through 720 and 721 very quickly. And then there's an emergency item that was pulled off consent that I'd like to get to. So why don't you come on up, please? And just by way of opening remarks, if you could read 720 and 721, Carla. Item 720, authorize a state of Oregon traffic enforcement grant agreement. and appropriate $25,000 in traffic funds for fiscal year 2019-20 to reimburse overtime expenses of sworn personnel in 7-21, authorize a $543,600 State of Oregon Traffic Enforcement Grant Agreement and appropriate $271,800 in traffic... enforcement funds for fiscal year 2019-20 to fund overtime for sworn personnel. Colleagues, the grant allows PPB, and I'm speaking specifically to 720 at the moment. This is to support the motor carrier safety assistance plan, which is designed to reduce accidents. particularly those involving commercial motor vehicles and to reduce injuries and fatalities resulting from accidents involving CMVs, commercial motor vehicles. The Motor Carrier Safety Assistance Plan grant allows certified inspections from the Traffic Division to conduct traffic stops on unsafe driving behaviors of commercial vehicles within the City of Portland. These stops increase safety and reduce the occurrence of injury crashes. The amount of the grant is a maximum of $25,000 in federal grant funds for reimbursement in the 2019-2020 budget. The city has been participating in this program since 2012. These grants play a vital role in keeping people safe on our streets, and I'm very, very grateful for the hard work that the traffic division does. And we have Sergeant Engstrom and Captain Lorenco here. And 721 is the work zone safety grant which allows the traffic division to provide high visibility and high contact enforcement efforts in specifically identified Oregon Department of Transportation work zones. And there's basically four purposes to reduce the number of fatal injury and property damage crashes in these areas, to enhance driver attention, and reduce speeds in work zones. to provide preventative and incident-specific public information and education efforts through social media and other opportunities and activities, and finally to provide high-visibility contact enforcement efforts while patrolling work zones. And the amount of this grant is $543,600. Again, that's federal reimbursements for the upcoming budget. This is a program that is part of Vision Zero, and the city has participated in it as well since 2012. Greetings. Commissioner Fish. Mayor, council has been briefed on both of these grants. Can I just go right to question? Absolutely. I'm sure they'd appreciate that. Yeah. One's a $25,000 grant, and it's not controversial. The other one's another traffic enforcement grant. I just want to make a comment. The other day when I was doing my Vision Zero tour, we went along Foster, which now is one lane with other infrastructure built in, and it's marked 25 miles an hour. We felt like a bit of a hazard driving at 25 because of the behavior of people behind us, but the most egregious behavior we saw when we stopped at an intersection and were just watching traffic was among commercial drivers. And, you know, I don't want to unfairly call out Fred Meyer and you know, Uber and some other folks. But there were some trucks that were going way too fast. And my guess is that these truck drivers are given very unreasonable schedules about they have to meet, they have to make deliveries. And I'm guessing that this is probably something the Transportation Commissioner can take up with corporate executives, just letting, you know, like figure out where do you see the most trucks, maybe sit down with Fred Meyer and say, your trucks are not, you know, meeting our standard, and here's why it's important. The point I want to make though is that in a three hour trip, we never saw any traffic enforcement people. The only police officer we saw the entire day was at my favorite sub shop in Lentz, and everyone's entitled to have lunch, so that was fine. But there was no coverage anywhere we went. And we were literally on 122nd. We were on Foster. And we would stop for 10 or 15 minutes and have a conversation and then watch. So in my view, we have cut weight. We've got to the point now we're on traffic enforcement where we simply do not have the complement of officers we need to do the job. And I hope that the commissioner is not shy about making a budget ask. because frankly even just having the presence, even just having a car driving has the deterrent effect. like the reader boards and other things. But it was a little discouraging not to see any traffic enforcement people, and I hope that we make sure that the commissioner and the police bureau have the resources they need to do that. Otherwise, I'm in full support of these grants. You know I'm not shy. No, I know that. Thank you, Commissioner. Very good. Thank you. Any further questions? Is there public testimony on 720 or 721? We had two separate sign-up sheets, but the same people have signed up. The first three will be Charles Bridge, Bridge, Jane Johnson, Jeff Dubois and Maggie. Okay. And we'll go for two minutes cause I want to take these votes before the commissioner asked me before, uh, before you leave, um, is, is it helpful? We could potentially put an emergency clause on these. Would that help? Would that speed up the process towards getting the grant dollars in the door? Mr. Mayor, we're trying our very best to stay on schedule and not put you into that position in the future. It's a yes or a no. It always helps, sir. Yes. Okay. Okay. Very good. Go ahead. Thank you. You can take a seat. Thank you, appreciate it. Good morning, Commissioners. Charles Bridge, Grant Johnson. And there's people at the police bureau, probably these two folks right here, whose work is to find the supplementary funding so we can have at least some, as Mr. Fish noted, some traffic enforcement. So thanks to those who find this money from the state. Hopefully, someday we'll be able to get to a position where we don't have to fund this as overtime. When it's an overtime expense, we're getting 50% less hours of actual traffic enforcement for our dollar. It can't be missed that we're having some staffing issues at the Portland Police Department. But hopefully, there'll be some brilliant, sneaky management that can figure out a way to get more hours into traffic safety. And also, later on, when we have an overall report from the police department, it would be probably helpful for the police commissioner and the rest of the commissioners to know... How many overtime hours are going into traffic enforcement? How many have to go into violent crimes and other natures of the work? So thank you all for finding this money. Of course, I look forward to you voting unanimously to take the state's money. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Hi, I'm Maggie, Portland Homeless Town Hall. So I find it slightly hypocritical. The reason people don't want to go into police work and you have these overtime hours that you have to pay for at such high rates. is we need a universal ban on assault rifles. But Mayor, this has nothing to do with the ban. We know, we know. I agree, Maggie, please keep this to the track. I'm just saying, if you want to hire more police officers, Let's ban assault rifles because who wants to be a police officer? Accepting grants for overtime for traffic enforcement. Do you support us accepting the grants? Yes, well if you want to hire more people so you don't have to do this. That's not what this is about. This needs to stop. It's not what it's about Maggie, thank you. Appreciate it. I move that we add an emergency clause, item 720. For the purpose of getting the grant as quickly as possible, being in the public interest. Bingo. Any further discussion on that, please call the roll on the amendment to 720. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's passed. Same motion for item 721, move to put an emergency for the reasons stated by Commissioner Fritz. Second. We have a motion to second. Please call the roll. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment passes. Please call the roll on 720. Udailey. I just want to take a moment to thank the members of our Traffic Enforcement Division. It's a hard job, made even harder by underfunding and understaffing, and I appreciate Commissioner Fish's comments, and I have been... beating that drum for a while now. We need more funding. We need more enforcement on the streets. We cannot engineer and educate our way out of what I consider a public safety crisis. This month we reached the same number of deaths due to traffic collisions in July as we saw an entire year of 2018. So of course, I support these grants. I also support increasing enforcement overall. I vote aye. Fritz. Thanks very much to the traffic division for your work. Aye. Fish. Aye.
 Wheeler.
 Aye. The ordinance is passed as amended. Please call the roll on item 721. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you. Thanks for coming in. We'll go to the emergency item that was pulled off the consent agenda, item 710, please. Carla, who pulled that? Charles Johnson. Item 710, pay settlement of lawsuit by Adam Rollins in the sum of $80,000 involving Portland Bureau of Transportation. Colleagues, this lawsuit arises from improper workplace behavior experienced by Mr. Rollins in late 2016 through his attorney. Mr. Rollins filed a federal lawsuit in 2018 against the city alleging federal and state law violations. In June of 2019, the parties agreed to participate in a mediation session in an attempt to resolve the case. The session was productive and the parties agreed on a proposed settlement of $80,000 inclusive of Rollins' attorney's fees. Rollins is no longer employed by the City of Portland. Approval of this ordinance will allow risk management to pay Mr. Rollins and his attorney the agreed upon settlement totaling $80,000. I don't know if there's anybody from HR... I think we have city attorneys. City attorneys. I don't know if there's more you want to say. What I had heard. Okay. Public testimony. We have staff back there available. Okay, let's hear the testimony and then maybe there will be questions. Two minutes, please. Okay. Good morning, Commissioners. Charles Bridge, Graeme Johnson for the record. And you know you're in trouble, especially Commissioner Fritz knows that when the City of Portland makes it into the Daily Mail, something's gone wrong. So today, in Britain's great Daily Mail newspaper... Daily Mail is an absolute wreck. Exactly. And that's why we're in... It's good to have a local expert. That's why we're in hot water when the City of Portland gets 23 shares on the Daily Mail's story about extreme hazing. So I hope that in making the allotment to grant this victim $80,000... there have been communications from the city, regardless of whether we accept, the city has accepted responsibility when it gives away $80,000, or fairly pays, rather, fairly pays $80,000 to a victim of extreme hazing, that as a citizen, and I hope people who are in management, we're all very sorry that this happened to Mr. Rollins, and I look forward to your unanimous approval of this settlement for him. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superhumanity. Again, to Mr. Rawlins, I'd like to apologize on the conduct of the City of Portland and what you went through, the torture that they caused you, the trauma. And I think this number is really on the low side. And again, to any other victims within the city or who have been employed at the city in the past, please feel free to step forward. Please understand and look at this settlement, a number to work from. And if you feel necessary, come back with a class action suit against these sick, demented sadists that would have put you through this. It's appalling that this happened within the city. It is absolutely appalling behavior. And for anyone to think they should get away with the treatment of a city employee in this manner, you should be in prison for this. prison. And whoever did this to this individual, I want to have them investigated. I want to make sure their kids are okay. I want to make sure their family members are okay. I want to make sure their animals are okay. This is one sick individual that did this to this victim. Your number should be by 10 times that amount. This 80,000 is a low number. This is appalling to me. This is torture. This is trauma everlasting and for the city to even think that they can get away with this and not do prison time is appalling to me. I'm demanding a federal investigation on this whole case and everything surrounding this case. And I want to get feedback and I want an independent investigation. I demand this with this type of conduct. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. We are often, when we take up these settlements, we get testimony from folks. Lightning is one person, Joe Walsh I remember, and someone else who often say, you know, I think you should pay more in the settlement. I just want to take one moment to address that because I used to be a plaintiff's employment lawyer representing people in civil rights cases and in similar kinds of cases. When you go to mediation, you get the services of an independent mediator who works with the parties to see if they can resolve the case. It is a voluntary process. The mediator reviews the strengths and weaknesses of cases. This is not to excuse the behavior here. I'm not speaking to the merits of this case. We obviously all feel terrible about this particular case, but the mediator gives his or her opinion, parties talk it through, it is voluntary. If a plaintiff does not think that that's a good settlement, they have every right to proceed to court. Often lawsuits have been filed. A prevailing party in court often gets their attorney fees, so that's a pretty big stick. And is a pretty good incentive to continue the case and do discovery. So again, when we hear from people who say, I think this is too low or you should multiply it by ten or whatever, I appreciate the sentiment. The sentiment is you're offended by the conduct and what you're reading. But I just want to give people a sense of confidence that when these cases are resolved through mediation, it's a purely voluntary process. Parties have decided it's in their respective best interest. And most importantly, in every instance, the aggrieved party has an attorney advising him or her. So they are choosing to settle because they want to. They have every right to go to court, and we have no power to affect that decision. So just for the record, Mayor. Okay, thank you, Commissioner Fish. Any further discussion? Legal counsel, was there anything I should have said or should not have said? Very good. Please call the roll. Yee Bailey? Aye. Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? I want to apologize to Mr. Rawlins on behalf of the City of Portland and what he endured. Nobody in our community should have to endure that and certainly nobody who works for the City of Portland should ever be subjected to that kind of behavior. So with this settlement comes my apology. It's sincere. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 704. Proclaim July 31, 2019 to be Fame Day. Commissioner Udaly. Well, thank you, Mayor. Just a few quick comments before we read this proclamation. As the Arts Commissioner, lifelong lover of arts, and the mother of a son with a disability, it is a distinct pleasure to honor Fame today. FAME has served people with intellectual and developmental disabilities in Portland for 35 years. When FAME was founded, there simply were not opportunities for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities to participate in the arts. FAME recognized this need for inclusion and acted to solve the problem. Numerous studies show the benefit of arts education, and as Portlanders, we all have proven time and time again how much we value arts education. At FAME, adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities have access to the experiences we all deserve. Self-expression, connecting with one another, building community, and meaningful lives. I share FAME's belief that art is for everyone, and I know the work they do changes lives and makes our community stronger and more equitable. I want to give a special thank you to Jenny Stadler, Executive Director of FAME, Anne Marie Plass, Board Member and FAME student, and Rebecca Morris, Development Director for FAME. Jenny and Anne Marie are here to speak and show us a video presentation, so I'm going to actually turn it over to them before the proclamation. Welcome, and please state your names for the record before you begin. Alright, good morning. I'm thrilled to be back speaking in front of you all again. Thank you for inviting us. My name is Ann Marie Plass and I'm a board member and a student at FAME Academy. And my name is Jenny Stadler. I am the executive director at FAME. I wanted to start our presentation by telling you a little bit more about FAME and getting some of you up to speed on some of the new projects FAME is involved in right now. I've been at FAME for over 10 years as a student and I'm serving my second year on the board. FAME was founded 35 years ago, and at that time we were primarily a performance organization for adults with developmental disabilities. FAME students performed one big show a year, usually a great American musical like Bye Bye Birdie or Grease. Over time, those first four years, FAME added a few classes and other performance opportunities. Fast forward 35 years, and now FAME is the world's best arts education organization that has three main parts of our program. First, we're a school of the arts. We offer 25 classes a term, three terms a year. While studying at FAME, I've taken digital photography, musical theater, choir, and yoga. I've taken drawing, monologues, and dance, and that's just me. FAME also offers classes in podcasting, drumming, videography, and graphic design, and we're always coming up with new classes based on what students want to learn. We're also a performance program. We still do our one large production a year. This year, it's our rock opera called The Poet's Shadow that we're performing in collaboration with the Portland Opera. But also, in the last 10 years or so, I've gotten to perform at the Green Show in Ashland with McMartini, on the TEDx stage, and at the Blazers game. Third, we're a community. When you're an adult with a developmental disability, the opportunities to socialize, form community, and make new friends becomes more and more limited. FAME offers the opportunity to do all these things at our school and also through events like barbecues and dances. I've made friends that I'll have for life at FAME, and my life is richer for these friends. I think it has never been a more exciting time to be at FAME, both as a student and as a board member. We're partnering with more and more arts organizations to teach classes and work on shows. We've got an orchestra built out of iPads, and we're in the beginning stages of planning our own building, one in which we hope to have art space to share with the rest of Portland. Thank you for the support the city has shown to FAME over the years. Your granddaughters, this proclamation, the support from the Regional Arts and Cultural Council. I'm hopeful for the future of FAME and for a more accessible arts culture in Portland. Before we continue, we'd like to show you a video that gives a great sense of what we do at FAME. What is FAME? FAME is a place where you can create. talents that we thought we didn't possess. The classes I am currently taking at FAME is podcasting, yoga, and choir. I'm taking drumming because I like the movement in drumming and we do it so well. When I walk into FIRE, I see my friends and I feel humbled and happy to be in FAME. I was kind of bored. I didn't have a lot of stuff to do, but when I started going to FAME, I had a lot more opportunities. It's hard before joining FAME because I never knew there were other people that had disabilities. learn something new that you haven't experienced yet. If you are a songwriter, you can change the skills that you learned from songwriting classes and make your own music. Or if you're in the mutual fields, you have more knowledge on what mutual theater is. I was really shy when I was growing up. And because I think for many students too, You know, they have a disability, so in the back of their head, they're thinking, I have a disability, I'm not going to be able to do a lot of stuff. I really do think that FAM does a good job of allowing students to take artistic risks. The teachers know that we have these talents and that they're trying to help us build those. And then, you know, if an opportunity arises for them to go out there, they can go with confidence and say, OK, you know, I can do this because I have somebody that's backing me up. My favorite class is Rock Ensemble because we get to perform all year round and we get to do really great performances. We just use awesome scenes and standing up and showing people that we have talent and what we can do out in the world. have people know that we can do a lot. What it's like to be a part of community that values all people is quite amazing because everyone feels like they belong and no one is let down. I come to family with my peers and you know, your peers are your friends too and you can help your peers out. Be more fair. To be yourself, to not be afraid to show who your true colors are. I feel like I have a real community. Don't be afraid to take this. Fame is a place to be passionate, to enjoy life, to make friends. You know, and it's important for people to understand, just because we're different doesn't make us any less better than other people. Anybody. should be able to pursue what they want despite their disabilities. You know, because ultimately they're humans and their lives just suck in the other person. Bang! Creating art, expanding possibility. Hey, join us! Thank you. I just wanted to finish up by speaking to you guys, to Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, about why I'm so hopeful about what's happening in Portland right now, especially when it comes to people with intellectual and developmental disabilities in the arts. As you are, as we're all well aware, people with developmental disabilities can face multiple barriers to participation in the arts, both as audiences and as performers. And frankly, I've been at FAME for a couple of years now, and it's always surprising to me still how often people with disabilities are considered, well, their voices aren't heard, but honestly how often people think they just don't have voices. So there are a lot of barriers, but I don't want to talk about the barriers. I want to talk about what I'm excited about. Because in the last couple of years, there's been a lot of wonderful things that are happening in the arts community in Portland. Our upcoming rock opera is one example of this. This is an 18-month-long project. It was the brainchild of one of our staff members, Rob Smith, and someone at the Portland Opera, Alexis Hamilton, they got their heads together and thought, hmm, could we write a rock opera together? And what would that take? And now, 18 months later, it's happening in just three weeks. It's a student-written, student-designed, I'm talking about set design, costume design, student-performed rock opera. It's happening down at the Hampton Opera Center. And it's actually the work of four different arts organizations in town. It's Fame, it's the Portland Opera who have been so generous and open and interested in learning about access. Wobbly Dance, a local choreography group, are our choreographers. And Metropolitan Youth Symphony is also involved, as well as a bunch of other artistic professionals. Here's the thing, is that about a year ago I started asking these organizations, I said, do you want to work with us to bring this project to life? Do you want to give a voice to people who don't normally have a voice? And do you want to learn more about access? And I kept hearing yes. And I'm hearing resoundingly yes the more I ask. So you know who else has said yes. Portland Playhouse and Artist Repertory Theatre have started casting our students in their professional main stage productions. And they continue to want to do so. Oregon Ballet Theatre is going to be teaching ballet at FAME this fall. It's the first time we've offered ballet at FAME and they want to form a long term partnership. Portland Center Stage is asking our students to be cultural consultants on an upcoming production of theirs. And Limestorm Playwrights is actually going to be writing a playwriting class with us this winter, and we're hoping those pieces might get into fertile ground. So there's a lot going on. These are just a few of the many people I've started talking to, and we keep hearing yes. But I also want to tell you I'm excited about other initiatives that are happening around the city. We are talking to Portland Parks and Rec in September about putting on some kind of summer show next summer in the parks. Knowing us it'll be some kind of sing-along rock concert that involves partnerships because we really like partnerships We are going to be giving a presentation on increasing access across arts organizations at the Regional Arts and Culture Council to all the general general operating support grantees And I'm thrilled that is three months away and the space is so full that we're talking about having to get a new space already Because so many arts organizations are saying yes, we want to learn and We've also received some wonderful support from some of your offices. In regards to this building, we have a big dream building happening. It's the Eastside Arts Center at Grace Commons. This building would provide housing for people with disabilities and for working artists. it would provide art space and a much needed performance space including an ADA accessible theater which would include a light and sound booth which are ADA accessible so this would be in northeast Portland and it would also give fame a permanent home So those are some of the things I'm excited about. I'm really grateful that you allowed us to come here today. I'm thrilled about the proclamation. Thank you. And we're just honored to be building more partnerships in this city and to recognize that this city is trying to make active change towards supporting marginalized populations. Thank you for supporting us. I hope we see you this afternoon from 4.30 to 6.30 in the building. We're going to be having a party. There'll be cake. There'll be music. Come on down. And thanks again. Thank you. Appreciate it. Well, and thank you for focusing on the positive. My scripted remarks were too much on the kind of hardship barrier negative side. And I also really wanted to focus on the positive today. I love fame. I'm so excited about Poets Shadow and all these partnerships, and especially the building. I served on the first Multnomah County Cultural Coalition probably a decade or more ago and I feel like conversations were just beginning back then about basic access to audience members with disability. It was not about inclusion of artists and performers with disabilities. So it's just thrilling to see our community and evolve and become more inclusive and I just can't say enough. Thank you for being here. I will definitely see you this afternoon at the reception. And without further ado, I'm now going to read the official proclamation, which the mayor has given me the privilege of doing. Whereas... FAME was founded in 1984. It has empowered hundreds of adults with developmental disabilities to lead full creative lives. FAME is a school of the arts for adults with developmental disabilities that focuses on arts education, performance, and community. Taught by exceptional working artists, FAME's classes explore every arts discipline, including visual arts, writing, acting, music, and dance. Courses range from choir to fashion design to iPad ensemble, an orchestra that uses iPads as adaptive instruments. FAME's performances delight and move audiences around our city, and FAME's community-building activities unite students as they create art together. FAME's work also reduces stigma around disability and encourages Portland's creative community to welcome and include people with disabilities. Whereas FAME provides arts opportunities, FAME gives people with developmental disabilities the chance to do many things, discover and nurture their artistic talents, gain real-world skills, build self-confidence, socialize and connect with others who share their experience of disability and those who do not. Whereas FAME's programs require and reward quality artistic work, bucking the trend of persistently low expectations set for people with intellectual disabilities and developmental disabilities, FAME's programs offer the same opportunity other artists have to stretch themselves and earn recognition from audiences. As FAME students develop their artistic talents, they learn to advocate for themselves and their vision, making themselves known as vital members of our thriving Portland community. Whereas the Poet's Shadow, FAME's original rock opera created by adults with developmental disabilities, represents a new art form in the city, we recognize the contributions of people with disabilities to the arts. Created through a partnership with Portland Opera, FAME's groundbreaking work centers the voices and artistic efforts of people who have traditionally been marginalized in the arts and in all areas of our society, to the point where many people with developmental disabilities have not been welcomed, even in the audience, let alone on stage or in shaping the words, music, or feel of the story. Whereas artists with developmental disabilities have the opportunity to share their talents through the poet's shadow and every artistic work produced at FAME, the City of Portland shares FAME's belief that art is for everyone, community is for everyone, and excellence is for everyone. Now, therefore, I, Commissioner Chloe Daly, on behalf of Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim July 31st, 2019 to be Fame Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. We'll suspend the rules. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Very much, Anna. Thank you, guys. Thank you for being here, and thanks for that great video. Oh, wonderful. Well, we're very honored. Thank you so much. We appreciate everything you do. This was a wonderful presentation, very uplifting. Thank you so much for being here. Commissioner, did you want to get a photo? Oh, sure. We'd love a photo. Yes, please. I always forget about the photo. There's no chance to steal. Were you good? I can stand back here. Okay. okay is Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. All right, we'll move to the regular agenda item 722 please. appoint Adam at PlanAlt and reappoint Harriet Struthers and Daniel Morris to the Business License Appeals Board. Colleagues, the Business License Appeals Board hears and decides appeals of determinations issued by the Revenue Division. These appeals primarily relate to the City of Portland Business License Tax. and the Multnomah County business income tax programs. But they also relate to franchise and utility license fees collected by the city and transient lodging taxes collected by the city. Currently, there's three vacancies on the Business License Appeals Board. The board position that would be filled by... Adam Applenalp is to be appointed by the Mayor and if appointed, the three-year term would expire on December 31st, 2021. The term of Harriet Struthers expired on December 31st, 2018. The board position held by Harriet is also to be appointed by the Mayor, but subject to the approval of the Multnomah County Binary Governmental Agreement. Multnomah County has provided their consent to this reappointment. If reappointed, the three year term would expire on December 31st, 2021. The term of Daniel Morris also expired on December 31st, 2018. The board position held by Daniel is to be appointed by the city auditor. The city auditor has provided consent to the reappointment of Daniel. If reappointed, the two year term would expire on December 31st, 2020. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Scott Carter. I'm the Audit and Accounting Manager with the Revenue Division. The Mayor mentioned briefly the function of the Board, but I wanted to go into a little more detail. Business License Appeals Board is a five-member volunteer board comprised of members of the public. When a Portland business files their city business tax return, the Revenue Division staff or technology will review or audit the filed return. When adjustments are made by the Revenue Division to correct the return, the taxpayer can protest these adjustments and explain why the return was correct as filed. If the Revenue Division does not accept the taxpayer's explanation, a final determination is issued by the Revenue Division, which would include additional support and explanation. If the taxpayer still disagrees, they can appeal to the Business License Appeals Board. The board will review the case, hear and review testimony, and then make a decision in the favor of either the city or the taxpayer. These decisions are final, and there's no additional administrative appeal available. Portland City Code requires that appointments to the Business License Appeals Board be made to provide an appropriate level of expertise in accounting methods and tax regulations. The three potential appointees meet the qualifications required by the code and should serve both the public and the City of Portland well in any matters coming before the Board. I'd like to introduce Adam Applenelp. He's the lone new appointment today. The other two are reappointments. Adam is the founder and chief executive officer of the Cobalt Group Inc., a Portland CPA firm. His background includes serving as chief financial officer of several different startup and established small businesses. He also worked in the financial services industry where he did internal audit, risk management, information security, and fraud management work. He graduated from the University of Oregon with a bachelor's degree in accounting. Adam has stated his reason for interest in serving on the board is to apply his accounting and business knowledge and experience to productively contribute to local government. We believe Adam would make an excellent board member. I'm going to skip over the details of the other two candidates, which are reappointments, but if you need more information, it's in your packets. Both candidates have served the public and the city well in the past, and we strongly support their reappointment. Significant outreach has been conducted toward increasing the diversity of this board. To meet the requirements of this position, the outreach has been targeted to individuals that have a strong expertise in accounting as well as federal, state, and local tax law. The Revenue Division recently ran a recruitment through the Office of Community and Civic Life. The Revenue Division also worked with procurement services to identify potential candidates. The Revenue Division reached out to accounting and tax professional organizations, including the Oregon Society of CPAs, in order to specifically identify individuals that could add to the board's diversity. Thank you, and we're happy to answer any questions. Very good. Hi, I'm Adam Applenau. Don't really have much more to add. I think Mr. Carter covered most of it, but happy to be here and happy to contribute with my accounting and business knowledge to the board. Well, thank you. I'll just say this. We're really lucky to have somebody with your experience step forward. I know there's a million other things you could be doing. You're very busy. This can be a fairly technical appointment, so we need people with a certain degree of knowledge, and we're grateful that you're stepping forward. Really appreciate it. Appreciate that. Thanks. I'll entertain a motion. Move to accept the report or confirm the appointment. I'll second it. We have a motion and a second. Please call the roll. Udaly. Aye.
 Fritz. Thank you for volunteering. Aye. Wheeler. You're going to have fun also. I vote aye. Report's accepted. The appointment's approved. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next item, 723. accept bid of Moore Excavation, Inc. for the Northeast 47th Avenue Phase 1 LID, Northeast 27th and Holland LID project for... $5,853,529. Very good. This is a PBOT item, but I'll pass it to Lester Spittler. Unless Commissioner Udaly had anything she wanted to say on the front end? No, I think we can just cut to the chase and Lester knows the drill. Very good. Welcome. Welcome. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. Good morning, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Udali. Andrew Abbey, the project manager, wanted to say a few things about the project before I get into the procurement report. Very good. So I'm going to pass it off to him. Welcome. Thank you. Good morning, Council. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. I know you've had a long morning, so I'll be extremely brief. This LID was formed in 2016. It is an engineering marvel, and we're pleased to be joined today with Nicole Blanchard, who is the engineer on the project. She did exceptional work. This is probably one of the most difficult LIDs that I've ever worked on. We are not only building sidewalks, multi-use path on Northeast 47th, but but we are also replacing a 100 year old cast iron water main. You may recall that those occasionally break and leak and we want to replace that while we're replacing the roadway. We're also extending sanitary sewer and dorm sewer. I also wanted to mention that since Council formed this LID, we've had a number of other PBOT capital projects that have been added to our list of projects that we're going to be building in Cully. For example, replacing the Northeast 42nd Avenue bridge, building a multi-use path on Northeast Cornfoot Road, and also building what is currently the largest LID in the city's history outside the central city at Northeast 46th and Bryant. where we're helping facilitate the construction of the new TriMet bus base. So we have a host of other projects that are physically tied into this project, and there's a real sense of urgency to get this contract awarded so we can start construction. With that, I'll turn it over to Lester. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Andrew. Thank you. So City Council approved Ordinance 187665 on April 6th of 2016 and another Ordinance 188514 on July 12th of 2017 that authorized us to issue a competitive invitation to bid for this project. We have since issued the bids. And they were due on June 21st of 2019. We received four and more excavation is the lowest responsive bid of the four. Their bid amount is $5,853,529.20, which is much, much, much below the estimate, which was $8,264,632. We have here in the report that the confidence level in the estimate was low. However, in talking to Andrew, that was a mistake and that should have been corrected to have a high confidence level in that initial estimate. So we're happy about the price that we received from Moore at well below the estimate. For this project, we applied our 20% utilization goal for subcontractors and suppliers. More excavation is not able to meet that goal. You have in the report a table of certified subcontractors that they will use on the project, but the total utilization is only at 11.78%. More excavation is self-performing 67.5% of the work, and there is 20.72% of work that is going to non-certified subcontractors. Moore Excavations is located in Fairview, Oregon. They are not a state-certified contractor. They are in compliance with all of the city's contract requirements. And with that, we recommend that you accept the report and authorize execution of the contract. If there's any questions, we're happy to take those. Colleagues, any questions? Otherwise, I'll entertain a motion. I move the item. Second. We have a motion and a second. Please call the roll. New Daily. New Daily. Thanks for being here. I love your excitement about our LID program, Andrew, and appreciate you and Lester. I vote aye. Fritz. Thank you for your breaking down of the subcontracting firms. That's very helpful. It seemed like more excavation had been doing better for a while, and this is disappointing that they've not been able to meet that goal. So perhaps next time they bid, you could let them know that I'd like to see them in council. So I can ask them about their efforts and also whether they're still working on diversifying their own workforce if they're going to be performing so much of the work. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. Appreciate it, both of you. Next item, 724, please. I would like to authorize a 61-month lease from Jason and Mayunja M. Lee to the Office of Management and Finance for space at 220 Southwest Main Street. We do. I'm sorry. This is an emergency item. I didn't see it. We're going to have to hold it over. We're going to have to finish reading the title, though, so we can move it. Okay. At 220 Southwest Main Street, located on the ground floor of the Justice Center, floor programs with ancillary services to the building at an average annual cost of approximately $54,500. Okay. And I'm sorry, colleagues, that I missed this one earlier. Are we going to move this to next week, Ms. Dauphin? No. Mine is set to 2 p.m. It will be the first item at 2 p.m. 2 p.m. today. Yes. Very good. Okay. Okay, great. So we will move item 724 to 2 p.m. this afternoon. Move on to 725, please. Approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize the use of an alternative contracting method of construction manager, general contractor, in connection with the downtown Old Town, Southwest Maine, Taylor Sewer Rehabilitation Project for an estimated amount of $7.1 million. Very good. Mr. Spettler, welcome back. Thank you. Good morning again. I'm going to hand it over to Susan, the project manager, and we're going to go through a presentation and we'll walk through what we're proposing to council and the context of why we're seeking an exemption from our low bid requirement. Great. Thank you. I'm Susan Yarton. I'm an engineer with Environmental Services. The next downtown Old Town Surrey Rehab project that we have is going to be in Southwest Maine, Salmon and Taylor, from Nato Parkway to Southwest 13th. Most of the pipe that we want to rehab is between 90 and 150 years old. Most of it can also be rehabbed sustainably with the cured-in-place liners. That construction method just requires us to have access to the manholes. There's no digging or excavation required, and it will give us additional 75 years of life to that pipe. The laterals all need to be bypassed. This allows all the businesses to stay open. It doesn't disrupt their operations. their use of the bathrooms or anything, but we need to determine which ones are active and not active. Some of these are full of roots, debris. So we need to figure out which ones are active. And some of this work might require us to be in their basements, have agreements with them. So the legislative action before you today is exempting this project from the competitive low bid requirement. So just for some context, our state statutes and our city code require us to issue invitations to bid for construction projects and make an award based on the lowest price. Unless our local contract review board, which is our city council, exempts a project, which requires us to walk through certain findings to provide justification and support for why we're exempting it from the competitive low bid requirement. So for this project, we're proposing a request for proposal to award a CMGC contract. Some of the findings that we address for this project, I'm going to touch on them and highlight why a CMGC approach is better than a competitive low bid. Could you explain what a CMGC is please? Yes. CMGC stands for construction manager slash general contractor. And that approach is used when you want to bring a contractor on board before the project is fully designed to be able to get their input into the design on things like constructability, sequencing, value engineering. It provides a much more cohesive and team-oriented environment with the architect engineer, the project owner, the project manager, and the contractor via a CMGC approach. So we believe that there are public benefits to be achieved via a CMGC by bringing on the construction contractor before the project is fully designed. They will have input. constructability, sequencing, scheduling, means and methods. So there should be less disruptions once the project is in construction to the businesses and residents and traffic and transit operations that will be in the vicinity of this project. The construction schedule can also be reduced by getting feedback early on from the contractor. There can be better strategies for noise reduction and traffic control. Another added benefit is the value engineering. So the contractor is going to work with Susan and with the architect and engineer to inform the design to make sure that the project is executed as easily and efficiently and effectively as possible. We also feel like a CMGC is going to increase the public safety because the contractor is going to have input on the design. We can take certain things into account that the contractor knows about that the architect or engineer may not be aware of just because they are not in the business of constructing projects. Another benefit is that we feel like we will receive adequate competition, if not more competition with an RFP than the invitation to bid. The reason for that is because there are obviously some risks associated with this project when you're replacing old sewer pipes in a downtown urban area. So... We feel like there will be more opportunity for people to propose on this project and not necessarily take on the risks that they would via an invitation to bid, but be able to work with the project owner and the architect and engineer to inform the design and then work with them to come up with an estimate for the work instead of assuming risks via an invitation to bid. So that concludes the findings, the overview of the findings. I'm going to pass it back to Susan to talk about some of the alternative delivery drivers, why this is better suited for an alternative delivery method versus an invitation to bid. All right. Just a quick overview. This map shows the entire downtown Old Town program. We have a couple of projects currently in construction. Yamhill Morrison, which initially was being completed in May of 2017 when TriMet had their shutdown. We have a few more pipes for wrapping up in the next month. Crothers Mill in the Portland State area started construction in spring of this year. It should be wrapped up by October. The pinkish-orangish area, those are future projects we plan to do in the next 10 to 12 years. Just basic overview there. So these drivers are very similar to what Lester just mentioned. Having contractor input during the design is huge. We need to upsize some pipe and we plan to do it trenchlessly because it's almost impossible to dig downtown with all the utilities that are above us. The sequencing of work is not just our work, they are able to coordinate better with other developers, bureaus, franchise utilities. One of the things we'd like to do is make the safety, their performance safety record in downtown kind of a criteria. How they manage these things in the past so when we're looking at the RFP we have different items to see how they've performed in the past. Yeah, another added benefit is we foresee this being having greater certified contractor and subcontractor utilization. We are able to take that into account in the evaluation of proposals and awarding the contract. And there is also a pre-construction period before the construction starts where the contractor will be able to outreach and engage all of our community partners to maximize the participation on this project from certified firms. If there's no more questions, I'd ask that you approve this exemption and allow us to issue a request for proposal for this project. Very good. Any further questions? Public testimony? Yes, possibly two people. Jeff Dubois and Maggie. Very good. Thank you. Appreciate it. She's passing. She's passing. I think Jeff's gone. He's gone. Very good. Any further discussion before I move this? This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you both. And I believe that's it. Have I forgotten anything, Carla? That's all that I have. That's all I show as well. We are adjourned until 2 p.m. Before we gavel into the formal meeting, we have a very special presentation this afternoon in honor of a member of our team, a long serving public servant here at the City of Portland, somebody who's made a huge impression on our community, Antoinette Edwards. And I'll turn this over to Aja in a minute, but I just have to say this. There has never been anybody that I've seen with this kind of support in the community who is so almost reticent to accept public acknowledgement for the work she does. So she's here somewhat against her will. We who are her partners and her teammates, we just couldn't let it go without a formal acknowledgement here at City Council. And so, Antoinette, thank you for giving us this opportunity to acknowledge the fantastic work that you have done over your years here at City Hall. And with that, I'll turn this over to Aja. Good morning. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Aja Blair, Executive Assistant to Mayor Ted Wheeler. And it is my great honor to be here today to speak about a woman. Thank you. who I've had the honor to get to know and work with over the last year. Although when you first see Antoinette, one usually thinks queen, there's so much more than meets the eye. Fierce community leader, change agent, humble public servant, loving mother, wife, teacher, advocate, colleague, and friend are just a few of the words I use for this powerhouse of a person. Antoinette is definitely a force to be reckoned with. And today we honor her years of public service and bid her farewell into her next journey of retirement. First, I want to take a look inside the Office of Youth Violence and Prevention, which Antoinette leads, along with policy manager Tom Peavy, and play this short video for everybody to see. My name is Antoinette Edwards, and I am the Director of the Office of Youth Violence and Prevention for the City of Portland. I'm Tom Pede. I'm a policy manager for the Office of Youth Violence Prevention in the City of Coral. I worked 13 years as a patrol officer on and off in my career out in this area. So I have an extreme life for this area. The goal for the Office of Youth Violence Prevention is that we, in a collaborative way, address the issues of violence and trauma in this country. I work with career members. working, and I was taking over college, of course. I think that's as good of a story as this. I have spoken in it. A lot of people associate the markets with the morning. You know, the service, what it is of the women who are talking about food. From a Truman perspective, I'm not asking what's going on here. I'm asking about the music here. This work is so important because people are hurting and so often media, society, we normalize this thing and we work in it. That's why we're doing it as opposed to looking for root causes and address them in a respectful way. And how do we support people in the world? I'm in the work because I feel as if I have the capacity to help. And they're in need, they're in silence. And they're only living in this place. They don't have the required resources. They don't have the opportunity to do this. And so our office does not necessarily help them. This is the office of Youth Violence Prevention. And I'd like for us to focus more on that. How do we provide that same space for a child to grow, for a mother or a father or a family or a community to grow and learn and share and be empowered in an authentic way? That's what I'd like to see. So I'd like to turn it over to the City Council to thank Councilnet for her service and the Mayor to read the proclamation in honor of Councilnet. Very good. Before I do that, colleagues, did anybody want to say anything? Commissioner Fritz? You have just been so inspiring to me over the ten and a half years that I've been here. Every time I've come across you in the community or in City Hall, you've made me feel better about whatever, however my day was going. Crossing paths with you gave me something to smile about, something uplifting. Your fashion sense is absolutely inspiring. Thank you. and your contributions to our whole community and recognizing the communities within the communities. You've just taught me so much and I appreciate your heart-driven work and the fact that you've worked with how many mayors now? All of them. Four. Yeah, four, right? And that each one of them has recognized your special gifts and your special abilities and your anchoring of this office, starting with Tom Potter and then through Mayor Hales and Mayor Adams and now Mayor Wheeler. Thank you. It's a hugely difficult job that I'm amazed anybody does for more than six weeks, never mind as long as you have done it. And it's the richer because you've been doing it for, you've provided the continuity between different mayors, between different approaches. There's Antoinette Edwards just doing your thing because you seek the good. Thank you. And I'm happy for you that you've chosen to retire. I wish you all the best in that. And I just want to thank you sincerely for what you've meant to me personally. And, Twanette, if I could just – I want to actually get to the proclamation because that's the high point. But you and I both served under four mayors. Who was your favorite? All of them. And I just want to make a comment about 10 years of service. I have noticed recently that a lot of people who take appointed jobs in this building have chosen to serve what I would call abbreviated terms and then move on. Now, I know this work is very hard. I know we live in times where there's extra challenges that we deal with in these jobs. I know people have lots of different considerations. It says a lot about you that you've stuck with it for this long a period of time. These are not the best paying jobs. They're jobs where often people have complained, particularly in this building, about feeling unsafe from time to time. There's enormous challenges, but you stuck with it. So thank you for being a role model for a public servant. Antoinette? I regret that we haven't really had a chance to form a personal relationship or work together. at the city, but your name is very known to me. Antoinette Edwards is the name I feel like almost everyone knows whether they're connected to City Hall or not. And certainly your style also makes you stand out. So many times in the building I've, like, a dress or an earring and done a double take. Who is that? Oh, it's Antoinette, of course. So I just want to thank you and congratulate you and encourage you to enjoy and rest and recuperate, but I have a feeling that your work is not done. Yeah. Thank you. And I just want to say, Antoinette, I wish you well. I don't know what's next for you. I'm sure it's going to be a lot of fun. There are very few people that I call hero. You're a hero. You're somebody who has had some of the most uncomfortable and difficult conversations when people say, who is going to have this conversation? Who's going to help heal a rift in the community? who's going to bring us back together again often you served in that role and you've been a fierce advocate you've been the glue that in many respects holds our community together particularly at a difficult time when it's it's so easy for us to be divided in the absence of that kind of hard work you've been a voice for people who don't always have a voice here at city hall or feel frankly like they have a voice anywhere in society. You've given them that voice. And you've been here for all of us, and you've helped us all out, and this is really the least we can do. So as a council, as you know, we read proclamations. We can't necessarily give you tax abatements, so we do the next best thing. And this is on behalf of all of us here at City Hall, and we'll give this to you, but you'll probably need some help carrying it out. And as you know, our proclamations represent the values of this entire chamber. And so I now have the honor of reading a proclamation that we wrote specially for you today. Whereas Antoinette Edwards has been the director of the Office of Youth Violence Prevention since 2011. And has worked tirelessly to convene conversations and build community support to prevent violence in our city. Whereas she received the Gladys McCoy Citizen Involvement Award from Citizen Involvement Committee of Multnomah County in 2009. Whereas she created through directing a community poll, the Community Police Collaborative Peace Collaborative Public Forum in September of 2014 and facilitated bi-weekly meetings ever since. Whereas she received the Social Justice Fund Northwest Jeanette Rankin Award for being a tireless lifelong activist in 2013. whereas she received the Equity Foundation's Women Who Lead Award in 2015. Whereas Antoinette has been a beacon of light, a guardian angel, a sister, a wife, a mother, a community leader, and a friend, and continues to inspire hope in all who meet her. Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim July 31st, 2019, to be Antoinette Edwards' Fierce Advocate Day in Portland and encourage all residents to participate in this day. Thank you, Antoinette, for all of your service. Thank you. Antoinette. You humored us this far by agreeing to show up to let us honor you. Would you further humor us by giving us a few remarks? We'd love to know what some of your favorite moments have been and what advice would you give us? Thank you all for this amazing day. I am in gratitude for the love. I feel the love. My words would be We need you. You're awesome leaders. You were chosen on purpose for a reason. We need your unified collective wisdom and your strength. We don't have to make it great again. Just keep it good and make it better. And we can't do it without you. So those would be my words for you all. I have tremendous respect for each and every one of you. And the courageous conversations I've had with folks, I've had them with Ted. I've had some tender Ted moments, and I appreciate you for that. My parting words for community, beloved community, we are so much stronger together. We are resilient. We are wonderful. We are powerful. And let's just be the best of who we are. And I thank you all. Thank you, Antoinette. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So we're going to do 724 first from this morning's agenda. Wait just a second. Carla, we'll wait just a minute. I'm going to do 724 from this morning first. Thank you. I'm going to go back and write down what she said. That was lovely. She is such an eloquent speaker. Just off the cuff, too. You put her on the spot, Mayor. Because I knew she would do that. Yeah. I was... Can we carry over? 724. I think we're ready Carla. Go ahead. Good afternoon everyone. This is the Wednesday, July 31st afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, good afternoon. Please call the roll. Good afternoon. Hardesty? Udailey. Here. Fritz. Here.
 Fish.
 Here.
 Wheeler.
 Here. And now we'll hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you. We had one item, colleagues, that was pulled over from this morning, item 724. Carla, could you please read that item? Authorize a 61-month lease from Jason and Mayunja M. Lee to the Office of Management and Finance for space at 220 Southwest Main Street, located on the ground floor of the Justice Center for Programs with Ancillary Services to the building. At an average annual cost of approximately $54,500. Colleagues, the Office of Management and Finance and the Police Bureau are here to present information to council for authorization to execute a lease for available ground floor retail space at the Justice Center from the private party owner. The city and Multnomah County are the majority owners of the Justice Center and jointly desire to have the full occupancy of the building. The police bureau has two programs where ground floor access is absolutely essential and that provides supporting services to the building. Currently, the Justice Center doesn't have a community space, so all community members must check in through the front desk for any business that they may have. Leasing this space will provide a huge benefit to the community by having more accessible space and in my opinion this is long overdue. OMF and the Police Bureau have determined that the space meets the needs of the programs and the owner is willing to lease at a commercially reasonable rental rate and terms. And we have folks here to present. Good afternoon. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor. My name is Colleen Goble. I am property manager in the Office of Management and Finance. and I am here today with staff from the Portland Police Bureau to request authorization from counsel to execute a 61-month lease for space at 220 Southwest Main Street, located on the ground floor of the Justice Center. As you know, the Justice Center is a 16-story public condominium that contains court facilities, correction facilities, and police services, including the central precinct, as well as ground floor retail space. The city and the county have majority ownership of the building, and the private party owner, the Lees, own the remaining 10% of the building in the form of two ground floor units. This year, one of those units became available to lease, and the city and the county have long desired to secure the 2,400-square-foot space for uses that are consistent with the building's services. So the police have two programs, as you had mentioned, where ground floor access is essential, and so they are going to provide an update to council on those programs and their space needs. Mike Somerson, I'm the facility manager for Portland Police. I don't know, did you need any other information about the space we're planning to move or? Is your mic on? I don't know. Do I need any closer? Mike Somerson, I'm the facility manager with Portland Police. Thanks, Mike. We have this 2400 ground floor space that we're looking to rent. Long term will be a community room for us and in the short term, we'll move our quarter master to that space while the city does our elevator remodel project. Currently, there's only one elevator that goes up to our quartermaster office, so we'll need a place to put it. And then when it gets moved out of there, we'll use that space as a community room. What is a quartermaster office? They are the ones that house all of our police supplies, everything you see on the uniforms and things like that, including our radios and radio. It basically looks like a retail store with racks of uniforms and then all the supplies that they use to put on their uniforms. It's basically a storage space with one person managing the entire program. And currently that's all the way up to the 16th floor? It's on our 16th floor where our mechanical room is. It's also a windowless environment, so it's not the best environment for someone to work out of. So this will be a ground floor space with windows to work out of, and then long-term that will be turned into a community room. And we'd like to move our corner master out to our training division where it kind of belongs. So that's kind of the short and long-term plan for this space. Thank you. Yep. Very good. Any further questions? Carla, are there people signed up for public testimony on this item? They may have been signed up for the morning session. It was Charles, Bridge, Crane, Johnson, Jeff, DuBois, and Maggie. Okay. Very good. There being no further questions, please call the roll. Uday Lee. Hi.
 Fritz. Is that really good that it's become available? Hi. Fish. Hi. Wheeler. Hi. The ordinance is adopted. Thanks a lot. Appreciate it. And thanks for your patience in coming back this afternoon. Next item, please, which is the first on the regular afternoon agenda, that's 726. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement between the Portland Housing Bureau and Portland State University to develop a landlord-tenant mediation services pilot program. Colleagues, the $150,000 for a mediation services pilot program was included in the 2019-2020 fiscal year budget in response to a request for services from the Rental Services Commission. To ensure that the program designed for the pilot is targeted and effective, the Bureau will be working with the program design experts at Portland State University and service providers in the community. As the housing commissioner, I will commit the Housing Bureau to keeping the city council informed on the implementation and outcomes of the pilot program as we consider future permanent programs for the rental services office. And we have Matt Scheibold here from the Housing Bureau to, I don't know if you want to present or just take questions today. It's up to you. I think Matt Scheibold for the record, the only thing I would add is the focus of Portland State University will be to to compile data sets and do quantitative analysis on major issues that could be addressed through mediation services, and then to engage through qualitative analysis with renters and landlords, our Rental Services Commission, and industry and stakeholder associations to also seed some... of the issues that could be resolved through mediation and then help us with the program design of the pilot. They will not be administering the pilot. We will do a separate RFP process for a community-based organization to administer the mediation services themselves. Very good questions. Public talk. Uh-oh, we lost Carla. She'll be back. She never leaves for long. Do you see how we miss you when you're gone? Okay. Like literally, City Hall comes to a grinding halt. Carla, has anybody signed up for public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. Any further questions? Seeing none, please call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish?
 Aye.
 Wheeler? I'd like to thank the entire Portland Housing Bureau staff, specifically both Director Shannon Callahan and Matt Schubold. And I'd like to thank Cupid Alexander and Tia Williams on my staff for working this through. Thank you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 727. Establish an annual residential rental unit registration fee to fund the Housing Bureau's Rental Services Office from the Housing Investment Fund. Colleagues, I'm pleased to bring forward the rental registration fee, which has long been a commitment and a priority of mine to help support the Office of Rental Services and establish a system to collect more accurate data of the rental market in Portland. In 2017, we set a rental registration requirement for all units in the city of Portland. In the first year of registration, we did not charge a fee. That was deliberate. We wanted to encourage voluntary compliance for landlords, but it's been clear from the beginning that a fee would need to be established. We asked the revenue division in the Portland Housing Bureau to return to us this year with the established fee. Since 2017, we've made consistent progress in increasing the city's role in landlord-tenant law and services, including establishing the Rental Services Office, the Rental Services Commission, adopting local landlord-tenant law, increasing landlord-tenant services, and increasing training and education services. Thank you. Roughly half the work being completed is funded with one time funds. And we need to find a sustainable and responsible way to pay for the rental services office. Portland is one of the only cities our size to not have a rental registration system in place and fees to cover the basic services. We're behind the curve and this is an imperative first step to allowing us to have a more robust and streamlined support for runners in our community. This council has also made it clear the importance for data-driven policy making. This fee will support the maintenance of an expanded registration system, something that I'll be back in the fall bump to ask for support of this council for funding for the procurement of the expanded system so that we have data not just on the number of units and their location, but accessibility, general unit characteristics, and other relevant market data. The recommended fee is in response to the budget note we included in our adopted budget this fiscal year, and it's reasonable when compared to other cities in the region and across the country. I'm now going to turn this over to Director Callahan and Director Lanham and their team, who can give us more background on the process that got us here today. Thank you for being here. Thank you and good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Shannon Callahan of the Portland Housing Bureau. Matthew Schibold and I will first provide you some context for the item before you today, including an overview of the services being provided by the Rental Services Office and details regarding the implementation of the rental registration system. And then Thomas Lanham and I will talk about some of the factors that we considered in crafting the recommendation before you today. In 2017, the Rental Services Office was established within the Portland Housing Bureau. The Rental Services Commission was also established. It is a 12 member commission which serves as the primary public forum for discussion of rental housing law and regulation. Rent your owner programs and services within the city of Portland. In 2017, Council also authorized new funding to increase direct services to provide additional legal assistance, as well as expanded education and training services. In addition, 2017 was a busy year, and Council passed the Temporary Relocation Assistance Policy and tasked the Housing Bureau with leading a technical committee to address and make recommendations regarding a permanent relocation assistance policy. Last year, Council approved the rental registration requirement, requiring that all rental unit owners in the City of Portland register their units through the Business License Tax Platform. As the Mayor mentioned, to encourage voluntary compliance, Council did not set a fee for the system within the first year and backfilled the expenses of the system with one-time resources. Without a rental registration system, it is impossible for us to determine who may be providing rental units within the City of Portland. To ensure that we were reaching out to as many property owners as we could, we sent a mailer in collaboration with the Revenue Division to all property owners in the City of Portland regarding the rental registration requirements. Also in 2018, Council passed a permanent relocation assistance policy and tasked the Housing Bureau with administering the policy as well as processing exemptions. Since the passage of that policy, the Housing Bureau has provided landlords technical assistance and processed exemptions without charging a fee for the service. The Housing Bureau has also instituted new culturally specific fair housing enforcement programs and piloted an expungement program in 2018. This brings us to our current item this afternoon, which is talking about what we're doing in 2019. As you know, Council recently adopted a security deposit requirement as well as application and screening criteria requirements. and task the Housing Bureau and the Revenue Division to bring you a rental unit registration fee. We are also implementing a mediation services pilot, which you just heard in the prior item, and we are increasing our education and training services for both landlords and tenants. The goal of our service to landlords in our increased tenant and training services will be so that they both understand and comply with local, federal, and state landlord-tenant laws. And it is our hope that we will, by doing so and providing those services, reduce conflicts between landlords and tenants and reduce liability for landlords that, that are in the service. they may have if they don't understand the changes that have recently occurred both at the state and local level. Going forward in 2020, we believe that if the fall bump request that the Mayor just mentioned in his opening remarks is approved, we would procure an enhanced rental registration system and work with our Rental Services Commission on recommendations for the type of data to be collected. We would anticipate bringing that system online in 2021. in alignment with the timing for the new business license tax platform. As well, we anticipate continuing to increase our education and training for both landlords and tenants. And now to give you an overview generally of our plans and more details for the rental registration system, I'll turn it over to Matthew Schvold. So for the record, again, Matthew Schraubel to the Housing Bureau. And as the Mayor and Shannon have both mentioned, Council last year passed the registration requirement. And we'd like to thank our partners of the Revenue Division for working with us to make that happen. We were able to use the business income tax filings as the mechanism in order to register units for But that has significant limitations on the data we can collect. It's really, it's the address of the unit, the location of the unit. And we can, through the filings, try and understand the number of units per landlord. But there have been conversations that we've had over the past couple of years as city council has considered various local landlord tenant policies and services where there have been questions that the housing bureau hasn't been able to answer. and a desire, a general desire for additional data. And so we have contacted some vendors and try and get some initial preliminary bids on an off-the-shelf configurable system that has the ability to collect, as the mayor mentioned, data on accessibility, other unit characteristics, other market data. And so should the housing bureau be appropriated funding for that? We will go through a process with the Rental Services Commission, with council members, with the public, to have a discussion about what data we should be collecting in order to better inform our public policy decisions. As to the recommendation for a fee, the Housing Bureau worked with the Rental Services Commission, which in April of this year recommended that if a fee were to be adopted, that the fee should be administratively simple and easy to communicate. And that a uniform flat fee would best accomplish this goal. We considered council's direction and are recommending a fee that will fully cover the unfunded rental services office costs. Provide resources for maintenance costs for an expanded rental registration system. And ensure that the fee revenue will be used exclusively for rental services offices costs and the cost of the revenue division in administering the system. Therefore, we are recommending an annual rental registration unit fee of $60 per year with an exemption for regulated affordable housing and adjustments with the consumer price index West. With the average market rents in Portland being equating to $1,425 per month, the fee equates to approximately one-third of 1% of the annual average rents in Portland. And now I'd like to turn it over to Thomas Lanham to add some comments from the Revenue Division. Thank you. Thomas Lanham from the Revenue Division. I'll keep it brief. I think it's mostly been covered. Generally, a fee needs to provide some benefit back to those who pay it, And this one does through the services provided by the rental services office. One of the top considerations that we have in revenue for any tax or fee is administrability. And we look for a structure that is very easy to verify, explain, and understand. This fee meets all three of those tests in terms of being very straightforward. As far as the rate itself, we set it at $60 because this is the rate we feel is most likely to cover the costs of the program as we understand them today. We are estimating the revenue yield at this point with no prior track record to look at, so we may need to make an adjustment in a prior year, and we've been given prior authority by this body to make that change administratively if it's necessary. So I will stop there, and I'm happy to answer any questions. I have a few questions, Mayor. Commissioner Fish. I just have some basic questions. It's an excellent presentation. Director Callahan, the $60 that we're proposing to charge, how does that relate to the charges at sister cities that you canvassed? If I might, Commissioner, thank you for the question. Carla, would you turn it back on the PowerPoint for a moment? Okay. Commissioner, I'd actually like to turn it over to Matthew Schauble to answer a little bit more of your questions as he's done the research on all the sister jurisdictions. We are putting up a slide for you so that you can see some comparators of other jurisdictions. And I'd like a very high level answer if I could. So the back page of the memo also includes additional cities, but we included these five not only to illustrate the fees in different cities, but different structures. And I'll hit them at a very high level. Gresham charges a first unit fee and then a variable additional unit fee. Minneapolis charges a building fee and a unit fee. Seattle charges a first unit fee and then a flat additional unit fee. Philadelphia has a flat per unit fee, similar to the fee we're proposing. And then Dallas has a variable fee structure for single family versus multifamily. So as far as rates, fairly comparable. There are various structures, but we have heard from the jurisdictions that we've contacted, as well as stakeholders, that a flat fee is the easiest to administer and to understand. Thank you. Director Callahan, it's two years from now, and we're getting a presentation from the auditor on her first audit of this program. How do we ensure that the proceeds of this fee are dedicated to a particular account and not interspersed with other funds? Yes. Commissioner, we have ensured that they would be going into a special fund within the Housing Bureau's Housing Investment Fund for the Rental Services Office only. And we would look to our Budget Office as well as Council through the budget process. to ensure that those fundings remain in that. So it goes into a dedicated fund and then is distributed? It would go into a dedicated fund. The only cost that would be taken out would be the cost that the Revenue Division has already indicated would be their cost of administering the system. To Thomas Lanham, what do we anticipate will be the compliance rate? When you look at this and you forecast over the next five years, Obviously, we have some experience with the arts tax, although that may not be comparable. We have some experience with other taxes and fees in terms of compliance. What are you predicting with respect to this fee? Initial compliance we think will be about 60%. climbing to 90% as the program matures. So our overall business license tax compliance rate is just north of 90% at the peak of each year. This program ultimately should mirror that, particularly for two reasons. One, we have recently executed a contract to replace all of our databases and revenue And we'll soon be able to leverage federal taxpayer information in a way that will help us reveal rent incomes, basically Schedule Cs from 1040 filings that we can't currently access. So we will, in a very real way, be able to pinpoint who we should be hearing from around this. And then, of course, the second benefit is in finance. approximately FY21, 22, along in there we will be implementing e-filing, which will also make it very easy for people to comply with this. If you're using TurboTax or H&R Block, this will just be another page in a wizard that will be presented to the taxpayer to comply. And finally, thank you, for similar kinds of fees, what tools do you have available to you to ensure compliance? The primary tool that we're going to be using is the federal taxpayer information. No, but that's how you cross-reference. I'm talking about what's the – you have a carrot and a stick. What's the stick? Sure. So any taxpayer that fails to comply with all the tenets of our tax code is subject to up to a $500 civil penalty per year per jurisdiction. But in this case, it would just be Portland. It wouldn't be the county. So there is the ability to implement a penalty, and that would be something that we would be looking at. Given the amount, it would depend on taxpayer circumstances. If the taxpayer owed not only the rental registration fee but, say, had other outstanding tax debt, then the full $500 would certainly be implicated in that circumstance. It's likely that we would promulgate an internal policy or procedure to perhaps bring in a lower penalty, a the penalty is up to $500 as our authority. So we could make it a little more reasonable given that this is a $60 fee. Yeah, I think we have to be careful if it's, I mean, I think a penalty that's almost 10 times the fee is going to be suspect. So I would look forward to hearing from you on that. And I'm assuming, Director Callahan, that we'll be doing aggressive outreach and education in years one and two in aid of making sure people know that whatever we land on here, that they have to do it. And we may even have a golden period where if they have a good faith reason for not complying, they don't get dinged. I think so Commissioner. I also think that we are currently, I'm sorry, the Revenue Division is currently receiving filings in the present time from tax filers. And so they, 2019 is the first year of the registration with voluntary compliance, no fee. So I know as we're gathering more information and they're registering and ahead of time, it'll be easier for us to communicate with them about the fee. Thank you very much. Thank you Mayor. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for your work on this. Could you explain a bit more about the exemption for affordable housing under the guidelines of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development to households earning no more than 60 percent? How does somebody qualify for that? So, Commissioner, we would be proposing that this is regulated affordable housing, so agreements that landlords have in place with the city or other jurisdictions that have assured that they are keeping rents at 60% or below. So it would not be a market solution necessarily, but where there are regulated units that are requiring you to keep your rents affordable at 60% AMI or below. Okay. Did you consider having an exemption for any affordable housing and saying what that is? So you mean looking at the market to try to determine what the rents weights were and if their rents were a lesser amount than what the... Yeah. We considered a variety of different options, but we currently have no way to collect data presently on rents or any way to verify what the private market is actually charging. I know Thomas and I have actually recently had a discussion about the possibility of doing that in future years based on changes that will be implemented through the upgraded business license tax platform. But at the present moment, And there is not a way for us to do that in a verifiable way. What's about exempting mobile home parks? Because from what I've been reading, rents there tend to be much less... because they're just renting the ground. So you mentioned it's one-third of 1% for the average home, but it's more like 1% if you're only paying $500 in rent. I would have to defer. I'd take a moment to make sure that the definition of dwelling unit would actually include space rental, and I'd want to double-check, and actually I'd look to Matt Schibold on that, but I would say that many mobile home situations are not just space rental, but you're actually renting, many folks living in those parks are not necessarily owners of their coach, but actually renting both the unit and the space. Matthew, would you prefer? Yeah, they are under the current requirements. They are rental dwelling units under ORS 90, state landlord-tenant law, and would be subject to the registration requirement. And there's The census estimates around 900 manufactured home rentals in the city of Portland. So that probably should be something that should be considered is exempting them because we know that they are some of the most naturally affordable rental housing in Portland. And that just seems like an expensive $2,000 a month condo in the Pearl area. paying the same $5 as somebody who's living in a manufactured home park just doesn't seem reasonable. Did you look at other kinds of fees? Somebody suggested, why don't we have a fee on the new construction of apartments and condominiums that are valued over a certain amount of money? Was that considered? For the rental registration fee itself? Mm-hmm. We do have a separate excise tax that is actually levied on the new construction of apartments. Okay. and dwellings in the City of Portland and all of those funds flow for the development of new affordable housing. So we actually do have a construction excise tax in existence in the City of Portland which captures that new development. So we did not consider a different structure for the rental registration fee that would charge only new units being created versus older existing units. Frankly, I think our rationale and the rationale would be that the services that we're providing and the data that we're trying to seek collecting out of the rental registration system necessary in both circumstances, whether they're existing units or whether they're newer units. So we're getting phone calls from landlords, we're doing a service for landlords, whether they are landlords of a new building or whether they're landlords of an existing stock. Okay. And can our landlords allow to add this new fee onto their existing leases or do they have to wait until the lease renews to pass it along to tenants? Commissioner, any rent increase that they were increasing by would be subject to state and local laws. I could not speak about individual situations that a landlord may be in in a particular lease or whether they've already made an increase in excess either of state or local law. I could not answer that blanketly. Yeah, I'm not so loyal either. I'm wondering at what point this gets... Who pays it this year? And I'm wondering about implementing it right now rather than giving some notice so that landlords can build it into their budgets. Is this intended to go into effect right away? It's intended to go into effect for this tax year and next year's tax filing, so in 2020. So it would be due in April of 2020? Starting on the implementation date of this, so six months worth. Effectively, the effective implementation date of today's action is January 1st, 2019. However, payment is not due until April 15th of 2020. Many filers will extend. So some leases will be caught. There would be no opportunity for revisiting the contract versus others would expire between now and April. I thought we were not allowed to do retroactive taxes. Yes, we can. We can. And given the materiality of the $60, that didn't raise a flag for us in revenue. Thank you. Any further questions? Good presentation. Thank you. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? 13. Okay, why don't we do two minutes and if everybody could try and stay within the two minutes, we'd appreciate it. If you could call up the first three, please. First three, please, coming up are Mark Rogers, Kathy Rogers, and Michael Havlik, I believe it is. Yeah, and by the way, we're not taking a vote on this today, so if people want to provide written testimony, we'll certainly accept that as well. Good afternoon. Thanks for being here. My name is Mark Rogers, and I'm an apartment building owner with my wife, Kathy. We own a building on 19th and Hawthorne, and we provide an affordable housing alternative in that area. On the 26th, Oregon Live came out with an article that... basically outline this proposal. And so I was sitting with my 21-year-old son over the weekend, and we decided to look at all the comments in the section. And so we went through those. You were looking at the comments on Oregon Law? Yes, the comments on Oregon Law. Before you go any further, that's a cry for help. And I want to say we discourage you from doing so just for your own mental health. Okay. Well, do you mind if I finish what I have to say? Well, in the spirit in which I offered it, which is humorous, I appreciate the spirit in which you made your comment. Okay. Go right ahead. Fair enough. The majority of the comments were opposed to the fee structure. And so I guess my comment is that if you're not paying attention to what people are saying, then are you really listening to your constituents? Yes. I also talked to him, a commercial realtor. I also talked to a client of mine, and he shared an email exchange between himself and one of you. And I'm going to read that, and it's going to be anonymous because I don't feel like I need to point anybody out specifically. But he said, so to answer your question, I would likely email all my tenants and let them know that due to policies of city council, their rents would be going up by $25 a month. Most of my current tenants have not seen a rent increase from me in two or three years, and I think you would consider the bulk of them affordable. Council person responded, thank you for your message. I share your concerns. Will you pass this fee along to your renters? I think I would if I rented a home. So I think it's easy. It's a very polarizing subject, and I think it's easy to look at landlords and demonize them as uncaring and interested only in the bottom line. So I'd like to share a story, and it might take more than 27 seconds. But for the last 11 years, I've had somebody living on my building on 19th and Hawthorne for free. We pay his utilities and we provide him with a cell phone, probably $1,000 a month, maybe $12,000 a year. We don't have a formal agreement. We don't even have a handshake. But what we have done is he looks out for my interests and I look out for his. And I think that's the right thing to do. I think it's a Portland thing to do. And I think that's what we've shown that we're willing to do and have done for the last 11 years. So that's really my closing. And I would hope that you would reconsider this and maybe took more input. So, Mayor, can I just make one quick comment? Commissioner Fish. My inept attempt at humor, which you very nicely parried, I was pointing out the fact that not only is the Internet not the first or second or tenth place I go to look for feedback for a lot of reasons, but what I've noticed at Oregon Live is that no one actually uses their real name. You may have a different experience, but I can't tell who is sending the comments. And if I can't tell who's sending the comments, I actually don't know whether they're my constituents. And that's very fair. So that's number one. And number two, I asked previously, and I think you were here for this, staff to tell me what's been the experience in other cities. Do they have a fee and how much? And I was struck by the fact that some cities actually charge more for this registration and have a different way of doing it. Could you tell me, because I'm sincerely interested, in what way do you feel that discussing this fee constitutes demonizing landlords? Because I'm sensitive to that issue in part because, to me, this seems like a straightforward issue. We can disagree about what kind of fee and how it's structured. I like to hear people say that there's a better way of doing it. But could you just tell me how, in the course of this discussion about this particular fee, you believe landlords have been demonized? You know, I think that that's a fair question. I think that the policies of council over the last couple of years have been – very negative towards landlords. And I think that maybe the use of demonization was not the correct word to use in that. Well, if you believe that this commissioner... has demonized landlords as part of this discussion, I not only invite you, I insist that you call that out and let me know. Because that I think is a – we can have agreements or disagreements in this room. We can have – in this current environment in this country, which I'm getting awfully sick of all the divisiveness and the negativity, we ought to be able to have a conversation. And if you feel put upon or somehow the climate's wrong, and if I'm contributing to that, I'm asking you to call me out. Okay. Perfect. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Daly. Thank you, Mayor. Thanks for coming back again. I remember your previous testimony, and I kind of want to join Commissioner Fish in saying it's not certainly my intent to demonize landlords. Some of my best friends are landlords, but seriously, friends, family, and we do have a number of supporters who are landlords, and I really admire and appreciate that. the way that you treat and serve your tenants and this kind of exceptional situation you've described. I'm wondering, you know, it's a question for Bureau staff, if you have a unit that you don't collect rents on, would you be required to pay the fee? I also can't help but wonder if we could help your tenant connect with some services or supports they may qualify for, especially through the county. My question about your testimony is why would your friend feel compelled to raise the rent more than five times the actual cost of the fee? It's a $60 fee and $25 a month would be $300 annually. You know, I can't answer that because obviously I can't speak for him. What I can say is that... anytime any commodity, the price of the commodity goes up, that's typically passed on to the end user. If the price of diesel delivered bread to Fred Meyers goes up, Fred Meyers is going to pass that along for a loaf of bread at their store. And that's just typically the way businesses work. I think sometimes, in my opinion, landlords aren't necessarily looked at as small businesses. We're a small business. We're really not any different than any other mechanic shop or a coffee shop or a restaurant. We're small business people. And I think, in my opinion, the attitude of this council in the last two years has been that we're in some way not a small business, that we're something different than that, and that we're not good people. And we are. I certainly don't want you to leave these chambers thinking that. I was a small business owner for 22 years, and I would say, in fact... I want landlords to recognize the fact that they are business owners. We hear from a lot of especially small landlords who feel like this is a, you know, it's something they do on the side. It's almost more of a hobby or a supplement and they feel that some of the some of the regulations are forcing them to professionalize in a way they're not equipped to do. So I see you as a small business. I just question, you know, I was lucky to be able to double my cost on anything. Granted, I had a bookstore, and books come with a pre-printed price on them. Unfortunately, rental units don't. But I think that... it's hard for me to take a comment, not you, but your friends' comments seriously, because that's just not reasonable. So can I just, just to make a point, we're commercial realtors. We deal in small plex properties, duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes mostly. Two years ago, there were, if you could find a dozen duplexes on the market in close in northeast, southeast or northeast Portland, southeast, close in zip codes, you'd be lucky to find that. There was none on the market. I checked two days ago there were 61 duplexes on the market in North, Northeast, and Southeast Portland. Close-in zip codes. Five or six of those were new product. So, you know, a speculator developer made those. And there were maybe a handful that were outside of 82nd. The rest were all very close to the downtown core. The feedback we get consistently is that The small mom and pops, the people that own a duplex, they own maybe two of them, don't want to deal with a lower barrier of entry, with security deposits, with amortization schedules, with rent control. And the sophistication level for them, they've decided to get out. So that takes inventory off the market, and it also adds cost. They don't. think that we can draw a direct correlation between our regulations or policies and changes in the real estate market without adequate data, but I will say there's a plus side to having more housing on the market. No, I don't disagree with you at all. And that rental services office will actually help landlords navigate these rule changes, so it kind of supports... this item. We should probably move along. I appreciate your time. Thank you for your courtesy. This was a good discussion. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Kathy Rogers. This fee in and of itself may not seem like a huge deal, but I think as Mark alluded to, coming on the heels of everything else that's been thrown at landlords over the last two years, it feels a lot like the straw that's breaking the camel's back. And I think a lot of small landlords feel like all of the costs and fees and complexity are being dumped on the landlord and not shared by the tenant. If this is to support the Rental Services Commission, which I've been in contact with, and as far as I can tell, about 90% of what they do supports tenants. Why are the tenants not paying the fee? How about with every lease renewal, the tenant pays the $60 fee. Why is it 100% paid by landlords is my first question. With the mandatory renter relocation assistance, the elimination of no cause notice evictions, rent control, new tenant screening ordinances, which our attorney can't even figure out and he's a real estate attorney. the security deposit ordinance, the rental registration program, and this has all come on to us in the last two years. The URM placarding ordinance, which was overturned in a federal court, and now this. It's very difficult to navigate, and I will tell you that a lot of small landlords are afraid to rent out their properties. They're afraid of being sued. They're afraid of not following the rules. Most of, a lot of the single family and duplexes that are being sold are now being purchased by owner occupants. Those are rental units that will be taken off of the market. We never used to raise our rents every year. We have to now. Every year on the anniversary, 100% of the time we raise our rents to the 100% maximum that we're allowed to do. Because of the actions taken by the city council. And we never used to do that. So I just want you to think about. everything you're throwing at us may be hurting the people you're trying to protect. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Council Members. My name is Michael Havlick. I'm the Deputy Executive Director for Multifamily Northwest. The members of Multifamily Northwest make up 40% of Oregon's rental housing supply, and as such, we are the leaders in property management and development within the state. Prior to joining Multifamily Northwest, I worked for several property management firms and Home Forward as Director of Asset Management. I have a passion for housing, affordability, and rental services, and I've spent my life dedicated to it. All told, I have 26 years of experience in property management, including conventional multifamily housing, affordable tax credit, public housing, permanent supportive housing, as well as special needs housing. My association members are dismayed with the current rendition of the proposed rental registration fee. It is yet another layer of tax on housing, adding cost to a market already in crisis. Not only is the amount proposed excessive at $60 per unit, but it offends common sense that the implementation of a registration system will cost millions of dollars each year. Commissioner Fish, you asked about fees. For the comparable 200-unit property in Seattle, the fee is $575, or $2.88 a unit, compared to $12,000 for the comparable 200-unit property in the City of Portland. In other words, the City of Portland's rate will be over 20 times the amount of Seattle. We estimate that by year 10 of this fee scheme, the city of Portland will have collected $58 million that will do nothing to create more affordable housing. It's ultimately a tax on renters, impacting those most who have lower incomes and do not have the good fortune of living in regulated affordable housing, which receives the special carve-out. With a housing supply shortage, what rational jurisdiction would meet out punitive disincentives to housing providers? The city of Portland is creating inequity across all rental housing providers by imposing a fee for the sole purpose of funding multiple duplicative programs already implemented or addressed by other better equipped agencies. If you're truly striving to provide solutions to the problem for the lack of affordable housing across the continuum of housing, then you would continue the path outlined by the legislature through House Bill 2001 and 2003, which both work to create diverse, inclusive, and vibrant housing opportunities throughout our city. Additionally, the city should reassess its posture towards housing providers it has demonized over the last several years. These providers are a big piece of the solution, and you should view our members as willing partners in the goal of making housing more affordable and accessible to all Portlanders. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please. Thank you for your testimony. Are Jill Warren, Chris Wynn, and Margo Black. Would you like to go ahead and start, please? Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon. Afternoon. Mayor and commissioners, my name is Jill Warren. And I'm a mom and pop landlord in the city of Portland for the past 30 years. And we have 34 units. So at $60 per unit, we'll be paying $2,040 a year to support the program. I just think that's too high. $60 per unit. And I appreciate the previous conversation about the demonization. I feel that some of the mandates that are being brought down by this body is actually it hurts our industry. Like, for example, that you don't want us to factor in the criminal background for a That's very dangerous. I just screened an applicant, and he had 17 pages of felony convictions, including felon in possession of a firearm, theft, burglary, possession of methamphetamine. And to protect the safety of my tenants, that is my primary goal is their welfare and their safety. So that's why I screen. I mean, it's all about screening. And also the mandate to... pick the first applicant that comes along. I mean that, that's not very intelligent to do that. I mean that's why we screen is so that you know I run a criminal check, I do a background search, I check your credit history and your previous and current landlord referrals. So I just throw that all in a pot and I stir it up and that's how I determine their eligibility. So I appreciate our discussion on this and thank you very much. Thanks for being here. Mayor. Commissioner Udali. I'm interested in hearing people's feedback on this item, but I can't allow this form to be used to spread misinformation about our policy. We are not requiring landlords to not consider prior convictions. That's a choice. And the first come, first served is first come, first to qualify. We're not requiring landlords to literally rent their units to the first person that applies. So those are two options. false statements that you made. And I just want to ask everyone else who comes up here to try to avoid spreading misinformation. Let's debate the real issues. Let's debate the policy that's in front of us. Thank you. Hi, my name is Chris Nguyen. I'm the Director of Operations for Commerce Properties. And let's talk about... Sorry? I'm sorry. Bring Bring the mic a little closer. I couldn't hear you. Hi, my name is Chris Nguyen. I'm the Director of Operations for Commerce Properties. Thank you. And I wanted to talk a little bit more about the potential impact of this fee on the market and quality of rental housing in Portland. So we believe that the proposed rental fee will be harmful to Portland renters by reducing new development in low to moderate rents. pricing of the housing, reducing upward pressure on housing cost and reducing the quality of existing rental housing. This tax combined with additional state and local legislation introduced over the last few years makes it difficult for housing providers to provide affordable housing and it reduces the incentive to develop new units or keep existing units on the market. good example, this is my next door neighbor who has been occupying his house with his wife and two kids for the last four years, is moving out in August because the existing owner, and I don't know the owner's reasoning for putting the house on the market, but it's on the market now. So just wanted to put that out there. The proposed rental fee is essentially a tax on renters. I think we've heard that said a couple times. It inevitably, since rents inevitably adjust to align with the cost of providing housing. An example of, you can look at, for instance, the current tariffs imposed by the White House. How the cost of consumer goods have exponentially increased because of the tariffs. As an example of what adding any extra fees can do to the end user. I'm very glad you just said that because The White House keeps saying that the tariffs are designed to punish the host country. And yet we know that the cost is passed on to the consumer. And we're actually seeing extraordinary inflation in things like in speculative products like steel. The cost that we're bearing as a city in projects where they're using steel are going through the roof because people are betting that they're going to go way up because of the tariffs. And yet the line out of Washington is tariffs are punishing the host country, not the consumer. So I'm pleased that you brought us back to Economics 101. I can tell you that I... I pay $150 more for a, actually let me correct that, I pay $78 more for a water heater, a comparable water heater, now than I did before the introduction of those tariffs. So and then lastly, the proposed rental fee reduces funds available for maintenance. This tax for the company I work for will have a $27,000 annual impact. This fee could hire a part-time maintenance technician, could allow us to replace 23 carpets, allow us to put appliances in 16 new apartment or 16 apartment homes, So this means that many housing providers will have to choose to, or will not have to choose, but they'll have to pay fees with funds that they would have normally used to improve or maintain existing housing. Thanks, Chris. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Margo Black. I'm from Portland Tenants United, a registered lobby organization with the City of Portland. I'm also a member of the Rental Services Commission. I'm here to testify today in support of rental registration fee with some minor reservations and But I'm going to bypass most of my testimony just to respond to a couple of the concerns that I've heard come before council so far. And one, Commissioner Fritz, just so you know, fees are strictly regulated by the state. And the landlords of Portland would not be able to explicitly pass this fee on in their lease as a fee. However, I just got a 90-day notice for a $150 rent increase that will start this November. I'll be paying that $150 every single month. One of the reasons my landlord gave me for that was increased fees by city council. I'm not even sure if she knows about this one yet. She could pay that fee twice every single month. And that's something we have to remember is that rents are still allowed to go up by 10% or more every year. And our median rents are around $1,500 a month, which means they'll be going up by about $150 a month. And frankly, as a tenant, every time we hear about tenant protections or things that are going to help tenants, costing us money and ultimately hurting us, when my rent can already go up by hundreds of dollars a month, I would much rather some of that money be going to the city to provide programs and services for renters than just going in my landlord's pocket. The other thing I wanted to come up and talk about today was the expanded rental registration system and make sure that council understands that this fee is currently covering a very limited bare bones rental registration system, as was already discussed earlier by folks from the Housing Bureau. I want to... remind Council how limited that system is and how not useful it is in solving the problems that this rental registration system is supposed to be able to solve. We need to collect data on rents. We need to collect data on vacancy and turnover, on size of units, on no-cause and for-cause evictions, rent increases, late fees, which tenants are charged often in excess of $60 a month, which again is far more than this fee will be charged to landlords. So please support this fee, or vote for this fee, but please remember what work hasn't been done and who is not being protected and whose needs aren't being met until we have that expanded rental registration system in place, which was promised, which is needed, and which is not being met yet with our current system and with this fee. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. Next three, please. Our Ellen Hines, Nico Serra, and Pam Phan. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm going to have you tell me what you're trying to say to me. I asked you to write a testimony to me. Talk out so that you can follow along. Um, Alan, yeah, I wanted to make sure you all got his written testimony so you can follow along. I work as a human tour to support people with disabilities to find and succeed in having a new drive to assess the critical need for the study when it reaches me. and encourage careful following from these things as soon as possible. I am going to share the story of a participant in my organization as the illustrator of my reasons to register Um, the guys were information about accessible housing. The precision- precision- sections in Grand High take over housing. Usually, um, the grant was for $450. which is about 65% of our pie. And once the cleaner was over, I was presented that I had time, one of the time frames to find the hops Happy 400th birthday kid. And over the course of seven weeks, we shared various happy websites, happy mini websites, the participating youth state board groups and presidents we were searching all over the place to find this prison accessible you know, for those from child and early childhood we, it was say two weeks into the process before we were able to find a unit that worked for them. And that was all only because the president was able to find a unit that had not been listed as available. they got really lucky. So my two cards is that we need to be able to know when the accessible units are in the city. We have a needle and a haystack to find and it says it will happen. So I want to encourage the sub body to really support the extended vendor review so that we can provide this file now for the units that are very new. Thank you. Thank you, we appreciate it. Thank you for being here. All right. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. My name is Nico Serra. I'm a white, passing, mixed race, queer and transgender person with disabilities. I use they pronouns. I volunteer with people with disabilities as a board member at Real Choice Initiative with Alan. I'm here to support, show my support for the rental registry and talk about the critical need for the fully funded, publicly accessible expanded rental registry that includes accessibility and price ranges for each unit which as I understand from your comments Mayor Wheeler is going to be included in the fall bump. Mayor Weillier I can't commit that on behalf of the council but there will certainly be a proposal that I'll put forward. So, when I arrived in Portland back in 2010, I was a rock climber, a hiker, a snowboarder, among other things. But that all changed with one bicycle ride about six weeks after I got here. Although I was doing everything right, I was wearing a helmet, I was following the rules, I was in the right place on the road, I was looking around and aware of my surroundings, a person driving a station wagon wasn't paying attention. And he hit me when I was riding my bicycle and he kept driving and turned a corner. I just barely missed hitting my head on an electrical box when I fell to the ground. The timing of moving to a new state and being hit by a car was made so much worse. As the most supportive member of my family, my father was killed in a high-profile plane crash just a few years earlier, and I had just started my transition from female to male. Like most queer and transgender people of color, I was essentially disowned by my family regardless of the fact I had just been hit by a car. In just a few minutes, my life was forever changed. I never understood the importance of accessible housing until I had to crawl around on my hands and knees and scoot around on my bottom to access five of the eight bedrooms that I've lived in here in Portland. I've had to leave my power wheelchair outside where it once became infested with rats. It was disgusting and unbearable and I couldn't clean it every time I needed to go out so it smelled bad everywhere I went. I spent hundreds of dollars creating makeshift ramps to get wheelchairs inside, only to be told that when I got a prescription for a power wheelchair, Medicare Medicaid law says that you have to have an ADA accessible unit in order to get your power chair. So I had to wait years to get that. And I appreciate you giving me some extra time here. Thank you. I can't tell you how frustrating it is to pay $800 a month to live in a unit I can't actually use. These stories of making do are very abundant in the disability community. And we live through these humiliating experiences because there's no way for us to find housing that we can afford. The rental registry is a tool that will help the most vulnerable people at just $5 a month. 60 divided by 12 is $5 a month. In addition to tracking these units, the registry would tell us where the housing stock is and provide us essential data to tell us what policy decisions need to be made in the future to create more accessible housing. Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, I assure you my story is not unique. Any one of you or your family members could be in my shoes tomorrow. In fact, when we talked to your staffers and lobbyists and the landlords, they all, every single group that we talked with had a story about a family member that needed accessible housing. So I'm here to ask, if we all know that we need this accessible housing, can we at least start tracking where it is? We all need it. So I encourage everyone in the room to think about people and their family or their friends that need this accessible affordable housing. We deserve to live lives of dignity just like you when you will get to the point where your bodies will change and you will need it too. Disability disproportionately affects people of color and other vulnerable populations. We need this registry, in fact the expanded version with accessibility and pricing. will be very helpful for us. And I'm excited to hear that you will be bringing this forward in the fall bump. Thank you so much. Thank you. Appreciate it. Carla, how many more folks do we have signed up? Thank you. Four more at least. Okay. Very good. Before I call the next three, was there a Pam on Northeast 63rd? Pam. And then we'll go with Jessica Greenlee, Sarah Ayanaron, and Mary Seidt. Jessica, do you want to go ahead and start, please? Okay. Thank you. Hi, my name is Jessica Greenlee and I'm with Affinity Property Management. And I just wanted to point out a couple of things regarding the rental registration fee that I have some concerns around after hearing a lot about this in the Rental Services Commission. One being that a third of the cost for the rental registration fee is being dedicated just to administrative and software costs. Right now, there is not a line item in here for inspections, which is where the majority of rental registration fees typically go in other cities. And I'm sure that that is a program that eventually will be rolled out. So we're starting at a, we're definitely starting at the high end at a $60 mark for a per unit fee. The other major concern that I have is that this is rolling out at the same time as properties are incurring a lot of other additional expenses associated with legislative changes. This fee represents about 10 to 15% of the overall increase in costs that properties will bear due to some of the changes regarding the screening criteria and the security deposit ordinance. And rolling this out at the same time is definitely adding to that level of burden and making it that much more challenging for performance to work out for a new supply. Also, the fact that it's essentially charging for the past year, so it's going into effect as a retroactive fee. So those are just some things that I hope that you consider as you look at this proposal. Obviously, there are some great services and programs that the rental services offices are operating and that they'll be expanded need in the future. And so fully focusing on funding the rental services office just through a registration fee, I think, is important. quite likely not feasible when you look at the expansion of what those program needs will be in the future. Thank you for coming in. Sarah you want to go ahead? Yes. My name is Sarah. I am in a room. Nice to see you all. I'm here to testify in support of the proposed $60 per unit fee but with caveats. To ensure an adequate housing stock, municipalities need to be able to design and implement policy driven by best practices based on complete data. I appreciate what we've done so far to have landlords register with the city and file business taxes, but we need to think beyond that. I appreciate the effort to create a permanent funding stream via the proposed flat registration fee maintaining rental services office, but there's an opportunity here for us to move the rental registration program out of the half-capped promises column and start collecting all of the necessary data we need to ensure an adequate supply of the right mix of affordable rental housing in our city. I'm hoping that city council will approve this fee. when it comes up for a vote, recognizing it is not nearly sufficient. We need to circle back on this in the fall bump, thanks for your commitment to that Mayor Wheeler, and aggressively expand the rental registration program, making investments in the software, program administration to fund the additional data collection that we need. State level policy hinges on us setting up a system that provides the right information that we need but we're not collecting. If Portland is going to be serious about realizing the right mix of rental housing supply, we need to move beyond the base funding. and gather expanded data for our decision making. So please support what we're doing today, but don't stop there. You need to commit to implementing via the fall bump, the robust data collection mechanism and a public facing dashboard that delivers to our community, the vital information we need for a thorough understanding of the rental landscape in our community. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Mary Seip. I support this fee. I'm very much in support of the Rental Services Office, and I've heard a lot of really good testimony today and a lot of really good feedback. And in the past, it's been my observation on most of these ordinances that you've been working on, especially relating to rental services, tenants and landlords that you've taken feedback and you've gone back to the drawing board and you've amended and you've made changes and you've modified and I can see where I think some the testimony today gives you the opportunity to maybe go back and work on this a little bit more and address some of the issues and concerns I was sitting here kind of thinking you know how do you come up with the $60 fee and to me you need to identify really how much funding do you need, is the first year going to be the most money because of the technology that you need to buy and then you back into how much the fee needs to be, once you know how much money you need to have. So I just want to encourage you to, once again, I definitely want to see this move forward. You know, we're talking about $60. I was confused because on one hand people are talking about passing this on to the tenant, and then on the other hand I hear that it can't be passed on to the tenant. So I think you need some clarity there. And, again, I just want to support it and ask you to do your due diligence once again. Thank you. Commissioner Udali. Mary, the distinction is the landlords can't add a $60 fee to the lease, but they can certainly roll it into a rent increase. That's what I thought. Within the constraints of the local and state. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Was there one more person, Carla? Yes. Last person was Katrina Holland. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Greetings Councilmembers, I'm Mia Wheeler. Thank you for the opportunity to- Oh, for the record, my name is Katrina Holland, Executive Director of Community Alliance of Tenants. Again, thank you for the opportunity to sit before you today to talk about rental registration. I'm pretty sure you will not be surprised to know that CAAT is very supportive of this effort, both when it comes to the fact that we will finally have a reliable source of information available to collect and understand housing data within the City of Portland and when it comes to the fee. However, as I did voice in the Rental Services Commission meeting, we think that it is absolutely imperative that we understand that this fee in comparison to what the city needs is actually really low. Considering the degree of programming members of the RSC are advising on and asking for to support the rental market, again this fee is very low. When it comes to the variety of services that both landlords and tenants are asking from the city, we don't believe that $60 per door would cover the cost. Considering the degree of revenue options available to us from the state and from local government, I'm just not sure where the extra money is realistically going to come from to support these critical asks for services requested again by both landlords and tenants. Assessing this fee also makes sense because we will start to lessen the burden of taxpayers, footing most of the, if not all, the bills that the City currently incurs in supporting landlords and tenants to understand their rights. It is a common argument that we hear from managers that the externalities caused by the rental market should be mitigated by government intervention, even if the direct benefit to market actors materializes in a way that is individual or for a select few. The cost to provide requester programming is very expensive and to expect taxpayers to continue footing most of the bill has been necessary because we had no choice. But now that this option exists, I think that it makes sense. We also think it's unfair to make services for half the population in Portland who are renters and an unknown amount of landlords rely on volatile, non-guaranteed, politically fraught, one-time funding mechanisms when we know that these critical services are needed on an ongoing basis. Existing landlords and tenants need information on their rights for housing education and enforcement is critical on both ends and serving our most vulnerable populations who have little to no access to legal support only makes sense. So we support this fee. We hope that, thank you for your commitment to evaluate whether it is enough. We do hope that this fee goes up given the actual cost that it's going to cost to maintain services requested by both landlords and tenants. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. That completes testimony. This is a first reading, so we're going to move it. Is there anything else before we do so? Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, everyone who testified today. Next item please, 728. Amend vehicles and traffic and public improvements codes to add necessary clarification and update language to align with current city practices. Commissioner Udailey. All right. Thank you, Mayor. Yep. PBOT staff occasionally identify the need to clarify and update city code. PBOT staff are bringing updates to multiple sections of Title 16 and 17 to Council for consideration and adoption. These changes are primarily administrative in nature to address changing Bureau practices, updates to out-of-date terminology, or to clarify previously ambiguous code. PBOT staff member Matt Burkow is here to answer any questions that the council may have. Welcome, and please state your name for the record. I'm Matt Burkow. I'm with the Development Permitting and Transit Group at PBOT. So, yeah, we're bringing, we assembled a number of updates to city code. These are a combination of cleanup, clarification, and a few that are more substantive. So I could step through the impact statement, if that would be helpful, to just walk through each one. Okay, great. So the first one to 16.20 public right-of-way parking. First element of this is we have a lot of areas of our code that reference meter hoods. We no longer use parking meters, so this is an example of cleanup. Just changing the language, we don't use meter hoods to reserve parking spaces anymore. The other thing that was in this code is the authority to issue parking reservation permits. We revised this to be with the director of the Bureau of Transportation. This just matches our code. the authority at the Bureau. It used to be the City Engineer and the City Traffic Engineer. We've updated Title 17 with this in the past, so this is just making Title 16 consistent with that. And the other element in here is we remove reference to the Special Traffic Control District. What this is, this is the downtown area. We used to have development activity mostly concentrated downtown, so we would regulate the closing of parking spaces with Vision Zero, with the city's commitment to ensuring that we accommodate people walking and bicycling through construction zones. We now manage parking throughout the city. So this change reflects the expanded authority of temporary street use permitting citywide. That's the first one. Okay. And this second element of 16.90 was, again, just referencing meter hoods. 16.50 vehicles allowed on the transit mall. You may recall that a few months back we came to you with an emergency ordinance to allow for the closure of the auxiliary vehicular lanes on the transit mall. So currently it is not permitted to close those lanes between 6 a.m. to 7 p.m., kind of maintaining vehicle access on the transit mall. But periodically there is a need for construction otherwise to stop. to close it. So this is just granting the authority for short term three days or less closures provided the with TriMet's approval. We're working on a subsequent admin rule that will kind of clarify that the applicant needs to demonstrate why they can't perform this work either on private property or you know on the weekends or nights. The next one was a very simple cleanup where we changed the name of a position. And so we're just making the code consistent. It removed one word from the title of a position. So I'm flipping to the next page. 1715, this is our transportation system development charges. There was a confusion where TSDC discounts would be applicable, particularly in some overlay districts. So this is clarifying that It kind of read that a discount would not be applicable in these overlay districts and that is just referring to the citywide SDCs. The discount is applicable, so just clarifying that the discount is not applicable to the particular SDCs, the North McAdaman Innovation Quadrant SDCs. So it's just a clarification of that code. Another clarification for sidewalk cafes, the sidewalk cafe language says that cafe furniture must be placed on hard surfaces. We added that, but not in the driveway approaches. So if there's a driveway, people are sometimes extending their cafe into that. So we're just making that clear for people. 17-88-080. So we had the Gateway Master Street Plan. This existed as code. And the typical practice is when we then update our TSP, Transportation System Plan, we update. amended TSP to reflect the master street plan which renders this piece of code no longer necessary. So we're removing that. 17-88090, this is about the local transportation infrastructure charge LTIC. So we removed the previously added provision G. The change was initially recommended by the Office of the Ombudsman. However, staff have found that this program could have unintended negative consequences on property owners. And this is a provision that has never been used. And the next one. was another 17107020. This is a another cleanup. It referenced a policy of the TSP. TSP was updated recently. That number changed, so we had to change the number here. So a simple cleanup. Finally, 17109, Relocation Benefit Appeals. The This creates a process where in the rare instances that the city has to relocate somebody off their property, that they have a process where they can appeal the benefits that are proposed for them. Great. Thank you. Thank you. It's pretty straightforward. Appreciate it. Yeah, great. Any further questions? Any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one signed up. So I know this is actually kind of tedious work going through and cleaning up old code, but thank you for doing it. It's obviously important that it be done well, and we had a code change in front of the council a week or two ago, and we noticed that there was still some cleanup to be done on it, so I appreciate the thoroughness with which you put into this. Thank you. This is a first reading of an on-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thanks for your hard work. Thanks very much. Next item, 729. Vacate Southeast 64th Avenue south of Southeast Sherman Street, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Do you have any opening? Commissioner Ely. Thank you, Mayor. Portland Parks and Recreation will be renovating and reconstructing the Mount Tabor Maintenance Yard. And as part of the improvements, PPNR plans to construct a multimodal path on city property to connect Mount Tabor Park to Southeast Division Street. This connection has been a city goal for decades. And in 2010, the path was also included on the Portland bicycle plan for 2030. So... It looks like we're going to beat that deadline. Very exciting. Carl Aruta, right-of-way agent with PBOT, is here to present. And someone else is here as well, whose name I do not have. And maybe you're not even Carl. No, I am. Oh, good. Oh, good. Well, welcome, Carl. And please state your name for the record. Thanks. Yes, I'm Carl Aruta, right-of-way agent with PBOT. Thank you. Hi, my name is Robin Laughlin. I'm the Bond Program Manager with Portland Parks and Recreation. I'm managing the park improvement project here. Cool. Thank you. And so thank you Commissioner Udaly and Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. As you mentioned, this is a street vacation proposal connected with the Mount Tabor Park and maintenance yard renovations. This vacation proposal was initiated by the Parks Bureau as part of their renovation project and So the audience before you would eliminate a small piece of Southeast 64th Avenue, just south of Southeast Sherman Street, where 64th dead ends at the maintenance yard. So this piece is no longer needed for street purposes, and PBOT has no intentions and has not had any intentions of pushing a full street through to Division Street. And so as part of the project, PBOT was agreeable to vacating this. And so by vacating it, the east half of this vacation area would go to the Parks Bureau and where they would be able to use that for their multimodal bicycle and pedestrian path to connect Mount Tabor to Division Street. And as Commissioner Udalli mentioned, this has been a city goal for a number of years. PPNR completed a conditional use review as part of the maintenance plan to include this piece of the vacation area in Mt. Tabor Park and to get authorization to put the multi-mobile path through this area. As part of the usual vacation process, we contacted city bureaus and other agencies for comments. We also notified neighbors in the designated affected area prior to the planning sustainability commission hearing and also again prior to this hearing. As part of the comments, PBOT staff requested that we reserve what we call a springing trail easement over the pathway. So that if the maintenance yard area was ever sold off or transferred to a different entity, the pathway would be maintained as a public trail. Bureau of Environmental Services said, is also requested sewer easements for a sewer pipe that goes down pretty much the center of that part of Sherman Street. So again, the BES will have the easements to protect the pipe and it will be about seven and a half feet wide on each side of the pipe. The west half of this vacation area will revert to the two adjacent property owners on the west side and they've both been notified of the project and they're aware of the proposal. We have a few images here. The first image here shows the overall plan that Robin's been working on. The orange area here shows the piece of the path going from Division Street up to the vacation area in here and then continuing on a narrower path up towards the park. These are some renderings provided nicely by Robin showing the view after construction is finished. The first image should be the view if you were standing in Division Street looking towards the park. You would see the pathway going up northwards. The second image is if once you're on the path and looking into what is now Southeast 64th Avenue, the vacation area, you'd see a wide path leading up towards the remaining piece of 64th Avenue. Part three, after you leave the vacation area, the pathway will continue as a narrower sidewalk type area. And 64th Avenue is over there on the left. And then the fourth image is just a different view of that corner of 64th and Sherman Street where the vacation area leads onto the street into the narrower pathway. This is an aerial photo showing the area in yellow being vacated with the maintenance yard off to the right and Division Street down below. And the pathway will go again from through the yard through the vacation area and then up along the area on 64th. This is some photos of the current configuration of Sherman Street and 64th on the left, the maintenance yard in the distance there. The next photo is more of a close-up area of the part of the maintenance yard. And if you're standing in the vacation area, Part of it, this is where you would see Sherman Street off to the left there. And the other photo from the maintenance yard part of the vacation area. Again, you're looking towards Sherman and 64th area. And so this photo was taken from where the pathway will eventually be constructed. Okay. And again, this is looking towards the other direction. This grassy area on both of these photos is basically part of what is now legally 64th Avenue and would be vacated. And this defense area is, I think, pretty much down the center of what is 64th Avenue of the vacation area. And so the maintenance part over there will be reverting to parks in the grassy area is what basically would be reverting to the owners on the west side. And then the spring trail easement I mentioned, this is the approximate location of that where the pathway will be constructed by the Parks Bureau from Division towards the park. Then the more slender sewer easement area for the pipe down the center of the street. And Robin, if you have anything else you wanted to add, or if there are any questions. I just wanted to express my gratitude to this body for the continued support of the 2014 Park Street Placement Bond. This project that we're working on is a Mount Tabor Yard facility improvement. It was under the theme of Protect Our Workers. It's a very important piece of the bond work that we're doing here through our land use process. This was a requirement that we dedicate this full-time to multi-modal use for our community, and we're really looking forward to it. to providing that, hopefully next summer. And I have been really appreciating Carl's support throughout this about a year and a half long process. So thank you. If you have any questions, I'm happy to answer any questions you may have about the project. Commissioner Furtz. Thank you for being here, both of you. Rob and I just, this morning we had four different audits that the auditor presented, and I was reflecting on the Parks Bond, and I'm just really proud of how it's gone. This is a great example of how we're doing what we said we were going to do in taking care of the workers. In every single project I think we've done, we've done something that makes it better. It's not just fixing, which we said we were going to fix our parks, but we're adding value and making it even better. So the multimodal path is a great example. example of that where people might have said, you know, this is just benefiting the workers, what's in it for the public. Of course, it's good for the public for workers to have safe places to work, but it's also, through the partnership with PBART, going to be a really great amenity for the neighborhood. So thank you both for all of your work on this. Just one comment here. Mr. Fish. You know, um, For 10 years, almost like a broken record, I'm used to people saying that there's something fundamentally flawed in our form of government, that everyone lives in some kind of silo, which I'm still looking to see where that address is, and that no one ever works together. Then we had a presentation like this, and I was struck by the fact as you were sort of making the presentation, talking about all the bureaus that had an interest and how you were coordinating and how this was working out. And it's like, yeah, it's not necessarily the form of government. The way this form of government works is by having people actually talk to each other. And there's nothing inherent in our form of government which prevents bureaus from collaborating at a very high level. And I just appreciate a presentation like this to remind us that our system does work when there are respectful relationships across bureaus at the staff level in particular. And we can resolve what is a mind-numbing, I mean, about halfway through your presentation, I felt like, I mean, I was starting to get a headache. It was the level of detail. But these are very complicated things, yet nothing prevented us from getting it right. So thank you very much. Thank you. Very good. Carla, was there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Too bad. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thanks for your great work on this. Thank you. Next up, 730. Vacate a portion of Southwest 9th Avenue between Southwest Gibbs Street and Southwest U.S. Veterans Hospital Road, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Very good. And colleagues, just by way of presentations, I want to remind you we have one... Actually, that's a second reading, second reading, second reading, second reading. One, two, three, four non-second readings remaining after this, just by way of time check. Commissioner Daly. Thank you, Mayor. The petitioner for this street vacation is the owner of the abutting property to the east and west of the street area. All the vacation area will revert to the parcels that they own to the west. P-Bot. Should be able to say that right. PIVA, right away. It's been a long day, that's all right. It has. I'm lagging. Lance Lindahl is here to present, as well as the petitioner's architect and project manager. In the interest of time, I just encourage you to keep it real tight. So welcome, and please state your names for the record as you share your testimony. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Go ahead and start off. Again, my name is Lance Lundahl, PBOT Right-of-Way Acquisition. Before you today is a proposal to vacate at Porsche House Southwest 9th Avenue between Southwest Gibbs Street and Southwest US Veterans Hospital Road. In this slide, you can see the vacation area shown in yellow. This area is located to the immediate west of the OHSU Markham Hill Campus. Vacation area is currently impassable due to the presence of dense vegetation and steep elevation changes. No PBOC facilities or improvements are currently located there. This graphic's been provided by the applicant to me. It shows that an improved street at this location would have a grade change of approximately 32%. And that's well in excess of the 18% maximum street grade allowed in our code for fire bureau access. Two city bureaus have responded with conditions of approval. BES has required that the petitioner grant a 15 foot wide easement over an existing sewer main. And that can be seen here, it's on the far right side, it's the purple line. And also the Water Bureau has imposed fees to cover the expense for them to cut and plug the existing water main. It's the blue line in the center there. and also for relocating a fire hydrant which is a blue dot. That's a little tough to see. That's in the lower right hand corner there. The petitioner has agreed to all these terms and they have already paid the fees to the Water Bureau for this work to be completed. Approval of this vacation will allow the petitioner to move forward with plans to develop a small hotel at this site and Barry Smith, the project architect is here as well as Matt Wand who's the council for Ushida Group. and they can provide you with additional information or questions. Feel free to ask. Thank you. My name is Ed Trompke with Jordan Ramos. I'm outside counsel to Yoshida Group. The architects are in the back if you'd like. We're here only to answer questions. Matt Wand is beside me, in-house counsel. We ask that you approve this. It will provide for a 99-room medium to long-term stay hotel for use by people who are making use of the OHSU facilities because they have facilities. who are family members or friends, or they may have business that takes them a week, two weeks, a couple months at the OHSU, and it'll keep people off of Sam Jackson Parkway and alleviate some traffic. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. That sounds fantastic. As someone who has spent far more time than I ever wanted to at Doernbacher Children's Hospital, I know it will be a real benefit to families to have lodging adjacent to the facilities. I have a question for the attorney. Is there a specific contractual covenant that the owner is entering into with OHSU to provide this service? I'm going to lean to in-house counsel to clarify that. Matt Wan, general counsel to Yoshida's Inc. Not at this time. We've outreached to them. They're cooperative and supportive, but we haven't entered into any contracts yet. I'm not sure there necessarily needs to be because the use is for that area. Right. People won't be staying there as a bed and breakfast to be in downtown. It's not very convenient. Right. They may or may not enter into some long-term commitments for that particular use, but it's there. It's right across the street from Doernbecher's, so it really is for use of people up there on the hill. In terms of vacating a piece of property, though, do we have to be able to demonstrate some kind of nexus to a public benefit? No. Right now, state statute just says that we have to demonstrate that there's not a current transportation use for the property. Right. And probably the only use would be for a four-wheel off-road vehicle. It is very, very steep. Correct. Thank you. Yeah, I'm usually very skeptical of street vacations because it's giving up our public right, but this one is about the most open and shut one I've seen. Regardless of what it's used for, even if it's used for nothing, it clearly is not going to be used for transportation. Is it zoned correctly? Do we know what the zoning is? Yes, it is. And approval has been given almost a year ago for the hotel. This is just one of the last conditions to be satisfied in order to get the hotel going. The hotel was, there was discussion by the Neighborhood Association. No appeal was filed. And so it's been sitting on the shelf waiting for this and a couple of other small issues to be resolved. Okay. And Lance, I assume that you notified the Neighborhood Association. Did you hear back from them? We did not hear back. I have heard back from a couple of the neighbors in the area who own adjacent properties. They were all very supportive of the project. Thank you. Just one more question. You say that the owner is the Yoshida Group? Yes. Is that Mr. Junkie Yoshida? It is. You're nodding, so just for the record. Yes, it is. And I was, I mean, I have an association between Mr. Yoshida and some food products and some other things he's done. Does he have other properties like this in the region? I don't know what you mean by other properties like this. He owns several commercial properties and multifamily residential and his residence. So he does own other properties, yes. Yes.
 Okay. Thank you. Great. This looks good. This looks like a very promising project, and I'm glad that the city can be a help in a small way. The city has been very helpful in the whole project, so we thank you for that. Glad to hear that. Yes. Very definitely glad to hear it. It's good to see you, Matt. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one signed up. Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Next up, S731. S731. amend public improvements code to permit the attachment of wireless facilities on poles. Colleagues, this is a second reading. There's already been a presentation in public testimony on this item. Is there any further discussion? Hearing none, please call the roll. E. Daly? Aye.
 Fritz?
 Aye.
 Fish?
 Aye.
 Wheeler?
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 732, also a second reading. amend contract with TriMet for $6,571,781 to provide for enhanced upkeep and security of the Portland Transit Mall and the original light rail transit loop segment of First Avenue, Morrison, and Yamhill Streets. Any further discussion on this item, please call the roll. Udailey? Udailey? Well, I have an exciting update to share before I give my vote. As you know, the city is working with the Central Eastside Industrial Council on an innovative security model for their enhanced service district known as their Safety for All program. It requires a security contractor to engage in a very different way with people experiencing houselessness. and mandates trauma-informed trainings, a situational protocol to minimize unnecessary police contacts, and inclusion of people experiencing houselessness as security personnel. I'm excited to share that for the Portland Transit Mall, all three parties, the City, TriMet, and PMMI are committing to opening a competitive bid for security services in fiscal year 2021 that will integrate the lessons learned from the CEIC safety for all program into the new contract to promote a more compassionate security model that benefits all users of the transit mall. I want to thank Catherine Levine, PBOT's street car division manager for making this request happen and to the compassionate change District Coalition for envisioning and pushing for a better way to enhance a community that benefits everyone. I vote aye. Fritz?
 Aye.
 Fish?
 Aye.
 Wheeler?
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item 733, also a second reading. authorize the Water Bureau to acquire certain property and easements necessary for construction of the Corrosion Control Improvements Project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority as a last resort. Commissioner Fritz, it's my understanding that this is going to be rescheduled. Is that correct? Okay. And a time has not yet been determined at this point. We're working with the attorney and the property owner. Okay. Very good. So we will move on then to 734. Is that sufficient, legal counsel? 734 next, please. Authorize exchange agreement with the USDA for service to execute a land exchange in the Bull Run watershed. Colleagues, this is also a second reading. There's been a presentation and testimony. This took place while I was out of town. I've reviewed the record. Is there any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Well I am really excited and I'm glad to see Water Bureau staff here because I know that there's going to be a lot of celebrating tonight. Thank you colleagues. This is the last vote of a 10-year process and this land swap has required consultation with the Warm Springs Tribe and with the Grand Ronde. Thank you to Laura John, our Tribal Liaison, for her work in coordinating discussions with Warm Springs and Grand Ronde and for her continued work across the city supporting our goals of equity. Rydyn ni'n ymddiriedol i ddysgu i weithio gyda phobl cyntaf yn pob prosiect y ddynion, yn enwedig yn y Gwlad Bwll a'r Gwlad, i sicrhau bod ein gweithgareddau hefyd yn buddsoddi i phobl cyntaf ac nid dim ond y dynion. Diolch hefyd i Edward Campbell, Yr Yrwyddoedd Gwerthfawrog a'r Plynyddoedd, a chyfarwyd â ni drwy'r cyfathrebu o'r gwaith hwn ychydig wythnosau yn ôl. Mae'n ffaith ddiddorol ei fod yn Gweinidog Cyngor ym Mhrifysgol, ac mae wedi bod yn rhan o'r broses hon oherwydd ei gyflwyniad. Felly eto, diolch yn fawr i Edward am ei waith yn cyd-dreidio gyda'r Bwrdd Gwyddo, Ddeddf Gwyddoedd Cymru, Gwasanaethau Gwyddoedd a chyfrifon eraill. Diolch Richard Perlman, y Prifysgol Cymru o Llanfod, a oedd yn gweithio gyda ni'n ddilyddiol hefyd. Sarah Petrosini, sydd wedi cymorthi'r prosiect ers 2012. Dick Robbins, sydd wedi ymdrin, a chymerodd y broses cyfnodion llaw yn 2010. A Janet Senior, a wnaeth cymryd i'w gyfrif i Dick yn 2013. A diolch yn olaf i'r Comisiynydd Ffisch, a oedd yn y Comisiynydd sy'n arwain ar gyfer Mae gennym atleisyddion o'r rhain, ac roedd yn ddysgu'n dda i ddod trwy'r broses. I. Bysh. Diolch yn fawr. I. Wheeler. I. Diolch yn fawr. I. Mae'r cyfnod wedi'i ddod. Yn nes i, 7.35. Cyn i ni ddarllen hyn, rwyf am ddweud bod y cwmni nesaf yw BES. Rydym yn ceisio trefnu'n gwaith ychydig. Rydyn ni'n meddwl y gallwn ni ei wneud dros 5.30, felly rwyf am roi'r cychwyn i chi. I. Nid yn ddiddorol. Rydw i'n allan ar 5. Byddwn ni wedi cael ei wneud ar 10. Mae'n dda i chi ysgogi. ymgysylltu â chyfraithau gwleidyddol a chyfrannu ymgyrchu o'ch neiborol i'r rhifau am 4 mlynedd yn dechrau y flwyddyn ffisgol 2019-20, mewn cymaint o hyd i $100,000 ar gyfer y flwyddyn, gyda'r cost cyfres cyffredinol i beidio â chyflawni $400,000. Fyfforddwr Fish. Jennifer Carks, a allech chi ddod ymlaen? Ac fe wna i ddarllen y cyflwyniad a yna byddwn yn cymryd cwestiynau. Cyngor, cydweithwyr, mae'r rhaglen Rhif i'r Gwlad yn cysylltu gwasanaethau gwirioneddol â gwasanaethau pip sy'n cael ei ddysgu. Mae'n dod â gwaglenau a strydau gwirioneddol i'r rhaglen. Mae'n cefnogi rhaglenau addysg a phrosiectau cymunedol y byddant yn eu cynnwys i'r gynhyrchiad gwirioneddol y ddyddol y ddyddol, ac mae'n cael eu cymryd i'r cyfan dros ein ddyddol mewn rhaglenau fel Cymru, Gwledd, Cymru a Gwledd. Mae'r adnodd hon yn cael cais argyfwng oherwydd mae BES yn ffodus i gael 4 granteeu o amlwg yn y rhain sy'n ymrwymiol i ddechrau. Maen nhw yn Gynllunio Cynulliadau Iwerddon Janus, Gynllunio Gynllunio Gynllunio Cynllunio Verde Cully Rhaen, Cynllunio Gynllunio Cynllunio Cynllunio Columbia Slough, Cynllunio Cynllunio Cynllunio Cynllunio North East Ainsworth Habitat, Cynllunio Cynllunio Cynllunio Cynllunio Cynllunio Cynllunio Cynllunio Cynllunio Cynllunio Cynllunio Jennifer Karp who does a wonderful job as the BES program coordinator and lead on this project is here to answer any questions you may have. I just had one. I mean, first of all, this sounds fantastic. I was looking at the community impacts and community involvement statement here in the proposal. And there are a number of great benefits that Commissioner Fish has mentioned. And one of those benefits is access to environmental education, particularly for Portlanders who have historically maybe not had the opportunities that many have had to go to outdoor school or other types of programs. Can you give us some sense of balance? How much of the program is focused on education versus how much is focused on some of these other community partnerships? Absolutely, great question. Thank you Mayor Wheeler. I would say to an extent it depends on the projects that come in because they all come from the community. But we're really eager that there be education involved in all of the projects. And you've outreached all these organizations that the commissioner mentioned, and so they'll consider proposals and then bring them back, I would assume? Yes, absolutely. These four prospective grantees actually came in through our QISP, or Community Watershed Stewardship Program, intake program. process. That's a mouthful. And so this grant program will be similar to that. However, we will offer rolling grants which will give us more flexibility to work with partners as they arise and as they come in and as our outreach team find them and find their good projects. Great. Thank you. Any further questions? Is there public testimony on this item, Carla? No one signed up. Great. Call the roll. Eudaly? Aye. Thank you. Fritz. Thank you for your presentation. Aye. Fish. Jennifer, thank you for your good work. This is a fantastic program. It's a relatively small amount of money with a big impact. Aye. Wiener. I think this is great. I hope we'll also hear information back in terms of what kind of proposals you receive, what kind of proposals receive funding, and what the community impact is. Absolutely. But it's a great program. Thanks for doing it. Thank you. Thanks, Commissioner Fish. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. authorized intergovernmental agreement with the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality for regulatory oversight related to contamination management of various capital improvement and operating projects in an amount not to exceed 1.5 million dollars over 10 years. So are Taryn Meyer and John O'Donovan here? So if you could come forward this is a BES environmental specialist and BES senior engineer. I think I can tee this up and we can go right to questions and we have the experts here, my colleagues have questions. This ordinance would continue an agreement that BES has had with the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality for the last 20 years. And it would extend that agreement for another ten years. The agreement continues environmental oversight services for city work performed on contaminated site. It streamlines the process to help minimize costs and to maximize efficiencies, so site issues can be resolved more quickly. Currently, there are 18 active projects or sites that DEQ is, what's the word, overseeing, partnering with us on. These include properties slated for affordable housing, brownfield redevelopment projects, and long-term environmental monitoring for city facilities. We have two professionals here to answer any of your questions, but I think that captures what we're doing. And as I mentioned, this is a renewal of an existing agreement in a heavily regulated area. Okay, thanks for that clarification. That's helpful. Any further questions? Any public testimony, Carla? No one signed up. Call the roll. Eudaly Fritz. I'm very glad we have technical experts who take care of things like this. Thank you for your work. I. Fish. Yes, thank you both for being here. I. Wheeler. I always feel badly that These go quickly because they are technical, and I know that you spend a lot of time, and you're really thorough in going through this, and I want to acknowledge that. The amount of time we spend on it here is not a reflection of our estimation of the work you've put into this. We know you've put a ton of work into it, and we're very appreciative. I vote aye. Voters adopted. Next item, 737. amend contract with Moore Excavation Inc. for additional compensation to complete existing contract work due to increased bid item quantities and changed conditions for the Slabtown sewer replacement project number E10663 not to exceed $4,157,000. So I want to invite Liz Morehead to come forward. She's the Environmental Services Construction Division Manager And once again, I'll tee this up. This has actually a very good story behind it. I think I can say that. So Liz is going to take a couple minutes to amplify what I'll share with you at the outset. A BES is continuing construction on the Slabtown Sewer Replacement Project. The project area is between Northwest Thurman and Overton from roughly 12th to 21st Street. The project is repairing a number of deteriorating and undersized sewer mains, some of which are more than 115 years old. During construction, changed conditions and changes in payment restoration requirements resulted in significant increases in the amount of construction required. amends the current contract by $4.2 million, which is a significant amount, to a total not to exceed $12.6 million in order to complete the project and protect public health properties in the area and the environment. And as Liz will explain, sometimes a change in the scope is not clear to us until we actually get into the project. And because of some of the unique characteristics of this area, we have to come and ask for a modification of the contract. Please take it away. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Liz Moorhead, the Construction Division Manager for the Bureau of Environmental Services and I've asked Nick Naval, the Construction Manager on this project to join me here today in case you have any detailed questions about the project. A little history about the Slabtown area. In the 1870s, a lumber mill was open on Northwest Northrop Street. The mill's discarded edges were a cheap source of heating and cooking fuel. The slabs were delivered and placed by the curb as you can see in the picture on the left. This is how the area got the name Slabtown. As Nick mentioned, this project is replacing over 1.5 miles of the deteriorating sewer pipes, some over 115 years old. The project limits as you can see in the picture on the right are Northwest 12th to 21st, Overton to Thurmond. We're here today to ask Council to increase the construction contract $4,157,000. The new construction contract will be $12,580,219. The increase is primarily due to change conditions including a utility conflict, soil conditions and pavement, and additional curb ramps. The original pipe location on Northwest 12th between Overton and Quimby is shown in dark black and green in this picture. It's the bold black it looks like. When we went to construct it, we discovered a utility duct bank was already constructed in this location. We did not know about this duct bank during the design of the project. BES had to move the pipe to a new location that's shown in red to the west of the design location. Challenges with the new location include structural tiebacks installed in the right-of-way by an adjacent building that was recently constructed. The new pipe must be placed so it does not interfere with these tiebacks. In addition, resident access must be considered at the Envy, Block 17, and Vista apartment buildings, as they all have their parking garage entrances on the street. And the Parker Apartments has its main entrance on the street. This slide shows an example of the challenging soils and paving conditions we are facing, and this is resulting in increased costs to backfill and paving on the project. In addition, we're building 40 curb ramps that were added to the project. Liz, what did you tell me was partly the cause of this? What was this a... garbage dump or a landfill or what was actually there? That's correct. It's a lot of fill. So the fill material tends to cave in. It doesn't hold up in vertical walls like we like it to in our line of business. So you can see it caves in and that results in the pavement caving in as well. If I may add, Nick Naval, I'm the construction manager. We found like wood debris, wood sections of something that's black in color that some of them have to be sent to Hillsboro for disposal because they're deemed as contaminated. And what were the slabs that you referred to earlier, what were they for? For heating. Heating and cooking back in the late 1800s. And what were those made out of? So when the mill... Logged, you know, made the pieces of wood. It was the outside, the circular pieces that were unusable from the logs. Swampton has always conjured up cuts of meat in my mind. And that's actually a much more pleasant image for me. Commissioner, I know that you're fond of karaoke bars. Yes, and I have some karaoke at Swampton. I think you could make some money in a bar. challenging someone to just you know for a buck tell them what where did Slap Town get its name because I did not know until I got this presentation. I will bear that in mind the next time I need an extra buck Commissioner. So this last slide, this table shows the existing contract is $8,423,219. We're asking for an additional $4,157,000 for a new contract total amount of $12,520,219, approximately a 50% construction increase. So, Liz, let me just ask you the obvious question. and we're used to seeing changes in scope and sometimes cost overruns and other kinds of things or inflation that lead to higher prices. This is very substantial. You've described the sources, and most of them were not foreseeable until you got into the ground. Why not just rebid this thing? Well, we have an experienced contractor out on site right now doing the work. We're about 70% completed with the project, and we have an end date of Christmas. So we'd like to get it done. Rebidding the project means repackaging the project. It means rebidding the project. That adds three months to the job. And you never want two contractors in the same place stepping all over each other. So it's in the city's best interest to maintain the contractor we have and get the work done. They've done a lot of work in this area, and they're used to challenging projects. So we're fortunate to have them. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. We had a more excavation contract this morning that had a pitiful amount of minority and women subcontractors. With this new amount of 4 million, how much of that is going to subcontractors and how much? I don't know the exact numbers of what exactly is going to subcontractors. I can tell you that on this project, they're using DMW ESBs for flaggers and traffic control, trucking, saw cutting, pothole excavation, rodent control, and video pipes. So they are using it for a number of pieces of work that's being done. I don't have the exact numbers. Yeah, could you maybe find out? Absolutely, yeah. I don't need to do it anytime soon, but I would like them to know that we care about, you know, that they're going to strive to meet the 20% of the new amount as well as which they would have been required to on the old. Yes, absolutely. Thank you. Very good. Any further discussion on this? Good presentation. Carla, was there any public testimony on this item? No one else signed up. All right. Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Good presentation. Next up, 738. Thank you. Authorize a five-year joint funding agreement between the Bureau of Environmental Services and the U.S. Geological Survey, U.S. Department of the Interior, for hydraulic, temperature, and sediment monitoring in Johnson Creek, Columbia Slough, Willamette River, Fano Creek, and Tryon Creek for $672,108. So we're going to hear from Caitlin Lovell in a second. Colleagues, Caitlin will also be back with us probably this winter to lay out the next chapter in our salmon sanctuary series. And she's been the lead on that, and we're very proud of that work. This agreement before us continues a water monitoring partnership with the U.S. Geological Survey that began in 1998. The information collected by USGS is used by the Bureau of Environmental Services for stormwater management, flood management and response, modeling and planning around fish, wildlife, and climate change impacts to our rivers and watersheds. This agreement leverages DES funds through matching federal funds. Here today is Caitlin Lovell, BES's Science Integration Division Manager, to give us a brief presentation. Welcome. Thank you, Commissioner. By the way, are you doing Hood to Coast again this year? Yes, in three weeks. Don't make me any more nervous than I already am. My daughter's in training. Oh, great. Good afternoon, Mayor. Good afternoon. Commissioners. As Commissioner Fish said... This agreement continues a long-standing partnership that we have with the U.S., the federal agency, the U.S. Geological Survey. I don't have a PowerPoint for you today. I just have a couple of points about this agreement that I'd like to highlight. The first is that there are two parts to this partnership. The first is the city's contribution to the eight stream gauges on every major Portland river. This represents the bulk of the expense of this agreement. Data from these stream gauges informs everything from how we design our sanitary pipes that run alongside and cross these rivers, our stormwater systems that drain to these rivers, and of course our restoration projects in these rivers. The gauges are critical to knowing when and where to deploy our flood response system. And moreover, the data are one of the long-term data sets that we have to look at how climate change is actually affecting Portland and to help inform the forecasting of future changes. The second part of the agreement is a unique collaboration across multiple jurisdictions that manage Johnson Creek. Together we work with USGS to identify and study key challenges in the watershed that affect all of these agencies. In this agreement, the USGS will look at sediment, which will help us better understand the where and what, I'm sorry, understand where and what triggers the erosion, turbidity, and pollutants like DDT and heavy metals that associate with those sediments. We are also excited to embark on a pilot study using a new state-of-the-art temperature fiber optic cable that will help us locate all of the underwater sources of cold water that are critical to keeping Johnson Creek cold and clean in the face of increasing temperatures. We are hoping to deploy the first pilot in Crystal Springs Lake in mid-August or early September where the temperatures are still high. The total amount of this agreement is $989,425. This agreement is in the city's best interest because of the USGS's ability to pay 35% of that cost, leaving the city's five-year total cost at $672,108. Thank you, and if you have any questions, I'm happy to answer them. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions? So, Mayor, the only thing I want to add is, Caitlin, I understand that – There is some urgency to move on this. And if there is, I'm prepared to make a motion to slap an emergency clause. Is there a sense of urgency? There is, actually. Because the fiber optic cables work best when the temperatures are highest, we'd like to deploy them towards the end of August. which is sooner than the normal 30 days that we would allow before we could sign this contract. Mayor, would you entertain a motion to slap an emergency clause on this? Sure, go for it. So moved. For the purpose of making sure the construction timeline is met. Yes. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion on the amendment, please call the roll. Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment passes. Any further questions? On the main motion, Carla, did anybody sign up for public testimony? No one signed up. Very good. Call the roll on the motion on the ordinances amended. Udaly? Aye.
 Fritz? Again, we know that an enormous amount of work goes into the back story on this, and then having implemented it, it's going to be a lot of work as well. So thank you very much for bringing it in such a tidy package for us. Aye. Thank you. Bish? Aye. No, Caitlin, we have to find a way to shorten your title so it can fit on a business card. Science Integration Division Manager. Thanks. We've got to find a way to get that down to three. But thank you for your superb work, and I'm pleased to support it today. Aye. Wheeler. Yeah, well done. Thank you both. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Last item, 739, a second reading. 739, amend city code to update oath of office requirements. Very good. And colleagues, just a reminder, this is the second reading. We've heard a presentation and testimony. The auditor amended this to accommodate some of the requests of Commissioner Hardesty. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Udaly? Aye.
 Fritz?
 Aye.
 Fish?
 Aye.
 Wheeler?
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned.