probably you're gonna have an idea yeah be a good time okay everybody ready good morning welcome to the august 5th meeting of the fort worth city council would you please call the roll seltzman here novick here fritz fish here hales here good morning everyone welcome we have uh
 Some communications items up front where citizens get to sign up and speak on any subject of their choosing for three minutes, followed by our regular calendar. I want to welcome everyone to the council chambers today. The purpose of the council meetings is the orderly consideration of the public's business, so we welcome you here. Just some basic ground rules. One, we typically allow three minutes for testimony on items. Looking at the number of people here today, that shouldn't be difficult to manage that, since we have a light attendance and a relatively light agenda.
 If you're here to speak on a council calendar item, you just simply need to give us your name for the record. You don't need to give us your address. If, however, you're a lobbyist representing an organization, you need to disclose that, please. That's required under our city code.
 We ask that people maintain courtesy in the room, which is that we give everyone a chance to be heard. If you agree with someone and want to somehow indicate that, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. If you disagree with someone and want to indicate that with a polite hand gesture, that's fine as well. But we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' opinions in this room. If you're disruptive, you'll be asked to leave. And if you're not following those instructions, you'll be excluded from council chambers from future deliberations. Thank you.
 So welcome, everyone. Let's take up the first communications item, number 815. Request of Marvin Sands to address council regarding destruction of World Trade Center 7. Good morning. Welcome. I'm Marvin Sands. I'm at 15. Mr. Davis, excuse me. You're not called yet. Please go sit down. I thought I could sit here. No. Have a seat, please. Sorry. Go ahead, sir.
 I'm Marvin Sanis. I'm at 1515 Northeast Tomahawk Island Drive in Portland. I'm starting with a one-minute video that I'm going to ask you to watch carefully, please. For the third time today, it's reminiscent of those pictures we've all seen too much on television before when a building was deliberately destroyed by well-placed dynamite to knock it down.
 Did they actually use the word brought down and who was it that was telling you this? The fire department. The fire department. And they did use the word we're going to have to bring it down. We heard this sound that sounded like a clapper thunder. It looked like there was a shockwave ripping through the building and the windows all busted out. About a second later, the bomb pulled the caves out. The building followed after that and we saw the building crash down all the way to the ground.
 and i turned in time to see uh what looked like a skyscraper implosion looked like it had been done by some crew the whole thing it was almost as if it were a planned implosion it just pancakes thank you i'm going to let it run on mute this is a pain this was a painful moment for all of us almost 14 years ago this building's roof line makes a symmetrical transition from complete support
 To the complete absence of support instantly, this is measured by physics professionals. The building's fall accelerates at the speed of free fall through the path of greatest resistance, 40,000 tons of structural steel. The 47th floor reached the street in 6.8 seconds. This steel frame structure was completely dismembered.
 5.8% of this unique dust from the event is composed of microscopic iron spheres, droplets of molten iron that had to have been sprayed into the air to form. This required temperatures far, far higher than could be achieved by office fires. Office fires and thermal expansion of beams are what the Commerce Department tell us were the cause of this building's destruction.
 Office fires and thermal expansion are asymmetrical phenomenon. This is obviously a symmetrical event. There are witnesses and measurements of molten steel in the rubble pile that continued to burn into December. This building was reported collapsed or collapsing, quotes, by CNN an hour before it collapsed and reported collapsed, I'm quoting, by BBC News.
 mr sanchez you've used your time we appreciate you bringing this to our attention and thank you for coming today thank you very much let me just finish with one one sentence please because we've used your time less than one in seven americans has seen this building collapse we are beginning our 15th year of war we lose 8 000 soldiers to suicide every year every year we lose 8 000 soldiers to suicide we need to have a dialogue about
 our behavior. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Next, please. 816. Request of Shedrick J. Wilkins to address council regarding Hanford Columbia well. Wilkins? Okay, he doesn't seem to be here today. Let's move on to 817. 817.
 request of Charles Johnson to address counsel regarding hashtag war on women via hashtag rape kit plus Mr. Davis you haven't been called yet. Mr. Davis you need to go sit down in the audience here and film no, sir No, sir. You're not do this. No, sir. We're calling people one at a time. You're being disruptive. I'm asking you to leave I've seen lots of people sit here and film. I'm a friend of Charles. I mean, yeah, I'm asking you to leave after
 Okay, cool. I'll just file some more civil rights violations against you guys. Okay, have a seat. You guys want to violate left and right? Mr. Johnson, go ahead. Thank you, Mayor Harris. But unfortunately, I need to say that did this city commission do the best job it could to protect the Arctic? Shell, no, you didn't.
 um we do that doesn't mean that people don't appreciate you're going to Washington and raising the voice of Portland that Arctic drilling is an insane policy especially an odd blend uh with President Obama's strong move to cut power plant emissions but uh in reality uh
 This city could have done better. The fact that a judge in Alaska is totally okay with a mere fine of $2,500 an hour means that none of our police resources should have been used, none of our across-the-river money from the sheriff's department should have been used to push people expressing their First Amendment out of the right, off the water, just for one boat that's mission is to drown people in Miami and in the Philippines. Yes.
 To get back to my original topic, and that, of course, got us some interesting media. Some of us were thrilled to see the beautiful pictures of the protesters with their orange and yellow banners on the St. John's Bridge or people yelling at them through traffic cones. But our city has also been lumped in with some other cities recently. CBS News puts us together with Charlotte, Kansas City, Missouri,
 Jacksonville, Florida, San Diego, and then Portland, cities that have over 1,000 untested kits for sexual assaults. A few weeks ago, months ago, we decided, oh, if we can get money from the federal government, then we'll work on this problem. Somewhat surprisingly, not that many of my fellow citizens are vocally saying that this is disgusting, but...
 Particularly the police commissioner should be making a public statement about how this is never going to happen again and how it's going to be addressed without, if federal money doesn't come, how the problem will still be addressed. Portland being in the media for the shell protest is fine, but we're also on the national news for problems going back to 1998, the rape of Brenda Tracy incident.
 one of our fine institutions of higher learning. So the fact that this city, since 1998, could not properly and diligently help and assist victims of sexual assault and make sure kits were tested is tragic, and I look forward to increased public pressure and a better response from this council. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, next please, 18. Request of David Davis to address council regarding police civil rights violations during homeless sweeps.
 We had this talk a while ago, Mr. Mayor. Good morning. Welcome. How you like to violate. Okay, have a seat, sir, and go ahead and make your statement. One second. I'm going to punch up my little info. You allow others a second to get theirs straight, right? You bet. Go ahead. Okay. Can you start me over? Sure. Go ahead. Three minutes. Okay. Okay.
 So I had a discussion with you personally back in December about you violating civil rights, a conspiracy to deny rights. It's a federal statute. You wrote it down. We have you on video taking notes even. U.S. Code Title 42, Chapter 21, Subchapter I, 1985 ruling about cops and people that are
 members of the city council or the police or whoever denying people's civil rights. Well, you guys locked down the park, Cathedral Park in St. John's. You were denying people entrance in their boats, in their cars. People could walk into the park. So what you were doing right there was a felony. It's a federal felony, and you know it. And we have you on video writing down
 The statues. Remember when I had a face-to-face with you? With Teresa from Don't Shoot Portland, Mike Bluehair from Film the Police Portland, and we told you about this statue? Are you going to respond? Go ahead. This is your time.
 No, this is my time. I'm asking you a question. You're trying to make a statement. Whatever. We got you on video so you can deny it. You can sit up there with your mums is the word or whatever, and then you try and act like you're trying to take responsibility for this protest like you were behind it. Well, if you were behind it, you could have had your police officers sit up on the railroad bridge or on some of these other bridges and block shell.
 Instead, you chose to use police resources and city resources to let the corporate scumbag shell go by so they can plunder the Arctic, kill off all the native people and their land. You know 50% of tribal members live in Alaska in that region? Do you know any of those people? You know any of those people personally? No, you don't. I can tell. You're too white to know any people like that. You don't give a crap about people like that.
 You don't care about people of color. You act like you're all diverse. You go see the Pope. You go see Obama, all these people. You offer lip service. All it is is lip service. When are you going to be a man of your word? When are you going to stop violating basic civil rights? You act like Portland's a liberal place when you're committing felonies and keeping people from going to express their First Amendment rights in the park. What is that all about?
 You know what you did, and you were informed by your own police officers when I informed them that they were following felonious orders and that they don't have to take your felonious orders. Thanks very much. You've used your time, Mr. Davis. So you serve as police commissioner. Mr. Davis, you've used your time. You need to leave now. You ordered your own police officers and people who have been accused
 You need to leave now. It's time. Thank you. That's real, real slime baggage. Have a good day. Okay, next please. 819. 819, request of Greg Schiffsky to address council regarding Portland's trees and the new Title 11. Okay, Mr. Schiffsky, come on up. Okay. Okay.
 I don't think he's here. All right, let's move on to the consent agenda. We have, I think, one request to pull an item, which is 824. Is that right? Anything else? Correct. Any other requests to remove items from the consent calendar, pull them to regular? All right, then let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Hale? Aye.
 Okay, let's move on to Time Certain, 820. Proclaim August 6, 2015, to be Voting Rights Day in Portland. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and members of the council. It's my pleasure to introduce members of the League of Minority Voters here to help us commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act. Thank you.
 and discuss its significance today. I invite up Promise King, Shota Zono, and Reverend Dr. Leroy Haynes. After a long fight led by civil rights activists, the Voting Rights Act was signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson on August 6, 1965. He called it one of the most monumental laws in the entire history of American freedom. The Voting Rights Act prohibits racial discrimination in voting rights
 specifically forbidding the use of literacy literacy tests and other tactics used by states to prevent citizens of color from accessing their constitutional right to vote the voting rights act also helps the federal government ensure the 15th amendment is enforced properly the voting rights act was and continues to be a groundbreaking piece of legislation even more essential today as voter suppression and disenfranchisement continues
 and as key provisions of the law have been chipped away. I'm grateful to have the League of Minority Voters here, an organization committed to increasing voter access and encouraging civic engagements with communities of color. So I'd like to welcome it and turn it over first to Joe Dozzano. Good morning, Mayor and City Council Members. My name is Joe Dozzano. I'm the Board Chair for the League of Minority Voters.
 And as Portland is oftentimes leading our country, I want you to know that we're the only organizations of a kind in this country promoting the voting rights of minorities. We began as Oregon League of Minority Voters, but we just changed our name to League of Minority Voters because we have the authority.
 moniker for the League of Minority Voters throughout the country. So it is amazing that when you Google, we're the only such organization in the entire country. So, again, Portland is leading the nation in this kind of effort to make sure that all the citizens of our country have the right to vote and exercise the right to vote. Many years ago when I ran for mayor, I thought the minority voters wouldn't count in my race being a person of color.
 And the politicians told me they don't count because they don't vote often enough. People of color only vote half as often as people of majority community. So I used to tell some African-American friends that when the Constitution was written, they were kind of three-quarters of a person as a position. But now politicians don't want to count us as only half a person because we only vote half as often as majority community. And that is disgraceful when so many people fought the right to vote
 And as witnessed by the reincarnation of the Selma March on the bridge, that prompted me to talk to Promise to say, we need to do something in the city of Portland to recognize that Voting Rights Act of 1965. We're one day ahead of the schedule because tomorrow is the day that was signed, but I'm glad that we're still ahead of our times in the city of Portland. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning. Yes. To our illustrious mayor, Charlie Hills, welcome back.
 to the distinguished members of the Portland City Council, to the sponsor of this resolution, Commissioner Southman. Indeed, I am very thankful and deeply warmed by this official body in acknowledging the 50th anniversary of the Voters' Rights Act and the resolution today.
 As a youth civil rights organizer in the civil rights movement during the days of Jim Crow, American apartheid, this beer was personally to me, as well as to many blacks, whites, Latinos, Jews, Protestants, and Catholics,
 They were part of this great movement and social revolution in America to make the dream of Dr. Martin Luther King a reality for all Americans. The 1965 Voter Rights Act and its subsequent bills, as well as the 1964 Voter Rights Act, was paid for with blood and sacrifice.
 Freedom, justice, and equality are never free. It calls something great. I've experienced and seen with my own eyes the cause of that freedom for freedom-loving people. Although the right to vote for black people and all citizens was given in the 15th Amendment to the Constitution following the Civil Rights Act,
 It was quickly taken away following the few decades of reconstruction through the use of black codes, literacy tests, poll taxes, lynching, violence, intimidation, stiff registration law, and other legal strategy.
 As white supremacy and the separate but equal doctrines swept over our nation, the former slaves and descendants of slaves were disenfranchised as full citizens of America and placed in another quasi-form of slavery. Even though the 13, 14, and 15 amendments to the Constitution existed,
 It was not until the Martin Civil Rights Movement under the leadership of Dr. Martin Luther King and other leaders in civil rights organizations, especially the NAACP Corps and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, led by a student named John Lewis, now Congressman Lewis, that transformation started to happen.
 Following the passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, civil rights leaders understood a lot more had to be done in changing the political, social, and economic equality in our country.
 In 1965, Selma, Alabama was chosen as the target city and state to initiate the nonviolent campaign and to push forward President Lyndon B. Johnson and Congress to pass the Voting Rights Act. On Sunday, March 7, 1965,
 The march across Edmund Pettus Bridge will become infamous in the history of America as Bloody Sunday. Nonviolent marches were viciously attacked by County Sheriff James Clark, officers, and Alabama state troopers, and blood streamed from the bridge like a river. Yet the civil rights workers gathered together and finished the march on to Montgomery.
 It was this campaign in Selma, Alabama that pricked the conscience of our nation and prodded the Congress to override a southern bloc and pass the 1965 Voters' Rights Act, enfranchising millions of black citizens and others in this country.
 But as we celebrate this monumental Voter's Rights Act, we must be mindful today that there are forces working to dilute it and weaken it, make it ineffective in enforcement following the Supreme Court decision. We must not allow this to happen.
 Every generation must fight to preserve the freedom and rights that have been won by blood and sacrifice in our nation. Thank you very much. Thank you. Morning. Morning. Mayor Ayers, Commissioner Sussman, Commissioner Fish, Commissioner Novich, we are founded on the belief that each generation comes with the task of perfecting our union.
 The League of Minority Voters for seven years have been following this ideal of civic engagement. We focus on building database of minority voters across the state. So we come here, this hallowed ground, to thank you.
 We are excited and exuberant about the proclamation. We are excited and exuberant about the progress so far. As you heard from Reverend, it wasn't that cute. It wasn't sexy at all. Others paid with blood. Some paid with their life. Some paid with their comfort. Today, we are excited because the uniqueness of this proclamation and the special importance
 that we face this proclamation. Why is it unique? Why is it special? It's unique because the son of a Jewish immigrant is asking us today to look back with pride. It is special because the son of a congressman fish served on the city council. I am sure he's going to support this proclamation. Help me out. You know, we as an organization,
 always believe that if we govern as the instrument of government, if we can bring all coalitions together, we can fight for the ideas that promote one destiny and our common unity. The League has been able to create programs that are important and empower our democracy. We focus on the youth, we focus on our debate team and our youth.
 So we are very excited to say that this proclamation will further embody and will give us a really clear path in history behind us and will take us to the future. Our mission is to highlight the special issues that impact minority communities and those who have no voice. Today, 50 years after our...
 We have seen progress, but we still have challenges. Mayor Haynes, there are no new tax, no tax, no literacy test. But what you have are disparities in education, in opportunity, in incarceration. Those anxieties keep minority voters from participation, from full civic engagement.
 I am excited and abiding and encouraged because of those of you we've elected to preside over this institution. I have worked with Sussman, and I find him to be very resolute, straightforward, and honest. Charlie, you'll be one of my biggest supporters. You have been there for the league since its inception.
 Your wife has been a monument to Mother Hole, that what is merciful in this city. And to fish, you have been a friend, and you have given me carrot and cane. That's all right. So to Novick, you've inspired us beyond our dreams. Why am I saying this? Fifty years ago, sure as I, Reverend Haynes, can't sit here.
 will be banned from this hall. But today we're here abutting, enlightening, empowering, igniting your passion. We here look back, we look back with pride to say that all the work, all the effort you've done behind the scene, up in the scene, we want to thank you for that. We appreciate that. The instrument of government
 need leaders who care and who are passionate about civic duty. I know you guys do. I've walked behind with you. So today at this hour, as we celebrate the 15th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act, we want to recruit your spirit to the vanguard of victories that have still left one. I want to appeal for your support of the League's activities.
 We want to recruit your spirit to wrap your hand to this voice that's still yet unheard. On October 29th, we are going to the League of Minority Voters, as we've always done for the past five years, we'll be recognizing those in our communities among our business elected leaders.
 recognizing them for the work they've done to promote minorities' development and civic engagement. We will be contacting your office. We invite you all. So this hour, I want to thank Commissioner Sussman for all your work you've done and those of my staff who work on this proclamation. And I also want to thank the mayor.
 Mayor, thank you. We believe the work you are doing is good. Thank you because a leader like you who believe in the resources, that the resources of this city ought to be for everyone require a second chance. I'm not campaigning but I believe that the work you've done has aborted all of our community.
 Today, thank you for giving me the impetus and the opportunity to even walk at this glorious place. You have been there for me when I need help. The League will not be here without your real guidance and support. And to Nick Fish, your friendship has really emboldened me.
 and I hope that you wear the garment of your dad, who was very courageous in Congress. On that note, I want to thank you and urge you to support this proclamation. Thank you kindly. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you very much. I thought I'd read the proclamation list. Please do. Okay. Maybe we can get a picture. Do we get a rebuttal? Let me read the proclamation first. I had one comment I wanted to offer after the proclamation.
 Whereas the state of Oregon, through vote by mail and the recently adopted Motor Voter Bill, has led the nation in voter access and the Portland community commemorates and celebrates the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. And whereas the Voting Rights Act was signed on August 6, 1965, by President Lyndon Baines Johnson,
 After a long protracted effort by civil rights activists and organizations, and the 15th Amendment to the Constitution made voting legal for all citizens of color, but many black Americans were still forced to encounter literacy tests, poll taxes, tests of moral character, and property ownership. And whereas the Voting Rights Act helps to provide the federal government with a more hands-on role in ensuring that the 15th Amendment could be enforced properly,
 and whereas the law has been amended frequently since often to the detriment of minority voters who still face obstacles to voting today and whereas the city of portland would like to recognize the league of minority voters and their dedication to promoting the value of civic engagement within our communities of color and focusing on policy issues that continue to marginalize these communities and whereas the voting rights act still remains one of the foundational pieces of legislation
 that confronts issues of inequality in civic engagement. Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor, City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim August 6, 2015, to be Voting Rights Day. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Honored guests, Reverend Dr. Haynes, Joe DiZono, Promise King. For the record, that was Promise King who was speaking. He did not have a chance to introduce himself. Thank you for joining us, and thank you for your eloquent words.
 In 1863, when President Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, he said famously it would cost the Republicans the South, and it did for almost 100 years. In 1864 and 1865, Lyndon Johnson said the Voting Rights Act and the Civil Rights Act would cost the Democrats the South, and it did for a generation. Today, Dan, thank you for bringing this important resolution forward, and let us commit to
 as Republicans and Democrats and independents, let us commit that voting rights is not a partisan issue. It is an American issue. And you have reminded us that so eloquently. And since promise invoked my beloved father, may he rest in peace, I will say that as proud as I am of my father for his service...
 I just Googled something, and I'm even prouder of my great-great-grandfather because in 1870 he certified that the 15th Amendment had been ratified by the states, and he did so in his capacity as Grant's Secretary of State. Gentlemen, thank you for your presence and for honoring us here today. Thank you again. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Reverend Haynes. Thank you, Mr. King, Mr. DiZono. I do have, as always, I have to mention whatever Nick refers to his great-great-grandfather. I have to also refer to the fact that he was the only member of Grant's cabinet who wasn't corrupt and was referred to in Richard Hofstadter's great book about American history as a guy who adorned the cabinet like, quote, a jewel on the head of a toad. Right.
 But I just, in keeping with what Commissioner Fisk just said, I just wanted to note that actually, although Lyndon Johnson correctly predicted that South would hold the Voting Rights Act against the party who had the president at the time, at the time it was not a partisan issue when Everett Dirksen, as leader of the Republican Party, helped break the filibuster and pass the Voting Rights Act.
 And I just wanted to take this opportunity to read a bit of President Johnson's speech in which he introduced the Voting Rights Act to Congress, with apologizing for the fact that he used a now very outdated term for African Americans. He said, but even if we pass this bill, the battle will not be over. What happened in Selma is part of a far larger movement which reaches into every section and state of America. It is the effort of American Negroes to secure for themselves the full blessings of American life.
 Their cause must be our cause too, because it is not just Negroes, but really it is all of us who must overcome the crippling legacy of bigotry and injustice. And we shall overcome. It is...
 So distressing to see that now, 50 years later, as documented in The New York Times this last Sunday, a group of determined opponents to democracy have launched a lengthy and unfortunately successful campaign to undermine the Voting Rights Act.
 And I'm glad that we have warriors like Mr. D'Asono, Reverend Haynes, Mr. King, and members of this council to continue the never-ending fight. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. You know, I want to reflect a little bit. I appreciate my colleagues' comments very much. And, Dan, thank you for bringing this forward. I want to reflect a little bit on your presentations because I thought they were eloquent. So thank you for being here today.
 It seems to me that if we look at our situation now, and some of this was captured in the resolution, there are really three tests that we ought to hold ourselves to. One is access, and that's what the Voting Rights Act, and in fact the Motor Voter Act, that we should celebrate as a state, that's what that's about. So that's, to me, step one. Does everyone have equal unfettered access to civic participation? The next one is inclusion, and that requires effort.
 and I'm proud of the efforts we've made as a city. We have more to do. I've often told the story about one of the more moving moments for me being on this council the last couple of years was something that Commissioner Fritz provoked, which was deliberate outreach to communities of color around the city who then came to our budget hearings and made presentations about what they wanted for their community, whether it was...
 among Chinese elders or Somali moms talking about parks. And to me, and she asked in the course of that budget hearing, for how many of you is this the first public meeting you've attended? And about a third of the hands in the room went up. And to me that was just a wonderful moving Portland moment where it shows that we were really trying to be inclusive. And then the third test, which is even harder than access or inclusion, is power and influence.
 Do the communities of color in our city have power and influence? Yes. Not just access, not just inclusion, but power and influence. And I think we should all hold ourselves to those, all three of those goals. I think there's a lot to celebrate, particularly again with the passage of this Motor Boater Act. It's running counter to the pernicious trends that Commissioner Novick mentioned and Commissioner Fish mentioned that are happening in the Congress.
 but we're going the right way in Oregon towards access, towards inclusion but we need to keep working on all three of those fronts and I know the three of you and other activists in our city will keep pushing on all three fronts and making sure that we get to that promised land of
 not only equal access, not only equal inclusion, but also equal power and influence for all the communities of our city. So thank you for everything that you do, and Dan, again, thank you for bringing this forward. We'd love to take a picture with the three of you to commemorate this. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. After you pass this, right? We don't have to actually vote, so it's good.
 Thank you.
 On the record, at my age, I don't have to wear a slip. That's right. That's how much power and influence he has. Dr. Haynes, Thomas, it's great to have you here. Thank you. All right. Let's move forward into our remaining agenda, which we should maybe take up the consent calendar item that was pulled and deal with that briefly. Item 824, please. Thank you.
 Pay claim of Portland Leeds Living LLC, Tess O'Brien Apartments, in the sum of $125,000, involving the Bureau of Development Services. Does anyone want to speak on this item? Hold that, Carl. Mr. Lightning, please. Mr. Lightning, good. Thank you.
 I don't think there's a presentation. I think the summary information is pretty clear, which is this was a case in which improper information was provided to an applicant. There was a claim, and the claim was agreed to. So I think that I've got that right, Commissioner Salter. Yes, exactly. I think that's a summary of what happened. So it's fairly unusual for us to pay a claim like this, but when we make a mistake, we own it. So I think that's a fair statement of what happened.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. One of the concerns I had on this is that my understanding the permit was rescinded. And I didn't really have an understanding on why that would have been. And it had a delay on the project. So I wanted to have a more clear understanding, I guess. And that's why I pulled it to understand why Marty Kehoe had a delay on his project and why this was paid out from the city.
 And I just wanted to have a more clear understanding, and I don't believe that we've been able to do that as of this time. Yeah, I think the explanation that I got was that the staff erroneously sent the applicant, Mr. Kehoe, down one path in the regulations and should have been sent down another. That added a great deal of time and process cost to the application, and it was our fault.
 corporately because we'd given him inaccurate information about the type of review that that project was going to be subject to. So I believe that was the basis for the claim, and that's why it was approved. Okay, just so I have an understanding, it was more of a time delay, and the amount was determined upon the damages on his overall project? Correct. Okay, fair enough. Thank you, sir. Mr. Johnson.
 Good morning. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And I think if it's possible, based on the terms of the settlement or agreement, for the sake of transparency, if you could just briefly summarize which bureau the misunderstanding happened in and let the public know. We're confident that the council would take corrective action and obviously make sure that people don't encounter this problem again. But I think transparency to your constituents, it's appropriate to say, is important.
 Little bit about how the mistake happened in which we don't need to name call, but just identify Yeah, no it was the Bureau of Development Services because that's where these are processed. That's right. Thank you Any other questions or concerns then let's take a vote please on approval of that claim All right, no Vic. Hi fish. Hi Hales. All right Okay, regular agenda item 826 I'll make a motion
 Okay. Authorize a partial compliance agreement between the city on behalf of Portland Parks and Recreation and Laborers Local 483, Laborers International Union of North America, that partially implements arbitrator David Steitler's opinion and award concerning the bargaining unit work grievance filed under the recreation collective bargaining agreement. Okay. Mayor, I move to suspend the rules. Motion to suspend the rules. Is there a second?
 I think we do this with unanimous consent. Okay. Any objections? So the rules are suspended. Is there another motion? Mayor, this is a second reading. I was not here last week, but I have been briefed on the issue. It is a second reading, but I would move prior to the vote that I move that we put an emergency clause on the ordinance. Okay. Is there a second to that?
 second second any direction or counsel from staff before we act on a motion to add the emergency clause to this uh no mayor okay roll call to add the emergency clause please saltzman aye novick aye fish aye hails aye okay any further recommendations from you before we act on this now emergency no we are just here if there is any questions understand any questions for staff if not second reading roll call as amended saltzman uh well last week i expressed my expectations
 of behavior, ethical behavior that should be conducted with bargaining units and city representatives during negotiations. And what was clearly gnawing at me was the fact that local 483 owes the city $80,000 for past behavior, and other bargaining units in the city have paid what they owed us, but 483 had not. And that gnawed at me, as was probably evident last week from my behavior.
 I sat down with representatives of Local 483 this week and heard in greater detail their side of why the balance had not been paid. And as we know in this business, there's always at least two sides to every story. I appreciated them taking the time to come by and have a talk. And while I still fully don't understand all the arguments of the disputed outstanding balance, I probably never will. Labor relations can be pretty arcane and somewhat of a black box to me on some nuances. Thank you.
 But I do have the utmost gratitude and respect for the job that our men and women in the Parks Bureau do. And my further protest by delaying the implementation of this ordinance would serve no purpose but to delay hardworking employees from becoming full-time employees.
 and also some of them getting health insurance coverage. And I definitely do not want to do that. I see no further point. I think I've made my point about my concerns, and I'm prepared now to support this agreement, and mainly to see that the hardworking employees in the Parks Bureau get their proper due as determined by the arbitrator. So I vote aye. Novick?
 I really appreciate the fact that Local 483 and the Commissioner sat down and had a conversation which has led us to this result. Thank you very much, both of you. Hi. Fish. There are two issues really before us today. One is compliance with an arbitrator's award, and two is our continuing efforts to provide full-time employment with benefits for our hardworking frontline employees.
 and there's a convergence council has been grappling with how to implement this award and it is a challenge in part because of the dollars we have to identify to pay but let there not be any doubt that the council has collectively a commitment to raising the working conditions of people who work for the city and so i thank our hr team the mayor and commissioner fritz and my colleagues who have been grappling with this and
 I fully support this, what we call phase one of the resolution of this grievance. Aye. Nails. Well, I...
 our parks commissioner is not here today because she's visiting her family in england so maybe she's watching us online and drinking a glass of good british port to celebrate i hope so but i i want to mention her not only because we know how committed she is to this relationship but because she has three priorities for the parks bureau that this council shares and then i know local 483 and
 and that is to put the system into good repair. She is constant in her attentions to that issue here in our discussions, whether it's about budgets or anything else.
 to put the great park system that we have into good repair, to expand its reach to people that don't have access to parks yet, to make us a city of opportunity where everybody has access to parks and recreation. And then third, to be a city of opportunity where kids that need to have access to recreation get it and aren't kept out by the imposition of a fee that ends up being a barrier. And some of our parks teams have done such a great job of implementing that direction are here.
 Well, all three of those priorities are shared between us as a council and with the Great Bureau and with Local 483, but they won't be accomplished without the work of our employees and without an effective partnership. So that's why getting to yes on this particular labor issue is really important, because we all have a lot of work to do to make those goals real, of a system in good repair, of a park within walking distance of every Portlander and of everyone.
 kids that need recreation choices getting them. So there's a lot of work that has to take place, a lot of extra hours worked. I was out at Dishman last week and saw the heroic effort that our recreation staff are putting on there to deal with 2,000 kids who have taken us up on the opportunity for a free summer pass. What a great problem to have, the center's full of kids.
 So there's a lot of work to do, and I just want to commend you, Anna, and our team at the city, the city attorney's office, and then labor relations of getting to yes with local 483 and to the union as well because we have these shared values, we have these shared goals, and it takes an effective partnership with our labor union and our workers to get there. So I'm very happy that we're at this point. Look forward to more work together under this agreement and others. Aye. Thank you all.
 Okay, 827. Replace the multiple unit limited tax exemption program and establish annual program cap. Commissioner Salter. Thank you, Mayor. This item would make a change to our multi-unit limited tax exemption program for affordable housing. The goal of these changes is to increase the creation of affordable housing in market rate developments. Thank you.
 We have very few tools to incent the private market to create affordable housing. In fact, we have only two. This is one of them, and the other is our waiver of system development charges. The proposed changes to the program are to adapt to current market conditions and encourage the production of more affordable units. Currently, the program only allows applicants to apply once or twice a year, and this does not really accord to the realities of development, which is happening all the time.
 So we're making the window will be open for applications year-round. The changes also focus our additional public benefits we require beyond affordability on two key issues, requiring that the development have at least 5% of all the units be adaptable to individuals with physical disabilities and additional requirements to achieve higher minority women and emerging small business participation rates.
 One of the biggest barriers to achieving more affordable housing is the current $1 million cap on foregone property tax revenue available for this program. So we are seeking a modest increase to $3 million per year, which we estimate can produce 200 affordable units per year. If council approves these changes, the county commission must also approve this package before these changes will become effective.
 To go over the details and answer any questions, I would ask for Javier Mena, our Assistant Director of the Housing Bureau, and Andrea Mathiason, the Program Manager, to come up here and answer questions or amplify. And they'll be followed by John Miller, the Executive Director of Oregon On, and Tony Jones, the Executive Director of Metropolitan Contractor Improvement Partnership.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, House Commissioners. It is very exciting for us after working with this program for three years
 And seeing the challenges that we have and the opportunities that could come about to bring this to you today for approval so that we can increase the number of affordable housing units within that central city and areas that are very important to us. I will turn it over to Andrea, who has more details in terms of the program changes and answer any questions you might have. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners, Andrea, Matthias, and Housing Bureau staff.
 We last brought you this program back in 2012, at which point we committed to a three-year implementation window and then a review and kind of a report back with some updates. So we sit here today to bring you our proposed revisions. As Commissioner Saltzman stated, they're primarily to respond to current market conditions.
 and also to better align program implementation with development timelines.
 The majority of the revisions are actually to clarify the City's priorities for what we're looking to get out of this program and the public benefits that the City needs to realize from this program. And so I'd say there's half a dozen or so of those at a very high level. They are increasing the strategies for minority participation in the program.
 clarifying our practices for getting communities who live around these developments into these affordable units, helping them become aware, helping them access them.
 The third thing that we have done in these proposed revisions is to beef up the tenant protection strategies. So those, in slightly more detail, are to allow incomes of our low-income tenants to rise in place from 60 percent MFI to 80 percent MFI or in higher opportunity more expensively.
 more expensive areas from 80% MFI to 100% MFI. We're also requiring developers to provide the city a 240-day notice and tenants a 180-day notice any time that either a project or an individual unit may cease to receive an affordable rent requirement.
 And then we've also structured some very predictable, which our development partners appreciate, noncompliance penalties when projects are no longer providing the affordability required, the full 10-year affordability required by this program.
 And then lastly, we're just clarifying the public benefit around accessible units, 5% of those, the units in a project needing to provide adaptable units to disabled populations. And so that, kind of in a nutshell, at a high level are some of the strategies that we're recommending to clarify the city's priorities. The priorities...
 The primary way that we are revising the program to better align with development timelines is to allow applications on a rolling basis. We've been accepting those for the past three years in a closed window in a competitive process, and that really has not worked well in terms of seizing the opportunity for private development and incorporating affordable units into those projects.
 Thank you. Any questions? I have a bunch. Thanks. Andrea, I'm going to ask you some questions about process and then substance. But first, I just want to acknowledge a couple of things.
 I'm completely supportive of the opportunity component of this proposal. You do that by expanding the geographic scope of its application. Dan has been very clear about supporting an opportunity agenda, meaning that we'll be able to use this tool in high opportunity areas as well as emerging areas. So I support that component. I think the strength in equity goals is very important, and that is based on our experience. I support that fully.
 I applaud you for putting at least a 5% for accessible units, because I think access, particularly for our aging population, is important. And I appreciate that there's some tightening of the both on MWESB. There's a few areas I don't understand as well, and then I have a process question. The...
 The competitive process that we put in place three years ago was designed to take advantage of the best thinking in the private sector, but through a competitive process raise the bar. In other words, have people competing against each other hoping that the bar would be raised. I think what I hear you saying is that the competitive process has not been as successful as we hope because it's taken out predictability. Is that the problem? I think that's correct. Okay.
 And we want to be as opportunistic as possible in terms of getting. So if you eliminate the competitive process and you want to be able to communicate to the development community that we have money available, you have to raise the cap. So effectively, if you take out the competitive process, we're going to need more money in the program, otherwise you're back to the same problem, right? So having worked on this for a couple of years with a prior chair through the Big Look process that you were both veterans of,
 Has the county endorsed this proposal? And most specifically, has the county agreed to the lifting of the cap to $3 million? So these proposed revisions were developed in conjunction with program user and Multnomah County input and involvement. So at a staff and county tax assessor management level, they're
 there is support for these programmatic changes. In terms of the cap and whether there is Multnomah County support for that, I think that that's there conceptually because they understand the need for predictability as well as clearly the desperation for affordable housing. I haven't had those conversations personally to be able to confirm with any certainty.
 So I just want to, this is a process question. When we did the big look, it was the county chair and the housing commissioner jointly coming up with a realignment of this program, and that's because it's uniquely a city-county program. And the impact falls on the county because the assessor has to agree to take the property off the tax rolls. And as we learned the hard way, the assessor is actually a free agent in this dance. So there's three sovereigns.
 When we did the comprehensive change before, the county chair came before us and said, I bless this package because it had an impact on the county. And I just want to put down a marker that I'm reluctant to adopt something until I have clarity from the county that they agree to raise the cap because the foregone revenue piece is exclusively within their control. If they don't agree to take these properties off the tax roll,
 It doesn't matter what the City of Portland does. And the only reason we have a cap in terms of foregone revenue, because you'll recall that was not the City's interest to have a cap, is that the County insisted on a $1 million cap. I think that's… I've spoken with County Chair Kifori, and she does support increasing the cap. To $3 million? Yes. Okay.
 And whether her, I guess we'll find out soon whether her entire board also supports that. But I know that. Chair Caffori has told you that she supports the $3 million cap? Yes. Okay. Can you explain in plain English why you're proposing to eliminate the regulation that capped a developer's rate of return at 10%? It's a little complicated, but I think it's useful for us to understand the thinking. Okay.
 In plain English. Okay. In other words, so that I can understand it. Right. So I think the way that I would describe the 10% rate of return, if I can refer back to state statute, is that it's a historical kind of holdout from a legal test.
 So the state statute uses language around but for. So projects would not happen but for the tax exemption. And so years ago, the thinking around that was that the actual building of that project would not happen but for the tax exemption. Today, we have now interpreted that but for language with lots of county support and legal opinions to read the project.
 the affordability that's integrated in those projects would not happen but for the tax exemption and so the previous but for test test was captured in that 10 rate of return test and since we've moved away from that statutory interpretation we we now have a different test and this to be clear
 When you say we've moved away from that statutory interpretation, our lawyers have told us we're on solid ground in doing so.
 Correct. And almost more importantly, the Oregon Department of Revenue, which kind of has oversight over this part of the statute, and the Multnomah County Tax Assessor's Office, and their attorneys support that interpretation. Colleagues, I know this is a dry issue, but there used to be a lot of, as Dan remembers, there used to be a huge amount of drama about this question because the but-for was literally,
 Without this program, this would remain a piece of dirt, undeveloped. And what we're now saying is without this program, we wouldn't have the affordable component of a new development, which is quite different. I mean, it's a different way of looking at the public benefit. But I agree with you, Andrea. It aligns with, I think, our more current thinking about what the benefit of the program is, and that is to trade the property taxes for a certain number of affordable units in the building.
 And then finally, what is the carrot and stick part of this? So if someone's out of compliance within the 10 years or backs out of the affordability provision or whatever, what stick do you have to penalize someone who breaks faith with the agreement? Yeah.
 So two things happen. The property is immediately added back to the tax roll, so they start paying the property taxes, which in some cases are pretty significant. And then additionally, we've calculated those noncompliance penalties that I referred to previously. And one of the complaints that we heard from program users was that those weren't predictable, and so they couldn't make any calculations. So we've made those very predictable. I don't want to be unduly provocative here, but...
 Have you considered the following? If during the 10-year period, and I think personally I'd like to see the 10-year period extended, but I understand why we've chosen 10 years. If someone during the 10 years breaks the covenant, why don't we just move to collect property taxes as if the abatement was never granted? Because there was a period of time where it was granted, and we did not when we were looking at the changes that we would propose. The changes that we would propose,
 The item that we wanted to clarify was the certainty in terms of financing and all of those things. If, for whatever reason, it would create an uncertainty as to how much the penalty would be, then there would be a reluctance from developers to use the program altogether. And so it was trying to provide certainty as to when it's terminated and what would happen once it's terminated. Okay, but...
 We typically say that a 60-year covenant is the gold standard. And so you have put 60-year covenants. You and Commissioner Saltzman have put 60-year covenants on preservation deals. You put 60-year covenants on 30% projects. Here we're talking about 10 years. And there is a lively debate in the community about whether 10 years is enough. Let's assume 10 years is the right number.
 If you don't fulfill the 10 years, why should you get a pro rata benefit of the program? Why shouldn't you forfeit the whole program since the minimum expectation is that for 10 years that unit will be affordable? This set of proposed provisions was, I think as I mentioned, kind of developed with program user input. So we surveyed and involved a handful of
 past development partners and prospective development partners in some of our proposed revisions and our thinking and
 What a lot of them said was, you know, there is a balance of what can be required of developers for them to engage and utilize the program at all. So I don't want to hold this up, Mayor, but we're eliminating the competitive process. We're raising the cap so there's more money in the system. We're making it more user-friendly. We're clarifying some of the policy goals, which I think is the guts of this. That's the part I really applaud. Thank you.
 It sounds like you're making some other common sense changes. What I would ask Dan, not for purposes of today, is at some future time, could you come back and let us know whether the current mechanism for penalty is sufficient and whether...
 Again, we're trying to make this as user-friendly as possible, but I don't think it's a huge burden to expect someone to comply with the 10-year period. And in most instances, if someone takes the benefit of the bargain but then doesn't deliver, normally you go back to the beginning and say that, you know,
 And here someone could game the system by sort of figuring out I'll comply for six or seven years, pay a fine, and we end up short. And I get that we would cease giving them the property tax abatement prospectively, but I don't want there to be any confusion in the community that we expect a minimum of 10 years.
 In fact, I hope we have a system that encourages people to re-up another 10 years under a user-friendly system because the goal that Dan has set is to get closer to 60, not 10. So I would ask that you. I will commit to explore this issue further and bring something back or share something with all of you on that. Thank you. Other questions for staff before we bring up Mr. Miller and others that want to speak? Thank you both. Stand by. And then John. John Miller and Tony Jones. Good morning.
 all right you can go if you want i don't care okay good morning uh mayor hales uh commissioners my name is tony jones i'm the executive director of metropolitan contractor improvement partnership
 We are a nonprofit business center for contractors, primarily serving minority and disadvantaged contractors. We provide a plan center, do one-on-one coaching and counseling, and also we do an annual trade show. So we do a number of services to help build the capacity of minority and disadvantaged contractors. We're here today to support the multi-program as an avenue to bring additional affordable housing units into the market.
 We must use a continuum of strategies to provide affordable housing in livable communities. The cities that have a track record of actually building minority businesses and minority communities, one of the first things on the list is having a strong...
 strong pool of affordable housing units that's critical to growing minority communities. And so I think it's interesting to note, and I think it's something that it's good that we have this avenue, to have this continuum of strategies to bring affordable units. We believe that the recent revised administrative rules is a step in the right direction to engage private developers with the minority and women contracting community.
 Having access to more market opportunities to secure a consistent pipeline of work is a critical component to grow minority businesses, and that's one of the challenges I see in the work that we do every day. Most contractors, a number of them,
 They are connected pretty well to the public sector because the public sector has goals, requirements, targets, things that they are doing to get minority contractors, women contractors engaged with these agencies. But in the private sector, it's much more difficult.
 This provides an avenue because of the proposed rule changes that we can interface and also have minority women contractors interface with private developers to open up those doors and provide the opportunity for minority women contractors to have a new market and new access for work.
 I thought, Mayor Harrell, your comment about power and influence with the legal minority voters was really powerful and important. And so one of the things I wanted to encourage is through these administrative rules that the housing bureaus set aspirational targets for MWSB participation. I do recognize that these are private projects, but I think just as you're, Commissioner Fish, asking for clarity in some of these requirements,
 requirements. I think to the developers, having an aspirational target is clarity. Right now, with just a good faith effort, it's not clear what the developer is going to try to accomplish, but with an aspirational target that's reasonable, I think it sets some clarity for those developers to say, okay, this is what we're trying to accomplish. So that's something, a change that I'd like to see added, but overall, our organization is very supportive of the multi-program. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. I'm John Miller. I'm Executive Director of Oregon Opportunity Network. We're here this morning, I'm here this morning, to speak in support of the change to this ordinance. I sat on the Big Look Committee back in 2012, and 2011, 2012, that was...
 It was a long and tough process. Commissioner Fish is correct. The county was pretty strict on the $1 million cap. But I think times are very different in these days. I know that the county has been making, it's the first time, direct investments in affordable housing production. So certainly they are as interested as we are and as the city council is in trying to solve the affordable housing problem.
 crisis. I know Deborah is out of the country right now, but I understand that when she gets back, she will voice her support for this. And right now, the market is just quite different than it was back in 2011, 2012. Back then, I agree with Commissioner Fish, the intent was to get
 empty fields to have housing on them. Well now, as we all know, housing development is at a frantic pace, and there are very few affordable units being built within that production cycle. So this creates an opportunity for the private sector to get engaged
 and i sat here before uh... several times and i know that uh... city uh... city hall their nonprofit community we're not going to be able to solve uh... this affordable housing crisis without getting the private sector engaged uh... as uh... commissioners also been pointed out there's only two tools right now on one is the uh...
 the SEC waivers, and the other is this program. And this program, I think the competitive nature of it currently has made it a tough option for developers. Especially in this hot market, developers don't have time to wait to see if they might get this exemption for a building that they could build right now at market rate and charge really high rates for. So it makes a ton of sense to get rid of the competitive cycle.
 Raising the cap also makes a lot of sense. Going up to 3 million, you know, we could argue it should even be higher than that, but it might be hard for the county to accept more than three at this point. Also, I think getting more MWESB firms engaged is really critical. I think when we look at the state of housing report, it's very clear in that report that most minority families are priced out of the city.
 There's two ways to solve that problem. One is to get more affordable units. The other way is to raise wages of minority workers. Getting more minority contractors engaged in this type of work will raise their wages and will allow them to purchase or to...
 occupy more of these units. Another thing that I like about this proposal is the affirmative marketing plans that the city will ask developers to have. I think one of the things we're seeing is, even when affordable units are being built, if there's not a direct outreach to underserved communities, those will be snatched up right away. And so I think that that's another very good feature here.
 The fact that tenants will be allowed to have their incomes increase in place is also a really nice element to this. Oregon On worked hard in the legislature this last session to get HB 3082 passed, which actually allows jurisdictions to implement that. That's really critical for folks as they're trying to increase their wealth and move into homeownership. And so having that in place is really important.
 One thing I would add, well actually I would just say, so we're very supportive of everything within this package. I would add that adding an option to sign up for another 10 years or even 10 years after that. So developers can continue to enjoy the abatement, but also we continue,
 continue to have the affordable units on the ground. It's really critical, so I would encourage you to see if there's a way to extend this beyond the first 10-year period. I'd also give a little bit of a nod to Commissioner Fish's suggestion that if they fall out of compliance then the full tax amount is due from the beginning of the project. That's a nice stick.
 I think people, I think it's a very good carrot, and it ought to have a good stick too if they don't comply.
 So this is a great solution. It's not obviously going to solve our affordable housing problem in the city, but it's a great step in the right direction. And we've had a few lately. The FAR bonus is another one. You know, these are all going to add up to a comprehensive solution, but we have to be sure we take advantage of everyone as they come along. Thank you. John, can I just ask you a quick question since you're here? You bet. Yeah.
 if there was an opportunity to extend beyond 10 years, but it was limited to a proportionate abatement, proportionate to the percentage of units that are affordable, would that have some attractiveness in the marketplace? I guess I would say it depends. It depends upon what the rates are, what the market rents they can get at that time. My only point is it doesn't have to be all or nothing. There might be a way to say that the abatement
 to the extent of the units that are affordable might continue as a way of extending the 10 years without the whole building getting the evasion. Yes. Yeah, I think that would certainly have, you know, again, the private sector, they're profit-oriented. And so as long as it makes economic sense for them to do that, then certainly. And, in fact, I would encourage us to figure out ways that, you know, does make economic sense and we keep the affordable units. You bet. Thank you.
 Other questions? Thank you both very much. Thank you. Others that want to speak on this item? Mr. Johnson wishes to. Come on up. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I just want to briefly echo the sentiments that Mr. Fish brought forth that we should definitely specifically ask that the large staff in the City Attorney's Office, where 40 people collect taxpayer-funded salaries,
 develop a working group and issue a report on how lost property tax revenue, in the case of a situation where the developer does not maintain these units, can be recouped. So...
 When ordinances are crafted or when we work with this, I hope that we'll follow Commissioner Fish's idea that we could have the city attorney office bring forth a report to share with this council and with the county commissioners showing that legally there is a basis for us to reclaim any property tax waivers, abatements, or whatever that are granted to people who start off providing affordable housing and
 and then feel like, oh, I really absolutely positively need to have 100 percent market rate property. There should be, as the other gentleman from Oregon Opportunity mentioned, some stick to go with hopefully a delicious carrot. That's not yet. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. I do approve of the MULT program.
 The cap I do have a concern with, and I understand Multnomah County also went up to $3 million. Where my concern is, Multnomah County and City of Portland, is you both had surplus budgets, and I don't think it would be unreasonable to even push that cap higher. And the reason why I say that is we're doing an estimation of 200 more affordable units at the $3 million cap,
 It doesn't take very long to calculate how many additional units we need out there, and the more the better. So I'm hoping that maybe there can be a discussion to actually push the cap even higher, possibly to $5 million, due to the fact we did show that we had surplus budgets. Now, another issue I have on this is that on the developers maybe utilizing this program and then not being in compliance with,
 I think if they go back to the tax rolls and begin paying tax, number one, that is a benefit to the city, Multnomah County. We need to understand that if we want to have my understanding on this program, we're at 20% of the affordable units on this program of the project. Right.
 Maybe if we go up to the 10 years and if they want to extend even farther and more benefits, they'll agree to maybe do more percentage of affordable units in their project. Maybe that can be negotiated at the front of the deals to where we can get that extension, but they agree to actually do more affordable units in the project. Again, like I say, I want to have the incentives for the developers. This offers the incentives.
 I have the concern, again, as you know, on the SDCs, any movement on that. If anything, I think they should be dropped. So everything I see here does look good to continue the developers building more affordable units and keeping an eye in that direction and understand that 200 estimated additional units is not going to be enough.
 and continue to move forward and get more units. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Anyone else? Okay. Then let's take a roll call unless there's any further council questions for staff. If we can have staff come back. Sure. Come on up. So, Andrea, this is really a first-rate piece of work. And since there's going to be some follow-up, I just want to make sure that the record's clear. Okay.
 opportunities for renewing beyond the 10 years. We would look forward to hearing back from you as if there is a way to give someone the option of extending the program that's administratively workable. Second, the penalty provision and whether we have the right mix or whether we need a bigger stick. And frankly, experience will tell us that. If people start opting out early and you sense that there's a...
 a gap in what we're trying to do, then I hope you'll come back and urge us to find a way to recapture some of the property tax abatement. Number three is a procedural question, Commissioner Saltzman. This goes to the county. The county will deliberate. The county may decide to amend. I would hope that if there's any substantive changes that they propose that you come back to us for approval.
 Because I think what you've made clear to me is that there's a linkage between dropping the competitive process, for example, lifting the cap and some other things. If the county has a different view, I hope it comes back to us for ratification. Most definitely. And the third thing is just a request. Commissioner Saltzman has added some new voices to the PHAC.
 And we've got, I think we have probably the strongest lineup we've ever had. He's got private developers, people like Dyke Dame. He's got new voices. And I would just ask that when we have policy, proposed policy changes in the future, would you please note on the council document whether it has been reviewed with PHAC and has their approval?
 Because I have found, I think Commissioner Salzman has found, that we often get some great feedback from the PHAC. And I want to just make sure that they're getting a cut of this before it comes to us so that we have the benefit of their view. In this specific instance, you know, of course we will do that moving forward, but with these changes, we actually had two PHAC meetings that they were reviewed with PHAC. Okay. Since it doesn't say that on the sheet, I think just let us know because I don't know
 They're a very independent-minded group, and we all benefit from getting their feedback. So thank you for your outstanding work. Okay, any other questions? Thank you both very much. Let's take a roll call, please. Zaltzman.
 Well, I'd like to thank the Portland Housing Bureau, Andrea, Dori von Bockel, and Javier Mena for all their hard work in doing the process to come up with these changes and to listen to all the various points of view. I appreciate the points that have been raised in the testimony and by Commissioner Fish, and we will certainly take a close look at those, and Mr. Barnes also about aspirational goals for minority participation.
 But I think this is a good program. You know, 200 units of affordable housing a year is not going to solve the problem. But as John Miller said, things are starting to come together in pieces that are slowly here and there, I think, going to be producing more affordable housing in a time when we have a red-hot market that needs more.
 proper incentives if we're going to get the amount of affordable housing that we truly need to serve all of our residents in the City of Portland. So this is a great step forward. I look forward to the county's consideration and hopeful approval of this as well. Aye.
 Novic. Really appreciate the work the Bureau has done on this, Commissioner Saltzman. Really appreciate the testimony of Mr. Miller and Mr. Jones and the support of their organizations means a great deal to me. Also appreciate the fact that when I met with Commissioner Saltzman on this, he said that he'd be willing to take a look at possibly changing the map where this tool could be used to include potentially some new and improved transit routes. I do think we need to note that
 This is $600,000 out of the city's general fund ongoing. And I think that money is going to start being a lot tighter in the next couple of years. I mean, we're going to have to start dealing with the implications of some PERS decisions, of the parks employee arbitration. We still have the issue of 13 firefighters who right now are funded from one-time funds, right?
 So I anticipate actually that within a couple of years we're going to be cutting budgets again rather than adding anything and One of the reasons I'm going to support this by the major one is that I think that a really strong case has been made Another is the Commissioner Saltzman in the past has not been shy about being willing to consider potentially unpopular budget cuts in order to fund higher priorities so I think again, we need to note that I
 spending through tax breaks is just the same as spending through the rest of the budget, and there are opportunity costs. But in this case, I think a strong case has been made. I also want to thank Commissioner Fish for his suggestions. I think that tightening up enforcement does sound like a promising avenue to pursue. Aye. Fish. I want to thank Dory, Andrea, and Javier. Thank you.
 the A team over at the Housing Bureau. I remember the big look. I actually called it the big headache. And we had to start every meeting with Kate Allen giving us sort of a primer for dummies just to make sure we understood all the moving pieces because it's so complicated. Yeah.
 And, but as Commissioner Salsman said, the goal was to reform it and align it with our policies and then three years later to come back and continue to strengthen it. And that's what you've done. And we could spend an entire day talking about some of the changes you've made.
 I hope people understand how important they are because they bring our values and embed them in this program. And if it's successful, it'll be a big win for our community. So thank you, Dan, for taking this on. I know from personal experience how hard this issue is and appreciate your good work. Hi. Hills? Well, thank you, Commissioner and Bureau and community for bringing this forward. You know, it just occurred to me just listening to this discussion that, you know, we really have an obligation to get progress.
 to get it right on three levels on issues like this. We have to get the vision right of what we're trying to accomplish. We have to get the policy right, and then we have to get the right results. And whether you look at this particular tax exemption or at the density bonus issue, which you brought forward earlier, Commissioner Saltzman, or our goals, again, vision, policy, and
 specifics on minority women and emerging small business utilization. In each case, we've got a sort of a tripartite responsibility here on the council, which is get the vision right, get the policy right, and then make sure to tune it
 that we get the results that we want. And that's obviously what you're about here in this adjustment. So I appreciate both the work and the discussion and then the willingness to keep circling back and making sure that we're actually getting the results that we need and responding, as you said, to a very different housing market than we might have had when the big look was looking. So good work. Look forward to more. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, we have, I think, one item left this morning, today, and that's 828.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Iverness 30-inch force main repair, project number E10629, for an estimated $582,000. Mr. Fish. Mayor, I think we can do this pretty quickly. Our good friend Scott Gibson is with us this morning. This ordinance would authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to hire a contractor to repair the Iverness force main.
 Inverness is a 10-mile-long pressure line that carries sewage from the Inverness Pump Station to the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Facility. This project will repair a leak in the Forest Main under the Columbia Slough Bike and Pedestrian Bridge just east of the treatment plant. And Scott will walk us through a very brief PowerPoint. Welcome. Thank you. Good morning. As Commissioner Fish said, we're going to be working on the Columbia Slough Pedestrian Bridge
 You can see in these three pictures, it shows you the location off to the right here of the bridge. And the interesting thing about this bridge is it also is a utility bridge underneath the
 the bridge are the city's Inverness force main. On the left is the larger of the force mains, which is the one that's leaking and will be repaired. On the right-hand side over here, you can see the smaller force main which is in service, and currently taking the flows that would normally go through the larger force main. The middle pipes are from methane? No, I don't think so. Those are a utility conduit going out to our facility, if we go back one.
 The Lagoon facility is across the north and the plant staff uses this quite frequently to get back and forth across between the two facilities. But it also serves as a bike and ped bridge and is connected to the 40 mile loop. All right. The project involves using two repair methodologies. The first thing we'll do is to reinforce the existing pipeline by wrapping it externally with carbon fiber.
 That will allow that external pipeline to be used as a host for the next step, which is slip lining. In this graphic, you can see we'll create two pits, a larger one to pull the pipe into and a smaller pipe just for the pulling mechanism. And what we'll essentially do is pull in a slightly smaller diameter, high-density polyethylene pipeline into the existing host pipe, and then we'll make the connections. Required to do that are two pits.
 one over here on the plant side, one adjacent to the bike-ped trail. You'll note here that the Malarkey gas pipeline is shown in this exhibit, and our exit pit or our pull-in receiving pit is very close to that pipeline, so we do have some impacts to that facility. That's what I meant. That's the pipe that carries the methane gas to the company that does the roofing materials. Exactly, yeah.
 So construction impacts, as Commissioner Fish mentioned, we have an agreement to sell digester biogas to Malarkey Roofing, and we'll need to temporarily shut down that pipeline and delay or not send them gas. They have a separate feed that comes from Northwest Natural, and the agreement allows for these types of shutdown, and we will continue to work with them as we go through construction.
 Then second impact is that for two to three months, the pedestrian bridge will need to be closed so we can have our construction equipment on the bridge safely and to pull the pipeline in. And we've worked extensively with Portland Parks and PBOT to coordinate the two- to three-month closure, as well as we'll be providing signage and mailing and other notices to the users. We'll continue to manage that during construction. The East-West Trail...
 adjacent to the bridge will not be closed, but the traffic over the bridge will need to be closed during construction. And you'll be posting well in advance so that people know that's going to happen? Yeah, absolutely. I'm actually a little surprised. Obviously, it's an estimate, so you haven't gotten bids yet, but that's a lot of work for $500,000. Well, the slip lining methodology is intended to save us a lot of money. The alternatives, working from a barge,
 up underneath the bridge from barge-based construction or cutting holes in the deck so we could lower things in with cranes and moving along was much more expensive. So these are unique construction methodologies. We've lowered our confidence in this estimate to high because we're dealing with two very unique construction methodologies. We have done our outreach to the contractors and to the industry to make sure we feel like we have a good idea on the costs.
 But that was an issue for us, is working in a small contractor pool. The next step, if you authorize the contract, is we will have the report from the purchasing agent on the results of the procurement, and then we will start construction in November, and construction will run through March. And if you have any questions, I'm here to answer. Thank you. Any more questions? Thanks very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up. Yes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X.
 The only concern I have on this, and I can be corrected on this, is I understand you have a problem with one of the lines there. And to correct that problem, you want to wrap that with carbon fiber and then slip another pipe through the center of the pipe that was possibly not working properly at this time. Now, my only concern is that...
 Were there estimates done to actually remove that pipe completely out and replace it with a brand new pipe? And are you saying that the cost will be so much less by doing this method and it's actually going to save a tremendous amount of money? Because I would think that you'd possibly want to remove the whole pipe out and replace it with something new. And when you're talking wrapping it with carbon fiber, is that just too...
 to reinforce the pipe that is currently not functioning properly. And so I have some concerns on this whole bidding process. Maybe that can be answered. First of all, thank you for keeping us on our toes. And second, if you'll cede the chair, I'll have Scott come back and answer both. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Okay. Thank you. Good questions. And you'll be asking the same questions in the fall when we come back with another project that has a similar technology. So we'll give you an answer today.
 Okay, I just want to make myself real clear, and I'll be done. Sometimes I think it's better just to replace something all new instead of kind of using some methods maybe to save money. And in the long term, having a pipe encapsulated within a pipe, in the industry standards, could that not possibly jeopardize
 the new work that is being done when you slide a pipe within a pipe over a long-term basis. So I'm looking at it from a long-term standpoint of do we need to save money or are we looking at longevity of the new pipe that we might have in there? And that's where I'm at. Thank you for your time. They're two great questions, and Scott's going to give us an answer.
 A brief answer. Yeah, absolutely. Well, it's a good opportunity for me to introduce you once again to Daniel Hebert. He's a senior engineer in our pump station engineering team, and he's responsible for engineering and planning for our pump stations.
 And he will answer the question to make sure we get it right. Dan? Okay, yeah, Dan. Let me first address the question about the carbon wrap. And the reason the pipeline failed was due to some pretty severe corrosion in that particular section of the line because of the way air and water flow through that line. It transitions almost to a gravity line at that point after it peaks on a bridge just north of that.
 So the carbon wrap is to restore the structural integrity of that 30-inch line that leaked so that it can support the internal slip lining HGPE pipe we're talking about. And the question why we did consider replacing the entire pipe, and Scott touched on that in his presentation, because of the access issues and because this pipe is above the Columbia slough,
 Access and environmental concerns, just to get to that pipe to replace it, increased the cost significantly to something in the range of $1.5 to $2 million for project costs as opposed to about $600,000 we're talking about right now.
 And in addition to the cost differential, I think Lightning's point was, is there a long-term benefit in having a new pipe that you don't get from rehabilitating an old pipe? Could you address that? Well, there's actually a long-term benefit in this case for replacing it with HDPE in this case because of the long-term corrosion problems and the flow characteristics in this part of the Inverness force main.
 It's very close to a high point where air either is drawn in or expelled from the pipeline as a pump cycle on and off. And the existing pipe was lined with, actually near the air valve, was lined with a special coating that didn't corrode. But just downstream of about 100 feet from that, it had the normal welded steel pipe mortar coating.
 mortar lining, and it's actually a concrete cylinder pipe, not welded steel, and that was what corroded severely. In fact, the top half of the internal portion of that pipe corroded away completely, and that's why it cracked and failed. So the HDPE pipe is not subject to that type of corrosion from hydrogen sulfide disintegration. So, and
 So long term, the HDP is a much better pipe choice for that particular area of the pipe. And probably in the long term, we're going to recommend looking at all the other air valve installations along that same pipeline, just as a preventative measure to see if we have similar problems. But...
 We're confident with the long-time viability of the internally aligned pipe. It looks like we get the benefit of a long-time service, plus we get the benefit of a substantially less expensive because of the location. And it sounds to me also like there may be cases where, based on the location of the pipe, you may have a different view. But because this is under a bridge in an environmentally sensitive area, because you think this will do the trick, you're recommending this approach. Exactly. And just another –
 item to consider. We did look at the hydraulic capacity of the smaller pipeline, and because this is a 10-mile long pipeline, that smaller constricted space for about 500 feet has a negligible impact on the energy requirements to pump flue dams. Thank you very much. Good. Thanks very much. Good explanation. Good discussion. Thank you. If there are any other questions in this item, pass the second reading for next week, and we are adjourned until next week.
 yeah yeah doesn't assume that he all right I look forward to hearing about your trip tomorrow yeah yeah