Oh, yeah, these are from Peter since they gave a presentation last week. Carla, are you ready? Yes. Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, August 2nd morning session of the Portland City Council. Good morning, everybody. Carla, could you please call the roll? Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Yes.
 Fritz. Here. Fish. Wheeler. Here. The purpose of council meetings, we read this at every meeting, is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone, to give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and the decorum of these meetings.
 To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everybody feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and to also ensure that the quorum is maintained. There are two opportunities for public participation. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly talk about any matter that they'd wish to address.
 These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people may sign up for public testimony on the first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time. Please state your name for the record. We do not need your full address. If you're a lobbyist, we do need to know that. And if you're representing an organization...
 please identify the organization. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. Sometimes if we have lots and lots of people signed up, we have to shorten that. It doesn't look like that will be a problem this morning. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light on that box will go on, and you'll hear a beep. When your time is up, the red light will go on, and you'll hear more beeping. Okay.
 Please do not interrupt other people's testimony. Everybody has a right to be heard in this chamber, but let's do it in the proper order of things. If you interrupt testimony or if you interrupt council deliberations, you will be given a warning. If you do not seize that, you will be asked to leave. And if you do not leave, you are subject to arrest for trespassing.
 If you want to show your support, thumbs up. If you don't like something, thumbs down. Works. Just keeps things moving if people aren't verbally shouting and whatnot. So that is it. With that lengthy introduction, Carla, please call the communications item number 85. Mayor, I apologize for being late for the roll call. If I could be noted as present. Yes. Thank you, Carla. Commissioner Fish has arrived. Duly noted. Thank you, Commissioner 853.
 Request of Kristen Bolling to address counsel regarding police, accountability, and community rights. Good morning. My name is Kristen Bolling, and I represent Empower Portland. This is the fourth time a member of our group has addressed counsel this year.
 Council Members and Mayor Wheeler, I am here today to submit that the City of Portland is conducting a campaign of terror against activists. The dictionary definition of terror is the use of violence and threats to intimidate or coerce, especially for political purposes. And that certainly describes what is happening to us right now.
 I also submit to you that in addition to the members of our community that have already lost their lives at the hands of white supremacists and police in the past year, the logical result of this campaign of terror is, one, the ruining of lives with long prison sentences on trumped-up politically motivated felony charges, and two, the death or permanent maiming of one or more of the defenders of this community that you see before you today.
 You're allowing our rights and protections to be dismantled while we are simultaneously targeted by a violent and completely unchecked police force. How else could this possibly end without effective resistance on the part of our elected officials?
 People in this audience today have been repeatedly assaulted by chemical and impact weapons on Portland streets. An ever-expanding arsenal is deployed earlier in an event in the context of conflicting instructions without escape routes and used indiscriminately against anyone and everyone. Empower Portland's Nate Cohen addressed you back in April with a detailed report on the dangers of the weapons being used then, and it's only gotten worse. Thank you.
 At the same time, police are increasingly targeting neutral observers that are there to ensure public safety and accountability. Street medics, journalists, legal observers, and cop watchers have all been assaulted, harassed, and detained this year at street events. The attacks on these protections is a particularly salient harbinger of fascism.
 Combined with the wholly inadequate and politically biased medical response by Portland Fire at crowd events, we are losing the last line of protections we have to preserve our rights and access the medical attention we need when police attack us. EMTs in riot gear ride the rails with cops, their faces covered in uniforms barely distinguishable, while we wash the chemical weapons out of the eyes of our comrades.
 Don't be fooled. Militarized medics were never what Empower Portland asked for. I also submit that this campaign serves the political purpose of maintaining a racist status quo since Portland area law enforcement targets left protesters while protecting and colluding with the racist right.
 Why else would police stand with their backs to right-wing white supremacist militia while assaulting the left with chemical weapons? Why else would PPB conduct a training to recruit the right to collect intelligence on the left on 82nd Avenue before their march of terror through the heart of the immigrant community? Thank you.
 Add to this the increasing surveillance of activists through drones, constant police filming, the infiltration of crowds, and an officer whose job is to do nothing but follow up on surveillance after protests, and the logical result is the increasing individual detainment, assault, arrest, and overcharging of individual activists, often weeks or months after an incident.
 How else can we explain these things but to conclude that there is a campaign of terror against us designed to suppress dissent and dissuade us from confronting those that threaten our community? Commissioners and Mayor Wheeler, you must stand with us to reverse this trend, this campaign of terror. We implore you.
 The activists before you right now love this city like no other. We are defending it with our liberty, our sanity, and our very lives. You must do more. Please stand to defend us by taking any of the actions I have listed in the email I will send to your office this afternoon. The liberty and future of our very city is at stake, for what befalls those on the margins is indeed what is in store for us all. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate it. Next item, please.
 Item 854, request of David Keefe Davis to address council regarding stalking of journalists, whistleblowers, and activists by city employees. I don't see him. Next item, please. Item 855, request of Jamie Burrows to address council regarding ongoing positive benefits from recreation, arbitration, and community benefits. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 So my name is Jamie Burrows. I'm a recreation coordinator at Mount Scott and then Creston Pool during the summer. Thank you. I've been working since 1999, so this is my 19th summer with Parks. The ninth is full-time. And I just want to talk about what's happened over the last four years. Recreation has seen some huge changes in their staffing levels. We went from a workforce of about 80 full-time benefit employees with the arbitration. That went up to about another 150 employees.
 And then with the voluntary recognition that we experienced, we're looking at another 300 to 500 employees that will have the potential to have benefits, better wages, all really good things. The impact of what this has had on us is how we deliver our services. It's been pretty positive and noticeable.
 We now have the robust workforce of benefited, represented employees working at or living or working at living or near living wages. Instead of the high turnover rate we've experienced in the past, we now have employees that are celebrating annual anniversaries. One year, two year, three year, really longstanding employees. The impact this has had on our patrons is continuity.
 So I just came from our weekly staff meeting. We have probably 60 to 70 lifeguards that train on a weekly basis for about an hour in the morning.
 And looking at them, I realized that over the 19 years that I've been working for Parks, I've watched them grow up. So I taught their swim lessons. Then I moved on to coach their swim teams. Then I trained them to be lifeguards. And for a lot of them, I'm their first boss. So then they go on after that to become, you know, they go on to other jobs. They become productive members of society. And it's really great to be able to watch that cycle and that continuity of lifeguards.
 You know, I get to know entire families. Like, we run out of families. I went through all their siblings, had all five of them, six of them, and now we're moving on to their cousins, their friends, et cetera. So it's a really neat cycle to watch. With that, those families then become employees, and that furthers the sense of community that is important to so many people in Portland. Thank you.
 So we just wrapped up our last contract negotiations. I'm an active member of our union. I negotiated the last two contracts. I'm on the LMBC, the task matrix, the e-board, and I'm a steward for our union. So while it's easy to say that not, you know, no contract is going to have what everyone wants on both sides, but this is a pretty good contract, and I really appreciate the efforts that we've had both on the union and as U.S. commissioners and the mayor.
 to further those relationships that we have so we can have a good contract like this. It really is important. Some people haven't seen wage increases in well over 20 years. So we get our COLAs, but it's only what is done by the CPIW, so it's not an actual wage increase. So we received that this year, and that really tells us that you value us as employees.
 that you value us as much as we value ourselves and as much as the public values us. So thank you. I really appreciate it. Mayor, can I just make one comment? You bet. First, thank you for joining us today, and congratulations on the contract. But I think there are now three former and current parks commissioners on the council. We had four in the last council. And I'm reminded that –
 One of the most harrowing moments in our respective leadership is when we hear about an incident in a pool. And what the public doesn't really maybe know as much about is that with lots of people in our pools, the chances that a child or an older adult or someone would be in distress from time to time happens. And the good news is our highly trained and highly experienced lifeguards
 on a regular basis make life and death decisions. And I think we would be remiss if we didn't communicate our deep gratitude to the work of the lifeguards in our various rec centers. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. I just got back from spending some time with my family in England, and I just want to thank you for coming in on this first morning I have back to remind me why I like coming to work. And thank you for your partnership and that of Labour's 483. Thank you. I appreciate it. So my second boss was somebody just like you. My first boss was the head of a kitchen where I was a dishwasher for two years, which was definitely the hardest job I've ever had, and I really mean it. That was a character-building experience for me.
 But working as a – my recollection is I had to get a water safety instructor certification. So people who are actually lifeguarding and teaching swim lessons have to go on and get additional certifications. And teaching little kids how to swim.
 who are often afraid of the water, have never been in the water before, with their parents watching you like a hawk to make sure that you're treating their precious little one well, was a tremendously gratifying experience and very important. And I remember the woman who I worked for was just amazing.
 Wonderful. And so as you were talking, I was thinking of the opportunities you're opening up for young people in our community, and I was one of those young people, and I'm really appreciative of it. So thank you for coming in and sharing a positive story. We appreciate it. Next item, please, Carla. 8.56, request of Jennifer Burt to address council regarding positive outcomes of the recreation arbitration and Portland's rising cost of living. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Thank you for having me. My name is Jenny Burt. I'm a recreation coordinator, too, for Citywide Recreation. And I've been employed with Portland Parks and Recreation for over 18 years, just like Jamie. I'm also an active member of Laborers Local 483, representing recreation on the past two contract negotiation teams, the recreation arbitration negotiation team, and serving as a shop steward as well as our executive board.
 As you may recall, I sat before you in February of 2016, giving testimony in support of the recreation agreement reached by Portland Parks and Recreation Management Team and Local 483, which was a direct result of the recreation arbitration ruling of May of 2015. I'm pleased to report that that agreement continues towards achieving its goal of setting clear, bright lines for the work of all recreation employees,
 and so far has been preventing further slide of represented work onto casual staff. It resulted in the creation of 150 benefited positions, returning many of the jobs lost to budget cuts over the years, and finally providing living wages to those employees, some who had been picking up the slack for years.
 The agreement also brought the opportunity of voluntary recognition of a new classification of recreation workers, which will now see approximately 300 additional employees be recognized and better compensated for their commitment and dedication to the mission of our Bureau and the city we all serve.
 I come before you today to acknowledge and thank you for the recognition, support, and commitment you have shown our local, our bargaining team, and the hundreds of employees who will, for the first time, benefit from better wages and working conditions through the REC Arbitration Agreement and our most recent, soon to be ratified, collective bargaining agreement. I believe this is a testament to your commitment as a Council towards making the City of Portland a model employer.
 However, while it is true that we have made great strides forward to achieving that goal, there is still work yet to be done. There are still countless recreation and city employees living below the poverty level struggling to make ends meet while the cost of living in our city continues to skyrocket. Although we are truly moving in the right direction, many of our represented employees still today can't afford to live in the limits of the city that they serve.
 It is my hope that Local 483 and the City can continue working together positively to ensure that someday soon all City of Portland employees have the opportunity to achieve a living wage and the City of Portland achieves the goal of being a true model employer.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners, for your time and consideration today and for your ongoing commitment to work collectively and collaboratively with us towards reaching agreements that help make the City of Portland a better place to live and work.
 And to Commissioner Fritz, thank you for your continued encouragement and support of all recreation staff. By working together, we truly can achieve great things. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you so much for taking the time to come in today. And I also want to recognize your entire union bargaining teams over the years. Anna Kenwick, Mayor, and your staff have been amazing. Harry Auerbach, lately retired from the City Attorney's Office. Yes. I'm really happy that we are moving towards paying...
 such wonderful employees the wages and benefits they deserve. Thank you. No worries. Thank you. Thank you for coming in. Thank you very much. Next item, please. 857, request of Sheikh Sharif to address council regarding community prosperity. That appears to – nobody appears to be here for 858. Next item, please. Actually, let's go to the – no, we can do it. Time's certain. Let's do 858. So go ahead and read it, please. Okay.
 proclaim August 2017 to be International Rose Test Garden Centennial Month in Portland. Colleagues, I have a proclamation, and then we have a couple of guest speakers, Kimberly, James, and Harry. If you are here, you're certainly welcome to come on up while I read the proclamation.
 Whereas the International Rose Test Garden had its beginnings in Washington Park, Portland, Oregon in 1917 as a sanctuary for European roses threatened by World War I, and whereas the International Rose Test Garden yearly hosts over 700,000 visitors from around the world, and whereas the International Rose Test Garden is the oldest public rose test garden in the United States,
 Whereas the International Rose Test Garden was recognized in 2006 with the Garden of Excellence Award from the World Federation of Rose Societies. And whereas the International Rose Test Garden represents a strong relationship between hundreds of partners, volunteers, the City of Portland, and Portland Parks and Recreation and the public.
 whereas the International Rose Test Garden is a source of pride for all Portlanders and showcases a unique role in Portland's history.
 Whereas the City of Portland is looking forward to the next 100 years of roses at the International Rose Test Garden, now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do by here proclaim August 2017 to be International Rose Test Garden Centennial Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month. And we'll go ahead and turn it over to our guest speakers.
 All right. Thank you so much. Thanks, Kimberly. My name is Kimberly Bowen. I'm the president of the Friends of the International Rose Test Garden. So thank you, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. Thank you for having us today and for honoring the International Rose Test Garden in its centennial year. The Rose Garden is an icon of the city's moniker, the City of Roses. I represent the Friends of International Rose Test Garden and the hundreds of volunteers devoted to maintaining and enhancing the Rose Garden.
 A number of them are here with us today. We contribute thousands of hours deadheading. It's pruning spent roses, guiding public tours, and answering questions about roses. We enjoy the tremendous support and partnership of your Parks and Recreation Department, represented here by Curator Harry Landers and Land Stewardship Manager James Allison. We also have a lot of other Portland Park and Rec folks here today to hear this proclamation.
 Thank you for your efforts on behalf of the City of Roses. The Friends will continue our devotion to another 100 years of blooms. Thank you, Kimberly. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, City Councilors, City Commissioners, sorry. Thank you for your support of our world-class park system that has over 144 developed parks, 73 natural areas, more than 53 community gardens. These are exceptional and essential community assets today.
 The centennial celebration recognizes many efforts and contributions of many hands across many decades. I want to thank you for your efforts, and I want to thank our partners. Portland Parks and Recreation has more than 200 friends and partners, organizations that define our work and make that work happen.
 In the spirit of collaboration and goodwill, Portland Parks and Recreation is sponsoring a community day, a free community day at the garden on Saturday, August 26th. This is going to be a full day from 11 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. where we welcome all Portlanders.
 into the international spirit of this garden in a special place. This day will feature art, music, and other performances from Portland's many cultures. And the two highlights I look forward to most are art-inspired work from more than 60 Portland Public Schools students and rose-flavored ice cream inspired by our City of Roses. Thank you again. Thank you. We appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning, Eric.
 I have the great honor of being with the garden for almost a third of its life. It seems kind of hard to believe now. I have the privilege of taking the garden to its international standing. So we're known throughout the world. That's one very proud thing that I can take with me as I retire.
 Thank you. Thank you. And, Harry, just consider yourself lucky that it was the last third of its life as opposed to the first third of its life. Yes, you're very right. Very good. Well, thank you. And, colleagues, we've had a request to have a photo with Kimberly and Harry and James. Before we do that, could I just say thank you to all three of you for being here this morning and celebrating the centennial.
 I also want to thank the taxpayers of Portland and the voters of Portland who approved the Fix Our Parks bond measure. And so in addition to the beautiful flowers, we now have an accessible walkway that will make a huge difference to everybody feeling welcome and being welcome in the garden. So I hope that people will come to the big celebration on 26th, but also now is a very good time to go out there and just walk amongst the flowers and take the time to smell the roses. Thank you, Harry Landers, for all your work. Thank you.
 WHERE WE STAND. . IT'S GOING TO BE A LITTLE AWKWARD TRYING TO DO IT NEXT TO THE TABLE THERE, SO... . . WHY DON'T I STAND THIS SIDE AND HEAR IF I COULD FOR A SECOND. . IS IT A FAIR QUESTION TO ASK WHAT YOUR FAVORITE ROSE IS? OR IS THAT LIKE, WHAT'S MY FAVORITE CHILD? OKAY, I WASN'T GOING TO... .
 Is everybody ready? One, two, three. Thanks guys. Congratulations. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. What do you think we're going to do now? I'll just roll with my fingers. It's not ten. Okay. Yeah, we'll have to. Thank you.
 Moving to the consent agenda, we can't quite go to the next time certain. Carla, which items have been pulled off of the consent agenda? 861, 862, 863, and 865. And 865. Could you please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda? Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted, and I just want to make one note. 860 was not pulled. Is that correct? Correct. All right.
 I just want to note that this was a grant to Work Systems, Inc. for the Summer Youth Program. I want to just acknowledge the City Council's leadership on the issue of summer employment for youth. We allocated $550,000 through our budget to support this in conjunction with Multnomah County and other partners.
 Obviously, engaging young people during the summer and encouraging them to think about different career and higher educational opportunities has been a priority for this council. I just want to acknowledge that through the consent agenda, we are allocating those funds. Commissioner Udailey.
 I would just like to mention that we had the pleasure of having a SummerWorks youth intern in our office. His name is Gabe. He's leaving tomorrow, and we're going to miss him. And thanks for this wonderful program. Very good. Thank you, Commissioner. Item 861, please.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University for $8,000 to provide funding for low-cost urban air quality sensor testing. Colleagues, all staff is coming up. Air quality sensors are another example of how we're moving Portland forward on protecting air quality in our neighborhoods.
 As you know, I and all of you are committed to improving air quality in Portland. And one way, in addition to monitoring, is potentially by pursuing a local air authority to protect our community. Our local air authority could monitor air quality and air toxics, set standards and issues, penalties for violation.
 I am well aware that the state continues to push for higher standards and continues to push for funding. The legislature, despite the best efforts of our colleagues, particularly from the Portland delegation and our governor, they pushed hard to get that legislation through. Unfortunately, they were blocked by others who did not share their values to air quality in this region.
 So I'm eager for the Oregon legislature to move forward, and I'm particularly hopeful that we have an ambitious dirty diesel phase-out program. In the meanwhile, as you know, colleagues, I've requested that Portland should move forward and support a regional approach. And as you'll recall, our budget...
 included funding in conjunction with Multnomah County to begin to lay out such a framework in the event that the state is not able to deliver on air quality. And I want to assure you that conversations are taking place.
 with not only the governor's team and with legislative folks. We have also had brief conversations at this point, but conversations nonetheless with LRAC, which is Lane County's regional air program, as well as folks in Metro and elsewhere that we believe have an interest in this.
 We will continue that approach. So sorry for the long soliloquy that I wanted you to be aware of that. Commissioner Fish. Thank you for those comments because for a number of us, what we've read is in the paper, and we haven't had a chance to have this conversation with you. What I think we ought to plan to do, Mayor, because the council has actually not taken this issue up yet, is schedule a work session for the purpose of laying out what the options are, who our partners are and where they stand and how we pay for it,
 And I think there's some big questions that council needs to address before we start putting the framework in place. And it's particularly important to me that we're working in lockstep with the county.
 And so I want to hear from the county leadership about where they are since this is a regional approach. So are you planning to bring something to us early this fall? It is premature at this point because there is no framework to bring forward. We're in the early stages of investigation. We're looking at other models around the state and around the country that have been successful.
 We are a long way off from who is in and who is out, and we're a long way off from determining how such a regional air authority, if created, would be financed or funded. That being said, as we all remember, it wasn't that long ago when town halls were being packed across this city with residents expressing legitimate concern about air quality in the Portland area, and there's been some...
 press out there to suggest that Portland has some of the worst air quality in the United States. And as you know, on issues like dirty diesel, we're actually way behind.
 our colleagues in the states of Washington and California. And I do agree with those who say the state is the appropriate area for this to take place and that the DEQ is the appropriate agency for this to happen. But I cannot simply punt the responsibility for air quality to the state or to the DEQ if they're not actually doing the testing and testing.
 the remediation and the penalties. And so I think there are people, you know, I believe our county chair is quoted in the paper saying she does not support
 a local approach, but knowing that papers are somewhat imprecise in terms of their statements and approaches, there will probably be some point at which if there isn't action at the state, we will have to take action. It will be our obligation so to do. But we're quite a ways from making that decision. But I do think we need to lay the foundation for it.
 And the reality is that on a daily basis we're faced with the challenge of having either a federal government, a state government, and in some instances a regional partner not addressing a challenge that we think is urgent. And what we cannot do in each and every instance is simply create a Portland-only solution because at some point we don't have the resources or the capacity. Right.
 The question of whether the State needs to step up and do more, I think, is the question before us right now. And I'm very interested, since a prior council launched this initiative, I'm very interested in knowing what our options are in that regard. I do think we have to be careful about saying that we're prepared –
 early in the negotiations to go it alone because what we are saying is we're going to shift the burden and the cost to local taxpayers when invariably the issues we're dealing with have either a state or a national component. And so that's a tactical question. There's no dispute about the goal here.
 But I am concerned about us setting expectations. And as you know, coming out of our most recent budget, you know, we're still scrambling to find money to fill potholes, to provide services for homeless people, to do a whole host of things. So I want to manage expectations. There's no question this council has said clean air matters. And we have launched a process to investigate a regional authority.
 But, frankly, I don't want to let DEQ off the hook prematurely. And if we start talking about moving forward, we're essentially letting them off the hook. And, damn it, they have primary jurisdiction. And it may be that we have parallel, some kind of parallel efforts.
 But when we are unable to meet other urgent needs right now from a budgetary point of view, I want to be very clear about setting expectations about what we can and can't do. That is fair. And I don't conceptually disagree with anything you've said, Commissioner Fish. I will say this.
 As far as I understand the process to this point, the roadblock is not other governmental jurisdictions. The roadblock are private sector advocates who believe the standards that are in place are too stringent. And the public and I certainly do not agree with that. I do not believe the standards are too stringent.
 And I actually like putting the leverage on the table of the city council because historically, I think our environmental standards will be more stringent than what the DEQ might come up with. So I will let our private sector partners chew on that a little bit. In addressing your second issue,
 saying we are absorbing the cost and the burden, we're already absorbing the cost and the burden in the form of externalities. In the absence of the state providing a rigorous framework, we don't know who's polluting, we don't know where they're polluting, and the cost is actually being borne by people who live in the community. It is a shift of externality costs onto the people who live in this community. And what the community has told me in no uncertain terms is they're done with it.
 So I agree with you, we do not have the capacity today to lay up an entirely new bureaucracy, nor do I want to. And I'm on the record many, many times over the course of my run for office saying that. But at some point, just as we stepped into the housing fray ahead of the state in order to put leverage on the state and in order to take care of the situation in our community,
 Air quality seems every bit as important to me as affordable housing, and so I'd use exactly the parallel argument we use to pass a relocation ordinance. Well, let me just close by saying that the context for this discussion is –
 a shared sense of frustration on this council agreed that on issues we care about we often find ourselves preempted by the state legislature abandoned by the federal government overturned by luba and and unclear about how we go forward so this is the context and i i applaud mayor your your um sense of righteous indignation about how we approach this problem
 I guess I go back to what I said earlier, which is since we are investigating other regional authorities, since we are talking about a possible regional approach, I think bringing the council along early on in terms of potential frameworks and what this might look like is useful.
 We have to make very tough choices about lots of core priorities, and they are mounting. And if this becomes an urgent priority that we're going to establish, staff, and fund, I think the sooner we identify what that looks like and what some of the options are, the better.
 There is no quarrel on this council about the need to attack the air quality issue. I think the question about at the federal, state, and local level who does what and who pays for it is an important question, and I, for one, do not want to let people off the hook. And in that we are in full and rigorous agreement, Commissioner Fish. There we go. Very good. So yes is the answer to your question. Sorry. Hi. Good morning. Good morning.
 Thanks for the lively discussion on air quality. That's what we like. My name is Christine Kendrick with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm here to talk to you about this ordinance to authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University to support low-cost air quality sensor testing. This sensor testing is part of an ongoing project aimed at evaluating and deploying low-cost air quality sensors. The goal of the project is to...
 understand how we might be able to use lower cost sensors to better understand air quality at the road size and at higher spatial resolutions across the landscape, and also temperature and climate effects as well.
 Portland State, with this IGA, would provide testing and evaluation of sensors by exposing them to known concentrations of gases and particles, and also while changing temperatures and relative humidity. The second stage of this test is to deploy the sensors at Department of Environmental Quality's Southeast Lafayette Station. So we're doing a multi-stage validation study. And then this work was...
 supported by two different grants received by the city, National Institute of Standards and Technology, RSCT grant, and then also 11th Hour Project funding from FORTH, formerly known as Drive Oregon. Thank you.
 And Portland State was originally named as partners in those grant applications. Very good. Colleagues, any further? Commissioner Fritz? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for your work. And I'm very happy that we are looking at this. $8,000 seems to be fairly inexpensive for a nice study by Portland State University, so I appreciate that.
 As we all know, today's going to be a very hot day, and indeed TriMet is offering free rides all day to help people not drive. It seemed incongruent to me when I got off the bus and saw a person using a leaf blower to literally blow around about three leaves, making a lot of noise. So there may be things that we can do, Mayor, aside from the big picture, regional air quality. We haven't done leaf blowers for quite some time at the council.
 but things like that that would further our climate action change plan and be things that we can do without getting into the whole wash of of what's happening at the state what what's at metro so i hope we can consider that well said thank you thank you colleagues any other commissioner saltzman so i thought the council like two years ago purchased some mobile air quality monitoring devices
 What happened to those? Mobile air quality devices? I don't know about mobile. We do have some instruments that were set up in stations at two different intersections. So right now the ones that are operating is at Southeast 122nd and Division. And that's also, those are more laboratory-grade or federal regulation-grade instruments, so not low-cost. But those give us data points to be able to test some of these lower-cost sensors. Okay.
 The idea there is that it's so hard to get air quality data at a high spatial resolution. We only have one monitoring station for all of the city of Portland. So if we can learn how to use lower-cost sensors and calibrate them against better measurements, we can get more data across the city to understand the spatial distribution. Yeah, I'm really puzzled because I recall the debate. It was a pretty well-focused debate, and it was all about these mobile air quality sensors that PSU folks could –
 take over to precision cast parts, and then they could take it over to North Portland. So you don't know anything about that? I might be also referencing the work for the XRF, which was to do air toxics mobile measurements, and that was actually to produce the instrument to analyze. And then using samplers that they already had in the Portland State University lab, they're able to go out and collect those particle samples and go do that analysis. So that's for air toxics.
 And I apologize. That's what I'm thinking of. Yes, and I apologize. I didn't say earlier. These sensors are for transportation-related pollutants. Oh, okay. So at the urban roadside at intersections and bus stops. Okay.
 Given the debate going on here, maybe I drifted to the air toxic right away. Commissioner Fritz. Sorry about that. Commissioner Fritz, I'm glad you raised the question of the leaf blowers. And I have two experiences with them. I live in a big apartment building. And on the weekend, I get woken up on the morning because there's a particular neighbor that starts blasting their leaf blower. And it echoes all up through the Vista St. Clair, presumably waking everybody up. Okay.
 And then there's a coffee place at the end of the street. There's a gentleman in the morning who fires it up and creates the mother of all dust storms as people are sitting outside drinking, you know, drinking coffee or just enjoying the day. And I've always wondered, you know, what is really going on here with those things? And then I guess the science of it is they're big polluters as well, and not just noise pollution but air pollution. So perhaps we could take a look at that.
 Is there any public testimony on this item? I didn't have a sign-up sheet, but Mr. Lightning pulled it. I'm sorry? Mr. Lightning. Okay, very good. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. One of the reasons why I pulled this item is I wanted to have a clear understanding. When we're reviewing the IGA standards,
 You have a lot of terms such as on number eight, confidentiality. You have also copyright. You have also that this information will be given only to the sponsor, which is the City of Portland. I want to have a clear understanding on this information that the public, the general public, will have access to this information.
 As you know, I have done communication on when we had the daycare center located next to that bus stop. We can do certain things to where we can have situations like that not happening. We can have a thousand foot distance from any bus stop where the diesel particulates are going up into the air and maybe drift over.
 Also, again, a great point on the leaf blower. One of my biggest concerns is that when I walk down the sidewalks, when they're using those, if there are diesel particulates that have floated out on the sidewalks and they begin to blow that up into the air again,
 We need to have more research on that to make sure that the people that are walking on these sidewalks aren't put into a dangerous situation, which I think they are. I believe they are. We need more research, again, on this type of testing to be able to look at that and say, let's not have that leaf blower used at at least a certain time when there's a lot of
 people on the sidewalks. And so there are certain things that can be implemented. There are things that should be implemented. And again, my position on all of these situations is again to focus on the fossil fuel subsidies, begin aggressively taking those away from them and transferring those into other areas.
 You know, we weren't able to keep the, what is it, the Paris Accord in place, but let's go after the fossil fuel subsidies right now and begin to transfer funding in other areas to focus on the clean air aspect of this city. And again, the diesel particulates are my biggest concern this time.
 I want more aggressive attention placed on that. I want to monitor the testing, and I want to have access to this testing as a private individual, as the public. It does not say that in your agreement. Everything is confidentiality. Everything is copyright. Everything is access to the sponsor. I want to see in these agreements that the public is able to see that the public
 will have access to the information provided by this test that is going to be done. Thank you. Thank you. Call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We'll go back to the time certain item 859, please.
 appoint Francesca Gambetti and Peter Platt to the Prosper Portland Board for terms to expire August 1, 2020. Colleagues, we're fortunate to have two excellent candidates for the Prosper Portland Board.
 of commissioners. They come from very different backgrounds but share a commitment to our city in using their talents and their expertise to make Portland a better place to live for all of our residents. I want to thank Peter Platt and Francesca Gambetti for your willingness to make a significant commitment in times of volunteering your energy to prosper Portland and its goal to build an equitable economy here.
 We have had requests in the past from people who are appointed to important commissions such as this to be present. We appreciate it, knowing you're both really, really busy. But we are hoping you could tell us a little bit about yourselves and why you want to be on the Prosper Portland Board, what you think some of the most important challenges are ahead. And, Kimberly, if you want to come up as well, Director Branham from Prosper Portland is here as well. Good morning. Good morning.
 I won't put you on the spot, but if you wanted to say anything, certainly. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Francesca Gambetti. I started my career as a project manager at Shields Oblitz Johnson nearly 20 years ago.
 I've worked in a variety of projects throughout the city over those years that were designed to strengthen communities, expand housing opportunities, and demonstrate sustainable building practices. I worked on a number of complex mixed-use projects, including the Hollywood Library and Bookmark Apartments in Northeast Portland, Museum Place in downtown, and
 I have been involved in a number of non-profit projects such as the Artist Repertory Theater, the YWCA, and Mercy Corps. Just last year I completed a couple of particularly rewarding projects. We completed the construction of Open School East, which is a really fantastic program that serves students that aren't succeeding in the traditional public school system.
 The organization has been operating with great success for nearly 50 years out of North Portland, and with this new school has now expanded to the east side in Gresham, largely in response to the shifting demographics of the region. Last year I also worked on a project with Home for Everyone, transition projects, Colas Construction, and MBA Architects. We transformed a building.
 warehouse on southeast McLaughlin into the Willamette Center's homeless shelter. This was a small project in terms of development scale, but had tremendous social impact. So it was something that I was really proud to be a part of.
 So, through all these years, I've gained a deep understanding of all aspects of project development, including acquisition, financing, community outreach, as well as the design, permitting, and construction process. I'm hopeful that these skills, in my perspective, will be an asset to Prosper Portland.
 I believe deeply in the work that Prosper Portland is doing and in the direction that Kimberly is taking the organization. I think they're demonstrating a real commitment to equitable economic development and creatively expanding opportunities.
 opportunities for low-income and minority residents. So it's something I would be excited to be a part of, and I thank you for your consideration. Very good. And if I could just mention a couple of other things that caught my attention on your resume. You've been volunteering, obviously, with Habitat for Humanity and Bicycle and Ideas for Kids. Yes.
 Empowerment, your company, which you're a co-founder of, commits a portion of your proceeds to benefit PEHR, an organization that we're all very familiar with and very happy with. It's a local organization that mentors homeless and transitional youth. So you seem to have both head and heart. So we're really delighted that you're willing to step forward and make a commitment to this board. Thank you. Thank you for being here.
 Peter, tough act to follow. Yes, indeed. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Good to see you. It's an honor to be considered for this very important position, helping oversee and guide Prosper Portland as it manages a significant pivot, both in funding and operations.
 I'm a small business guy. No two businesses or organizations are the same, but there are certain fundamentals of management and financial oversight that I'm going to bring with me to the board as well as, of course, a street-level small business perspective.
 I think it's important and vital, as Kimberly has done most recently, to remind the public that our job is to ensure that a rising tide of economic development lifts all boats, not just a few. And I look forward to working with my talented and accomplished board members as well as the equally dedicated and professional staff at Prosper Portland to ensure that that's the case.
 I will say coming from a bilingual, bicultural family, I'm going to be especially sensitive and attentive to the voices from women and from community of color in our small business community. I think we have a thriving small business sector that really is at the heart of economic resiliency in our community. And I think...
 the kind of work that prosper Portland is doing to help underwrite the wealth creation that we want to see in our communities of color is, is exactly aligned with, with my values. Um, I, uh, I'd like to thank my parents in particular because, um, they represent to me, uh, an example and demonstrate daily, um, what the marriage of two cultures, um, represents and that it's greater than the sum of its parts. Um, and, uh,
 that their devotion to public service and to our company's mission and to the values of cultural understanding are really my inspiration for being here. Thank you very much for the consideration. Peter, we appreciate your being here, and Francesca as well. Kimberly, I don't know if you had anything you wanted to add. Thank you, Mayor. Good morning. Oh, thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good morning. I think all I would add is that we are delighted that both Francesca and Peter have agreed to be considered for this. I've had an opportunity to understand the dedication that it is to be a volunteer member of the board. You know, there's an adage that citizens are the riches of the city, and I think that citizen volunteers or resident volunteers are truly at that top.
 in terms of what they are willing to dedicate. And so I appreciate in advance the leadership that I know each of them would put forward. So just really want to appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you, Kimberly. And I also just want to acknowledge and thank you for your leadership on the legacy project that was –
 that was brought forth for the public yesterday. That was an historic move, and Prosper Portland, under your leadership, obviously played a very key role in all of that. So I want to thank you and your commitment to equitable prosperity. Colleagues, any comments or questions for Peter or Francesca? I just have a comment, Mayor. First of all, thank you both for serving. This is a...
 comes close to being a thankless task, and you're going to have to manage this and the rest of your lives. So we are very grateful that you're stepping up and donating so much of your civic energy towards this. I want to just note three things that sort of touch on what you've each said, but I think are ongoing challenges. One is that how our neighborhood prosperity agenda benefits our local small businesses. Okay.
 Small businesses are the backbone of our community. What in our neighborhoods, I think about 90% of them employ five or fewer people. So how do we keep our eye on the next headquarter business while also making sure that our neighborhood small business prosper?
 That's one of our challenges, and both of you sort of alluded to it in different ways. Second is how do we bring art and culture into the urban renewal conversation? And, you know, artists and artist affordability and those issues, they are never going to be as important as the acute crisis of homelessness, the affordability challenge generally faced by renters and others. We understand that.
 but they are likewise impacted by what's going on in our city, and we are at risk of displacing a lot of creative people and also making it difficult for arts organizations to prosper. How might we use art and culture
 as part of our vision for urban renewal, particularly in places like Gateway and Lent that are still struggling to find an identity. I challenge and urge you to consider that, and also in the Central East Side. I think as you approach the ODOT blocks, there's a huge opportunity to think about art and makers in those. And the third question, and I guess this is mostly for Francesca, we do know that we're going to have fewer resources for affordable housing.
 Now, Prosper Portland is not the lead anymore. That's shifted. But for us to be successful, Prosper Portland and the Housing Bureau have to work very closely together. We will have fewer federal resources. We will have fewer state resources over time. The need is growing, and there's a limit to what we can do just on our own.
 So one of the questions on the table is, how might we rethink the way we build housing and develop housing to get more units? That's a very tricky conversation because underlying that question is a values proposition about how much are we willing to sacrifice on the values side to get more product out the door. And you will be part of that conversation about green buildings, about sustainable architecture, about living wages, and about opportunity where we build.
 And I urge you to bring your values and your passion to that conversation because we're at a critical watershed, and we have to get more units built. But the question will be at what expense to the values that support the housing that we're building. And from your backgrounds and from what I know of your work, I think you're going to be two important voices in helping us shape that conversation. So three things to think about. And thank you again for your service. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Udailey.
 Commissioner Fish, you're not supposed to tell them about the thankless part up front. We haven't even approved them yet. Take the vote, then we tell them.
 Well, I just want to thank you for stepping up to serve our community. It's very heartening and hopeful to me to have two people with street-level experience and knowledge, as you mentioned. And as challenging and thankless as it may be sometimes, there is deep satisfaction in getting to have a hand shaping the future of our city. So thank you.
 That's what I tell myself every night at least. Very good. Colleagues, I'll entertain a motion. We have testimony. Oh, I apologize. We have public testimony on this item. Just cool your heels for a few minutes. Michael W. Durrell. I guess we should say MESD Commissioner Michael Durrell. Yes. Director. Director. Excuse me. Director. Hello, gentlemen and ladies. How are you doing? I came over here to say hello and thank
 First of all, I would like to address Commissioner Fish's recent, was it a groundbreaking or a deed that actually finished the project to recover gas? Yes.
 The natural gas project. Oh, with our wastewater facility? Yes, congratulations. Thank you. That's going to save a lot of carbon dioxide. And I wanted to thank you for speaking to the pollution issue. I'm one of the people that I've got less than 50% lung function, and I have an oxygen concentrator and tanks at home in my room. Which issue number are we on? This is the appointments to the Prosper Portland Board. 859. 859.
 Yeah. I'm sorry. I got to sleep now. You know what? I got on the wrong one.
 What I actually came here for was to speak about the water filtration plants. I'm sorry. I thought I wrote on the wrong one. Michael, that's at 2 o'clock. Yeah, I know. I have a meeting with the superintendent at 1, so I wasn't able to do that. We're only taking testimony right now. But if you have a statement to read this afternoon and give it to me, I'll make sure it goes into the record. Okay, thank you. Good. Thanks, Michael. Sorry about that. No worries. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. There you go. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Just to Mark Edlund and Tom Kelly, outstanding work. And again, on the new appointments, I think you're well qualified. I think you'll do very good. And you have some tough shoes to fill. And I'll be watching you as a watchdog very close.
 One of my issues or one of my points I wanted to bring up, again, on the housing, the most vulnerable people in our city, the homeless, people that live below the poverty line. I'm hoping that, again, Prosper Portland will begin to look at following what Hawaii just did, passing House Bill 89, to begin a process on looking at the universal basic income for all through the United States.
 And I want this to be looked at very close to have an understanding. Everything we talk about is what this universal basic end plan can be implemented and help. We're talking housing. We're talking improved health. We're talking reducing the poverty level. We're talking all these areas. And we need to start focusing on that and having groups such as Prosper Portland having communication with Elon Musk.
 having communication with Mark Zuckerberg, having communication with various people in Hawaii who are the first to begin to implement this with a work group. We need to start understanding that when we're talking the most vulnerable, when we're talking housing, what we need to understand at the end of the day, they don't have enough money to get into housing.
 They don't have enough money to buy that smartphone to have access to internet. They don't have enough money. That's what universal basic income comes into play for all people. Nobody to be excluded. And that means universal basic income will be paying Bill Gates $12,000 to $15,000 a year, as well as that person on the sidewalk. So again...
 In my limited time here during public communication, when we're talking about the homeless, the most vulnerable, start focusing on that, at least take a look at it, and start having communication with people about it to have a better understanding. Thank you. Thank you, sir. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish. Is there a second? I'll second. Commissioner Fritz seconds. Any further comments, colleagues? Please call the roll, Carla. Saltzman.
 Well, I want to also acknowledge and thank outgoing Prosper Portland commissioners.
 Tom Kelly and Mark Edlin. Tom served as the chair. They both made outstanding contributions to our city, and we appreciate their service. And I also want to welcome our new members, Francesca and Peter. I'm very impressed with your backgrounds, your statements today, and I think you're going to be just the right people at just the right time. So thank you very much for your willingness to serve. Aye. Udaylee? Aye. Thank you.
 Well, thank you very much for the perspectives that you bring. I'm just reflecting on the Prosper Portland. I avoided a syntax there for not saying the old name. The board now, with Gustavo Cruz as president and Alicia Mullen-Capria and both of you, and Pop Quiz Mayor, who's the fifth member? I'm sorry? The fifth member of Prosper Portland. Sorry, I was reading the next slide. Okay, well...
 Oh, of course, Willie Myers. Thank you. Sorry, as presiding officer, I was trying to stay two minutes ahead. That was cheating. Well, I just want to reflect that this is an amazingly diverse board who brings so many different perspectives, and I'm very excited to know your backgrounds as well and what you're going to be bringing to the commission and to the city as a whole. So thank you very much. Bye. Bish? Bish?
 I want to echo what my colleague said. I also want to thank the mayor and the mayor's office and Kimberly and her team who are charged with recruiting new members. People don't just drop from the sky, and this has been a successful recruitment as evidenced by the two people before us. I understand we're going to break with some tradition at PDC and start meeting at a local restaurant after hours, so thank you, Peter, for that act of generosity. You're probably the first restaurateur
 at this organization since Bud Clark was mayor and was overseeing it. Am I right on that, Kimberly, maybe? So it's about time we had a distinguished restaurateur on our panel, a business person. Thank you both for stepping up and doing it. And we have a lot of really difficult decisions to make as the city goes through growing pains. And you're going to be in a unique role where you get to help us get it right. And we look forward to working with you. So thank you. Bye. Thank you.
 I just want to thank you both for stepping forward and again remind the public that these are volunteers and that this is a significant time commitment from two people who are very active and engaged in positive ways already in the community. So we're very, very lucky. We're fortunate to have people of this quality willing to step forward and,
 and take on this role. And absolutely, I want to echo Commissioner Saltzman's remarks about Mark Edlin and Tom Kelly, both who served this board with distinction. I have every confidence that you will continue a great tradition and continue to work with Director Brown and moving Prosper Portland into important new directions. So thank you for your leadership. I
 The report is accepted. The appointments are approved. Thank you both very much. Thanks, Kimberly.
 We were halfway through the consent agenda item. I believe 862 is next. Carla, if I've got that right, please read 862. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Prosper Portland for fiscal year 2017-18 economic development activities for a total of $6,021,910. Very good. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 And, colleagues, if I could just make a brief introductory statement. This is already an issue which has been discussed in public forums as part of our budget process. This is actually the allocation of the general fund towards Prosper Portland for fiscal year 2017-18. So this is not a new item. This is the allocation. Thank you.
 with that little primer. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. Commissioners, I'm Tony Barnes, Budget Officer, Prosper Portland. The item before you is that annual intergovernmental agreement between Prosper Portland and the City of Portland. It includes core key funding for building inclusive economy, both
 Both ongoing funding, as mentioned in the budget process, as well as one-time funding identified. Of the total contract of $6 million, approximately $5.5 million represents the ongoing funding in about $480,000 in one-time funds that was allocated through the budget process. Included in the contract are specific performance measures that we report on through the bump process. And then we have the budget process.
 as well as year-end reporting for specific performance measures. Colleagues, any questions on this item? Public testimony? I didn't have a sign-up sheet, but Mr. Lightning pulled it. Did you want to make a statement? I'm just here to answer questions. Very good. What he said. You can go ahead and have a seat, and if there's any follow-ups, we'll bring you up. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Again...
 From the entrepreneurship and the innovation by the money that you're proposing and already have approved, I understand that. I agree with all the areas that you're going into. And one of the things, I guess, from my standpoint is that I had – the reason why I pulled this, I had a little bit of an issue on one of your items here, which basically –
 was on the small business working capital. The small business working capital program is utilized to increase access to capital for small businesses. The aim of the program is to promote wealth creation for small-scale, low-income, immigrant, and or minority-owned firms.
 target businesses who aim to grow their businesses as such resources are prioritized. Now, the only concern I had on this is that you had a number there of, and I think you know what I'm talking about, of 51,000, where on these other programs the numbers were quite a bit higher. We're talking about a good amount of money that has been approved. And so I guess from my position, I'm hoping that this, to me, is such an important issue that,
 for the survival of these businesses, especially starting out and sustaining themselves. But we had such a low number there, and I'm hoping, number one, in the future, that number could increase. Yes.
 and maybe somebody here could explain why that number is so low to begin with when these other programs, as you can see, the numbers are quite a bit higher to begin with, and they have more businesses that are being provided this type of money. Thank you. Thank you. I don't know if there's a response from the team on that.
 Well, thank you. In response to the question, that line item was reduced in the last two budget cycles. However, it is paired with other dollars. Prosper Portland has, within its adopted budget, for non-TIF funds to support the same programming. So there's, I think, several hundred thousand dollars in other non-general fund, non-TIF funds that it's paired with. Very good. Thank you.
 All right. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions, comments? Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Just one historical note.
 I believe at the end of the Adams administration, and it had an impact with the coming in of the Hales administration, that this council voted to convert one-time money for economic development at what is now called Prosper Portland to ongoing. It created a bit of a delta in then-Mayor Hales' first budget. But the idea was that we wanted Prosper Portland to be a place where we could have a good,
 then PDC, to have this very flexible general fund resource so they could do economic development citywide and not just in the 15 percent of the city governed by urban renewal districts.
 And so this is a commitment of general fund resources to economic development. And once upon a time, most of these dollars were one time, meaning they were quite vulnerable. So I was very pleased that we moved them to ongoing, and I'm pleased to support this ordinance. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you very much. I believe 863 was the next item.
 Authorize charitable organizations eligible to participate in the city's 2018 charitable campaign. And authorize exemptions from umbrella requirement for Portland Parks Foundation and Portland Fire Bureau Toy and Joymakers. Good morning. Good morning.
 Happy to be here. I'm Jane Brayton and I manage the OMF Business Operations Division. We're here today to ask for authorization for our next city charitable campaign. That campaign is set to begin in September and run through the first part of October. That's our annual effort to raise money for a lot of different charities.
 So we received 15 applications for our charitable campaign this year, and our advisory committee made up of representatives that the council appoints has recommended approval of all of them. This ordinance would approve the 15 and also approve an exemption from the umbrella requirements in code for two of our charitable campaigns.
 organizations Portland Parks Foundation and Portland's Fire, Toy and Joymakers. They have received your approval in the past and they have a loyal following and are charitable donors so we are asking for your approval again. These umbrella organizations and those two represent more than 600 charities
 And we have about 600 employees who participated last year giving $281,000 to charities through this campaign. They can use the payroll deduction process, and it really reflects an important way that employees can do charitable giving and perhaps do it at a higher level since they are doing a payroll deduction plan.
 So I have with me Kelly Ball, who managed that effort in her team, and we're happy to answer any questions that you have. Very good. Good morning. Good morning. So did you say that 600 employees gave $281,000 in last year's campaign? Those were our totals for last year. Is that about the total from year to year, or does it fluctuate a lot? Yes.
 It seems to be bumping. It bumps up incrementally each year, but we're also recognizing that there are other ways that employees donate. They don't necessarily have to do that through the charitable campaign, so we're very careful to word that this is one way that they can participate. But it is fairly...
 Fairly stable. Okay. A little bit this way, that way. Okay. Commissioner Udaly? I just have a couple clarifying questions since this has been pulled. Could you explain the selection process for this list as well as why that umbrella requirement is there? Because I'm assuming the Parks Foundation and Toy and Joymakers –
 Are non-profits? Yes. They don't have fiscal sponsors? I think the umbrella thing is confusing. This was approved with, we can credit Mike Lindberg, former city commissioner, for actually creating the initial code for this campaign. I think the original intent of the umbrella organizations is that one of the things that our...
 city campaign is different from what other people joining the city might expect is we have an incredible choice amongst our organizations. So the umbrella helps us be able to give employees a choice of 600 organizations rather than... I see. I was reading that as if
 the organizations are the umbrella organizations, and then they dole out the, I got it. Okay, and so then what's the selection process like? The selection process is that we have application materials online. We do marketing, certainly, to all of our previous organizations, but we also get information from our advisory committee if we need to do some additional outreach. And we received 15 applications, and we're actually recommending all of them online.
 And what's the advisory body called? We call it the City Charitable Campaign. Okay, so it's just devoted to this. It just comes together to provide some oversight in reviewing the applications, make sure that we're meeting all of the code requirements, and that the council is assured that there was that additional review. Great, thank you. Very good. All of you can leave further questions. Is there public testimony on this item? Mr. Lightning pulled it. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Again, on your charitable campaign and the umbrella concept, I'm in total agreement. I think it's great. I think it's something really positive that you're providing. Now, where I have an issue here on this ordinance today is that you are asked to authorize an exemption from the umbrella requirement
 for two different, the Portland Parks Foundation and the Portland Fire Bureau Toy and Joy Makers. So you want an exemption from what I think is a great plan you put into place and have implemented in a positive manner. Now, here's my problem.
 Under Code Chapter 5.10, charitable organizations may only participate in the charity drive as a member of an umbrella organization and must be approved by City Council based on compliance with eligibility requirements set forth in Code Section 5.10.040. Portland Toy and Joymakers and Portland Parks Foundation do not meet the requirements...
 However, both have participated in the previous 13 campaigns and both have requested to participate again. The Charitable Campaign Advisory Committee, comprised of representatives from each council office, recommend approving participation by these organizations. Again, there are other great organizations that I think can meet the requirements of the umbrella
 plan, and yet they're being denied that opportunity, and you're giving two exemptions to these groups here. Now, my only question is, why don't they meet the requirements, and why are you giving them two exemptions at this time, which I do not approve of? Thank you. Is there a response to that?
 I think one of the items that we covered was the applications that we received. So those were the ones that we received. I also, with having a little bit of background, Portland Parks Foundation and the Fire Bureau, Toy and Joy, are also affiliated with city bureaus and organizations. And they do activities that are very closely aligned with the missions of those organizations. And they do have...
 you know, now a very loyal donor base within our city employees. So I believe that that's why we have continued to recommend an exemption for those organizations. Toy and Joy is small and may not have the infrastructure to meet the umbrella requirement to donate to nine different organizations.
 And the Parks Foundation, they've had some changes over the years, and they may elect to grow to meet that or they may elect to continue an exemption. But we would also, of course, be willing to consider any other requests for exemption and have the committee evaluate that and are perfectly open to that. So could I just ask a clarifying question? So these are the organizations that we're –
 authorizing here are all of the organizations that applied? Correct. And of all of the – so no organization has been excluded? Correct. So the question really before the council is, are we also willing to accept these two charitable organizations that don't meet the minimum threshold requirements that were previously established for charitable organizations? Yes.
 And if I can just paraphrase to make sure I got it, the argument that you're providing is, A, they're affiliated with city bureaus, and, B, they have successful operational histories. Is that a fair statement or no? I would say the other thing is that they also meet all of the other requirements. So there's a requirement about their administrative costs per charity. There are other requirements, and these two meet all of them with the exception of the umbrella. Okay.
 With the exception of the umbrella. Okay, very good. Colleagues, any further questions? Commissioner Fritz? Thank you, Matt. So potentially we could change the code and say and add bureaus, charities affiliated with city bureaus that also meet all the other requirements. That way we wouldn't have to keep doing an exemption every year.
 We're certainly open to looking at a code refresh. Something to consider. And also, I consider the Portland Parks Foundation is like an umbrella organization. It does fund lots of different projects all over the city in partnership with other nonprofits. So I'm very happy to vote for this ordinance. Thank you, Commissioner.
 And we should also put a shout-out for just the whole program, because once you sign up, the money mysteriously gets deducted from your paycheck, which is the easiest way to do charitable giving. So thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Very good. Colleagues, any further comments? Please call the roll call. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. I believe the last consent item was 865. Is that correct? Yes. Correct.
 865, authorize a grant agreement of $21,307 with Southwest Trails for the development of the Robert Gray Trail for the period of July 20, 2017 through December 31, 2017. Carla, who pulled this? I pulled it. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. This grant to Southwest Trails PDX...
 is a long time coming and will fund a volunteer project that I know all of our offices have heard about for a couple of years now. And that is the Southwest 25th Avenue, which is a classic Southwest Portland unimproved right-of-way that is used by numerous students and community members to move around the neighborhood and to get to school, get to Robert Gray School. Robert Gray Middle School is directly in the path of Southwest 25th Avenue.
 and where it crosses Beaverton-Hillsdale Highway, a pedestrian signal and crosswalk exist. However, directly south of the Beaverton-Hillsdale Highway, it steeply drops down to the gully and creek that runs along the highway, and it is this location that the grant will fund a much-needed trail improvements, including stairs with handrails.
 Matt Grom of my office is here with some pictures to orient the council on exactly where this is and the need, and then we'll open it up for any testimony. So thank you. Matt, take it away. Thank you, Commissioner, Mayor, Commissioner, Council. Good morning. Great to see us all together here. It's been a while. Matt Grom with Dan's office. And just some pictures here quickly to orient the council on what we're doing here. Here's a above shot of the middle school. You'll note on the screen.
 The cursor here. This is the highway, Highway 10 here, and this is the right-of-way that is unimproved. Get a little closer, you'll see the unimproved area. It comes here, this is a pretty steep little gully. Here's the crosswalk with the pedestrian signal that goes right up to the school. Here's a shot of it as we're going to cross the highway. You'll note here, there's a sign for the trail right here, and you drop down right after this guardrail.
 You can see that opening there at the guardrail, dropping down in there. This is my favorite shot of Assistant Director Warner trying to go down it. He was embarrassed for me to show this, but I couldn't resist. There's a better shot of the steepness that we are going to improve here. There's a shot of the trail. And that's really what I wanted to orient you and hope to have your support. Thanks. Very good.
 Commissioner Fritz? I couldn't tell from the photograph. Is there a sidewalk on that side of Beaverton-Hillsdale Highway? There is not. There's a bike lane, but no sidewalk. And by memory, that's the Oregon Department of Transportation who's responsible for Beaverton-Hillsdale? Correct. It has just been repaved and restriped, which was a great project that PPOD was involved with, with ODOT, but it does not have sidewalks. So potentially in our next legislative agenda, we should look at encouraging that to happen, because although the trail will be improved,
 It's a little nerve-wracking to realize that there's no way once you get down the hill. Exactly. Very busy, too. Is there any public testimony on this item? I didn't have a sign-up sheet, but... Very good. Thank you. Come on up. Thanks, Matt. Anybody else want to testify on this? We'll close the list, please. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Glenn Bridger. I'm a resident of Southwest Portland, and I'm a member of the board of Southwest Trails PDX, and I'm here to speak on behalf of the board. Our leaders, Don Bach and Dave Manville, are traveling into cooler parts of our country right now. We are in support of this much-needed grant. This trail is really a...
 or a spine through many cultural religious activities in southwest Portland. There are very few ways to get through this area. The crossing of the headwaters of Fano Creek makes it more difficult, which you saw the picture of. We have on the north side of Beaverton Hillsdale Highway
 number of churches, synagogues, and of course very much the Robert Gray School. As we go south along on Southwest 25th and get down to Capitol Highway, we are in a cluster where the Middleman Jewish Community Center, a couple of more synagogues and more churches are present, as well as a lot of housing complexes. So it is an important passageway for people who wish to worship and go to school.
 We need this for safety. You saw the pictures. We need it for safety. I myself have a problem with balance. I have not gone down to the actual crossing because I've been there many times. I don't go down there because it needs good steps. It needs the handrails. It needs to be safe. And we very much support that project.
 And at this time, I'd like to let one of our volunteers who lives right along this corridor and has been doing a lot, proceed. Andrea? Yes. Hello. Good morning. Morning. My name is Andrea Wall. And first of all, I want to thank the City Council for approving on June 21st my grant for the community watershed stewardship grant.
 And so I received an $8,000 grant. And I have been working with a very diverse group of community volunteers on the south end of this trail up by Capitol Highway.
 removing invasive plants, planting native plants, providing stormwater management, and creating habitat. So I've been working with Solve and Stevens Creek Low Cross Housing and many community volunteers who all care about this trail. This is the way we get around.
 As mentioned, the last about 500 feet of this trail, which you saw pictures of, is unsafe. And Portland Public Schools has deemed it so unsafe that they bus the junior high school students, middle school students, from Stevens Creek to Robert Gray, rather than have them walk this stretch of trail.
 And also down in that ravine is a huge red western cedar tree, western red cedar tree that we're hoping will receive heritage status. And close to the headwaters of Fano Creek. So it's really kind of a special place down there. And we hope to do restoration work once it's safe again.
 and when it is safe, it will provide a community trail that's a safe nature trail. It will give people an opportunity to get exercise, to get out in nature, and instead of the children being bused or driven, Robert Gray, they can walk, and that will relieve traffic congestion, pollution, and cost to the school district. Thank you.
 Thank you all for your advocacy. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions on this item? Thank you for your testimony. Carla, please call the roll. It goes to a second. I'm sorry. This is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. So in that case, could I comment? Thank you.
 Please comment. I want to thank Glen Bridger for your long-time support of volunteer activities in Southwest Portland, including being past president of the Southwest Neighborhoods Inc. Board. Also, of course, kudos to Don Bach, who has been a champion for this project, as well as the trails throughout Southwest Portland. It's astonishing to me that for $21,000 and a little bit more, this project,
 path right of way can be made safe and so I particularly appreciate also the work that you've done at the legislature to make sure that there's immunity for mishaps on the construction after the trail's been constructed. I seem to remember that when this was approved in the budget the principal of Robert Gray had fallen and broken her arm in this very spot so I hope that she now knows that we are correcting it even if a bit late for her safety so thank you very much.
 Colleagues, any further comments before I pass this on to second? This is a non-emergency reading of a first ordinance. It moves to second reading. And Carla, am I correct? Could you confirm we've completed the consent agenda? Yes, that was all. Very good. Our last item today is 866.
 Authorize City Attorney to appeal final opinion and order in Columbia Pacific Building Trades versus City of Portland Land Use Board of Appeals number 2017-001. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Lindley Reese. I'm a Chief Deputy City Attorney with the City Attorney's Office. With me today is Lauren King, also a Deputy City Attorney. We'll make some brief comments, and then if you have questions after testimony, we'd be glad to take them.
 In December 2016, the City Council amended the zoning code to create a new use category called bulk fossil fuel terminals. That category limits the size of new fossil fuel terminals and the expansion of existing terminals. Four parties appealed Council's decision to the Land Use Board of Appeals. And on July 19, 2017, they reversed the City's decision in part because they concluded that the City's regulations were unconstitutional.
 The city attorney's office believes that there's a reasonable basis for asking the Oregon Court of Appeals to reconsider Luba's decision. By city code, we must ask this council to authorize the city attorney to institute such an appeal. And that's why we're here before you today. Very good. Commissioner Fish? Lindley, I have a question because...
 you know, there's some lawyers in the room, but a lot of us sort of had some passing whatever with the, quote, dormant commerce clause, but now it's back and it's like the big issue. I want to just make sure I understand the framework here. So there are areas where we legislate that someone has said we're preempted from acting, and so we deal with that all the time. The state legislature or the federal government says we can't do something. That's very clear.
 This is different. This is an example where we did something and a reviewing body said under the Commerce Clause, what we did somehow unreasonably affects interstate commerce, and therefore what we did is unconstitutional. The effect is the same. In the first instance, we are told we can't do something, and in this instance, we're told that what we did is unconstitutional.
 In effect, that's what we're dealing with here, right? This is an area where we have the right to legislate.
 But a single member of LUBA said that it runs afoul of the Dormant Commerce Clause and therefore is unconstitutional. And the question that you're asking us is, are we prepared to go to the Court of Appeals to challenge that ruling? Both to challenge the determination under the Dormant Commerce Clause, as well as a couple of findings and evidentiary issues, which we're in the process of evaluating ourselves.
 other areas to determine whether we'll appeal on those bases. Okay. And the other question I wanted to ask is, you know, we're always concerned about precedent. Now, I know that you often tell us that each LUBA decision stands on its own and is fact-bound. But it does seem to me the difference here is that the dormant commerce clause analysis is
 could represent a challenge to a lot of the regulating we're doing at the local level, where someone from outside of our community can claim that it somehow interferes with interstate commerce and therefore try to limit our ability to legislate local community standards. Is that a fair comment? It's a fair comment that folks may raise. I think our argument would be typically in a case that
 The analysis is limited to the facts in that particular case, and so I don't think we certainly would be supporting the idea that it applies more broadly, but it's certainly possible that people could raise that argument. And, in fact, given that we have a rather ambitious climate agenda and a plan guiding our action, I mean, this particular issue could come up
 in the future on lots of these kinds of land use decisions where someone is challenging our action based on the Commerce Clause. Yes, that is possible. So we're really talking about a fundamental constitutional question that relates to our ability as local leaders to legislate. And I think that makes this qualitatively different than some of the other kind of LUBA rulings that we often hear about. Yeah, it's unusual for the city to appeal a LUBA ruling. Thank you.
 From a practical standpoint, what is our policy while this is being appealed? We're evaluating that at this time. Very good. Are LUBA members attorneys necessarily? They are. They're appointed by the governor.
 So Commissioner Fish made reference to one LUBA member. In this particular instance, there are three LUBA members. Two of the LUBA members recused themselves based on family member participation in the council proceedings.
 And I'd just like to add the hilarious footnote that that was reported in the press as a unanimous decision. Yeah, really. That is baffling. Typically a one-person decision is. A one-person decision absolutely is. They could have said unilateral. That's funny. Sorry. You know, and colleagues on that point, I mean –
 You know, it's certainly possible that all three members of LUBA could get it wrong from our point of view. But I do think that what makes this case unique is that we're talking about a fundamental constitutional question decided by a single member of LUBA, which could in the future...
 significantly limit our ability to move forward with climate-related legislation. And I think the combination of a single person rendering a decision, and we are all as human beings fallible, and the consequences of that decision on things we are likely to do in the future makes this case ripe for appeal. Yeah, and I appreciate Commissioner Fish's line of questioning. That certainly frames it for me and lays it out. So I appreciate the line of questioning you just went through.
 Colleagues, any further questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. There being no further comments or questions, this is a non-emergency. Resolution. Oh. Resolution. Please call the roll. Seltzman. Well, I do believe, especially in light of my new information, that this was decided by one person on LUBA, that we have more than ample grounds here to appeal this to the Court of Appeals today.
 I guess my initial reaction when I first heard of the decision, the unanimous decision, was, you know, the Commerce Clause is a pretty high bar to cross. And...
 And certainly the Court of Appeals will, I'm sure, weigh into this after how long it takes them. I don't know, a year, two years. But it's an important issue. It does underpin, as Commissioner Fish said, many of our efforts to move forward on issues around climate change and many other issues where our residents are looking more to local governments for solutions than they're looking to the state or the federal governments because...
 certainly with respect to federal government, there's just no leadership on climate change in the executive branch, period. So this is an appeal that needs to be taken forward, and I'm happy to support it. Hi. Hugh Daly. I'm also happy to support this appeal. My layperson's understanding of the dormant commish clause, I am not convinced that we're in violation of it, and I am also...
 ready and willing to fight back against the state interfering in our ability to protect our environment and to protect our residents and make what we think are the best decisions for our city. We need them to set standards that protect people, not profit. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz? I agree with everything everybody else has said. Also, there's a long precedent of land use decisions made by the Land Use Board of Appeals being on land use issues and not constitutional law. So I agree that it's very crucial to get this sent up the ladder so that we can continue doing the work that we do. Because this was a national precedent-setting legislation that we passed. And I'm proud to be part of it. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? I appreciate the conversation. Again, I think the fundamental question here is who gets to decide these questions. And under this ruling, greater weight is given to people who live outside of Portland than live inside Portland.
 and the precedent could be used to challenge many actions we are likely to take in the future to protect the safety and health of our residents, and it extends well beyond climate change. So I think it's very important that we appeal this decision.
 It reminds me a little bit of the debate around international treaties and the resistance that we've had nationally to some treaties where we have effectively ceded our sovereignty to neutral bodies in another country, and the net result is a diminution of labor standards, environmental standards, and other things.
 I think the consequence of this, and that may be a little overstated, is potentially a loss of sovereignty, local control over charting how we intend to respond to climate change. That makes this a very important question to appeal and to get clarity on the constitutional question. So I wholeheartedly support this appeal. Aye.
 I have three reasons why I will vote for this. Number one, I agree with those who have said that, you know, overtly this impacts the work that we have already done to achieve our climate action goals. We need the ordinance in place. It was an important ordinance. The community came out.
 in large numbers to speak in support of that ordinance, and they would expect us to continue to defend that ordinance. Number two, and I'm very appreciative again of Commissioner Fish's framing of this issue, he made a compelling case which I agree with,
 that there is more at stake here than that important issue of climate change. And so that is a second reason why I think it is our duty to defend the ordinance.
 And the third reason is one that has been mentioned. I'm not going to pick on the poor one standing LUBA commissioner who had to make a difficult decision. They are volunteers, and I appreciate the decisions that they make, and they're always controversial decisions. But one commissioner's decision.
 viewpoint is hardly a definitive opinion on this important issue. And therefore, I think we have a duty to go forward and defend the ordinance for that third reason as well. So I certainly support this. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted, and we are adjourned until 2 p.m. Thank you, everybody.
 Here, so we have a statement that we read at the beginning of all council sessions. The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business and to include hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from the councilors before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and the core
 To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everyone feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and also to ensure that decorum is maintained.
 Today, there is one item that will be under discussion, and if you'd like to participate in that conversation, please sign up with the council clerk. State your name for the record. You do not need to give your full address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. If you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization.
 Typically, individuals have three minutes to testify. Sometimes we have to shorten that depending upon how many people sign up to testify. When you have 30 seconds left, there's a little yellow light in front of you that will light up, and there's a beep when your time is up. The red light goes on, and it will beep repeatedly.
 To be clear, disrupting other people's testimony is not allowed. Disrupting counsel deliberations is not allowed. The time for you to speak is if you want to sign up and participate in the public testimony along with everyone else. If you do disrupt the testimony, you will be warned not to do so. If you continue, you will be asked to leave.
 If you are asked to leave and you choose not to do so, you're subject to arrest for trespassing. Hopefully none of that ever happens. Thumbs up if you like something. Thumbs down if you don't like something. That's the best, easiest, and most non-disruptive way for people to express their opinions on what's being said. So with that, we will move to the first item, Carla.
 And 867, comply with Oregon Health Authority's order to drink drinking water from the Bull Run Watershed for Cryptosporidium by submitting a compliance plan and proceeding with updating the design and construct an ultraviolet treatment facility. Commissioner Fish. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor and colleagues, and welcome. Ten weeks ago, the Water Bureau received an order from the Oregon Health Authority revoking the city's 10-year variance from treatment requirements of the LT2 rule, which is part of the Safe Drinking Water Act. The revocation followed repeated detections of cryptosporidium in the Bull Run watershed this past winter. Originally, the revocation was effective September 22nd,
 which put us on a very tight timeline to make a decision about the future of our system. Since that letter was received, the Portland Water Bureau has initiated a robust public debate about next steps. Here's a summary. A council work session on June 27th. The Bureau prepared comprehensive data and documentation on the treatment options to inform the community conversation.
 The Bureau reached out to large and small stakeholders, including wholesale customers, for their input. The Portland Utility Board, which provides community oversight of our two public utilities, held four meetings on this topic, including as recently as yesterday. The Oregon Citizens Utility Board met with Water Bureau staff, requested additional information, and has submitted its recommendation to Bureau leadership.
 There were presentations to editorial boards and much more. I want to begin this hearing by thanking the Bureau for stepping up to take on this challenge during an already busy time. They have provided briefings, pulled together information, run analyses, and otherwise devoted enormous time and energy to ensuring that we have the information we need to make a thoughtful decision.
 Now, before we proceed, let's pause for a moment to consider the context for this afternoon's conversation. It's about 107 degrees today. Wildfires are raging across Oregon. We saw historic levels of rain in the watershed this past winter. And we anticipate more of this disruptive weather, not less, in the future. Climate change is no longer debatable. We are feeling its effect here in Portland and around the globe.
 And we've all had our eyes open to the reality of a significant Cascadia subduction zone earthquake, the big one, which we now know is a question of when, not if. We are very fortunate that 19th century Portlanders had the foresight to secure the Bull Run watershed as Portland's primary drinking water source. They were thinking 100 years ahead and planning for the future.
 Today, we are called upon to prepare our system for the challenges it will face over the next 100 years, be they regulatory, environmental, climate, or otherwise. As Commissioner in Charge of the Water Bureau, I approach this question through the lens of public health, regulatory compliance, cost, and stewardship. And I have some history on this issue. In fact, in 2009, Commissioner Saltzman, Commissioner Fritz, and I participated in a similar debate.
 and at that time the Council consensus was to seek a variance with UV treatment as a backup. As I recall, we were primarily focused on cost, including the cumulative impact of major capital projects at both utilities, including the $1.4 billion big pipe. Colleagues, today here is my ask. I ask you to listen to the presentation from the Bureau and to the perspective offered by our invited guests and the public.
 and then to see whether we can come to consensus on a preferred option. While the Mayor and I have secured an additional 60 days to respond to the Oregon Health Authority with our compliance plan, I still hope that we can reach a decision today and then spend the extra time engaging the pub and the cub as we develop our plan. These two oversight bodies have offered thoughtful and productive advice.
 And it's important to me that we have the time to review and offer feedback about the Bureau's response before it is finalized and submitted to our regulators. So what are the choices before us? Over the last 10 weeks, I've heard loud and clear from stakeholders, including our oversight bodies, rate payers, public health agencies, editorial boards, business leaders, wholesale customers, and many others, that we have essentially three choices. Option one.
 Build a UV plant to strictly comply with the rule. Option two, take a phased approach that implements UV treatment in the near term while planning for a long-term solution that could include filtration. Option three, think long-term and proceed right to filtration. But I want to be clear. I've also heard loud and clear that doing nothing is not an option.
 Now, reasonable people can and will weigh the various factors, cost, risk, resilience, regulatory uncertainty, and many other factors differently, and they will reach their own conclusion. Between the discussion we had in June at the work session, the feedback we've heard since then, particularly from our oversight bodies, the information the Bureau has provided, and the testimony today, I hope that we can come to a decision on a preferred option by the close of the hearing.
 Now, run of show. I asked the Bureau to prepare and file a placeholder resolution for our consideration today. In our conversations with the community about the three options, the hybrid option, the so-called UV+, seemed like a possible middle ground. It is, however, just a point of departure for our conversation. It is a placeholder. Before we proceed with the presentation today, I plan to offer a substitute resolution
 to give the council another option and to make sure that both options are on the table as you testify. And I will also offer a number of amendments that directly respond to the feedback we've received from our oversight bodies. Finally, Mayor and colleagues, here is the run of show. We've invited city staff to review the primary options and to provide you with additional information about them and to answer your questions.
 We'll then move to a panel with several invited guests who will provide additional perspectives, and then we will open it up to the public for testimony. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. So, Commissioner, you'd like to offer up a substitute resolution? Yes, Mayor. So the resolution before the council is the so-called hybrid option or the UV+. And I have a substitute resolution I want to offer and a number of amendments. Okay.
 And, Mayor, I will pass these down as packets from my colleagues. And, Carla, I apologize. I have one for you, but I should have left it at the table. And I'll just walk you and my colleagues through this packet. Fish Amendment 1 is a substitute resolution. And I have provided it to you, colleagues, as a clean version and as a redline version.
 and what this simply does is it substitutes filtration for the hybrid option as the preferred option. Fish Amendment 2 addresses a concern that we've heard from many in the community about protecting the Bull Run watershed and ensuring that current and future environmental protections are honored. I will read Fish Amendment 2.
 Quote, be it further resolved that the City of Portland will continue to advocate for strict environmental protections to preserve and protect the Bull Run Watershed for future generations, regardless of any final decision about water treatment in the Bull Run Watershed. Fish Amendment 3 addresses concerns raised by a number of parties and my colleagues concerning the impact of additional costs to our rate payers.
 It reads as follows. Be it further resolved that the Portland Water Bureau will seek to optimize and enhance its discount programs to lessen the impact of rising water rates on low-income customers. Fish Amendment 4 is an amendment that addresses a request we've heard from many parties that there be locked into code annual reporting. And it reads as follows.
 Be it further resolved that the Portland Water Bureau will submit an annual report to the Portland Utility Board, the Oregon Citizens Utility Board, and the Portland City Council regarding the progress of the –
 the first of which shall be delivered on or before June 30, 2018.
 So, colleagues, Commissioner Fish has moved Fish Amendments 1, 2, 3, and 4. Commissioner Fritz has seconded Fish Amendments 1, 2, 3, and 4 for discussion purposes. We'll leave those open. Mayor, we have additional copies of the amendments for any member of the public. We'd like to take a look at them, and we are certainly –
 more than open to any recommendations for how they can be improved and modified, and we would hope that through testimony we hear from people about potential changes to the amendments. Very good. Sorry, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Commissioner Fish, I think the easiest way to resolve your wording issues on Amendment 4 is just to strike the word filtration. So the Portland City Council regarding the progress of the water treatment project.
 That was what we intended, so thank you. So we'll strike that and make it generic. Mayor, with those amendments which are now on the table, if I may, I'd like to invite our first panel. Please do. I'd like the following individuals to please come forward. Mike Stewart, the Director of the Portland Water Bureau. Gabe Salmer, the Deputy Director of the Water Bureau. Thank you.
 Ken Rust, the Director of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services, also known as our CFO, and Karen Moynihan, Senior Deputy City Attorney. I want to welcome our Bureau team. Again, I want to thank you for the work you've done over the past ten weeks to bring us to this point. And, Mike, I'll turn it over to you. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, and all of our invited guests.
 I have with me up here, as Commissioner Fish introduced, myself. I'm going to talk a little bit about the background. Karen Moynihan from the City Attorney's Office is going to talk about the legalities of the revocation order. Gabe Solmer, our Deputy Director, is going to talk about cost and a little bit about probability. And Ken Rust, as the City's CFO and our colleague, is going to talk about his perspectives on the project. Thank you.
 I'd like to acknowledge some guests in the back. We have Mayor Emeritus Colleen Johnson, who's one of the co-chairs of the pub, who's talking. I hear her chuckling back there. We have Janice Thompson from the CUB, members from the Portland Business Alliance. Two of our wholesalers are here, Mike and Andrew Degner.
 And, of course, our colleague and friend, Dr. Paul Lewis from Multnomah County Health Department. So thank you all for coming. We're glad you're here, and we look forward to hearing what you have to say, and the public too. So moving along, the watershed. Our watershed is a tremendous resource. It may be what makes Portland what it is. Portland wouldn't be what it is without our wonderful water supply. We would be a tiny little town, probably.
 We produce very high-quality water, but it is not perfect as we have seen. One of the wonderful things about our watershed is it's high up compared to here, and we have a gravity system. And one of my challenges as chief engineer for 10 years and now as the bureau director is to preserve the nature of that gravity system. Eighty percent of our customers receive water from gravity. It's not pumped directly.
 That has a great effect on our rates. A normal water utility spends 20% or more of its money on electricity to pump, and we spend in a normal year somewhere around 2% or 3%. And last but not least, our watershed, our very protected watershed, is our first line of defense in the water quality arena. Stepping forward, LT2. In 2008, the city mounted a challenge to...
 LT2, technically it's called a petition for legal review, and that's how one protests federal regulation. That challenge took place in the D.C. Court of Appeals in Washington, D.C. That's the second highest court before the Supreme Court of the United States. Among other things, we alleged that the science was inadequate or unreliable, and therefore the rule was unnecessary. Okay.
 I want to read you the last paragraph of the D.C. Court of Appeals decision. In conclusion, Portland's and New York's attacks on this rulemaking are all either inaccurate, irrelevant, or both. EPA used the best available science and provided ample evidence to support the rule. Clear notice to the public about what it was considering and adequate responses to comments.
 Even if EPA's cost-benefit analysis, use of science, and responses to comments were as flawed as the city's insist, these errors had no effect on the final rule and were thus harmless. We therefore did not deny the petition for review.
 To wrap this up more to the present day, the EPA conducted a rule review that they're required to do between 2014 and 2016. It's called the six-year review. They made no changes to existing requirements. So LT2 is here to stay, and we are obviously here to deal with that.
 Subsequent to the legal challenge in 2009, the city chose to pursue a two-track approach to deal with the requirements of LT2 or at least the treatment requirements. The track was apply for a variance, which was allowed by the rule. But because there was a rule deadline, we also were directed to design a UV plant so that if the variance wasn't achieved, that we would be able to comply with the law.
 In 2012, after many, many months of negotiations with the Oregon Health Authority, we received the only variants in the country. We completed and then shelved the design for the UV plant. Fast forward to 2017. For five years, we got along fine with the variants. And this spring, as you all well know, we found 19 oocysts in 14 different samples.
 We wrote a letter to OHA explaining our views on that matter, and the revocation order was the result of that. So here we are. That leads us to the resolution before you today, what we had been called UV+. Now, one of the responsibilities that I try and take very seriously is that it's not my job to stand in front of you and tell you that you have to do X.
 My job is to provide viable options for Council to consider and Council makes the choices. Hence, the UV+. We're asking Council to consider the Water Bureau's proposal for UV Treatment Plus and a set-aside investment fund for future treatment needs. We agree with our forward-thinking community members and public health partners who've shown a widespread desire to address more long-term needs.
 As I conveyed to Council in the June 27th work session, cost-to-rate payers is a considerable factor, and we remain concerned with that. The UV Plus option provides the lowest cost in the short term while responding to the community's call for investment in future treatment. This proposal is a compromise balancing long-term stewardship and responsible management today. Thank you.
 That is the end of my background summary. Now I'd like to have Karen Moynihan address the legalities of the enforcement order. Karen? I want to break out. The top piece. Thank you, Mayor. Good afternoon. My name is Karen Moynihan. I'm a senior deputy city attorney.
 As you know, on May 19, 2017, the Oregon Health Authority issued a report to the Portland Water Bureau in order revoking the city's variance from the EPA's Long-Term II Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule, or LT2 as it's known.
 Council's deliberations today regarding compliance with OHA's revocation order is not whether to comply, but how to do so. To better understand the requirements of the OHA revocation order, it's important to understand the underlying variance. Thank you.
 Key factors in OHA's granting of the variants were its findings that first, the Bull Run source water enjoyed legal protections that limit people and exclude livestock from the watershed. And second, that based upon data collected in the Bull Run watershed, cryptosporidium concentrations in the water source were below health-based regulatory limits.
 But recognizing that those concentrations could change, OHA conditioned the variants by requiring the Water Bureau to ensure that watershed protections remain in place and to closely monitor the watershed for cryptosporidium. If samples revealed the presence of cryptosporidium, the Water Bureau would have to undertake increased monitoring for a full year to demonstrate that the average annual concentrations were within the allowable levels.
 If the average annual concentrations exceeded the allowable level, however, OHA would have to revoke the variants and provide the Water Bureau with a schedule to install treatment. When the Water Bureau detected Cryptosporidium earlier this year, it immediately complied with the increased monitoring requirements from the variants.
 However, some subsequent samples continued to contain cryptosporidium, albeit in very low concentrations, and by March, it became clear that it would be virtually impossible by year's end to demonstrate that the average annual concentrations would not exceed the allowable level. With this information in hand, on May 19, 2017, OHA revoked the city's LT2 variants.
 The May 19th order revokes the city's variance effective on the date that OHA signs a compliance schedule, an interim measures agreement, or an order, or until September 22, 2017, whichever is sooner.
 The order requires that for the purposes of establishing the compliance schedule and interim control measures, the Water Bureau submit to OHA by August 11, 2017, 1, a description of which treatment technology the City intends to pursue to ensure compliance with the Cryptosporidium treatment requirement.
 to a detailed proposed schedule of when treatment will be in place, demonstrating that treatment will be in place as soon as practically possible.
 Three, measures that the Water Bureau intends to take to reduce the risk of the public's exposure to cryptosporidium until treatment is in place. And four, a proposed sampling schedule for cryptosporidium until adequate treatment is in place. Further, until a compliance schedule and interim measures are in place, the Water Bureau must comply with the variance requirements, including the increased cryptosporidium monitoring frequency.
 Now, as you know, upon Mayor Wheeler's and Commissioner Fish's request, OHA has granted a 60-day extension to the dates contained in the order. Therefore, under an amended order dated August 1st, 2017, the Water Bureau is now required to submit the information by October 11th, 2017, with a compliance schedule and interim measures agreement or order in place by November 22nd.
 As a final matter, I reviewed the resolution amendments that Commissioner Fish has proposed today, and I find them to be both reasonable and valid. Thank you. Thank you. So next up, we ask Gabe to talk about costs and a little bit about probabilities. Thank you, and good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. You are being handed a...
 set of information that has been publicly available. You've seen this information before and we'll also have this information available for the public. But I wanted to walk you through it because it's in a slightly different format than you've seen before. So you have two sheets and the first one that I'd like to go through is a rate chart. So on one side of the rate chart you have information about the UV plus option. It's listed in purple, magenta,
 and it also contains the information about our combined forecast that's in black. So I'll just walk you through this briefly, and the parts I want to highlight are that the information here is the combined bill, so this is what the increases look like for both utilities, both BES and the Water Bureau. That's shown at the bottom of the page.
 In the magenta is the UV+, and I will just point out in the notes that this includes 0.2% rate increases over the first six years to the water rates, and 0.5% increases each year thereafter. That is a model for you to look at. It is not set in stone. Every year that we come back for rate increases under the UV+,
 model, you would set what you think those are. So whether those are 0.2, 0.5, something else that is for you and for future councils to determine. The other thing I want to point out about this chart is that you'll see that the lines are dotted about 2025 and on, and that just shows the uncertainty that we have as we move out. We're much more certain about the numbers in the early years than we are in the late years.
 And you can see from the chart and read with the numbers that UV+, at least how we have defined it for you for this model, ranges about 4.5 to 5.5.
 zero in the early years and then tails off to a smaller increase. I will just caution you as you read this, if you took statistics as long ago as I did, it might be useful to show that although the number goes down, that is a lower increase. It is not actually a decrease in the amount. So just to be clear about that. If you flip that page over...
 you will see the same information provided for the filtration options. And what we've done is a $350 to $500 million options, because that is the range that we have for the filtration treatment option. And so you can...
 look at the green line, which represents the $500 million option, and the blue line, which represents the $350 million option. Something in between would be in between those two lines. And again, I would just call your attention to the fact that the lines are dotted for a reason. That just shows the level of certainty that we have going out into the later years.
 That is the information that I have on the combined rate increases for both the option that the Bureau has put forward and for the option under the amendments. Then I will walk you quickly through the other document, which is...
 entitled, Probabilistic Benefits of Filtration Over UV. And this memo came about from a question that was asked, Mr. Mayor, at the work session. You asked us to look at a cost benefit and a probabilistic cost benefit of the two options to give you some more information. So we did that. You have a background on the first page. Okay.
 On the second page, what we did is listed both options, both UV as a treatment technology and filtration as a treatment technology, adequately comply with the LT2 rule. So we took that as a baseline. The UV treatment, ultraviolet treatment, does not provide any additional benefit past compliance with the LT2 rule. Filtration does have additional benefits. Those are listed in Table 1.
 There are a number of them. I'm not going to read them all, but I will just point out that these are all quantifiable benefits. We've put a number to these. Both at the beginning, you can see that one of the benefits of filtration is that it reduces disinfection byproducts, DBPs. Those are carcinogenic compounds. Reduction of those is a benefit. We've quantified that.
 You can see going down a little bit on the page, again I'm not gonna read these all, that filtration would allow us to augment supply from full run so we would be able to access some additional supply that has a quantifiable benefit. Moving down to the bottom of table one on page two,
 This filtration would also allow us to improve our ability to respond to changes in regulations, give us some more flexibility there. Again, you can read through all of those on page 3.
 Towards the end, it would also increase our flexibility to respond to future regional demands. So all of these have a particular quantifiable benefit. When you put those all together, based on the likelihood of occurrence and the resulting consequence, those benefits are equivalent to a $5.4 million benefit annually. We did that over 25 years. You could pick a different number, and that's $99 million. So that, I think, answers the question that we were asked at the work session
 But we wanted to go a little bit further because we wanted to give you the other part of the And not to nitpick, but what discount rate are you using? I'll get that information for you. Okay, thanks. As that information is being provided, I wanted to also walk you through the second part of the memo. So we provided the cost-benefit. We also wanted to provide some information on risk reduction because there are several areas
 drivers that could require the city to move to filtration whether or not you pick UV or filtration at this instant you might have to move to filtration there's a couple of points that would require that and so that is what we went through in table two on page four and those drivers range from water quality to regulatory to a physical change in the canopy of Bull Run
 And you can see in Table 2, the first risk would be that our disinfection byproduct level rises to a level or that the regulations lower to a level that we are out of compliance and that the only way to deal with that operationally would be to do filtration. And we give a likelihood of that happening, one, in 50 years.
 Second driver would be changes in manganese levels. That's a much lower likelihood because those are at a lower level now and they're secondary, whereas disinfection byproducts are at a more concerning point.
 In terms of regulatory risk drivers, we also have emerging regulatory compounds. These are personal care products and the like. This is, you can see, represented by a much lower risk, so 1 in 1,000, because we don't have these in our water stream leading from the bull run. And then lastly, you have the risk of a major fire and the loss of canopy and the erosion concerns there.
 What that risk driver shows you is in figure one you have the probability curve and again, I think the easiest way to look at this is to look on the one side the Probability zero to a hundred and then on the other the years and what you can do is look out to whichever
 that you're interested in and see what is the risk that you would have to build based on these risk drivers, filtration in any event. So what I find useful, and I will just point out to you, of course you can look at your own comfort in terms of risk, but I will just bring over from the 50% level
 If you bring your finger over to the curve, drop down, that hits the curve at about 27 years. And so all that means is that at 27 years, it's a coin flip. It's just as likely that you will have had a driver that will cause you to build filtration as not. And this is just a coincidence. That is about the time frame that UV would need to be, a major upgrade would be done.
 So that is the information. That is how we tried to comply with the request that was made at the work session, both with the information on cost-benefit but also the risk. So that's actually, I'll just say, it's a very interesting analysis, particularly where it ends at the coin flip. It is literally the center of the target in terms of probabilistic outcomes. That's true. That's interesting.
 the projected useful life of the protection provided by a UV plant versus the filtration and the probabilistic toss of the coin. They're at the same point. That's a coincidence? Yes.
 It's actually 27 years versus 25 years, but, yes, that's a coincidence. Very close. All right. Interesting. Thank you. To answer your question, you asked about the discount rate, 2.5%. 2.5%. Thank you. May I ask a question? Sure.
 Certainly. Please, Commissioner Fruits. At the work session, there was a discussion of the area of land needed for either an ultraviolet versus a filtration. Can you remind me how much? There was a larger amount needed for filtration. Is that correct? It takes about 30 acres to build a normal filtration plant, and we have a property that's,
 We call it the Carpenter Lane site. It's near Lusted. You've been to Lusted Hill. It's just down the road from Lusted, and it was purchased for that purpose. It's 90 acres. Presently, it's leased to a farmer, and they're raising trees on it, but that's why we bought the property. So it's in. Yeah. The UV plant is 11 acres, and it fits at Headworks. All right. Thank you.
 I guess I have to say something again. I want to thank you. I really appreciate your taking the time to do that. I actually found that very interesting. Thank you. We wrestled with that. It was kind of fun from a wonky point of view to figure out how to do that. Thank you. I won the coin flip to get to present it to you, but we have some very dedicated and very smart people back at the Bureau that actually did the work. Good. Thank you. I will frame it. Thank you.
 So now I'd like to turn it over to Ken Rust, who's our colleague and been working with us and on other financial matters, and he'll give you the CFO's perspective. Thank you, Mike. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council. For the record, I'm Ken Rust. I'm the city's chief financial officer and the director of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services.
 As Mike has mentioned, I've been working with the Water Bureau to review costs and potential financial impacts associated with water treatment options that would enable the Bureau to comply with regulatory requirements for the city's drinking water. One of my duties as the city's chief financial officer is to advise the city council on issues that affect the city's long-term fiscal health.
 I do this by looking at those trends, issues, and risks that are beyond the annual or five-year budget view so that the city can be positioned to take appropriate and timely actions, thus avoiding potentially much larger and disruptive impacts in the future. The treatment decision we are discussing today is complex and illustrative of why a long-term view is necessary to make an informed decision.
 In reviewing the work done by the Water Bureau on treatment options, ultraviolet disinfection, and filtration, the cost and timing of these two options have significantly different impacts in the near term. If you focus only on the near-term goal of achieving compliance with current regulatory requirements, the UV option is the least cost.
 However, the Bureau's probabilistic analysis of long-term regulatory compliance indicates an increasing likelihood that more robust treatment will be required in the future. When you consider the longer-term view, you find that the most cost-effective option may well be filtration, even with its higher initial cost.
 Providing safe, reliable, and ample drinking water is a basic governmental service that Portlanders, current and future, depend on for health, safety, and commerce. A long-term and strategic decision on water treatment options, like the one you are considering, needs to be informed by the long-term financial impacts accompanying that decision.
 By anticipating our long-term infrastructure needs, developing and implementing cost-effective plans to address those needs, and working to manage and mitigate adverse impacts to the extent possible, we contribute to ensuring the city's long-term fiscal health. Thank you for the opportunity to share my thoughts with you on this matter. Thank you. Mayor and colleagues, this panel will be available to come back later to answer any questions that you have based on the testimony. Thank you all for it.
 And it's now my honor to invite up our second panel of invited testimony.
 And Colleen Johnson, co-chair of Portland Utility Board, Janice Thompson, Oregon Citizens Utility Board, and Dr. Paul Lewis, Multnomah County Health Officer. Great. And Commissioner Fish, if I could just ask, Ken, Mr. CFO, you will stick around for the hearing because I would like to ask you some financing questions later, but I don't want to interrupt the flow of the presentation. Thank you. Welcome. And who would like to go first? Mayor?
 Big one. All right. There you go. So good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Colleen Johnson. I'm co-chair of the Portland Utility Board. As I'm sure you all know, the Portland Utility Board was created by the City Council to serve as a citizen oversight board for the Portland Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services. Thank you.
 Over the last month, we have held three special hearings, public meetings on this issue that's before you today. I would say we've probably spent at least eight hours discussing this over that time, not including the extra time individuals spent reading the submitted materials. So we've dedicated a lot of time to this issue.
 The recommendation we sent you last week is threefold. Number one, the city must comply with the long-term to enhanced surface water treatment rule. Number two, we urge the city council to request an extension from OHA to the end of the year.
 We appreciate Commissioner Fisch's and Mayor Wheeler's letter to OHA requesting such an extension, as well as OHA granting us that 60-day extension. We believe that there was compelling rationale for OHA to grant such an extension, and we would now urge the city to use the time to...
 Engage in more extensive community outreach and develop a communication plan to better educate and inform citizens of the costs and impacts of the different treatment options, including the chemicals and additives that would be used and the potential health and environmental safety aspects. Review in greater detail the engineering plans and proposed costs of the different options along with appropriate comparisons.
 Begin preliminary engineering assessments for filtration to allow for more accurate budgeting projections and rate impacts. Explore in greater detail how the costs will affect low-income residents as well as any intergenerational equity issues. Continue to involve the PUB in all of these discussions as the City moves forward.
 While we understand that decisions of such magnitude must sometimes be made with incomplete information and some amount of risk, we also think the city should not be rushed into a decision and should attempt to minimize both uncertainty and risk. At the time we sent our recommendation to Commissioner Fish, the pub did not know if OHA would grant the extension.
 In the event that OHA had not granted the extension, the pub voted to recommend a filtration plant based on the values it believes should guide this decision, including protecting the health and public safety of the residents of Portland, providing long-term reliability and system resiliency, offering the most long-term benefits relative to costs.
 To be honest, I don't know how OHA's decision would affect the recommendation and treatment option we selected. However, should the city move forward with a treatment decision today, the Pub will monitor the implementation of the compliance option throughout the process to ensure that it is done with the reasonable cost possible for customers and with known and predictable utility rates. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. Janice Thompson, Oregon Citizens Utility Board. I sent, and I think I have copies if you need it, but I think I sent a memo and some other materials. I think it's in your packet. Okay. But I want to start first, though, with thinking back to 2009 and why it is that a 2009 directive for the Water Bureau to focus on UV treatment was,
 that may be appropriate at that time, merits being revisited today. And some of the key differences between 2009 and now seem to include, one, spending on seismically resilient reservoirs, which are now closed due to the LT2 rule. That spending is winding down and not just beginning.
 The effect of that spending is still seen in current rates, but it's evening out, especially as we're getting close to wholesalers starting to kick in for those capital improvements. So one big major expense related to LT2 rule kind of has been addressed. Another difference is that BES, in terms of the sewer and wastewater side of the bill, they're now projecting rate increases under 3% for the foreseeable future.
 Whereas back in 2009, their rate increases were significantly higher because they were more in the midst of the big pipe spending. And a third point is that, thank goodness, we are not in the Great Recession. So I think those factors contribute to the merit in taking a look at a different option that then had been the basis of a previous council decision.
 I want to touch on a couple of points. The UV plus option...
 It has been, you know, is not part of the current resolution as amended by Commissioner Fish. I just want to highlight. To be clear, there are now two resolutions before the council. So UV plus and filtration are both before the council. Okay. Thank you for. All right. So let me just touch then on the UV plus aspects of it. And that's. Okay.
 on pages six and seven of the longer memo. The UV hybrid or UV plus, I don't think meets the objectives that were triggered by the mayor's comments during the June 27th work session.
 CUB just does not view a UV plant as currently cited at Headworks as being a meaningful stepping stone towards a future filtration plant. Now, you get there a little better if you cite a UV plant in the Lusted Hill area.
 which has been mentioned earlier, is on property that's already owned. The reason, though, that that's a better, more genuine stepping stone to filtration is that that work in that location would involve moving conduits, a step that is required for the filtration. So in other words, you're doing a more significant chunk of work, so it's a more genuine stepping stone. Okay.
 The catch then, of course, is that that costs more, which leads Cub to think, you might as well just kind of bite the bullet and skip the UV step and move to filtration. And this has been already mentioned, UV plus in the long run also just costs more because you're doing two things. In terms of the saving money for future filtration, that understandably is very appealing.
 It's kind of like what you want your kids to do, save up your money. However, Cub is troubled by the long timeframe between collecting money from current customers and completion of that major future project, as well as inadequate assurances that a future filtration plant would ever be built. And this is one of those situations where it's
 all the legal details work out, but in our view, it just doesn't seem consistent with best utility financing practices. So that's just a little bit of background in terms of the first resolution, Cubs being concerned about the UV plus approach.
 Could I just ask you a follow-up question? Yeah. Because you hit on an intriguing point. It's not consistent with best practices regarding utility financing. Could you add a few more sentences to that? Yeah. So...
 I mean, we deal a lot in the private utility world. And one of the things that CUB, and it's kind of being a repair advocate in that arena, looks for is an inappropriate kind of cost burden on current customers for benefits that are primarily going to be realized by future customers.
 In this example, private utilities can't charge customers for investments that are not presently used. It's kind of a term of art. So instead, shareholders pre-fund those investments with compensation by earning a regulated rate of return. Once those private utility investments are used and useful, kind of another term of art,
 then customers begin to contribute for those expenses in their rates. Now, turning to the municipal arena, obviously there's no shareholders. So that's why municipal utilities are allowed to charge customers via rates before capital investments start.
 in major construction projects are used and useful. Could I ask you a question about that? Because this is getting to some really interesting territory. So is there an implied obligation by collecting those rates today and putting them in a savings account for a capital project tomorrow? Are we committed to that project today?
 Well, yes. And I think this is where there's a timing issue. So that dynamic does mean in the municipal arena that payments from current customers may well benefit future customers. But the time frame between starting payments
 to include project construction costs into rates, and the completion of that project is clearly defined. I mean, that's why you do, you know, five-year CIP plans, and that's a big part of the rate-making process for both these bureaus. So that timeline is clearly defined, and it's shorter than the time contemplated in the UV-plus scenario.
 So it's that difference that is troubling to us. There just isn't quite the same assurance.
 So if we're often criticized for not creating sinking funds to cover future capital costs of existing equipment and property. So I take it that if this fund were set up exclusively to cover the costs of updating and repairing just UV, then that would not raise any concerns. Yeah. I mean, that's where I mean, we understand the appeal. But we don't understand the cost.
 And it's kind of, it's really a scenario that's kind of a little outside of the norm, you know. And so it just seems we're just suggesting caution and, well, particularly linked to the first point, which is, is UV plus really do much for you in terms of being a stepping stone? It's kind of like when you take a look at both of those factors together, it's just like,
 the tipping point for us is... Well, that and plus the probabilistic analysis that was just presented. Right, that's just where I was going to go next. That's already three strikes. Right, right. That's, yeah, that's the... Not to bias the conversation, but... There you go. You know, that's sort of my thinking thus far. Yeah, okay. So now then, however, turning to kind of the...
 the new resolution, the second resolution. One thing I think to keep in mind, and you could kind of maybe in your mind pencil it in on this, is that the baseline really isn't zero, or the baseline really isn't like the current forecast, unless I will be corrected if I'm wrong. But I don't think the current forecast includes roughly 100 million for a UV. So, yeah.
 You know, so I'm not saying that those numbers aren't correct and those aren't troubling, you know, or not troubling. So your point, and I read that section carefully in your thoughtful submission. I think your point is if you're going to have to spend $100 for one option and $350 for the other, let's be clear that we're talking about $250. Exactly. Is the delta. Right. Yeah, there you go. So that's one point. Then...
 Then, I think, I mean, in our, in the resolution amendment that we offered in the memo describing it, we had information, very helpful information from the Water Bureau, kind of on the cost parameters. And we characterized that kind of using kind of the health insurance industry kind of lingo. Okay.
 There's bronze filtration plants and platinum filtration plants. And just like there's bronze and platinum insurance plans, and people think through the cost implications, obviously those decisions are also driven by what the patient needs, if you will. In this case, the patient being the water system. So we supported in the filtration treatment process
 suggested maintaining the UV treatment as a backup option have the first step in the filtration process planning process include kind of a scoping period to kind of delineate like do we need bronze do you know do we need the platinum platinum in this system is it silver and in that way kind of start
 I'm not trying to say that this replaces the probably two-year process that is required by the Water Bureau to really kind of do the detailed project planning, but to have an initial scoping to kind of provide more guidance into that. And my suggestion was to build that into the compliance agreement. So basically the compliance agreement would say,
 The default position is filtration. After a scoping period that would end no later than June 30, 2018, either that would provide enough cost containment kind of information that there's a comfort level on, like, we're going to continue on this path, but if that scoping discussion raises concerns about cost, there is kind of an off-ramp back to UVs.
 Now, in terms of – so that's why the CUB resolution had the scoping period as part – not to replace either the detailed planning and not – and it was not a request for a delay from OHA. It was rather to build into the OHA compliance agreement.
 So I know that in one of the amendments, there's a regular report requirement that would start June 30th. I was trying to get at a little bit different idea with having kind of this initial scoping, just so there's more guidance given and more clarity about what the cost containment opportunities there were with regards to filtration. Now, in terms of
 Dropping that idea and just moving with the Fish, Commissioner Fish is your... Amendment 1. Amendment 1 and its amendments. I mean, it's very interesting and heartening to hear the comments from Mr. Rust in terms of the least cost, least risk kind of...
 factor, looking from a municipal finance expert, that the longer term really is more cost effective. But nevertheless, I think there was both that scoping period was, however, of interest to us to kind of build in an option within the compliance agreement to
 I could say provide more guidance about, oh, we think we want bronze, or actually what we think is silver. So we kind of know a little bit more before the detailed planning. As opposed to the detailed planning, evaluating all those options kind of helped potentially narrow the scope a little bit beforehand. And with that, I think that's it. Thank you very much, and thanks to both of our oversight bodies.
 It's been a new day at our utilities, and we're very grateful for the role that both the Cub and the Pub play and the time that you spend overseeing our utilities. So thank you both, ladies. Dr. Lewis, thank you. My name is Paul Lewis. I'm the Multnomah County Health Officer. So Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Fish, thank you for having me here today.
 feeling pretty embarrassed following these guys and their very comprehensive view of the decision in front of you. I've certainly learned a lot by listening. I'm going to be a little more simplistic about some health aspects.
 And again, just a tiny bit of background. I started my career as an HIV doctor, and I'm also a pediatrician. I've been doing both those things for 23 years. And these are actually particularly the populations that are most vulnerable to really problematic cryptosporidium.
 Back in the battle days of HIV, it could often be the final straw in someone's life. So I'm extremely sensitive to this particular threat. About 13 years ago, I morphed, and I just do that part-time now, and started working as a public health and preventive medicine physician, and I thought I had a broader view, but not as broad as these guys.
 all the complexity here. But I think the main thing that I have to say, and I'm in strong support of filtration as a long-term investment in health safety and resilience, and part of it is that our standards continue to go up. You know, a few months ago we were talking about lead. The
 goalposts have changed and we have to do more to control that problem. Several people have already mentioned the concern about disinfection byproducts, which again is a long-term exposure, and again, particularly vulnerable people like children and pregnant women, we are most concerned about unnecessary and preventable exposure to things like that.
 And then, as I mentioned the previous time I testified, enough time has now gone by since the winter months where there were the frequent detections of cryptosporidium to look back at this disease, which has been reportable for almost 30 years, to know that were actually slightly fewer than normal cases of cryptosporidium reported during that time period. And that, in addition to many...
 informal communications with my colleagues that take care of children and of HIV patients and other compromised hosts that there did not appear to be any detectable problem related to those detection. So when I weigh those things, that there is a risk of cryptosporidium in an unfiltered water supply, but ours is pretty special, and as far as we can tell, the risk is very low. That leads me to the conclusion that we shouldn't rush –
 to do UV, which is really just a one-trick pony, and that it does make more sense to make the longer-term investment that not only will protect us against cryptosporidium, because we do remain at risk for that, but that also provides the list of benefits that we've been through. And this new Table 1 includes even something I wasn't aware of. So I really do think there are a lot of benefits to that long-term investment. So thank you.
 Thank you. That's good. Question in the assay. Commissioner Fritz. I don't want the answer now, but I'm assuming there was some of the time that we have, even with the current 60-day extension, I would expect that the pub and the cub would be looking at are there any other currently planned projects which could be delayed or perhaps not even done in order to limit the rates. So I see you nodding. Yes, thank you.
 I didn't go over our entire recommendation, but certainly part of our discussion was that that was an element, that if we were going to spend $350 to $500 million on a filtration plant, that that put pressure on...
 the Bureau to look at what other projects might be in the queue and whether or not there were ways to maybe push off some to be able to afford this. Thank you. Could I make one additional comment on that? Because I think it's a very important question, and cost has been a primary consideration for us back to the days that we had the debate in 2009 and now right to the present.
 Commissioner Fritz, whatever the recommendation of council, I would anticipate that there would be a direction to the utilities through the next budget cycle to come in with options for mitigating the impact of whatever choice we make. That could include revisiting our five-year or longer CIP programs and considering phasing, delays, other kinds of things.
 Mike is starting to look a little queasy back here. So there are a bunch of things that, as you know, we can't change. But I anticipate the council saying show us the CIP again and convince us that everything is necessary and that you've got the sequencing right.
 I anticipate the council looking closely at the existing rate stabilization funds and asking are we deploying them in the most strategic way, thinking about the long-term costs. And remember, until the wholesale customers come in and pay their share, we have a bigger responsibility during the construction phase. So how might we use the rate stabilization funds in that way? The CUB has, I think –
 introduced a homey metaphor here for looking at this, you know, the bronze versus the platinum, the Chevy versus, you know, the Maserati. One of the things we might be looking at in any choice is what are the various options in terms of technology and are there cost differences and can we look at that. And then I would also remind you, and while there's no reason you would have picked this up because it's microscopic print.
 On the sheet we were given that the Bureau prepared on sort of water-sewer combined rate increases and some projections, in very small print it says that we use very conservative assumptions in developing this data. And my colleagues know that because every year we start the budget process with a forecast rate for water, for example, which is, you know –
 you know, at X, and then because it assumes very high interest rates or more than our fair share of overhead costs, and Cecilia is nodding, and other factors, we're able to bring that down. And we've actually, the reason that we're now close to a combined rate increase of 4% is we've been able to scrub a fairly conservative set of forecasts and get down to the actual...
 Those are just some of the things that I would expect, regardless of our decision, Council would say during the budget process that they want to have heightened scrutiny on to see if we can bring that number down and the annual increase to something which Council believes is manageable. Well, thank you, Commissioner. I appreciate that. And just to emphasize one of the things you just said, which is no change in the rate for this fiscal year. So it's not like we're going to send out a new bill next week.
 financing anything. No, and as the chart shows, there's very little difference in the two significant options in terms of the rate impact over the first four years. They're quite similar. It's in the out years you see some changes. But, again, I believe whatever the decision of the council, this question of how we manage the rate increases and bring all of our tools to bear will be a direction to the Bureau through the normal budget process.
 So if I could chime in on this, because this is where the calculation gets a little less quantitative and a little more subjective. And while I really did love the probability analysis, I think that's really good. It's illustrative of the risks in a static environment. But as we look at rate increases, and I think we're all concerned here about the impact of
 of rate increases, particularly on lower income rate payers. I know some of us up here want to ask questions about that later and some of the strategies that could be used to ameliorate that problem. The real risk that that probabilistic model raises is there's the construction cost
 which is, frankly, the lesser of the risks, that will definitely lead to some increase in rates. The bigger risk is the catastrophic consequence of a landslide or a fire or something else.
 And that will also add even more significantly to rate increases in the future if we don't take certain steps to prevent those risks, like either the UV+, or it sounds like thus far people have made a much stronger case for a filtration strategy. So we're really balancing two different sets of risks here and two different sets of potential costs to rate payers.
 And I just want to be clear that not all of that is going to fit neatly into a quantitative model. Mayor, this is the second and final panel of invited testimony, and I would suggest we now move to the public testimony. And then we're going to have our expert panel available to ask questions once we've heard the public testimony. You had a comment? If I may, just one.
 Well, two quick things. I explicitly did not use like the Chevy Cadillac because that's really like a luxury. The, you know, bronze versus platinum, some households need platinum. It's not a luxury to have for some households to have a platinum health insurance. So that's, it was an analogy that I was picked on purpose, you know, kind of for that. I appreciate it because it wasn't a sports analogy. Right.
 Just as long as we keep away from the lead option. There you go. Yeah. Okay. And then I think the other thing that was in the memo I always wanted to highlight is the views of the wholesalers I think are really important here. And I think they're important partners that I think a filtration decision would –
 be positively received? Well, I think, and it's part of the record now, and I think my colleagues have been briefed on this, my recollection is that we have a very strong support from our wholesale customers for the filtration option for many of the reasons, and
 And, Cully, you're nodding. Yes. And so that is in the record, and they have weighed in heavily behind the filtration. There was one additional invited testimony, Mayor, and then we'll switch to public testimony, and that's the Portland Business Alliance, and Marion Hayes is here, Haynes, and so we'll invite her forward. Very good. Thanks. Welcome, Marion. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, council members. My name is Marion Hayes, and I represent the Portland Business Alliance. It is on. Yeah, let's get a little closer. All right.
 Oh, thank you. Marian Haines with the Portland Business Alliance. Good afternoon. The Alliance has a long history of working with the city on cryptosporidium and those issues. We were involved in some of the discussions back in 2008 and 2009, worked with the city at the federal level with the EPA to see what we could do at that time. And so we do have quite a long history of working with the city, dealing with the variants,
 We understand that now with the new testing, the question really before us is what do we do now? What treatment option do we look at that takes into account both the short and long-term costs and benefits? The Alliance is supportive of the hybrid approach, what I guess we're calling the UV plus at this point.
 where ultraviolet would be used in the near term and at the same time setting aside a modest amount of rate payer funds into a sinking fund for a future filtration system. We think that this does make sense. It minimizes costs in the near term and rate impacts in the near term.
 because there are other projects and significant items that are going to be under construction. This does allow some long-term thinking and savings and fiscal discipline, we believe, to pay for those future anticipated costs and allows the time...
 while the UV system is in place to do the due diligence, understand how the regulatory environment might be changing at the point where you're looking at making the more sizable long-term investment that does have the additional benefits with it, but it gives a little bit more time. I think we heard that the rules are continuing to change, and so that allows us to take all of that into account. So we think that this is a sensible approach,
 the UV Plus and would lend our support to that. Thank you very much. Thank you. All right, and how many people do we have signed up for public testimony? I show 17. 17, 70, good, all right. Colleagues, does anybody have a time conflict, where three minutes would be a problem? Looks like we're good to go. Please call the first three. First three are Dr. Theodora Tsongas, Damon Motz-Storey, and Carol Cushman.
 Thanks for being here. Name for the record. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Dr. Theodora Songas. I'm speaking today on behalf of Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility. We thank Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Fish for asking the Oregon Health Authority for three months to make an informed community decision. We're grateful that you did not express an opinion in your Monday letter on a preferred method of dealing with cryptosporidium in bull run water.
 Today, we ask that you request the Oregon Health Authority to extend the timeline to no less than June 2018, as recommended by the Citizens Utility Board, to allow for informed community discussions and decisions regarding bull run treatment. And we request that you do not vote on a preferred treatment today.
 I'm delivering to you a petition signed by a number of organizations and individuals outlining our rationale for an OHA timeline extension. Our chief concern is that decisions with long-term impacts on the well-being of the people of Portland are being made in a rush based on fear without adequate scientific consideration of the alternatives.
 Rate payers are already paying high water and sewer rates, and these will rise even without costly treatments for crypto. Young people, families with children, the poor, and the elderly are already being pushed out of Portland because of the high cost of housing.
 Adding unnecessary increases to the price of water to pay for treatment facilities with no public health purpose or benefit only serves to exacerbate an increasing crisis of livability and degrades the public's trust in local government.
 Finally, scientific data showing the lack of risk is being ignored in a rush to judgment. The LT2 regulation is out of date and does not distinguish between strains of cryptosporidium that are and are not harmful to humans. The type of cryptosporidium found in bull run waters is not harmful to humans.
 We are fortunate to have a unique, elegant green system designed and strictly protected from human and domestic animal waste to keep it clean. Many residents and businesses, including great breweries and restaurants, chose to locate and remain in Portland precisely because our water is of such high quality and requires minimal treatment with chemicals.
 We ask that you request the Oregon Health Authority to extend the timeline to no less than June 2018, as recommended by CUB, to allow for informed community discussions and decisions regarding bull run treatment. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Damon Mott-Story, and I am a Program Assistant for Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility.
 I'd like to thank Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Fish for writing a letter to the Oregon Health Authority requesting the three-month extension. I urge you not to vote on a preferred treatment option today. And I ask that the City Council request an extension of the Oregon Health Authority until no sooner than June 2018, as per the recommendation of the Citizens Utility Board.
 I remember hiking on Mount Hood mere months after first moving to Portland and catching a glimpse of the Bull Run Reservoir in the distance. I was awestruck to see something so beautiful and so well protected from human and livestock contamination. I am highly concerned that filtration could open the door to human and livestock infiltration of the Bull Run Reservoir.
 Additionally, I am concerned about increases in water rates, particularly since the type of cryptosporidium found in Bull 1 waters is not harmful to human health. Not all cryptosporidium is the same. Low-income, working-class Portlanders do not need a spike in rates.
 All of these concerns and more lead me to agree with Commissioner Fish in the extension request letter on Monday that we need more time to consult with citizens, stakeholders, and independent advisory organizations. But two months is not enough. Please request an extension to no sooner than June of 2018 as per the CUB recommendation. For more information, please refer to the community letter that our member Dr. Tsongas just submitted. Thank you very much for your time. Very good. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I'm Carol Cushman, representing the League of Women Voters of Portland. The League would like to comment on the resolution before you, although we do not have a position on which we can support or oppose any specific treatment option. We do have some comments. We believe it is important that you move forward to comply with the LT2 regulations to protect our water. Portland worked for the variance and met the criteria until the past year.
 Now the city must accept the ruling handed down by the Oregon Health Authority. However, it was reasonable to ask for time beyond the September deadline to define the exact way that compliance will be accomplished, and we thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your request to OHA. In selecting a treatment option, it is important to thoroughly consider the total impact and the many consequences of that decision.
 The public in general expects protection of our natural resources and expects to share the cost. Therefore, the public should have a voice in the planning process. Any treatment options selected must be part of long-range planning by the Water Bureau and the city. Although we anticipate the Council may be making a major decision today, we expect there will be need for public education and input during the coming months and years.
 We thank the Portland Utility Board for offering time and opportunity for public input during the past month, but want to make sure that the Pub and the Portland Water Bureau will be required to provide public input and education throughout the process of bringing the facility online.
 Finally, in support of Commissioner Fisher's Amendment No. 2, we note that there have been past attempts to reduce protections for our water. In the future, the City needs to remain ever vigilant and take steps in advance to thwart any such efforts. The City of Portland has been a good steward of the Bill Run watershed and must remain so. Protecting the watershed will be just as important.
 with the addition of treatment as it has been in the past. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. Next three, please. Our Lightning, Brad Gazzolino, and Catherine Knotson. Okay, good. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. 170 degrees today. We're going to have forest fires. The UV filtration system is,
 turbidity, it's not going to be effective, plain and simple. We're going to have to look at long-term at the filtration plant. We need to get, like I say, some of the true cost estimates on that. We need to look at the other utility water systems and have an understanding that there's data out there where 76 of them, out of 76, 71 went for the filtration. When you're looking at other
 municipalities doing that, we should look in their direction, get the data, and possibly at least have that data in front of us to make the final decision. Again, my position is that public health is number one, so that would be the long-term, in my opinion, filtration system. Number two to me is something I haven't heard, is the insurance policy that covers the system itself. And having a clear understanding from them
 If we go in one direction, are you still going to insure us? If we go in the other direction, is that going to make you feel a lot better? And in my opinion, they're going to look at the filtration plant overall from an insurance standpoint. And if you look around, they have every reason to be able to pull the insurance if they wanted to. That's the last thing you ever want to have on this type of a system.
 And if you're looking at the valuation of the system itself, and that's a question that some people may throw up in the air, we have something there that I don't think this investment of $300 million to $500 million is out of line for what we have. We have a system there that is one of the best in the world. And that is something we want to maintain. That is something we want to be able to say to the insurance companies, we've done this.
 That is something you want to be able to say to other states and possibly other customers, such as, I'd like a little more research with Vancouver, Washington. Do they have a need for any water? And start looking for other wholesale customers to maybe do a more cost recovery.
 on the overall filtration plan itself. And again, I think we can shorten the time frame up myself. I think some of these numbers are, you know, $300 million to $500 million is a big range there. And in my opinion, do it right, do it long-term, and protect what we have, which is the best, and continue to have the best with precautions in place
 per OHA in the revoke of the variants. You don't want to mess around with that. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioners. Thanks for asking for the extension. Put your name in the record. Pardon me? Put your name in the record. I'm sorry. I'm Brad Yasolino. I'm a Portland native, and my family has been here since 1895.
 And I'm probably one of the few people in the room, besides three or four others, who've been on this subject since about 1992. That's when I first heard that the Water Bureau wanted to build a filtration plant, and they were pretty excited about it.
 Anyway, that's in the past. I agree with the statements of Floyd Jones in the Southeast Examiner, Regnum Merit in the Tribune, and today the testimony of the Physicians for Social Responsibility. I'm sorry you missed it, Chloe. I was a real advocate for you. And...
 So the city of Portland is being harried and hurried into a foolish and irrational compliance with a deeply flawed LT2 regulation that is founded on a trumped-up incident that is unlike anything that will ever occur in Portland's well-protected bull-run watershed.
 The Oregon Health Authority has what seems to be a let's-just-be-sure-to-cover-our-asses attitude in their demand that Portland comply with the needless and expensive LT2 regulation. Even the Oregon health doctor or county health doctor... I'm sorry, I don't know his name. Dr. Lewis. Dr. what? Dr. Lewis. Dr. Lewis. He stated that there are...
 a number of different types of cryptosporidium. Well, anyway, I don't want to quote him. There is no scientific evidence that a $350 million UV plant or a $500 million filtration plant will measurably improve Portland's drinking water quality.
 The Oregon Health Authority is to be commended, however, for granting the two-month delay. The City Council must now really face what building these needless plants means. It means they will lose the trust of many of the well-informed thinking people of Portland. If Council votes to do either of these plants, which I urge you not to vote today on them, it means the needless and ignorant tragic destruction of the simple, frugal, and elegant rainwater collection feature of Portland's 1890s water system
 I don't want a bronze or a platinum. I want a rainwater one.
 Because of the brilliance of the 1890s water engineers, drinking water then cost only $1 per month for all Portland property owners. On eBay a week ago, I bought a 3-inch by 8-inch receipt from 1896 for $1 for an address on Arthur Street for one month's worth of water. And so cost management is now developed to such an extent that you're trying to convince the people that...
 that the increase won't be much. I'm sorry, I can stop, but I only have like seven more lines. Read your seven lines. Go ahead. Thank you.
 The dollar, in a sense, is the base cost of our gravity-fed pure rainwater collection water system. Before the Portland Water Bureau became deeply involved, of course, costs have risen for many good reasons, but still the basic system is fundamentally relatively cheap and should remain so. These water plants will not protect against the very unlikely major landslides in the Bull Run,
 And harmless turbidity cleans itself up by gravity. Same goes for volcanic and fire ash. Earthquake, broken and leaking pipes will then be the problem. And the complicated water treatment plants won't solve that. So we urge the city council not to fall for the deceptive LT2 law and waste taxpayers' money on these plants, for we'll remember when we vote. Thank you very much for the rest of the time. You bet. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. My name is Catherine Knotson, Portland resident, and I support filtration. I'm going to read some documentation, some excerpts of some documentation, and the first one is from the Bull Run Watershed Cryptosporidium Report published in February 2003. I had submitted all these documents to the Pub on July 11, 2017, and I have put the link on my letter to you if you wish to read them.
 The first quote I'm going to speak on is about the cryptosporidium itself from that original February 2003 report. And it says on page 977, quote, Isolate SW15 was obtained from a sample collected at the Oregon site which is fully protected from human impact. This isolate was different from C. parvum.
 bovine genotype at three nucleotide positions, but clustered with the bovine and murine genotypes, figure four. It is possible that this isolate represents a new genotype of C. parvum from a wild animal host. Another isolate, SW22, was obtained from the Oregon site and was identified as the C. parvum bovine genotype. And for those who don't know what a bovine is, that's cattle, and murine is rodent.
 The next one is from the UV report, and this test was done on those specific cryptosporidium, the water samples which contained the cryptosporidium with the previous report.
 And it says on page 13, quote, Le Chevalier et al., 2003, reported infectious cryptosporidium data for an unfiltered watershed in Oregon, table 5. These data show that the design of a UV disinfection system should not allow more than 3 to 7 hours of downtime per month to meet the 1 in 10,000 annual risk of cryptosporidium infection.
 And I also submitted the Giardiasis Report, in which there was a Giardiasis outbreak in Portland, Oregon, in October 1954 to March 1955, according to Dr. Lyle Veazey. She submitted that report to the EPA in 1976 because they were having a symposium on cryptosporidium in regards to waterborne cryptosporidiosis outbreaks. The next thing I want to read real quickly is from Casey Short's book,
 The second edition of Water, Portland's Precious Heritage. It says, the name Bull Run refers to a dazzlingly, excuse me here. The name itself is derived from a folktale of the Oregon country. In the 1850s, cattle being driven over the Cascades broke free in the area, escaping through the dense forest in all directions. They disappeared quickly and were seen only occasionally in years to come, drinking from the river whose name they had inspired.
 And on page 27 of the same book, there is a picture of sheep in the Bull Run Watershed. There were settlers there, and they had cattle, sheep, and horses. I'm sorry I'm out of time, but I had other pictures to show you if you wanted to see them. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next three, please. Next three are Micah Meskell, Ted Labby, and Scott Fernandez. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Micah Muskell, and I'm with the Audubon Society of Portland. I'm also a member of PUB, but my testimony today is on behalf of the Audubon Society. Thank you for having me, Mayor and Council.
 I'd like to start with support Amendments 2 through 4. And specifically with Amendment 2, I feel it could be strengthened with the addition of a couple words. Give me one second. I'll have it ready to annotate. So following environmental protections, I suggest or propose that you add that to prohibit logging and limit access.
 to preserve and protect well-run watershed. It gives it a little more specificity. That prohibit logging and? Limit access, which is currently in place, but just to instill that into the future. So ultimately, my testimony today is to urge you all to delay your decision until two months to this date when OHA
 has extended the decision time. And there are several reasons for that. It ultimately allows for the options to be more completely presented and compiled. And that's important both for the oversight committees who have been tasked with looking at these options
 To date, we've seen a lot of information and some of the presentations or the proposals have been pretty fluid. And so I think seeing a distilled and very clear presentation of the two is important both for the community oversight committees, but more importantly, to be presented to the public in that form.
 We have had, as Pub, we've held four public hearings, which we've engaged with the public. And that's been great for the community here in Portland that's followed this process, but not for the greater community, in my opinion. And I think presenting these more fleshed out positions or options would be very beneficial. And also...
 considering having a presentation or hearing on the east side of Portland. We've held all four of ours here, either in the Portland building or City Hall, and it is not the most accessible. And thinking about all ratepayers in the next month or so, it would be great if we would be able to present these more fully formed options to the public for
 City Council, but also the commissions to hear community concerns about those options. Thank you. Could I ask a clarifying question? Yes. On Fish Amendment 2, your proposed language that prohibit logging and limit access is actually a narrowing of the amendment that Commissioner Fish proposed. Is that your intention? No.
 The intention is not. It's just to draw some more specificity to it because it could be construed as to advocate for strict environmental protections. That could be advocating for one but not the other. And so there could potentially be an additional watershed protection point that is made. So it should perhaps say including but not limited to. Okay.
 Yes, yes. And I think the community has long been most concerned about access and about logging. And so those are the ones that I brought up. It wasn't your intention then to limit the environmental protections to those two issues? No, no. Got it. Okay. So following on what Commissioner Fritz said, I'd like to –
 Take a crack with Todd Lofgren, and if you could talk to him in the interim. And let's, if we can, following her suggestion, if we can frame it as a sort of including but not limited to or something so it's not a term of limitation but it is an illustration, my guess is that that may be viewed as a friendly amendment. But I'd like to, I agree with the mayor and I agree with Commissioner Fritz. If we can, we don't want it to be a term of limitation, and I think we can simply refer to it as including but not limited to.
 I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz. Well, thank you, Matt. I'm just wanting to tease that out a little. It's true, though, that the federal government controls the rules in the ballroom watershed. Is that correct? So we're limited to only advocating for we cannot ban logging by ourselves. And if they decide to do it, then there's not really all that much we can do about it. Is that correct? Yes, yes, that is correct. But I think...
 placing that language here in this resolution or whatever's the final product.
 It puts the onus on future councils to strongly advocate and lobby the federal government because they ultimately have the final decision. Thank you for raising that issue. And you did not support Amendment 1, and I just want to make sure I understand why that is. So I do not because I don't feel I have all of the information that I need to make the decision of treatment options. Got it. Okay. Can I just get a clarification? Because the letter that I got from the pub –
 as the co-chair explained, laid out a concern about timing, requested additional time, but then said, if you are compelled to go forward, I thought the letter said the unanimous recommendation of the pub was for filtration. Yes, there's a bit of a story behind that, but I was on vacation this last week, and I was on the phone during that deliberation, and I misheard what the final statement,
 motion was and thus voted for it when, in fact, I would have voted for UV, not knowing, not having the complete picture. And so that was an error on me. I did not have service for another four days and thus did not catch it until it had been finalized. So the vote was something to one.
 And we'll get a revised tally. Yeah, it was a strong majority. And I guess the final point I'd like to make is that I think it's important not to decide today because that could be seen as predetermining what options city council goes forward with before taking part in a more robust public process. And so I think that's how it could be perceived. And so I wanted to voice that. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 My name is Scott Fernandez, and thank you for having us today. I'm going to take a different approach to this whole issue today about our water system. But first I'd like to start with, because we haven't had any public health issues, we should still be under a filtration avoidance determination waiver. So I hope that the council will respect that, because we don't have a public health problem with cryptosporidium. And secondly, Canada has excellent water.
 fire suppression technologies using infrared technologies. And so we should consider using that at some point. My first comment is talking about industry standards of the Portland Water Bureau. The city auditor has acknowledged many times Portland Water Bureau does not meet industry standards, such as taking...
 and I quote from the auditor's report, 400 years to replace our water main. That's what she's projected, or he's projected. Secondly, in January of this year, Portland Water Bureau Cryptosporidium Lab did not meet industry standards to be certified for sampling. Why did Portland Water Bureau not participate in the January certification process for our labs? Why?
 Portland Water Bureau wanted to remain free of certification oversight so that they could provide their own cryptosporidium sampling outcome needed for the filtration water plant. All of a sudden, 19 alleged cryptosporidium samples appeared just at the right time for the Portland Water Bureau to lobby for a $500 million filtration plant and a debt bonanza for the Portland Water Bureau at citizens' expense.
 There's also the very strong possibility that there were false positives, because false positives of cryptosporidium are very likely and very common. After it was all over, Portland Water Bureau admitted that EPA had not certified the laboratory that they had used during that period. Thank you.
 Portland Water Bureau did not allow certification because it would not want EPA or OHA looking over their shoulder reviewing sampling methods and proficiency standards. Portland Water Bureau wanted no outside lab interference. Labs that are not certified are scientifically meaningless. I taught microbiology at Colorado State University. The students learned quickly and were reliable with proficient labs and were always certified.
 Portland Water Bureau lost their certification opportunity for cryptosporidium proficiency during the three-month sampling process because there was no outside professional certification from EPA, no professional sample oversight, no professional proficiency, no professional analytical methodology, leaving only one thing. All these samples, because they were not certified in a lab, must be rejected at the chain of custody spot.
 There are many years of no cryptosporidium found in our bull run water. May I have a few more? You have 30 more seconds, so just do your best to wrap it up. We have no public health issues regarding our drinking water and cryptosporidium.
 The most important thing you'll see at the bottom of my second sheet on the other side is that we are introducing more and more toxic and carcinogenic chemicals. I've listed five here, lead, copper, one, nitrification, two, radioactive isotopes coming from the Columbia South Shore well field, and now filtration coagulants that are both carcinogenic...
 and neurotoxic with the alum and acrylamide, and also the possible introduction of UV with mercury. Those are five significant toxic chemicals that we're continuing to go down that road with these. And the children are going to be hurt the most. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please.
 are Michael Morgan, Floyd Jones, and Herschel Soles. Mayor, we will be prepared to answer the specific comments that Mr. Fernandez has in his testimony when the professional team comes back later. Very good. And I will simply note, point of pride, the Water Bureau has not been lobbying for any option on this thing. So that's just flat out incorrect.
 Can I do a point of order here? Floyd is kind of a person who has done a lot of research over 16 years. She probably knows as much as anybody on the panel here or the Water Bureau and has a presentation longer than three minutes. Are you going to cede your time to her? I could do that. Perfect. I'm asking for a kind of an extension just for Floyd, but I could do that too. Great. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. He was first, so I'll let him go. Very good. Good afternoon.
 I'm Michael Morgan and I live in Portland. A bull run water treatment plant is not needed. We know this because we have not been having a problem with infectious cryptosporidium in the bull run watershed demonstrated by a remarkable absence of drinking water related cryptosporidiosis in the Portland area. Portlanders have been drinking bull run water for more than a century. Furthermore, a treatment plant...
 would require and encourage human activity and development in the watershed, which we want to minimize. A treatment plant would be an exceptionally poor use of limited ratepayer dollars. How did we come to be in this predicament? When it developed the LT2 rule, the EPA assumed that all cryptosporidium –
 Idiom, oocysts were alive and able to infect humans, miscalculating the risks and significantly overstating the danger. Common testing methods then could not identify whether an oocyst was inactivated or what animal it came from. Dramatically improved tests...
 can now provide that detail. But Portland is saddled with an outdated sampling method that does not provide that detail. The LT2 rule is at least 10 years behind the science.
 There are dozens of varieties of Cryptosporidium that live in different hosts, and the CDC says two species are most prevalent, causing disease in humans, and infections by four others have been reported. The two prevalent ones have gotten into water supplies
 and caused major outbreaks and they are generally linked to water that has been contaminated with either human sewage or agricultural runoff away forward is obtain a lengthy deferral of the l t two requirement similar to that obtained by new york with regard to their uncovered reservoir the l t two rule does not contain a deadline to begin treating
 A deferral would be reasonable because the risk of cryptosporidiosis is so low and the consequences of a treatment plant so great.
 Obtain permanent relief from the LT2 rule. Work with New York. Enlist the help of our senators and congressmen. The Trump administration and Scott Pruitt might be receptive to modifications. Chuck Schumer, Senate Minority Leader, said there is more than one way to skin this cat.
 referring to the LT2 rule treat or cover requirement for their large uncovered reservoir. We can say the same, and the best way forward for us is to protect our watershed.
 And I'd like to add that when it comes to filtration, adding robustness or resilience or effectiveness under conditions of turbidity, let us not forget that we have the Columbia South Shore well field that can be used during turbidity events, summer shortages, maintenance, and emergencies. And I'd just like to add there is a concern that filtration problems
 would degrade the water quality, alter the taste, add chemicals that
 that would be terrible. Thank you. So you have six minutes. Whatever you don't use, he gets. All right. Floy Jones, Friends of the Reservoirs. And thank you, Michael. You made so many of my points already. But this rule was responsive to the failure of a costly state-of-the-art filtration plant in Milwaukee, Wisconsin that failed to protect against infectious species of Cryptosporidium and other contaminants that are found in human and cow sewage.
 So as others have said, infectious species of crypto have not been found in bull run drinking water. There's never been disease in 125 years. We participated in a scientific study through the American Water Works Association, 3021, and they took massive samples, more than we've taken here in 2015, and it used an improved sampling method, a modification of EPA's 1623 method, and they
 concluded that Portland and all participating utilities already meet the goal of the rule. And that goal is to reduce the level of disease in the community. We don't have disease in the community. So our position based on 16 years of research is, of course, that we would not support introducing mercury bulbs known to break. I've given you a report by the Water Bureau and consultants. They presented that in Paris. It should be presented here.
 and we certainly would not support a filtration plant. Yes, it offers more. It offers risky chemicals to our water, acrylamide, aluminum, alum, polymers for no measurable public health benefit, and filtration does negatively impact the taste,
 and composition of our water. It's going to increase our carbon footprint by quite a bit, and it does risk opening up the watershed, which, no, the Forest Service cannot just start logging, but that's another conversation. But chemical adding filtration, you know, what it does is it takes our perfectly designed, pristine natural water system and turns it into an engineering firm mecca
 With regard to filtration chemicals, CH Chumhill was tasked to do a report on the impacts of chemical adding filtration. Well, not only should we see that report, we should have a robust conversation with the entire medical community. And you cannot trust a rushed probability and cost analysis. I attended the last wholesale customer meeting. That was their comment as well. And this compliance discussion should not be limited to,
 to the onerous treatment plant projects, but should include thoughtful consideration of alternative compliance, such as the 20-year deferral that New York obtained until 2034. And with regard to the court case, the Water Bureau, of course, failed to mention to you that the judge also commented that had we made the Walla Walla argument, which I won't go into that at this point, but that was a better argument in that legal case and we might have won had we made that argument. Okay.
 So we support decisions being based on sound science and evidence, not unsupported hypotheticals. And the filtration arguments that are being put forward don't hold water, and that's why you only hear opinions and not evidence. Just as the EPA's modeling of public health benefits proved wrong,
 Portland's 2002 climate change water demand modeling has proven wrong for 15 years. Since 1988 the Water Bureau projected as population went up our water demand would go up, but I provided you with our water usage chart graph and that shows since 1988 water demand has gone down. Their demand and consumption reports say the same. Their 2017 report says
 Summer supply report says since 2004, population increased 18%, demand declined 13%. Our water bond says the same. We've already spent $440 million to reduce in-town storage by 50 million gallons.
 And then how many resiliency emergency backup systems must Portland ratepayers finance? As Michael said, we spent huge sums to clean up the Columbia South Shore wellfield, to make that available for use. In the 1990s we acquired wells. In 2005 we acquired the Powell Valley wells. In this last decade, Portland ratepayers alone financed top secret regional interties with Clackamas and other utilities.
 As has been said, wholesale customers pay nothing during design and construction. You might consider that they, 20 years ago, TVWD invested in that filtration plant on the Wilson River. Have they hooked up to it?
 in 20 years? No, they haven't. They've told us for 20 years they were going to leave. Well, that was a poor siding choice. They know that now, so we shouldn't rely on them. Regarding massive turbidity, as you know, it doesn't. Filtration plants don't deal with massive turbidity. That was the problem in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, this last winter. Storm after storm after storm, turbidity couldn't have been lower. Um,
 We've invested Portland rate payers again, not the Forest Service, paid for road decommissioning and bull runs. So that's reduced turbidity. In 2012, turbidity was caused by dredging in the watershed for a fish project. So of course we're going to have turbidity if you dredge. Devastating fires like in Denver shut down the filtration plant. We built multiple helipads in the watershed to address any emergencies.
 and they've ignored suggestions by the community to guard against target practicing on the edge of Bull Run because they said fire risk was so low future regulations, no one knows better than the Water Bureau if there are any future regulations out there they've put out none, the Water Bureau participated in crafting this rule and the disinfection by-product rule there's nothing on the horizon for the next 20-25 years
 Oh, I have 20 seconds. Okay. So a filtration plant in Gresham is likely to be damaged in a major earthquake. We're going to have conduits and pipes breaking all over. So with chemical-adding filtration, yes, we can all enjoy livability if we're just willing to accept a lower quality of life, and I don't think anybody wants to do that. Good. I want to reward you for being the consummate gentleman. Take 30 seconds to make your best case. Sure. Thank you very much. For the record also.
 Oh, sure. You know, I look upon this case as being the reenactment of the music man, where the guy comes to town, the instrument salesman, and tells them they have a problem. We have a test here that doesn't differentiate between cryptosporidium. He tells them they've got a problem playing pool, and he's got the answer. I mean, really, to have credibility in this decision, you have to have a test,
 that differentiates between hazardous cryptosporidium and not hazardous cryptosporidium. And otherwise, there just is no credibility. Great. Thank you. And by the way, nobody knows what the music man is, but if you talk about monorail, we're all on board. Next three, please. Check it out. Thank you. We'll do. Our Patricia Bellamy, Sharon Miller, and Joe Meyer. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity to briefly but strongly urge you to take more time in making decisions on how best to provide safe water to businesses and nearly a million citizens. My name is Patricia Bellamy. I'm speaking as a Portland resident, and I'm a member of the Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility, who has provided you with detailed concerns here today. Thank you.
 The cost of these options, $100 to $500 million, is staggering. Decisions to spend these funds must be carefully and wisely considered with well-informed businesses and residents.
 Accurate information, not false claims such as a reported outbreak of human crypto disease or the notion that this $1.5 billion filtration system could or couldn't withstand a large earthquake must be provided immediately.
 Public health is at stake, but you are not dealing with an emergency situation. It will take years to complete any of these options. There are questions on how high will our rate bills be as a result of this major expense. Will our wonderful water change from added chemicals? Exactly what chemicals?
 Will breweries find chemically treated water suitable for our wonderful beer here? Will our decisions in Bull Run remain and protect our wonderful Bull Run water from future development, fire risks, and human contamination? Also, thank you Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Fish for requesting three months extension and getting two.
 but we need to go to June 2018. As per the Citizens Utility Board Commission has recommended, please no action today. Take more time. More public education is needed. Thank you.
 good afternoon my name is sharon miller i'm a resident of portland and i am here to recommend that their extension until june 2018 be followed as recommended by psr and cub i'd like to thank you all for hearing us today in this air-conditioned setting it's very nice and also i'd like to thank mayor wheeler and commissioner fish for recommending a three-month extension
 I also believe strongly that an extension is needed for us to take some time and come to a very well thought out decision. While we're here on a hot, steamy day with smoke blowing down from Canada following months of unusually rainy weather, and we're obviously experiencing the effects of climate change, climate change and our carbon footprint should be taken into account as we consider this plan.
 The extension until June of 2018 would allow time for not only climate change to be considered, but also input from rate payers, including the elderly, low-income, and racially diverse residents. The necessity of filtration in UV systems and who should pay for them also needs to be carefully looked at.
 Scott Pruitt has recently moved the EPA forward in dismantling the Federal Clean Water Act without input from constituents and environmental groups. So I want to particularly thank you for moving forward in Portland, allowing input from these groups and careful consideration. An extension until next June will allow the necessary time for their input and will assure clean water for all. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Dr. Joe Meyer, and I love Portland. My doctorate is in physics, so I understand something of the physical world and of complex systems. I'm also a citizen reporter, and I covered the Portland Water Bureau for CABU News when our open reservoirs were taken offline. Similarities between the events then and today motivate me to give this testimony. Thank you.
 And my conclusion is that the Portland Water Bureau is dangerously prejudiced towards building infrastructure and dangerously practiced at manipulating public opinion. Five years ago, everyone involved from the Portland Water Bureau...
 City Council, Friends of Reservoirs, and County Health Dr. Gary Oxman agreed that there was no public health benefit in the EPA-motivated projects. Likewise, the proposals that issue today have no public health benefit. You can try to postulate something. However, there's nothing that exists. The simple truth is that 125 years ago, the citizens of Portland constructed a simple and elegant drinking water system. In 125 years of use, no one has ever gotten sick from crypto.
 For 125 years, our drinking water has been inexpensive, safe, and delicious, the envy of other cities. Back 125 years ago, the citizens of Portland had the ingenuity and political will to control their own water supply. No multinational corporations required. A hurried timeline is another consistent theme for Portland Water Bureau projects.
 Last time, citizen activists advocated for an extended delay in the LT2 compliance timeline, and the Water Bureau said we had to move forward right away. And I also believe Commissioner Fritz is quoted as saying she felt hurried into a decision. True. A third, this time around, the hurry time frame seemed to start with the Portland Water Bureau requesting that the Oregon Health Authority find them out of compliance seven months before the reporting deadline. Why would they do that?
 The third similarity is the lack of honest effort at seeking regulatory relief. Rochester, New York worked with their senator, Chuck Schumer, to push back on LTT. Last time, when I asked Senator Merkley why Portland was spending half a billion dollars to bury our reservoirs while Rochester was not, he replied that local leadership was required and he had not heard from Portland City Hall. If I may, I'd like to play an interview I did with David Schaaf a few years ago.
 in obtaining a 10-year delay from covering their reservoirs was economic hardship. Portland Water Bureau Director David Schaaf repeatedly dismissed this option. Here's an interview I did with Mr. Schaaf last year. Why not apply for a more extended timeline? We really have to have a reason, and...
 That's our problem, is that we don't have a reason. And we could say, well, because it's going to cost a lot of money. And their response is going to be, well, Congress specifically, when they directed EPA to write an LT2 rule, they said you are prohibited from taking cost-benefit analysis into account. So we can't say, well, it's money. And we don't have any other hook, if you will, to say, well, because maybe the
 rule will change, that's not likely to happen, but that's really why people want Thank you. So my point there is that you have to be more than skeptical of the Portland Water Bureau. You have to be disbelieving. Thank you. I'm going to ask you to wrap it up, please. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Next three, please. The last two who signed up are Steve McCullough and Cherry Lambert Holmstein. Good afternoon.
 I wrote some, I scribbled some things here, but some people have already addressed the issue. I had mentioned that nobody had mentioned the reason for the EPA ruling the Wisconsin treatment plant, and Floyd did a marvelous job of pointing that out.
 Throughout the world, there are people that are dying for lack of water. They're dying because of poisonous, toxic chemicals in the water. And we have this absolutely marvelous bull run system that I think our city council has neglected to protect and serve the people of Portland. We don't need a treatment plant anymore.
 Dan, you and Ted were born here, if I remember correctly, so you should know well the history of Bull Run. And there's a marvelous section in the Portland Mount Loma County Library on Bull Run, and I would hope that you all have searched that and read the papers there.
 We, several years ago, David, Dave, oh, also Commissioner Fish, I recall about five, six years ago, you were saying right here in this chamber that we are fixing a problem that doesn't need fixing. And that's still true today.
 And Joe Meyer mentioned David Shaft, well, about four, five, six years ago. He mentioned that if he didn't obey the EPA ruling, that he would have to go to jail. And when I got to speak, I said, if the citizens of Portland ever had a politician that went to jail for the people, we'd not only be genuflecting, we'd be baking chocolate cakes with files in them, you know. And we have a wrong law, and you don't obey a wrong law. People throughout history have fought wrong laws.
 You're familiar with Mandela and Dr. Martin Luther King, Eugene Debs, who went to jail because he spoke out against World War I. Those are people that are very familiar. People that are not too familiar, right here locally we have people who went to jail protesting Trojan nuclear power plant, very unsafe, which PGE on its own finally closed because that plant was not safe.
 I'd like to mention one person, a late friend of mine, Joe Dottie. I met him one day. I was standing in front of my house saying goodbye to a friend, and he came by on his little red motorcycle, and he pointed to me, and he said, I want to meet that woman. He said, she has the most interesting signs in her front yard. Well, I heard from him the most interesting story I've ever heard in my life. He told me about his father, World War I,
 He was drafted. May I have another minute, please? You're not done yet. 30 seconds.
 Okay. He was drafted. He refused the draft. He was sentenced under Wilson, our president, to end all wars. He was sentenced to 30 years in jail, hard rock. Coolidge pardoned him after three. He went home after three years. He had four sons. All four sons refused the draft decades later. Joel was one of them. They all served time in federal prison for not obeying unjust laws.
 And I encourage you people, please, don't obey the EPA ruling. Protect our boiling water. Thank you. Could I ask you just for the record to put your name in the record? Oh, Cherry Lambert Holmstein. Thank you. And I can't campaign for you, Mayor Wheeler. I met you at your opening announcement, and I said my issues were protecting our water, homeless, and no demolition. And I went door to door for you in many hundreds of phone calls.
 I appreciate that very much. Thank you. And thank you for being here today. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Stephen McCullough. I'm a member of Portland State University class studying Portland's water, taught by Dr. Catherine Howell. And first I'd like to say how gratified I am that...
 The stewardship of Portland's water supply is in really good hands. All of you are doing an amazing job of considering all of the issues, and I'm sure you'll make the right decision, and I thank you for that. I love Portland's water. I drink it every day. I tend to do so until I die. And I just have one question, or I wish you to imagine that it's now 10 years later and that both of those systems are in place. Yes.
 And that if I, as a water user, didn't want to pay for those materials and those systems, could I not just conserve maybe 10% of my water bill and by doing so offset that cost? I mean, what's the average water bill? Let's say it's $100. That's $10 a month. Why not just opt out? We'll have the system and somebody else can pay for it. That's all. Thank you very much.
 Very good. Commissioner Fish? So, Mayor, if I can just make a suggestion in terms of how we handle the next phase. We have a lot of questions that I know my colleagues want answers to. If I may have the next five minutes just to address a number of things that I think need to be clarified or whatever, and then we'll bring the panel of experts forward and answer all of my colleagues' questions, if that's acceptable. Certainly.
 First, I'd like to invite Janice Thompson back to the table for a second. Janice, since there was some testimony referencing what you've submitted in terms of seeking a delay in June 30, 2018, could you just clarify the CUB's position on that? Yes. I don't think – CUB is not requesting a delay from OHA. CUB is requesting that the compliance agreement with OHA –
 say, support filtration, maintain UV as kind of a backup option, that the filtration planning would begin with a scoping period that would help really kind of clarify cost containment opportunities. That scoping period would end no later than June 30th, 2018. At that point in time, presumably, you know, for any number of reasons, the
 decision to move forward with filtration would continue into the more detailed planning. However, at that point in time, the city council could, it's kind of giving the city council an off-ramp, if you will, to say, geez, this is going to cost too much. We're going to use our backup option. So it is not asking OHA for a delay. It's asking that the client's agreement with OHA include this scoping period. Thank you very much.
 Next, Mayor, I'm going to hand out Fish Amendment 2 with the suggested amendment by our friends at the Audubon.
 And it reads as follows. Be it further resolved that the City of Portland will continue to advocate for strict environmental protections, including but not limited to prohibiting logging and limiting access to preserve and protect the Bull Run watershed for future generations regardless of any final decision about water treatment in the Bull Run watershed. Does Commissioner Fritz, as the seconder on the amendment, have any objection? No. Okay.
 So I would offer this as the substitute fish amendment two. Okay. So fish amendment two has been changed to substitute amendment two. Thank you. Mayor, next I'd like to invite up Yona Akaki. Yona, if you could take a seat at the table. She is the Portland Water Bureau Water Quality Manager. And...
 Yona, were you here for Mr. Fernandez's testimony? I was, yes. Okay. And first of all, would you please describe to the council what your job is at the Water Bureau? Sure. I manage the water quality group for the Water Bureau, which includes overseeing the variants and was also the kind of manager of our application for the variants to OHA. And what is the role that you play concerning our sampling and testing?
 So my role is to make sure that all the sampling and testing that we do meets all of the regulations required by either OHA or by the EPA. So in fairness to Mr. Fernandez, who took the time to give us written testimony and was very explicit about his concerns, I want to give you a chance just to respond to a couple of these points. Sure.
 He said in his testimony that in January the Water Bureau crypto lab, quote, did not meet industry standards to be certified for sampling. Could you respond to that? Yeah, to clarify, all of our samples in January and in the following months were all sent to a certified lab. It wasn't our in-house lab. It was a lab that's been certified by both OHA and by the state of Oregon. And where was that lab? It's in Vermont. Pardon me? Vermont. Okay. Okay.
 Mr. Fernandez, in his submission, also says, quote, Portland Water Bureau did not allow certification because it did not want EPA, OHA looking over their shoulder reviewing sampling methods and proficiency standards, end quote.
 So I'm actually not sure what he was talking about there. I mean, the lab that we used, they're called ASI. They are a certified lab. They've both been certified by EPA and by Oregon. And that is a lab that we've been using for the last three years. Our in-house lab recently got certified, and we just started using them last week.
 He concludes as follows, quote, because there was no outside professional certification, no professional sample oversight, no professional proficiency, and no professional analytical methodology, dot, dot, dot, all Water Bureau samples must be rejected at chain of custody. Could you respond to that?
 Yes, so again, the lab that we used was an accredited lab, and we used EPA method 1623, which is the approved method for this analysis. Okay, I think that's satisfactory. Thank you very much. Next, I'd like to invite our very first panel to come back. So the director, the attorney, the deputy director, and our CFO.
 And, Mayor, while I have a bunch of questions, I'd like to defer to you and my colleagues, and then I'll bring my questions later. Great. I have a question for the CFO, and a number of my financial questions were answered during the testimony, and I was interested in what people also said about the rates, and there was substantial testimony on that. Could I ask a question about the financing? Let's say we –
 went for the filtration option, since that is obviously the more expensive of the options on the table, and it's obviously the longer-term play as well. Can you tell us what fiscal impact this would have either on the Bureau and on the city, and does it in any way impact our credit rating?
 I'll try to answer that based on the information I have right now, Mayor, and talk first in generalities. We've issued revenue bonds all the time for our utilities.
 have had a longstanding practice doing that, very successful. And the Water Bureau has issued its first set of revenue bonds, I think, back in 1992. I was the financial advisor on that transaction. They're highly rated at a AAA rating similar to the city's unlimited tax GO rating. So we start from a point of view of very strong credit ratings and a very strong reputation in the credit markets for the financial management and ability to plan for all of the improvements, including these kinds of improvements. Thank you.
 I know that the Water Bureau has done a lot of work in terms of looking at how they would finance and fund this particular project improvement and other parts of their capital plan. Typically, we are in the bond market every year or every other year for the big utilities, planning transactions when needed to fund the capital program. And I think that the projections that you've seen and discussed by Gabe and the Water Bureau has prepared has made assumptions about those future financings
 on into the future in order to fund all of their capital projects. Generally speaking, they make assumptions that are at very conservative interest rates that are substantially above current market because we don't know what the future market conditions might be.
 So I think there's a lot of work that's been done about how we would do that. You asked a question, what impact might that have on our credit ratings? Right, and I assume the answer is none. But I want to make sure I hear from you. It's a revenue bond and therefore the limiting factor would be the ability of rate payers to be able to pay the increase to serve as the bonds. But I wanted to make sure I understood that.
 That's correct. We have very high standards that we plan for in terms of producing what we call debt service coverage or what the bondholders see as revenues available to pay debt service. That's a key factor. So is there a delta on top of what your projections are for the capital costs? In other words, are you holding a reserve? And I'm putting a little bit of an air quote around that. But is there any reserve requirement?
 I'm not sure if I understand the question. So in the case of a general obligation bond, that's backed by the city's general fund. Correct. And if the state issues similar bonds, it's backed by the state's general fund. And obviously...
 the bond rating agencies would require some cushion in the general fund to account for risk to those bonds that have been issued to ensure how much you put in that cushion impacts your bond rating because more of a cushion means you're more likely to be able to service those bonds.
 Is there any similar mechanism built into a revenue bond in the case of utility infrastructure investment? Yes, there is. And how does that work? Well, we have a variety of different reserves and planning standards. We have operating reserves that are established to take care of cash flow needs of the water or sewer utility. We plan to produce enough revenue to pay debt service on bonds and an additional margin above that. Okay.
 And we have different planning standards for both water and BES, and it depends on whether we look at all other bonds, first lien, second lien combined. But those planning standards could be 1.75 times or higher than the actual debt service payment that's due. So those are all very important factors that factor into the credit rating. Another thing I think is really important to take into consideration is that
 When we're looking at large capital programs for these utilities that do put a lot of stress on rates, which ultimately affect our ability to produce financial results that sustain those high credit ratings, the rating agencies are very concerned about whether we've taken down all the risks associated with our operations. And I think part of the discussion here in the story will be,
 When we make choices about how we're going to protect and deliver safe, reliable, ample drinking water on into the future, if there is an option that doesn't provide as much resiliency, that could become a factor that the rating agencies will look at because we won't have necessarily covered as well all those future risks because they're going to be very concerned about whether we've –
 not just with what we see today but what we see tomorrow. So those are other factors that come into play. But generally speaking, we're pretty well aware of that. We plan for that. And we've had tremendous success with large capital programs that are delivering results that have maintained those high credit ratings. Very good. And I assume that as we talk about estimates today in the context of this conversation, and we're really only at the resolution phase here,
 of, as some people have said, a multi-year project, that estimate should be taken with a significant grain of salt, I would assume.
 I would assume so, and I'd let Mike and his engineering folks talk more about the level of – the confidence level associated with the estimate at this point in time, but I would expect – I would like to hear that, and while he's giving us an answer on that, I'd like you to think about what strategies – and I know we currently have strategies in place to protect low-income rate payers and fixed-income rate payers,
 Are there special plans in place in the event that we go through with a capital construction project of this magnitude backed by ratepayer funds?
 By utility rates, is there a plan in place for low-income or fixed-income rate payers? Mike, I'd love to hear your thoughts on the confidence level around the estimates currently on the table. So the estimate for the UV plant, which is designed and needs to be updated, is what I would call moderate confidence level in the city's parlance, Mayor Adams' old set of rules. Okay.
 which to me is a good estimate. I've brought estimates to council to construct with that. Anytime you involve heavy earthwork, you know, there's risks there. No matter how many holes you poke in the ground to explore, you only know what you've drilled into, and you don't know anything else. The confidence level, the 350 to 500 million, the fact that you've got that wide fat range is a low confidence.
 Many of the things that Janice mentioned and to an extent Colleen mentioned are things that we would do in the normal design process.
 The way this thing should go, if we don't choose UV, if you choose filtration, is we need a planning study that takes probably a year and a half to do the study and five months to procure the contractor. And that planning study's focus would be there are four or five different types of filtrations. That's not what we're talking about. You need to figure out which one is the best for our water. And then everything follows after that.
 You have a planning study, then you have a design. If we did it somewhat like we did the Hannah Mason pump station, we have a variety of advisory groups and people that are involved that we brief and interact with.
 Lots of opportunity for public education, public participation would heavily involve the pub and the cub as we do in all these large projects. One of the challenges right now and even in talking about this is that one of the outcomes of the 2008-2009 period is we were enjoined from studying filtration plants.
 So we don't know as much as we would like to know, and we would be basically starting off with a design. And I think many of their questions that they've asked would be answered in the course of doing that.
 So the low confidence estimate, the short answer is that's what I would call the range of numbers for filtration, and that would be expected. It's low confidence. Very good. I appreciate that. And I don't know, Ken, if you have any questions.
 additional thoughts on the rate payer protections? Yes, Mayor. And water and sewer both have programs to assist low-income households. They've had that for years, and there have been modifications to that. One of the thoughts that I've had and have discussed with the Water Bureau and others is that when we are faced with these large capital projects that are designed to meet a regulatory requirement or correct a deficiency, we end up
 for an extended period of time of having rate increases that are substantially above, in some cases, above inflation. And, you know, through an interesting kind of mechanism of city finance, the utility license fee is applied to those inside city water sales regardless of whether they're at inflation or higher. And it seems to me that in a situation where we're struggling with the need to make improvements to protect the water supply, but we also want to be mindful of impacts.
 is that the general fund shouldn't be an unnecessary beneficiary of that important correction in ratepayer action, and that maybe what we want to do is develop a policy or program that would capture that excess above some baseline and devote that to an expanded ratepayer relief program.
 I think it's fair that the general fund gets some natural background, but I don't think it should unnecessarily benefit from that when we're really trying to deal with some of the basic service needs of the city, and there's nothing more basic in my mind than providing safe, reliable, and ample drinking water.
 So I think that there's ideas there that we could play with that could help address some of those issues. It may not address all of that, but over time, that could be a very substantial amount of annual resource that could be directed to the most vulnerable ratepayer population. Very good. I appreciate that. Thank you.
 I have some questions, but I'll defer to Commissioner Fritz. Well, I want to first of all thank everybody for such a really wonderful hearing, and in particular Commissioner Fish for your leadership of this. And just to state that when we had the work session several weeks ago, I was thinking that we would do the less expensive option as we had in 2009, and then went for the variants. The new information I've had just since getting back from England about 36 hours ago –
 There's a lot to be considered here, and specifically, Commissioner Fish, with your work setting up the Portland Utility Board and with their advice that they would like some more time to look into the specifics –
 I'm just wondering, well, it says specifically the board recommends the Water Bureau spend time extension, educating residents as to the types of chemicals or additives that would be used, how they may affect the current treatment regimes, and the potential health and environmental safety impacts of the different treatment technologies.
 So I know that you are wanting, you are all wanting to get on with it. I think we all agree, I would venture to suggest, that we do need to treat, that we're out of options for variances or anything else. So that, I would suggest, could be one of the outcomes of today's hearing. I would really like a little bit more time to hear more and to get more information
 to get more buy-in particularly from the pub and also from the league of women voters and for others who um have been very diligent in this entire process of going through and that i think we could get some more answers obviously not all of them in the next 60 days but we could have some of these things like what you just suggested which sounds like a fabulous idea we could have better understanding of what it would do for rates and for the low-income folks and that it it
 unless I'm certainly open, Commissioner Fish, for your arguing why we should do something quickly today.
 But that's just what I'm thinking, and it's different from what I thought at midday today even. Commissioner, as you know, I have scrupulously avoided lobbying on this issue and instead have asked the Bureau to present the information and let the community respond, culminating in this hearing. So I will have something to say in a few moments, and I thank you for putting down your marker, as always, very thoughtful. I have some questions of this panel, and I think they may be –
 informative, but I'll first defer to Commissioner Daly. Thank you. So, I mean, I am wondering what the purpose of the 60-day extension is if we're going to make a decision today. Well, we asked for three months. We were given 60 days. The reality is
 Whatever decision the council makes, it will take time to prepare a response to the Oregon Health Authority. So I just want to be clear. We don't have 60 days to do something and then we sit down and figure it out. We actually have to have a roadmap to them in 60 days. So we're really talking about – and I don't want to speak for Mike. He can opine, but –
 We're talking about a matter of weeks, and so the question I'm going to ask everyone to consider as we review the options is, in a matter of weeks, is there information that is so determinative to your decision that you think in a matter of weeks that could help you get to a decision, or do you believe that a lot of the questions that have been raised by our oversight bodies really go to the issue of how we implement a decision? Okay.
 And I read a lot of the very thoughtful concerns raised by the pub, for example, as saying, as you plan and as you engineer and as you think about options, and for filtration I think Mike said it could take two years, we want to be in that process at each fork in the road giving you guidance. We cannot anticipate those questions now because it requires hiring consultants and doing studies.
 I think the question I would ask my colleagues is, do you as a threshold matter think there are some fundamental details that you need to have in order to make an informed decision? And we'll have that conversation. Yeah, and if I could add to that, I want to be very clear about where we are in the process today. This is a resolution. So we are not actually –
 As Mike said, even if we go down the road of a filtration system, there's a lot of conversations yet to be had about what that actually is. And I think you mentioned there are four or five different types of filtration system, all with their own implications. And so one question I would have is whether or not we can get to a consensus through the resolution process
 about the general direction that we would like to give, because I think what the Bureau is waiting for is some guidance from us. For my own part, I've looked at the finances. I've looked at the probabilistic analysis.
 I have listened to much smarter people than me on all sides of this from the science perspective. I have kicked the tires as hard as I can on the fight against the federal government route, which I think people who know me know I would always default to that strategy first if I thought I could win it. And believe me, my favorite preference would be to do nothing.
 because it would require no work and it would cost us nothing. That would be my favorite option, but I don't believe that's an option. I don't think it's a real option. I don't think it's a live option. That's just me personally based on my own analysis of this. So I guess I want to treat this to the degree that my colleagues feel comfortable with,
 something like a land use hearing? Can we give some general guidance to the staff today? And then obviously they will be coming back to us and reporting to us on their progress. They'll be engaging our public advisory committees, the pub and the cub, and others in the community who have an interest in this subject. But can we get the ball rolling understanding that whether we like it or not, the state has put a fairly stringent timeline on this process?
 So the mayor touched on my second question. Let's just briefly talk about what it looks like if we just decide that we are not going to comply. What happens to Portland?
 I can respond to that, Commissioner. Well, first of all, I nominate Commissioner Saltzman if someone has to be arrested and spend time in jail. Dan, I'm sorry, but you're the most – I'll second that for discussion purposes. You're the most – this is out of respect. You're the most senior member of the council, and I'm going to nominate Dan. So I just wanted to – And as the most likely other victim, I would second that in motion. I'll hold back the cake. All right.
 And I'd advise you to get a criminal attorney because that would not be me. Commissioner, under the state statute as well as the OHA regulation, at the point the city does not comply with the order, so actually on November 22nd, if we are doing nothing, we're subject to fines in the amount of $1,000 per day throughout the period that we continue in noncompliance with.
 Ultimately, if we're serving noncompliant water to the public, of course, OHA could get an injunction against the city and your parade of harbors could begin at that point. Noncompliance is really not an option. Thank you.
 And I just want to assure you, Commissioner Fish, I wasn't suggesting it was an option, but I thought because the issue had been raised, it would be good to just go down that road a little ways. So my third and final concern, it's already been raised by the mayor, but it is the low-income assistance program. And I feel like I would need a little – I'm really interested in capping the utility license scenario. Utility license.
 I just would need a little more assurance that we're really going to do that and what it would look like and how many people we'd be able to help and how we get to those rape...
 Well, how we get to those residents who are renters that don't have their own meters, which I've had initial conversation with Commissioner Fish, but we know that there are thousands of low-income renters in the city that currently wouldn't qualify for the program, but it sounds like they might if we did the license cap. Commissioner, could I respond to that for a second? Yeah. You have made it very clear to me and the mayor that
 this issue of the impact of increased rates on low-income vulnerable tenants is fundamental to you. Through this process, this idea of capping the utility license fee and creating a pool of general fund resources has come up. The advantage of that is we're not constrained by some of the nexus arguments that we have to have with ratepayer dollars. And currently our discount programs run with a meter. But as Commissioner Udaly notes,
 Many of the people who need the discount who are in unmetered apartments and multifamily apartments are not reached through our current programs. I think that whatever path we choose, this concept of capping utility license fee, creating a pool of money, which is general fund money, which by definition is more flexible.
 could lead to a breakthrough in our thinking of how to address this problem because I think we would have the flexibility to create a program which looks more like an entitlement program for low-income people with general fund dollars, which is different from our current program through the –
 So that is at least something, that is a number of, there are a number of options we could consider and what I would recommend regardless of what choice we make is that through the budget process we ask the Bureau to come forward with suggestions. But we don't exactly have a lot of excess general fund. So it would then be competing with housing dollars and such. No, and I want to be very clear that what the CFO has suggested is that the budget
 To the extent any new capital spending on this project
 quote unquote, inflates rates in the short term. We treat the marginal increase in utility license fee off of that increase as a pool of money and cap it at where we are now. That's money that is directly raised because of raising rates on people to cover an unexpected capital expenditure. And so I think that's different. That's not money that's currently in our five-year forecast. But it's new money that could be spent on housing. It is. Well-
 I mean... Let me come back, though, if I could. I have just a few more questions just to hopefully clear up some issues on the record. Mike, we've had a couple of people...
 make the case, my words, not theirs, that there's good cryptosporidium and bad cryptosporidium, and that that should have some bearing on our decision. Would you just let us know from the government's point of view as a regulator, do they make a distinction between, quote, good and bad cryptosporidium? The government makes no distinction whatsoever.
 It's just crypto to the government. The 10-year variance that we successfully got, and it had the strong support of a number of people who are still on the council, was in the nature of a one strike and you're out. It said you have to meet very strict requirements, and if you don't, you're out. Did the document make any distinction between so-called good crypto and bad crypto? The document did not. It stuck with the federal language. Okay.
 I want to go back to the March 8, 2017 letter that the Bureau sent to the Oregon Health Authority. We had at least one person testify. My word's not theirs that in that letter you requested that the Oregon Health Authority find you in violation of the order. Is that true, or how would you characterize the purpose of that letter? Sure.
 That's not an accurate characterization. The letter that we sent on March 8th detailed the status of what we had found at that point and gave that information to our regulators. What they did with that later was their concern. Okay. Mike, we've also had some concerns raised about the introduction of chemicals into the water through a filtration process. And I think a number of people have referred to it as chemical filtration. Okay.
 Could you take a moment just to describe generally the filtration process and what, if any, chemicals are introduced in the water so that the council has some baseline understanding of that? So we can't tell you exactly what would be used because it somewhat depends upon which filtration option you pick. But the common uses are aluminum salts or iron salts.
 Aluminum that's used is alum. It's in your kitchen probably if you bake or can or preserve food. Or various iron salts and you may take iron supplements yourself. Those are mixed in on the front end of the process to build what's called a flock. It makes bubbles that things stick to in English.
 And that makes them clump up so that when you go through the filter, the filters catch it all. I can't say that all of those chemicals are caught in the filter, but 99.99% log 4 removal are caught in the filter.
 So it meets, there is no health risk anywhere, and all 76 of the big utilities that do filtration use it, and everybody else and their brother. I don't know how many filtration plants there are in the United States. It's just very common. What about the impact on...
 the taste or other qualities of the water for our bigger commercial users like brewers? One of the things that we do when you do the planning studies for this is we look at all that and we would coordinate with the craft brewers. Ultimately we have to make the plant work.
 but there's usually choices that can be made, and we would work with them, and either they would have the time to adapt or we might be able to devise something that doesn't impact it. But I can't tell you the answer to that now without having done the appropriate studies. But I would tell you that...
 other cities produce beer besides Portland. I think it's good for people to know it's very much on our radar. It is very much and we talk to the craft brewers. I can't tell you exactly what the answer is on taste either. Fortunately or unfortunately as a Water Bureau Director I'm kind of indifferent to the taste of water.
 To me, it doesn't taste that different unless somebody's put too much chlorine in it. But there are people who are very sensitive to the chemical taste, and that's another thing that we would look into as we did the planning studies. Well, that actually is something I'd like as much information as you have about now, because having been in many different places in America...
 the water doesn't taste as good as ours. We have, I'm told, very good tasting water. Yeah, so I'd like to know what is it in the other water that gives it that taste and how can we make sure that we avoid putting that into ours? Okay. I have one more question and it's actually all directed to myself. Nick, in 2009 when you apparently said that we're fixing a problem that doesn't need fixing, what did you mean?
 Well, my first answer to this is I can't remember what I said yesterday, so it's a little unfair to go back to 2009. But since Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Saltzman, and I were knee-deep in the 2009 debate, I will tell you what I think I meant. At that time, we were presented with what we believe was a viable option to seek a waiver from this requirement. And the way it was explained to us was,
 If we can show that our untreated, unfiltered water was as good as or better than water subject to this rule, we had a fighting chance of getting a waiver. And Commissioner Fritz will correct me if I misstated that. And so from my point of view at that time, it did feel like fixing a problem that didn't need fixing because we were told there was a path that had some promise –
 that would allow us to get out from under the rule altogether. Thanks to some really dogged work by the Bureau and our partners, we got the only variance of any water system in America. And we had a good run. We had a five-year run. And I think we should be proud of that.
 But we all understood that that variance was a one strike and you're out. And we understood that because it was such a rare and unique circumstance that we were held to a very high bar. And if something, if we could not meet that standard, we were going to lose it. So that was then. I will say that what has changed for me is that we no longer have the variance. We are now required to consider what's our next steps.
 And something else has changed, which I'll talk more about when we have a council discussion shortly. But in 2009, and I'd have to go back and look at the entire record, I don't remember much of a discussion about climate change, about resilience, and I certainly don't remember editorial boards and key stakeholders coming in with such clarity and saying that filtration was the best long-term plan.
 And again, Amanda may have a different recollection, but it was a pretty charged discussion at that time. And so I think it is fair to say that the context for this discussion is fundamentally different, both from a regulatory point of view and also, I think, from a set of values which guide a lot of our big decisions now has changed. And one thing that has pleased me about this debate is it has been pretty much on the merits of
 And the Water Bureau did not, at the beginning, dictate any outcome. And I take some umbrage when I hear people say that, because it really does a disservice to the professionals who were charged in this instance with getting information out, responding to people's concerns, and then allowing stakeholders and third parties to reach their own conclusion. We do have a variety of opinions on this, but I think it's unfair to say that somehow the Water Bureau didn't.
 put the fix in. This debate has been on the merits. Reasonable people can disagree about the options, but we have a couple of options before us, and I'm going to continue to urge that the Council see if we can get to some consensus on an option, because I think it's important that we give direction to the Bureau through this resolution, and I think many of the questions and concerns that have been raised can be addressed in the days and years ahead. So, Commissioner Fish, to that point,
 I believe by virtue of the resolution before us, we have already come to a conclusion, and please tell me if I'm wrong, I know you will, that we have already eliminated the do-nothing option. Right. Is there a consensus on that? Yes. Okay, so that is off the table.
 So let me ask this. Could people come to a consensus, or do you believe you're in a position today to come to a consensus between either the UV option or the filtration option? Without telling me what it is, can you just tell me? Yes. Yes. So we have four options.
 four yeses and one no. May I expand on that? Yes, please, Commissioner. I believe I can get to a consensus. I'm just concerned about making this decision in August when people are out of town, just remembering, Commissioner Fish, the hearings we had in 2009 with both chambers packed and generally a lot of engagement. This is a huge amount of public money, whether it's rate money, general fund, whatever. It's a very large amount of money. Okay.
 and with our pub and the curb and the Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility, who were a big part of the advocacy back in 2009, all of them saying, could we please have some more time?
 and you did go and get that 60 days, I'm understanding you that we shouldn't take the whole 60 days, but even if we took 30 days to flesh out some of the questions that we heard today, I think that we could get some more consensus on the way forward, and not just amongst the council, but with the community as a whole, and that really is who we need to be listening to right now, because they're the ones who are going to be paying those extra rates.
 I guess I would just add that I think we're put up here to make decisions, tough decisions. This is a tough decision. I think we've had a lot of time. For some of us this time, we've had years to ponder this decision. I don't think more time, 30, 60 days, is going to bring people from one position to another. People who are against filtration are not going to rally around it with information they're going to gather in 30 more days. If anything, they're going to have more questions.
 I would say the same thing with people who may support UV treatment. And, you know, we've just eliminated the do-nothing option. So I think we really have, you know, we need to make a decision for regulatory purposes. We need to make a decision for the health and well-being of our residents. And I think we need to make a decision. And I'm prepared to support filtration. Mayor, if I could just make a few comments. Please. In 2009, I...
 I strongly supported an application to seek a variance, and I supported the fallback lease cost option, which was UV. But I will be honest that at that time I was very hopeful that we would never actually have to go the UV route. And I am pleased that we got a variance, and I am grateful that we've had five years under that variance, but that has come to an end. When we had the work session a couple of months ago,
 Mayor, we had a pretty robust conversation. And during the course of it, you and the director were kind of kicking around a third option. And I know it would be unfair to call it your option or his option. Well, now let's call it his option now that it's been thoroughly vetted. And some roundly criticized by some people that are here. But, I mean, this sort of hybrid option came up, which is sort of a short-term fix followed by a plan for the long term.
 As a way of bridging the divide between the UV only, which I think increasingly became a path to nowhere, and filtration, which had a sticker shock, I saw that as a middle ground, and I think that became something for us to think about.
 What's over time changed my view on this is the material we've received from our various stakeholders, from third parties, from editorial boards, from Dr. Lewis, from the Pub and the Cub and on and on and on. And by the way, the Pub has held multiple meetings and has had large audiences, and lots of people have come and testified.
 And I did not anticipate that we'd have a rough consensus among Dr. Lewis, editorial boards, the Cub, the Pub, wholesale customers, and some other parties, that the best way of looking at this is the 100-year legacy look. In some ways, what I didn't anticipate is a conversation that began as how do we deal with this?
 the threatened loss of our variants and the need to address cryptosporidium morphed into something else, and it became a conversation about what is our responsibility to protect the long-term health of this system that we're stewards of. And that shifted us away from short-term care.
 dead-end expenditures, and I think Dr. Lewis was maybe the most eloquent person in that conversation, to the question of let's plan for the next hundred years, just as people did a century ago, that gave us this great system. And as I have thought about that, and I have thought about the uncertainty but likely impact of climate change, as I've thought about the
 the commitment we've all made to making our system more resilient, as I've thought about many of the things we can't quite quantify, it has frankly shifted my thinking towards filtration. And filtration, to me, I think we have enough information before us to say that's the roadmap.
 I think many of the thoughtful questions that have been raised here and before are issues that we can address through a very extensive planning and implementation process. And what I have heard the pub say loud and clear, and also the CUBB,
 is that they want to be full partners in every phase of the decision-making. And you have my full commitment on that, but one of the things I was hoping with the 60 days is we could actually map that out so you would have clear understandings, we'd have mutual understandings of –
 of how we consult with you, at what frequency, what kind of information, and at every kind of key fork in the road, you'd have a chance in a timely fashion to weigh in. So that has, quite frankly, moved me. And I will confess, I think I'm probably head of my own bureau on this,
 But I came at this conversation with an open mind, having once before voted just for a UV fix. And frankly, I think for all the reasons that people have testified to today, I think we need to think 100 years and not 20 years forward. So, Commissioner Fish, if I may give my perspective, I did during the work session put on the table what I'll call now the hopeful perspective
 suggestion that we could do UV today and that some percentage of that construction would actually be laying a foundation towards the longer-term solution, and that there could be some mechanism by which we begin saving for that longer-term solution. In other words, if you look at the probabilistic analysis, do the saving in the early years when the probability favors...
 the UV investment on a dollar per output basis. And then when we're teed up and ready to go, all we had to do was add steps five through 10, and we're good to go with filtration. Unfortunately, it just doesn't work that way. It doesn't work that way from a scientific perspective, and it doesn't work that way from a risk perspective, and it doesn't work that way from a fiscal perspective. So as much as I wanted that to be the...
 more pragmatic middle road, it just doesn't pan out from my perspective. So I am prepared today to move forward with what I think is the only reasonable option left on the table, which is some flavor of filtration to be determined, and there has to be a lot of feedback and input back to us in terms of what the right path is.
 So I am prepared to call the question today, but I want to respect what Commissioner Fritz has said. I want to hear from Commissioner Udaly as well.
 Well, Mayor, I just add that I also was born and raised here, and I don't relish the thought of the taste or any quality of our water changing, and I would prefer not to have to do filtration. But the fact is we've lost our variants, and someone else has set a standard for public health and safety that we can't use.
 flout. It would be absolutely irresponsible for us to leave the city open to the liability of $1,000 a day and whatever other penalties may come further down the line. I went through a similar thought process, although in a very concentrated period of time since I wasn't here in 2009. At first I thought, well, let's just do UV because it's the cheapest option and it fixes this one problem that we have, right? But I think
 we probably all agree that that crypto problem isn't really a problem. So it's a problem in that we've lost our variants, but it's not a real threat to public health. And so it's really just one step beyond fixing a problem that doesn't exist. Sorry, what are we calling the other option? UV plus. The filtration. The filtration, sorry.
 stirs option. The hybrid also made sense if we could save money by slowly converting from the UV to filtration but I'm at the point where filtration makes the most sense to me because it actually will solve problems that are very likely to come in the future and like I said I'm
 really concerned about low income rate payers. I am going to be working on stemming the tide of cost burdening and displacement and homelessness the whole time I'm here. So keeping people in their existing housing is very important to me and I think to the whole city. So I'm really serious about wanting to,
 hear a lot more about that and know that we're doing as much as we can to kind of mitigate the impacts on low income and also to stabilize rates for everyone. Because frankly, my water bill seems a little high. But yeah, so that's where I'm at. Could I give a nasty hypothetical? So let's say we said yes to filtration and then we get five months into this process.
 and we start tightening up on estimates or unforeseen problems come up, what happens? Mr. Mayor, at that point we would have committed to a compliance schedule. On one level, I think the legal answer would be we'd be in trouble because we'd have to be in compliance with that order or with the schedule and we wouldn't be. I think realistically, I think...
 We would be able to speak to OHA and perhaps try to tweak the schedule with a new goal and try to come into it. Their goal is that we come into compliance as soon as possible. That's what they said in the order revoking the variants, that whatever option we come up with, they want it to be as fast as practicable. So if we get down the road in five months and we realize that for some reason, unforeseen reason,
 we can't do it, then I think we need to jump into action and show OHA, okay, this is how we're going to do it, and the train is not going to stop rolling. Got it. Commissioner Fritz? So, First Commissioner Fish, I think you've maybe done too good of a job of making me revere the Portland Utility Board's advice.
 And I'm wondering if you would please indulge me by allowing Colleen to come back up and give her assessment. Sorry to put you on the spot here, but I'm just following your previous letter, and it seemed really well-reasoned to me. So now that you've heard all of the discussion, I'm going to ask you to please come back up.
 And I'm going to give you just a minute to think about it while I maybe also offer another suggestion. We could vote on the amendments today and then not vote on the entire resolution until a certain point in the future when we might have some more information. So that's one way we could deal with this. The other concern I have, this is a resolution, not an ordinance, and it doesn't say that it's binding city policy. So there's that to consider. And then thirdly...
 Joe Meyer was correct that I did say that I was being rushed, and that was in March or that was in spring of 2010, and that was because Commissioner Leonard had put an emergency ordinance on the council's agenda with the deadline running out about five days later. So I couldn't vote against it because I would have put it out of compliance. So we're not in that situation here, but I think we are in a situation where the resolution...
 maybe doesn't direct as much in terms of this is what has to happen in between. We've got the annual report, but we don't have any certainty in the resolution that there will be coming back to council at various stages. So having given you a little bit of time by stalling, Colleen, could you just give us your thoughts, please? I have to be careful because they're not my thoughts. What I can do is try to convey what
 the pub has said, and that is embodied in the recommendation that we sent to Commissioner Fish. And I would point out two parts of that recommendation. One was that we have to comply, which I think everybody agrees with. The third part was that if OHA did not grant us an extension, that we thought filtration was the best long-term solution.
 The second part of that recommendation was that should we get an extension, that we would like to see that time used for public engagement, for trying to, and I realize that 60 days, 30 days doesn't allow this, but to get closer to some sort of better cost estimates.
 to start down the path of maybe raising the engineering plans, the design plans to go from sort of low confidence to closer to moderate confidence. So we had some pretty specific uses of that time. I don't know if that completely answers your question, but we did ask for the time to be used. Okay.
 So if there was some delay before voting on the resolution as a whole, that would honor the Port New Chelsea Board's letter. I really feel like I'm being put on the hot spot. No, no, no, I understand. But I think that would go along with the letter, yes. I don't think. Well, can I offer a compromise? Because many of the things that are in the letter and the distinguished co-chair has just referenced as issues of concern
 we won't have good answers for a year or more. So I interpret it somewhat differently. What I read it as, this has been a compact process that was set by OHA. It's extraordinary how much work this oversight body has done to get to this point. But they don't want to operate on this frequency indefinitely.
 And if the council is to make a decision, they want an assurance that they'll have the time to make thoughtful contributions to critical decisions going forward. And that includes which type of technology. That includes impact on rates, all kinds of things. There's a whole laundry list of things in the letter. And what I had suggested as a compromise is that if the council is prepared to act today, that we use the next month to engage –
 the pub, not only on the specific terms that we're going to submit to our regulator, which has to be in within two months, but that we also hammer out an understanding about the way we are going to jointly approach this project so there is a clear understanding and that
 We do a better job of making sure you have the time to give thoughtful consideration to the critical decisions we have to make over the next two years if Council went that route. And that I thought was a workable compromise, but it meant the spirit of the letter, but did not prevent the Council if they chose from issuing a preferred option today. So I agree with all of that. The be it resolved doesn't say that we're going to be coming back
 within 60 days with what we're going to present to the OHA. Because after this action, we would be completing the council action. The Bureau would be charged with doing the plan that would be responsive. We do not review plans of this nature generally. What I have proposed is that they review that plan with the pub, make sure they get their input, and at the same time anticipate the
 how going forward we will collaborate in key decision-making over the next two years. And that we could work out over the 60-day extension and does not prevent us today from giving clear guidance to the Bureau about which direction they should go forward. And, frankly, this is August. Unfortunately, August doesn't get better in terms of, you know, getting people's attention. And I think it would be very unfair to jam the Bureau
 Much longer because they have some work to do in translating whatever our direction is into the necessary documents that go to the Oregon Health Authority. Commissioner Fish, you have earned my trust, and even though I think it would be better to have more public process before taking this vote, with that statement on the record by you, I'll be willing to support your resolution. And that means the world to me. Thank you.
 Clerk, please call. So, Mayor, I move Fish Amendments 1 through 4. As amended second. As amended second. Please call the roll. Actually, you know what? To be on the safe side, I see legal counsel twitching out of the side of my... Fish Amendment 1, call the roll. Number 1. Saltzman. Aye. Aye.
 Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Amendment 1 is adopted. Fish Amendment Substitute Amendment 2. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Substitute Amendment 2 is adopted. Fish Amendment 3. Aye.
 Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Fish Amendment 4 is adopted to the main motion. Any further discussion? Mayor, before you call this one, may I suggest that any... I'm sorry. The last vote was on 3. Oh, it was. I apologize. Fish Amendment 4. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. I'm useful occasionally. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Aye. Fish Amendment 4 is adopted. Commissioner Fish? So now we have adopted all the amendments, and so is there now a final vote? Yes, on the main motion, the main resolution. This is where we will have a chance to make any final comments. That is correct. Okay, thank you. Please call the roll. Saltzman? And this main resolution puts us on record in support of filtration. Correct. Correct. Okay.
 Well, great. I think this is the right decision, given I think a lot of us believe we should still merit a variance, and I'm not totally convinced we shouldn't, but I am convinced that that case is now closed and that option is not available to us. So I think the direct filtration is the best option of the two choices we have. I do have concerns about it costing more, but I'm also realizing it's not –
 It could be $350 million. It could be $500 million. Hopefully not more. I purposely didn't offer an amendment not to exceed $500 million, although I contemplated that. I think that this will serve our ratepayers and all the people who enjoy bull run water throughout our region as a long-term investment in their safety and the safety of a resource that is truly irreplaceable.
 and that really is our bull run resource. So I think this is honoring the needs of the most people, and with all due respect to those who have concerns about it, I think we will answer those concerns in the process of designing and executing and designing, constructing, and operating a filtration plant. But it seems to be the best option for me, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Udailey?
 Earlier, a gentleman expressed concern that I had missed testimony from the Physicians for Social Responsibility, and I just want to let him and everyone else know that my office actually met with representatives from that organization and that I am well aware of
 their concerns and wishes. I would also like to point out that commissioners are humans, like the rest of you, and they have human needs, and I was attending to a human need. So, being away from the dais for less than 10 minutes during this lengthy hearing was not meant as any disrespect to
 to the people who were testifying during that little break of mine. He also mentioned that he voted for me, and I feel the need to point out that well over 100,000 people voted for me and everyone else that's on this dais, and a single vote that is not in accord with your position...
 I hope would not negate that vote in your mind because it is literally impossible for us to vote along with all 100,000-plus people who put us here. And I just encourage everyone to watch and evaluate us based on our overall performance. So I want to thank everyone for the presentation.
 Thank Commissioner Fish, who did a great job just providing copious amounts of information and generous briefings and really being supportive and encouraging of me to come to my own conclusion. And I'm happy to say that my conclusion is aye. Fritz? Yes.
 Well, this certainly has been a long process, and I do think back to 2009 when the motion, the ordinance on the table was to build the filtration plant. And at the last minute, literally, Commissioner Leonard substituted it for an ultraviolet.
 treatment because my colleagues who were there at that time and I felt very strongly that we didn't need anything. And so why would we build a $500 million plant if a $100 million plant would do? Then as now, the ultraviolet really doesn't do anything for Bulban water. So to build an ultraviolet system...
 might make some people feel better, might get us in compliance, but it would be a complete waste of money. And I do disagree with the Portland Business Alliance that said, do that and then think about doing the filtration later. We know that filtration will do more than nothing
 I was very pleased to see actually that the price tag on that has not gone up since 2009. The estimate is still 500 million. So I'm very proud of having delayed that investment during the recession when everybody was scrambling to make ends meet. And now we do have the opportunity to look forward and to figure out how are we going to help low-income ratepayers
 How do we do that at the same time as supporting all the rest of the things that the general fund needs, including housing? What do we want to buy and how do we want to pay for it is always the question here. I would have preferred to have had more public process on this. As Commissioner Fish rightfully notes, it's very hard to get...
 any attention in August and yet we've been given that timeline by the Oregon Health Authority and so we have to make a decision. This is though a preliminary decision and we will certainly, I know that Commissioner Fish will have a lot of process and doubtless many very long items at council where he and the Bureau will go through every last detail and
 in which case I may need to take a human break, as sometimes happens. So that's different from 2008, when there wasn't the public confidence in the Water Bureau and there wasn't the leadership of Mike Sturer and Commissioner Fish. So I'm very grateful to everybody who's participated in this. I believe we'll get to the right place in the end. Aye. Fish. Well, I want to begin by thanking my colleagues. First, to our mayor. Thank you.
 He mentioned early on that he wanted to have this discussion and hold this hearing in the nature of a land use proceeding. And one of the things I've learned from the most passionate advocate for that approach to issues, which is Commissioner Fritz, who had a prior history on the Planning Commission, is that when we approach issues using that model,
 We tend to get to consensus in a different way, and I think a more sustainable way, than when we just treat an issue as being subject to the whim of three votes. We can do our business by saying there's three votes and let's drive it, but that's not as satisfying as bringing the entire council around a hard decision.
 And Mayor, we've had some hard decisions in your first six months, and my recollection is most of them were decided on a consensus basis. So I appreciate the leadership style. I appreciate my colleagues for taking the time to really sift through the information and the details. And I think it's fair to say that Commissioner Fritz and I had to travel the farthest on this, because in 2009, we had clearly defined positions, and I was very proud to join her. And in fact...
 She was the reason that I joined a majority sentiment on UV. And at the time, a commissioner in charge of the Bureau disagreed quite strongly with that decision. So it was a very difficult decision, but ultimately Commissioner Fritz's view persuaded me of the merit of that position.
 But I will say that during the time that I've had the Bureau, and the Bureau has had some significant challenges and headwinds that it has faced during my tenure, hopefully not because of my tenure or exclusively because of my tenure, Commissioner Fritz has been a great ally and has helped me navigate some very tough waters. I want to thank you for that.
 And to Commissioner Saltzman, who probably hopes he never has to have this issue come before us again because as a former commissioner in charge, he's been through many of the iterations. I just thank you, Dan, for the steady and thoughtful approach that you brought to these issues. And to Commissioner Udaly, you have my deep commitment that we will work with you and the council to mitigate the impact on particularly rent burden issues.
 residents of our community. In the editorials that I read leading up to this discussion, I noted two themes, a number of themes, but two that stuck out at me.
 Because really the editorial boards took the issue before them and they made it a much bigger and they took it to 30,000 feet. They got us out of the crypto debate and looked at it more broadly. But I thought there were two challenges running through the editorials I read. One was a question of whether government can still make the hard decisions and a question about whether we had the capacity and the will to do that.
 across levels of government. I'm not just talking about D.C., but at the state level and the local level. And two is, are we willing to plan for the long term, or are we going to continue to engage in short-term thinking? And I must say, I found both of those arguments caused me to reflect on my role on this council and what I want to leave for my kids when I'm no longer on this council. Okay.
 A lot of work has gone into this over the last 10 weeks. In a perfect world, we would have had more time. But I could not be more proud of the Water Bureau team. And I want to thank the director, the deputy director, and all the professional staff and all the line workers for all the stuff they did. And as my colleagues know, you don't get to put aside all the other things on your plate when something like this lands on your plate. And this was an unwelcome, an unwelcome development this spring.
 and they have a very heavy lift. But on top of everything else, they rose to the occasion as they do time and time again, and I want to thank my team. I want to thank Dr. Lewis for being such a great partner. He has the great virtue of being able to communicate public health issues in a way that most Water Bureau people and leadership don't do as well. He has a clarity of thought. He has just a demeanor, and he has a credibility when he speaks to public health issues.
 And I'm sure from time to time we'll find areas of disagreement, but I'm just so proud to call him our partner. And he's a class act. Before he weighed in on this, he actually reached out to me and said, do you mind if I end up coming down on a recommendation that may be inconsistent with whatever the Bureau lands? And I said, I insist on it.
 I insist that you make your call based on what you think is best for our system because whether we agree or disagree with where you land, I know it will make the process better, and I know we'll benefit from having your advice. And that's what he did. I think your letter and the thoughtfulness in which you crafted your letter had a huge impact on thinking by all the actors in this process, and so I thank you, Dr. Lewis, for doing that. I want to thank the pub and the cub.
 I've been on the council for nine years. I've seen effective and ineffective oversight bodies, and I think I know enough now to know why some were effective and some weren't. And I think it has to do with leadership. It has to do with staffing and resources, and mostly it has to do with whether the council is willing to engage as partners the oversight body.
 And I think we have a chance with the CUB and the PUB to take it to a much higher level going forward of citizen oversight, which ultimately means we'll be making better decisions. And so I thank you for that. And finally, I want to do a shout-out. I want to thank Ken Rust and Karen Moynihan. Ken is a terrific CFO. A number of us fought to have that position reinstated, and I think you see why. And Karen managed to balance all the work she's doing, and she got married. So talk about a trooper.
 And thank you for that. And finally, I want to thank the people on my team, Sonia Schmansky and Todd Lofgren in particular. These are really hard issues, and there's a lot of stuff before council right now. And this week will probably be one we'll look back and say, oh, my God. But they helped me do my job at a much higher level, so I'm very appreciative of that.
 of the work they do. And I also appreciate everyone who took time to testify before the pub, the Cubs, sent emails, letters, came here today. Whether you agreed with what we're doing or you vigorously disagreed, I don't remember a time where we had such a hard issue and we had so much thoughtful input. And based on what I've heard, I believe this is the responsible approach forward, and therefore I will support it. Wheeler?
 As a courtesy, I should have let Commissioner Fish go last, and I apologize. I'll be brief. First of all, I want to thank Commissioner Fish for his leadership on this issue. This was a very, very complicated issue, and I want to thank the staff who worked with Commissioner Fish, who spent a lot of time with me, a lot of time with my staff, to educate me on a very, very complex issue. I definitely want to thank everybody from the Bureau. Ken, thank you for always entertaining my staff.
 questions around bonding and finance and all the stuff that most people think is boring that you and I go out over cocktails and spend hours talking about. In many ways, I feel like we've settled on the most challenging solution.
 But I also think it is the most responsible solution. And all the information that I've been provided has led me to that conclusion. I want to acknowledge something that really wasn't mentioned except briefly today. And I think it has to be said. There's a sadness involved.
 that goes along with this decision. We're leaving something behind. We're leaving part of our hard-fought past behind. Similarly, when we built the bridges over the Willamette River, we left behind the ferries. And there were a lot of people. My grandmother lived long enough that she could remember that.
 And she felt that the community, in some sense, had obviously made the right decisions and had made the responsible decisions, but she still felt a sense of loss at what we'd left behind. And in many regards, Commissioner Fish, I feel the same way about this decision.
 But it is the right decision. It is the responsible decision. It is the best decision for the future of this community. And I want to thank you for your terrific leadership on it. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Thank you. Yes, sir. A brief comment. You guys don't hear this very often, I'm sure. But I want to thank you. My heartfelt thanks for being the leaders you are and providing us a path forward. Thanks.
 We're adjourned.