All right, good morning, everyone. Good morning, Carla. How are you today? Good morning, Mayor. I'm well, thank you. Outstanding. All right, this is the Wednesday, August 5th, 2020 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here.
 The Portland City Code and state law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending remotely by video and teleconference. And the City has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting.
 is available to the public on the city's YouTube channel, eGovPDX, www.portlandoregon.gov slash video, and channel 30. The public can also provide written testimony to the council by emailing the council clerk at cctestimonyportlandoregon.gov.
 The Council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and to promote social distancing. The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety, and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. Thank you all for your patience, flexibility, and understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do the City's business.
 Colleagues, before we begin, I want to thank those joining us for our Wednesday session. Before we begin our agenda, I'd like for us to pause for reflection and to acknowledge acts of exemplary public service.
 2020 has brought to the forefront conversations about the massive disparities in wealth, income, access to housing, education, employment, decision-making opportunities, and even health. We must continue to have these conversations if we're to actually address our economic, public health, and housing emergencies and come out of this pandemic stronger and more resilient.
 And we must importantly support the people, including our own city staff, who are listening and in some instances personally experiencing the problems that our nation is facing.
 For every number, every piece of data, when it comes to COVID-19, when it comes to housing instability, when it comes to domestic abuse, when it comes to violence to oneself or to another, when it comes to the closures of small businesses, brings a wave of emotions. Anger, frustration, sorrow, grief, and confusion.
 Well, data is at the heart of accountability for our institutions. We talk a lot about data here. We must always remember that every piece of data reflects the lives of real people, and that every human life is sacred. We must recognize the intensity of these changes in all our lives, and we must be intentional with our words and with our actions.
 As mayor, I believe I have the responsibility to use every tool I have to make sure that we're successful in building our public institutions in our city back better than it was before. We must do everything we can so that we do not lose people during this process. We lost a member of our city family last week to suicide. In fact, we've lost several members of the city family to suicide in just the last couple of months.
 These were appreciated, talented, and valued members of our city staff who are vitally important to the work that we do and to the community at large. They'll be deeply missed by all of us who knew them. We must, at this time, when there is so much going on, support each other.
 Let's be sure to take care of ourselves and each other. We must remember the humanity, the people that bring us joy and bring us wisdom, the actions and movements that give us purpose, and the places that connect and recharge us. And we must learn from these moments.
 I've learned in the last few days, for example, that we don't have rapid response to bring in culturally responsive services for members of our city family. I've directed my team to remedy this as soon as possible.
 I'd like us now to join together in a moment of silence to reflect on and remember the colleagues that we've lost and those who may still be deeply affected by and struggling with the many difficulties that we're all faced with. Thank you. And so in closing those comments, let's just, as the leaders, colleagues of
 this city government. Let's make sure that we really reach out to people, bureau directors, keep an eye on the people who you are responsible for and for our fellow city employees. Look out for each other. Thank you. Carla, first up is communications.
 Mayor, would you like me to read the council? Oh yeah, I forgot that. Yeah, please, if you wouldn't mind, thank you. And thank you for that, and good morning everyone. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances.
 The published council agenda at PortlandOregon.gov slash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you're a lobbyist. If you're representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others' testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruption, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or rejected for the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that all counsel meetings are recorded. Thank you.
 I think you're on mute. Carla, first up is communications. Item 634, request of Matt Glaszewski to address council regarding peninsula crossing trail safety and security issues. Good morning, can you hear me? Yes. Okay, thank you. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, members of the city council.
 So I am representing the University Park Neighborhood Association this morning. And I'd like to talk to you about what's going on on the Peninsula Crossing Trail, which is a trail that runs from in North Portland along the railroad cut from North Princeton to North Fessenden.
 And over the past year, we've had campers there, which is not necessarily the issue that I want to talk to you about today. But it has gotten progressively worse over the course of the year and then has obviously been compounded by the COVID epidemic.
 And over the course of the last year, it started out with mostly issues that pertain to litter of discarded needles that had been provided by PPOP. And how there were a number of residents that were responsible for cleaning these things up.
 And it has just gotten a lot worse because there is a criminal element in the camp that has really been pushing some people to the brink. We've been in contact with Commissioner Jayapal from the county. Mr. Mayor, we've been working with Robert King from your office for a number of months now.
 we've also been in contact with PVOT. And more recently, on the 20th of July, we had a meeting with Commissioner Hardesty herself about some of the particulars and have been trying to work with some of her staff on those issues. However, it's a large problem. And as I mentioned, it's not just the existence of the camp, which generally speaking, we don't have an issue with. We understand that we have a housing crisis. There are a lot of peaceful campers there and they're respectful, but there are some people that maybe are not,
 being respectful, and some adjacent activities that have been a result because of it, including drug deals that have been going down in broad daylight every Saturday when needles are provided as our cans. And one gentleman that's fairly well known in the community that cooks up meth in Cathedral Park comes up in his busted Crown Vic to...
 sell drugs in broad daylight. So, and Mr. King was there with us when one of these was actually happening. We've reached out for over a year to the members of the city with, for support with no real response. Until very recently, we've had some success in actually having conversations, but we've been pushing and asking for a walkthrough for months. And the most impacted residents are some people that live on North Oberlin Street.
 And there are low income housing apartments there that are directly affected because there are a number of individuals that are directly adjacent to the camp. And what we would like is that if the city would be able to come and see the issues for themselves and help facilitate a solution involving all who are impacted because the neighborhood association is not equipped to act as a convener in this multi jurisdictional nightmare
 And the Joint Office on Homelessness has not been helpful. The situation has gotten much worse because we had a double stabbing recently. You probably have seen the reports about that. And one of the residents of the low-income apartments was bullied by the criminal element in the camp. And I recently learned that he didn't find any escape from it, so he actually overdosed.
 And then the criminal element from the camp came into his apartment, looted it, and left his dead body there. So things have gotten really out of control. And what we would like is the city to act as a convener to be able to try and come to a solution. We're not asking you to sweep the camp, but we are asking to try and bring some order to what's going on here and to remove the criminal element. Because some of the neighbors are being pushed to the brink. That's three minutes. I'm fearful. Yes, go.
 I'm fearful that there might be some vigilante justice on the brink here. I'm not saying that's necessarily going to happen, but I am fearful. So thank you for listening. I appreciate your testimony, and I'll circle back with Robert. I think your idea around a convening is a good idea, and I'm sorry this is happening to you. It shouldn't happen.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Could I ask you one follow-up question, Matthew? What has been the, so I assume you have called the police or 911. What has the response been? The response has been mixed. There have been a number of calls, the police have come a number of times. There have never been any arrests. Generally speaking, they just kind of quill whatever's going on at the moment.
 Some of the stolen vehicles that have been parked on the end of North Oberlin Street have been towed. Peabody's put up some signs, but it's very much, you know, the residents that live there have to go and be active and make these phone calls when they happen. And the activities that are going into the middle of the night, you know, 2, 3 a.m., calls have been made to the police. Then, you know, they might come.
 But sometimes, you know, some individuals might sort of see what's coming and then they scatter and nothing necessarily gets resolved. So we haven't had any real success there. And of course, I understand there's a lot obviously going on with the, you know, police attention right now.
 Well, yeah, and hopefully that will come to an end quickly as well. Yeah, Mr. Mayor, one other quick thing is that depending on where you are along the trail, it's a number of, when I said interjurisdictional nightmare, it's very much a piecemeal sort of thing where different bureaus or agencies own different pieces of property together.
 So depending on where you are along there, you might be on Housing Bureau land, you might be on Water Bureau land, you might be on the BNSF railway land, you might be in a Metro easement, you might be on PGE land. And it's very much that, you know, if you get attention from one of these groups to come,
 the people or the troublemakers might just go walk two feet over to another piece of property. And suddenly it's not, you know, not their problem anymore and you can kind of get away with it. And like I said, we've been trying to act as the convener, and that's been not easy to do when there are this many different government entities and private entities involved as well. Yeah. I'll have Sarah, the Ellen and Robert take a look at this. We've done this before where we've had to bring other jurisdictions together. I recall a situation in East Portland where, uh,
 it was either three or four different jurisdictions uh controlled a uh a
 fairly large area and we had to come together and craft a comprehensive solution. So maybe that's what's required here. I think so, sir. And thank you for taking the initiative on that. We look forward to a peaceful resolution for everyone, including the peaceful campers. Okay. I'll circle back to Robert. Thank you for coming in and sharing. Thank you, sir. You bet. Thank you. Next individual, please, Carl.
 Item 635, request of Rabbi Deborah Kolodny to address counsel regarding the police bureau and the federal agent use of violence against demonstrators. Good morning, Rabbi. Good morning, Mayor. Before I begin my comments, I just want to say that I hope that the memory of those who have been lost to completed suicide will be for our blessing and that they rest in peace and in power.
 Mayor and Commissioners, my name is Rabbi Deborah Kolodny. I'm here today as Executive Director of Portland United Against Hate, co-author of the Stop Cop Riots letter, and as clergy. In our final letter demanding an end to police violence during demonstrations, the community submitted 66 organizational signers and 92 clergy signers, as well as another 1,300 individuals.
 I broke down the numbers because I want to make clear that while a few clergy share the good protester, bad protester narrative and are standing with police, the vast majority of us do not. Dozens of clergy are on the ground weekly or nightly personally witnessing law enforcement atrocities. Clear that both PPB and the feds have been using force without provocation and are doing heinous harm to this city.
 Some hoped that with the feds gone, the violence would subside, and last Thursday, PPB was absent and there was no violence. But PPB could not help itself. A participant in the peaceful demonstration on Saturday night input the following into the Report Hate PDX database. Quote, this was an incident of PPB crowd control on 47th and Birdside on August 1st at around 10 p.m.,
 Riot cops ran into the crowd and began indiscriminately beating protesters and screaming that they would hurt us if we didn't disperse or move faster. They pushed us outside of our protective barricade, where an uninvolved, pissed-off driver drove into the crowd at a high speed and tried to run protesters over.
 We all jumped out of the way in time, but it was terrifying. The police chased protesters through neighborhood streets for 10 blocks and beat people, maced people, shot something, stole bikes, slashed car tires and windows of vehicles the protesters had placed as a barricade, and maced two members of the press, even after they identified themselves. The worst thing I saw was a medic being assaulted and his cart of medical supplies and water was stolen."
 I hope you all agree that this is horrifying. Your city has asked you, Mayor Willard, to rein in police violence by following your own auditor's findings, judicial rulings, science, and normative best policing practices. Our demands are based on research fact regarding de-escalation and crowd safety. They are neither pie in the sky nor difficult to implement. We're dismayed that you have not yet responded.
 Every night more residents of Portland are injured in the streets and many are suffering in their homes from the use of tear gas. Did you know that tear gas is an abortive fashion and that area NICUs have been overwhelmed with premature births? Because of media coverage from outlets like Time magazine, the world knows that PPB is engaging in unethical, immoral, unnecessary violence and is causing great injury.
 This week, PUA will publish our Police Violence is Hate Violence report, and you can expect that media coverage to continue. Police Commissioner Wheeler, we wonder what will it take for you to end this siege? How can you continue to let those you represent be trampled, both constitutionally and physically? We implore you to act now, and we would be happy to consult with you about this. Thank you for your time this morning.
 Rabbi, I'd like to respond to that. Thank you for your testimony. I am in receipt of your letter and we are responding to your letter through our actions. I perhaps should have taken the time to pen a response, but we have lived up to the demands of those letters. Your first demand was to get the feds out. I believe I was very clear on that subject.
 I appreciate my partnership with the governor. The feds are gone. There were calls for de-escalation strategies. I hope that you have seen that there has been a shift in those strategies. You called for the elimination of the use of CS gas. I sharply limited the use of CS gas, although I did not eliminate it in the case of
 of imminent threat of serious injury or death. And that is a standard that has been agreed to not only by the city, but by the county and our state partners.
 They will certainly take that up in the upcoming legislative session, but I still stand by the decision I made in that regard. As for the rest, continuing to work with us in the community to de-escalate these situations, obviously, I'm very supportive. I will disagree with you on one point. I do believe that there are some people who are out there on the streets who are
 who are not interested in the Black Lives Matter movement, who are not there fighting for racial justice or equity, who are in fact engaged in criminal activity. And I do believe it is the duty and the responsibility of the police bureau and me as police commissioner to hold those individuals accountable because they represent a threat to the larger community.
 Now that being said, I hope you also see that we have worked very hard to de-escalate the situation, that we have worked very hard to support and uphold the First Amendment rights of the people in our community. I don't think those things are necessarily at odds, but I appreciate your testimony this morning. And knowing you, as I do, we will continue the conversation, and I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you for your response.
 I would just say that the narrative that I described from Saturday night is pretty dramatic violence, even if it's not using CS gas. And so I can't say that we've eliminated the problem and people were indiscriminately being pummeled. And yeah, so that's a different scenario than addressing criminal activity.
 Well, we may disagree on the particular facts of any given evening, and I'm certainly finding that sometimes it is hard to pin down what the facts are in any particular situation. But...
 My belief is that each and every one of these incidents will be investigated. I said that two months ago when this started through the Independent Police Review Commission. I would encourage you to raise this with them. They don't report to me. They don't report to the police bureau. That is the appropriate vehicle for these things to be investigated. I would just caution you
 that sometimes what I see or hear on social media does not necessarily comport with the log being kept by the police bureau as they make these decisions in the Incident Command Center. So I just want you to be aware of that.
 I appreciate that. I mean, we've been relying on the testimony of legal observers and of clergy and of journalists. So highly reputable folks, not social media. And I appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you. Next individual. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, sir. My hand has been up for a while, but... Oh, I'm sorry. I'm on the wrong screen. It's all good. Thank you, Rabbi, for your testimony today.
 I want to know whether or not that you are receiving more incidents of racially discriminatory activity taking place in our community and what you're finding. Do you have a sense for what's been happening in the last three months as it relates to people filing complaints about racially discriminatory activity?
 I'm not sure that it has increased. It certainly has at least held steady, which is remarkable given the social distancing and stay-at-home orders and the degree to which people are not out and about. So I would call holding steady, you know, an increase.
 Yes, I was going to say, I'm not sure if people know how to file those complaints. Just the stories I'm hearing from folks sounds like something that we should be tracking. I'm not quite sure who's tracking it.
 So thank you. I appreciate your testimony today. And Rabbi, I also saw some of the videos that have made me very concerned, especially the ones about the police bull rushing people.
 a whole bunch of people in Southeast Portland. I will be meeting with the chief on Thursday afternoon and we'll be asking him some very specific questions about those incidents. If you have video or written testimony, please feel free to forward it to my office and I will talk to the chief about it this Thursday.
 Thank you. I will review our most recent data points. You will be getting a report that ended, unfortunately, July 20th, but I'll go into our database and submit the most recent reports to you as well. Thank you so much. I appreciate that, and I appreciate all you do, Rabbi. Have a good day. Thank you. Carla, next individual, please. Sorry.
 636, request of Gregory Horner to address council regarding the commissioner's oath of office out of the city's charter. Good morning. My name is Gregory, and I'm reading from the Portland Charter Oath of Office Abridged.
 Quote, every official appointed or elected to elected office before and upon office in performing of his or her duties shall take an oath or affirmation that he or she will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of Oregon, and will faithfully and honestly discharge his or her duties. If such oath or affirmation be false in any particular, it shall be deemed a delinquency in office on part of such official." End quote. We are members of the union.
 a union that is built on the foundation of liberty and justice and equality. While our nation has current and past faults, we continue to strive for a better society. And at this time, the union needs your courage, capabilities, and patriotism. We need your courage to hold compassion in your hearts, facts in your mind, and uphold a dispassionate discourse. We need your capability to secure our liberty by deterring those who choose to riot and loot us,
 We need your patriotism to bridge our many creeds and races, to be a people bound together by American principles. If you continue to fan the embers of sedition, then they will flare up and burn us all. It's not too late for this council to keep its oath to our republic. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. Next individual, please, Carl.
 637, a request of Gia Norano-Rivera to address council regarding the repression and violence being experienced by many people in Portland. Good afternoon, good morning. I would like to ensure that everyone can see the slides. Do we have a thumbs up on that?
 Okay, I'm going to say once a yes and give a... Yeah, me too. Okay, great. Good morning. I'm happy to be here and I represent the voices of several people, including myself.
 I'd like to discuss some of what is being experienced nightly. I am in the streets of Portland as Portland attempts to rise out of a quagmire of severe police and other public official brutality, as well as a rising homelessness crisis and the entwined issues of drug addiction and mental health. Please advance. Thank you.
 The overview of this presentation includes, I will discuss briefly violations of both civil and human rights, elevate some of the voices of demands and recommendations being put forth by the community, and a vision for our vanguard or leadership to move forward. Asking that you do that in planning our future with imagination and wisdom. Next please. Next please.
 Okay, I'd like to show you that I have personally experienced having been arrested for the first time in my life, and now three times each time a violation of my First Amendment rights. That violations of First Amendment rights are happening nightly, being committed by Portland police. Here's one example of a person maced and arrested, falling on their knees with their hands in the air in an act of peaceful protest.
 This has been accompanied by illegal searches, arrests, and abuses in detention to include violence, denying access to counsel and medical care despite numerous requests, theft of property, and unwarranted solitary confinement. Next, please.
 It also includes excessive force, including the use of lethal arms, lacerating people's faces and skin and breaking bones of innocent, nonviolent protesters, including children and minors, deploying chemical weapons indiscriminately into peaceful crowds that include pregnant women, elders, people in wheelchairs, and people who cannot get away speedily.
 aiming at heads, hearts, and genitals, including shooting one press person in the penis and balls so many times he almost lost a testicle. His name is Chris. And being tackled by large numbers of officers, this happened to a press person last night, leading to him convulsing, vomiting on himself, seizing, and being removed in a stretcher, although he was completely peaceful and labeled as press. Next, please.
 There's also been targeted violence. Typical targets include black people, children and teens, especially young black boys, houses, people, press and media. And targeting looks like illegal arrests and abduction, intimidation, harassment, stalking and following, inappropriate language, gesturing including grabbing one's genitals by the police toward peaceful protesters, including myself, a doctoral student who will complete their PhD this Friday.
 and censorship and surveillance as well as impunity toward neo-Nazi violence and we videotaped certain members of the Portland Police Bureau colluding with neo-Nazis from the Proud Boy group. Next please. This local repression is unacceptable as the rabbi spoke of witnessing atrocities without provocation it's unethical, immoral and unnecessary violence as she so aptly stated and this really
 The police are infringing upon the liberty, flying in the face of patriotic acts of First Amendment protest. Three minutes. Amen. I'll stop there. Thank you. Next individual, please, Carla. Item 638, a request of Brian Betcone to address counsel regarding increasing the visibility of Portland police identification numbers. Yes.
 Hello, can you hear me? Yes, loud and clear. Hi, my name is Brian Beckham. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I am sorry for the losses you mentioned at the start of this call. I'm here to request that Mayor Wheeler please mandate significantly larger and permanent identification numbers for all Portland Police Bureau officers, not just those doing crowd control at protests, but every single officer who is out doing traffic stops and so forth.
 This would increase police accountability to Black, Indigenous, and People of Color individuals who are disproportionately affected by over-policing and police violence. My petition to this effect has 2,300 signatures. Commissioner Hardesty has already requested something similar. Please listen to her. Right now, many officers have tiny name tags,
 It's easier to identify the clerk at the grocery store than the officer with the weapon that could take someone's life. Officers' identification should be proportional to the immense power that they hold.
 Not only are the name tags hard to read, having officers' names displayed instead of numbers allows doxing to occur. I request that you instead have the Bureau display identification numbers in huge font on both the front and back of the uniform, and that an independent organization or auditor hold onto the list which pairs names with numbers. That way, police can be easily identified and will not be doxed.
 I request that the digits be five inches tall by three inches wide. The numbers can easily be sewn onto the existing uniforms at little cost. Having huge digits will serve as a psychological reminder to officers that they will be held accountable and disciplined for any misconduct. Having them permanently attached will prevent officers from attempting to conceal their identity, as we have seen happen in many cities across the U.S.,
 My black and brown friends and neighbors should not have to worry about being mistreated, brutalized, and as we have seen, murdered by law enforcement. It is unacceptable. There is a lack of trust between law enforcement and the community. Mayor, you have a responsibility to take this and other steps to increase police accountability. It is a moral imperative to protect the safety of black and brown people.
 Portland can set the example with regards to transparent uniforms for the rest of the country. Please mandate that Chief Lavelle order new huge identification numbers to be sewn onto uniforms immediately by the end of the day today.
 I would also love the opportunity to discuss this idea further with any of the council members. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Brian. And just want to let you know, I believe something is already in the works. I think everybody agrees that the stick on numbers has not worked as a good long term solution. So I believe something's already in the works.
 Okay, um if I may, Mayor Wheeler, I spoke at the July 13th forum on police oversight hosted by CRC and Chief LaValle had told the group that the new ones would be the same size and font So that is why I'm still working on this cause Thank you. Got it. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. And next individual please, Carlo.
 That was the last of the communication speakers. Oh, okay. Well, with that, then, we'll go to the consent agenda. Has any item been pulled off of the consent agenda? We've had no requests. Please call the roll on the consent agenda. Hardesty? Aye. Uday Lee? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. All right. Consent agenda is adopted. Colleagues, before we go into our regular agenda, I'd like to offer up a four-fifths agenda item to put at the end of the regular agenda
 agenda. As you know, colleagues, five weeks ago, President Donald Trump deployed uninvited and unwelcome additional federal forces to the streets of Portland. That intrusion led to increased violence and extreme injuries to demonstrators.
 and we believe that their actions on the ground here violated the constitutional rights of community members. I'd like to thank Governor Kate Brown for her willingness to send the necessary state resources to Portland to secure the withdrawal of these forces.
 While the federal government has withdrawn these additional forces from our community, we must continue to vigorously push back on this reckless abuse of executive authority, and we must continue to defend the legal rights of communities like ours so that this doesn't happen again, not here and not anywhere. Thank you.
 This resolution will give the city attorney's office authority to file any litigation and pursue any available legal remedy against the federal government to protect the rights of our community. With us today is city attorney Tracy Reed, who is available to answer any questions you may have. Otherwise, I will accept a second. I move the four fifths and I will seek a second. Second. Okay.
 Commissioner Udaily seconds. Are there any questions of Tracy before we go ahead and take the vote to put this on the agenda? Yes Mayor, I have a question. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you Mayor, thank you Tracy. My question is really around the scope of the ability to see the federal government. As the Mayor said in his opening, we have a lot of community members that have been physically injured.
 by this federal goon squad that was here. And so I'm just curious as to whether or not your role, Tracy, will be actually seeking redress for community members as well.
 Tracy, you're muted. Thank you, Commissioner. I think one of the things that we're, we have a number of avenues of legal redress that we're looking at and one of them is discussing with existing plaintiffs in a case against the federal government about whether it would be advantageous to join in that litigation. We are also co-defendants with the
 with the federal government in a couple of cases. And we very much want to be able to file cross claims against the federal government there. In terms of individual plaintiffs though, I think that the, and those cases do have individual plaintiffs as well.
 We very much want to explore options that would permit us to be parties in cases with individuals that are also seeking relief against the federal government. And we've already supported one of the cases that we've had some discussions with
 folks. The mayor has already provided a declaration in support of their motion for a temporary restraining order that predated the governor's agreement with the support of the Portland City Council to remove the federal agents. So we will be continuing to actively explore options where we can work to also support the claims of community members.
 We can't directly represent community members, but we are working with others that can and do.
 And one last question, Tracy. I understand that we can't individually represent community members, but I'm wondering if there's a class action seat that would be part of your deliberation around identifying what's possible, especially since we don't know what federal agency did what. All we know is that there were a lot of them, and most of them were unidentifiable.
 Yes, absolutely. And as I say, there are a number of cases already existing that we may participate in, and some of those are class actions. Now the classes haven't been certified yet, but that is the intention. Thank you so much. That makes me feel a lot better about what we're up to. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Tracy. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Any other questions? Carla, please call the roll to put the fourth agenda at the end of the regular agenda.
 Hardesty? Aye. Udaylee? Aye. Fritz? So just to clarify, this is the vote to put it on the agenda, and there'll be more questions and an opportunity for testimony later. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. So it is now on the agenda. We'll do it at the end of the regular agenda. Thank you, colleagues. The next item, then, we are moving to the regular agenda, item number 645, which is a second reading.
 Replace Title 13, Animals and Bees and Livestock, to update the regulations for keeping bees and livestock. All right, colleagues, this is a second reading. We've already heard testimony. We've heard a great presentation from Michelle Krim in our final presentation to the Portland City Council. Is there any further discussion on this item? Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Hardesty.
 Let me just say I never thought I'd enjoy a conversation about bees and insects so much, or that there would be such deliberation on such. I am happy to vote aye, and congratulations to the staff who did an incredible presentation. And I vote aye. Sue Daly?
 Well, I want to thank staff for the presentation last week. Note to anyone coming to Council, pictures of cute animals, very welcome. Relief to our daily or our weekly drudgery. The changes seem well thought out and reasonable. I'm happy to support a vote aye. Prince.
 Thank you very much, Michelle Crenn, and particularly Julia Giesler. I didn't realize that she had retired, and I just want to honor both of their longtime work with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And I particularly, in this case, appreciate how
 The extra effort to avoid unintended consequences to underrepresented communities, communities of color and immigrants and the community outreach that they did to understand the needs. Anytime we can streamline and clarify the needs
 standards. I appreciate that work and I know it's a lot better to have standards rather than a permit, although that then does, I think, mean that we need to have staffing for complaints if the standards are not being met. And so this is a welcome opportunity.
 improvement like Commissioner Eudalia. I thank you for the diversion which was a lively discussion about peacocks in my staff. There used to be a peacock living near Southwest 26th and Taylor's Ferry that would wander out but I was not living close enough to it to know that
 whether or not it was anything other than decorative. And now if you've got peacocks, you can keep them, but no longer can you go out and have peacocks, although other animals for sustenance and pleasure are now allowed by standards. And thanks again to everybody. Thanks to my staff for all the work that they did to help me get ready for this. Hi.
 Well, I want to share that sentiment. I actually felt normal for a change. We were talking about peacocks and TV pigs and everything else. That was a welcome diversion, but I also want to acknowledge a lot of work put into this code. And I particularly want to thank Michelle Krim and Julia Kiesler, Andrea Durbin and Donny Oliveira.
 from BPS as well as Tony Garcia from the city attorney's office. They did terrific work on this. I want to thank Amanda Watson on my staff and Astor Dragoi, who collaborated with council office staff on Commissioner Fritz's amendment.
 I remain cautiously optimistic that we will be able to find the rightful administrator, particularly in Multnomah County's Vector Control Division for this code, and that I'm grateful that BPS is willing to be the pitch hitter for the time being. So thank you for that.
 One last note, having once been the Multnomah County Chair, I can tell you that while we don't necessarily think about livestock in the city as a front and center issue, I assure you it is a very contentious issue. And so I know how much hard work went into this vote. I'm very happy to vote aye if the ordinance is adopted. Thank you to everybody who worked so hard on it. Next item, Carlos, 646, also a second reading.
 Vacate a portion of Southwest 3rd Avenue, Southwest Arthur Street, subject to certain conditions and reservations. This is a second reading from the Transportation Bureau. Any further discussion on this item? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Thank you to PBOT staff. I vote aye. Fritz. Aye. Thank you.
 Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted and not to be outdone, the next item is a water barrel second reading. 647, please. Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for the construction of the Powell Butte Reservoir roof upgrades project at an estimated cost of $5,140,000. Any further discussion on this item? Commissioner Fritz.
 Yes, I believe that Dee White had asked to speak on this, and we were unable to connect with her last week. Council Clerk, is Dee on the phone? She sent a testimony and indicated she would not be verbally testifying today. Thank you very much. Certainly. Very good. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udail. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 Thank you to staff in the Water Bureau and Astrid Jagoy on my staff for your work on this. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We now have our two four-fifths items to take up. The first one, Carla, is the one relating to the city attorney's office to pursue litigation against the federal government to protect the city's right to a fair, accurate and legal census. Aye.
 647-1, authorize the city attorney's office to pursue litigation against the federal government to protect the city's right to a fair, accurate, and legal census. Tracy, you're up. Thank you, Mayor. This is...
 a matter where the city of Portland has been invited to join as a plaintiff in litigation challenging the Trump administration's latest assault on the U.S. census. And last week, the president issued a memo directing the Census Bureau to prepare a count that would allow, excuse me, it was July 21st, that would allow
 the Bureau to prepare a count to exclude non-citizens from the official census in violation of the Constitution and federal law.
 And we have been invited to join with a number of other cities. Atlanta and the Common Cause Organization have filed this litigation. They are looking for support as plaintiffs. This is not just an amicus curiae participation because cities, of course, with the largest percentage of residents are particularly impacted. There are a couple of outstanding firms that are willing to handle this issue.
 on a pro bono basis and so the city would not incur legal expense. We would monitor it, of course, for the city here. And thank you very much for taking it up as a fourth this item. We had quite short notice on this opportunity and we have to let them know by today. So I'm happy to answer any questions. Audience, any questions on this item?
 Thank you for that description, Tracy. And I doubt there is, but I'll ask anyway. Carla, is there any testimony on this item? No one signed up, Mayor. Very good. Please call the roll. Hardesty? I want to thank you, Tracy Reese, and your office for taking this up. This is absolutely something we must do. We must get an accurate count. And everybody counts. I vote aye. Udaili? Aye.
 Well, it's been an honor to co-chair the Multnomah County Complete Count effort with County Commissioner Stegman and help lead the work with Civic Life to ensure a complete census count in our community. The federal administration's decision to end expanded outreach efforts and target immigrants
 is racist and irresponsible and unethical. I could go on. I strongly support authorizing the city attorney to seek legal remedy. The attempt to end the census early and to discourage residents from being counted is a deliberate attempt to steal political power from diverse jurisdictions.
 This is just Trump's latest attempt to bolster white supremacy in the face of an evolving and diversifying nation. In the absence of a functional and responsible and ethical executive branch, we smaller jurisdictions may have to sue the federal government to preserve the rights of our community members. I happily vote aye. Great. Thank you.
 It's astonishing, isn't it? We're living in the United States of America, which is considered one of the greatest democracies in the world. And yet here we are having to sue the federal government for not wanting to do what's in the Constitution and get an accurate count of the number of the people living here. So...
 I think over the past three plus years, nearly four, I've certainly had a whole new appreciation for lawyers. Tracey, thank you to you and your team. I appreciate that you've been thinking of every which way that you can use the forces of law to...
 enforce the rights of the community and this is another example thank you mayor wheeler for encouraging and empowering this the attorney's office to seek every legal remedy um for the
 redressing the wrongs of the people of the United States. And thank you, Commissioner Eudaly, for your work with Commissioner Segment on the Complete Count Committee. We are committed to getting a complete count, and it means that we also need to step up our efforts locally to get the count completed as quickly as possible. And so thanks to everybody for this work. Aye.
 Hi, the ordinance is adopted. Next item, Carla, is also four fifths, 647-2. Authorize city attorney to file any litigation and pursue any available legal remedy against the federal government and any of its officials, agencies, or instrumentalities to protect the
 the city of Portland and its inhabitants, and to appropriately limit the power of the federal government. Tracy. Thank you, Mayor. So we drafted this resolution initially shortly before, as I mentioned, we were able to secure the...
 withdrawal of the federal troops without litigation, which, of course, was a positive step. But we purposely made it very, very broad because, obviously, we still have the aftermath. We need to be able to see and make sure that the withdrawal is, in fact, occurring. And we are, as I mentioned at the outset, pursuing discussions with a number of local nonprofits and
 plaintiffs and also nationally. And one of the reasons that I really wanted this on the Fork This agenda is that we are about to enter into a common interest agreement with a number of cities just to enable us to pursue discussions as parties that potentially may have common interests in bringing litigation into the court.
 And so I wanted counsel's authorization. And also, as I mentioned, we are currently co-defendants with the federal government in a couple of cases where we do not believe our interests are aligned with the federal government and in many instances are aligned with the other parties. And we want to be able to file cross claims in those cases as appropriate. And
 And so that is the, those are the more immediate aspects to this, but just because things have happened so quickly and we want to be able to respond quickly, we purposely drafted this quite broadly. We would, of course, stay in close communication with all of you regarding legal action and strategies, but that is the reason that this is more broadly drafted than usual. Very good. We have our hardest event commissioner for us.
 Thank you, Mayor. Tracy, so we, I believe that Portland is unique and that we're the only city that these contract police were deployed to.
 Is that still accurate? I know there was a threat that sent them to other cities, but I don't think that ever happened. I believe there were some in Seattle for a period of time, a fairly brief period of time. My understanding is there's a couple of other cities, but it's not under the same, like Chicago is apparently either has received or is going to receive some federal law enforcement
 surge, but that may be with the, depending on the circumstances, it may or may not be with the collaboration of the city and is not directed, as I understand it, at protest activity or demonstration activity. Thank you. I was just wondering, you know,
 Yeah, I for us, I guess we have some environmental issues. We've got some health issues. I'm not sure how we're going to address the over gassing folks during a pandemic.
 And so I'm hoping that, as you said, because the language is very broad, that we get the opportunity to really figure out kind of what is the best strategy to address all the long lasting impacts of this federal action. So thank you once again, Tracy. I think that answers my question. Great. And, you know, at some point that might be an appropriate topic for an executive session as well. Yes. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, Mayor. I have two questions for Tracy. First, could you please give a 101 to people listening about why we can't just force them to do things? Why couldn't we refuse to allow the federal government to do what they did? So, I mean...
 For a number of reasons, but I would say the fundamental and most primary one is the Supremacy Clause of the United States Constitution, which says that federal law is supreme over state law and local law. So assuming that they're not violating any law, we have very limited recourse. Of course, that begs the question of, are they violating any law? And that's what we've, you know, the issues that we've been working on and are continuing to explore with.
 you know, universe law schools and other cities and nonprofits. And we believe that there are a number of ways that they are violating the law. So,
 even notwithstanding the supremacy clause, but it is a very tortured road to get there because essentially, you know, as you go up the chain, state law can trump local law, federal law can trump state law and local law. And so, and no pun intended with the current resident of the White House. So essentially that's the primary issue.
 Yeah, I think we need to find a new verb. That doesn't work for me anymore. The second, thank you very much for that brief summary.
 That was my understanding. And there's a lot in the community who, as I mentioned, are having a whole new appreciation for lawyers. The second question, I'm not sure if you know the answer. When we have Portland police officers that community members have complaints about, we know that they need to be referred to the Independent Police Review. If community members have complaints about what federal officers have done to them, do you know where they complain or to who they complain?
 Well, normally I would say that it depends on to whom the federal officer is assigned, you know, what agency. There are probably different inspector generals, et cetera, for different federal agencies. It's my understanding that the U.S. attorney for the District of Oregon is called for an investigation and that the DOJ has undertaken an investigation. So U.S. DOJ might be a good place to start.
 the United States Department of Justice. I was just about to say that, and that would be Bill Williams, I believe, right? Yes, yes. That's where complaints should be addressed, and presumably also legal action, private rights of action can also be instituted. Thank you very much. I appreciate your work. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions of Tracey?
 Seeing none, Carla, I assume there is no public testimony on this item. Is that correct? I believe no one did register, Mayor. Very good. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Thank you, Tracy. Thank you to your team. I am confident that you will look for every avenue to seek justice for Portlanders because of federal actions. I vote aye. Houdini? Houdini?
 I thank you, Tracy. I strongly support council taking every available option to oppose the federal government who are attempting to exploit this moment for political gain. We've introduced resolutions to stop the Portland Police Bureau from cooperating with federal forces and another to affirm the rights of members of press and legal observers who have been targeted by both local and federal law enforcement.
 My office is working on a munitions restrictions resolution with Commissioner Hardesty's office. And you may have heard that a week ago or so, I directed PBOT to file a cease and desist demand on behalf of the city against the federal occupiers who illegally erected a fence in our public right-of-way.
 This small act of municipal resistance to federal occupation has received an extraordinary amount of press coverage, especially in the right-wing press. And we have heard from conservatives around the country who are outraged by this action. And I would just say to them, if you don't understand the issue with the federal government,
 Coming into a city, breaking federal and local laws, violating citizens' constitutional rights, and refusing to move this fence, I suggest you relinquish your don't tread on me flags at the door. We will continue to resist this and any other attempts to occupy our city, our city, our city.
 And I stand in solidarity with Portlanders who are demanding justice for black lives and a transformation of our criminal justice system. I vote aye. Fritz?
 Thank you so much for your work. Thank you. I know all of us are collaborating and figuring out ways that we can work together to bring peace and security to our communities and to continue pursuing the Black Lives Matter movement values and principles and goals and to find new ways out.
 means that we need the federal government to let us do the work which we're so capable of doing and let our people demonstrate as is their First Amendment right. So thank you very much, Tracy, and your team. And thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for coordinating this and leading us. Aye. Wheeler. Thanks, Tracy. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 And I believe that completes our business for this morning, Carla. Is that correct? That's correct, Mayor. Very good. We are adjourned until this afternoon. Thanks, everybody. All right. I'm sure I've got my participants screened up. All right. The gang's all here. This is the Wednesday, August 5th, 2020 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, can you please call the roll?
 Yes. Hardesty? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. And now we will turn this over for legal counsel to give an abbreviated version of the counsel rules, please. And Mayor, because we don't have any folks signed up to participate, we don't need to do that today. Okay, good. Thanks. Um,
 Very good. Then the disclaimer under Portland City Code and state law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. Members of the Council are attending remotely by video and teleconference. And the city has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting. The meeting is available to the public on the city's YouTube channel, eGov PDX, www.portlandoregon.gov slash video and channel 30.
 The public can also provide written testimony to council by emailing the council clerk at cctestimony at portlandoregon.gov. The council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and to promote social distancing. The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety, and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. Thank you all for your patience.
 flexibility and your understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do the city's business Carla we have one item today pertaining to the residential in full project item six for eight if you could please read that for us mm-hmm amend the comprehensive plan comprehensive plan map
 zoning map, Title 33 planning and zoning, and Title 30 affordable housing to revise the single dwelling residential designations and base zones.
 Very good. And prior to each and every one of these hearings, we've all declared whether or not we have any conflicts of interest. I have indicated that I'm a renter, that I have no conflicts of interest. Does anybody else have any changes to their statements around conflict of interest? Mayor, I have no changes to my statement. Thanks, Commissioner. And I assume that's true. No changes. Good. Thanks. None for Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Daly, I assume you're in the same boat.
 Yes. I saw her say yes. Okay. Just to help everybody reoriented on the proposals, the intent of the residential infill,
 project amendments is to allow for more housing in different kinds of housing and zones that currently only allow single dwelling units. The project now includes a bonus if you build affordable housing and connects to the historic resources code project update to help guide growth, specifically in the Albina neighborhood. We heard public testimony in January that
 We held two work sessions to more fully develop amendments to the proposed draft of the residential infill project based on the testimony that we heard. We then heard additional public testimony on the amendments last month. We voted to move all six of the amendments into the final proposal back on July 9th. Today, we're going to be voting on the as amended residential infill project ordinance.
 Findings and other supporting exhibits to reflect decisions made by the city council back on July 9th and just to remind people we will then be voting to move this to second reading. So this is not our final vote today. And could we get a confirmation, please, from Here today that that is the correct process as I described it.
 Yes. Morgan Tracy from BPS is going to walk you through the amended documents that reflect the changes you made on July 9th. You will move those, vote on those amendments to the ordinance and package, and then have the final vote at a subsequent hearing. Very good. All right. Thank you. And with that, then we'll turn it over to BPS Project Manager Morgan Tracy. She's here to walk us through today's agenda specifically. Morgan, good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor. Thank you, and thank you, members of City Council. We have a pretty short agenda for you today, based on the decisions the Council made at your July 9th hearing. Staff has incorporated the changes you approved to the Residential Infiltration Project proposals. Therefore, today you will be voting on the as-amended package. Afterwards, I'll describe our next steps.
 So this as amended package includes several items. The first is an updated ordinance that adds Title 30 changes needed to implement the deeper affordability bonus. This ordinance also specifies two effective dates. The first set of changes are related to Senate Bill 534 which is already in effect at the state so these changes will become effective in the regular 30-day period
 The remainder of the changes, including allowing additional types of housing and imposing caps on the floor area, will go into effect on August 1, 2021, to provide time for the Bureaus of Development Services and the Bureau of Housing to prepare to implement the new regulations, as well as allow time for the City to complete the State's acknowledgement process. Exhibit A are the amended findings that have also been updated to reflect the recently passed amendments and testimony you heard.
 Exhibit B includes omitted volumes one through three of the project report, which includes the staff report, code and commentary, and supporting appendices. I want to highlight that due to an editing error, a term that was approved in your amendments from July 9th was inadvertently omitted from this Exhibit B. The change adds the words, quote, adjusted lot to the definition of lot lines, and this will be corrected in the final documents.
 Next is exhibit C, the comp plan map changes. And lastly are exhibits D and E, which are the zoning map changes, which now reflect the map changes that occurred with the 82nd Avenue project. And with that, I'll turn it back to you, Mayor, to continue with the proceedings. Thank you, Morgan. I appreciate it. I'll introduce the as amended package as a single item. As staff described, this package includes the amended ordinance and exhibits, including the amended code commentary and revised maps. And then we'll move on to the next item, which is the amended code commentary and revised maps.
 I'll seek a motion to approve the residential infill project as amended package and a second, and then we'll vote on whether to pass to second reading. We'll have our final comments on the residential infill project when we have our final vote on August 12th. So at this, and then at the end of the meeting, I'll ask Morgan to come back and summarize the next steps. But for right now, I'll entertain a motion and a second on the as amended package. So moved.
 Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, a second from Commissioner Udaly. And Mayor, Mayor, I'm sorry, this is Lindley Reese. I just would like to confirm that the motion and second include the very minor change that Morgan identified in Exhibit B, Volume 2, please. The motion does include that. Very good. So we have a motion. We have a second. Lindley, does that meet your legal muster?
 It does indeed. Thank you. Perfect. Very good. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Commissioner Daly. Sorry. Yeah, I wanted to
 read a statement and I think this is the moment that I am supposed to do that, Mayor? You can do it now, yeah, that'd be great. Go ahead. Thank you, Mayor. Today is an important milestone for the city and before we get to the vote on the residential infill project, I'm excited to announce a couple items that I care deeply about and believe will be pivotal in keeping anti-displacement as a primary focus of our housing policies moving forward.
 First, I'm happy to announce the creation of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability's Anti-Displacement Task Force that will be seated and ready to begin its work in September. Our office participated, or my office participated, in a year-long cohort with PolicyLink that shared strategies and policies of anti-displacement with other cities in the country. One of the outcomes...
 of that work was a collaboration with the mayor and city bureaus to fund and create this new task force. I'm proud to have been a part of that and I look forward to the mayor sharing more details about who will be involved with the task force and what their work plan will entail during its official kickoff hearing in September.
 Second, I'm also excited to announce that the mayor and I have reached an agreement about the development of an anti-displacement policy that my office has been working on for the last three years. To address inequality, we need to address the racial wealth gap. Housing is a human right, but it's also historically been a barrier to creating intergenerational wealth.
 RIP looks to create lower home prices, but that won't help renters who can't afford new construction, and it also might incentivize the displacement of tenants in older, naturally occurring, affordable properties. During my entire term in office, I've been working with community partners on creating a tenant opportunity to purchase policy in Portland.
 This policy would give renters the right of first refusal when the home they're living in goes up for sale. Done right, it can create an opportunity for home ownership or cooperative ownership for renters by creating a way for them to buy the home they live in.
 Over the years, we've done a lot of research and created various draft frameworks of the policy. However, what we have heard from our partners is that there's still more work and outreach to do to ensure the policy centers BIPOC renters. Therefore, we will be bringing forward a resolution alongside the kickoff for the Anti-Displacement Task Force in September that will
 that will outline our process and will solidify a commitment from the Mayor to provide Bureau resources to bring forward a fully vetted policy proposal for the Council to consider. To be clear, that work has already begun, but the resolution in September will allow us to share our commitments and timelines.
 I'm grateful to the mayor for the offer of Bureau resources and for alleviating some of my concerns about the potential unintended consequences of this zoning code reform. With these two announcements, I'm ready to move forward with the next steps on the residential infill project.
 Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. I appreciate the partnership between our offices, our conversations about housing and tenant policy, and the many ways that we'll be able to weave together our Bureau's smart growth efforts. During my briefing with the city's bureaus, developers, community-based organizations, and residents, I hear the need for
 for the city continued to play a role to help connect housing to those earning less than the area median income, those who identify as Black, Indigenous, and people of color, and people with disabilities in our community.
 I appreciate the work your office is doing along with the Community Alliance of Tenants, the Portland African American Leadership Forum, Living Cully, the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, and the Right to the City, all who have communicated interest in exploring whether and how a tenant opportunity to purchase policy could work here in the city of Portland.
 I've heard the need to explore tenant-led solutions from community partners. The city's COVID-19 equity toolkit and our unanimous vote in support of the May 20th Resilience Resolution confirmed this very direction.
 I appreciate Commissioner Udailey, your leadership in speaking with tenants and tenant-led organizations to identify whether and how to support the creation of a first right to purchase for tenants to buy the building that they call home if and when that building owner signals intent or interest to sell or in the event of a foreclosure.
 I have, as you just described, authorized and directed my bureaus to provide sufficient staff resources to provide technical assistance to these tenant-led conversations. And I look forward to continuing to work with you, Commissioner Udaly, our colleagues, and our tenant-led organizations on whether the first right of purchase policy makes sense for the city of Portland. So thank you for that partnership.
 So we have a motion on the table. We have a second. And this is, again, the residential infill project as amended. Carla, can you please call the roll? Curtis T. Udaly. I want to thank all the staff and community work that have gotten us to this point. And I look forward to our final vote. I vote aye. Fritz. I'll make my comments next week. No. Wheeler. Aye. Aye.
 All right, very good. Before concluding, I'd like to thank my fellow commissioners, staff, and community advocates for all the work that's gotten us to this point. The motion has passed. I look forward to saying more, along with my colleagues, about the residential infill project when it comes back to us for a final vote. Morgan, can you come back and go over the next steps for us, please? Sure.
 Thank you. That's great. We will be returning to council on August 12th, so a week from today at 945 a.m. Time certain for the second reading and a final vote on the residential landfill project. After that vote, staff will begin working on implementation. As I mentioned previously, the effective date for the first set of adopted regulations to come into effect would be September 11th, 2020. These are the rules that implement Senate Bill 534.
 The remainder of the adopted package, including expansion of housing types and limits on building scale, would come into effect on August 1st, 2021. And that's it for today.
 Very good. And Morgan, I understand that you will not be joining us for the second reading on August 12th. So I do want to take this opportunity to express our sincere appreciation for your incredible work and leadership throughout this project. You've become a fixture. What started as a simple project evolved into a comprehensive and truly robust response for providing more housing choices for Portlanders in more places.
 This is in large part due to your leadership and your capacity to listen to community members and to think creatively about how to respond to their needs. During the five years working on this project, it's my understanding that you managed 26 member, the 26 member advisory committee. You managed numerous contracts.
 You produced no fewer than eight drafts of the proposal by my count. You executed a strong engagement process that drew out thousands of community members over the last five years. You participated, to my count, in at least 10 planning commission meetings.
 You sent the largest Measure 56 public notice in the history of Oregon. You coordinated with all of our service bureaus. You responded competently and transparently to media requests.
 And you wrote 275 pages of findings to ensure that this project is advancing the goals of the comprehensive plan. And, of course, you've come to the city council twice, once with the concept report and now with the final ordinance adoption.
 It's been a truly long road. We know you didn't do this alone and that many others contributed in important ways to this effort. But in my opinion, you were really the guide that kept this project going in the right direction. We all here ask a lot of our staffs, and you've delivered the project with openness, professionalism, patience, and just as importantly, humor.
 It's been a joy for all of us to be able to work with you on behalf of all of us here on the Portland City Council. Thank you. Thank you for all you've done. Thank you for your considerable efforts to move this city forward. So I see some hands raised. Commissioner Udaly, then Commissioner Fritz. I hadn't raised my hand, but is Morgan leaving us?
 We're just not coming. I'm going on vacation next week. Oh, okay. I was expecting a retirement announcement. Okay, well, enjoy your vacation. Be safe out there. He will, and I'll tell you what he's not going to be thinking about while he's on vacation. Commissioner Fritz.
 So I was, thank you, Mayor. I was just reflecting that maybe we should delay the vote until Morgan can get back, but I'm pretty sure they would rather not. So I also wanted to thank Morgan and his team. It's a testimony that,
 While I have a respectful disagreement, I still have the utmost respect for Morgan and his team. And I very much appreciate all of the time that they've spent with Claire Adamsick, Tim Crail and me, explaining things, walking me through, making sure I knew exactly why I don't support stuff. So thank you very much for your professionalism and your skill in guiding this project and responding to community members as well. I know that you've done that as well. So thank you.
 Thank you. Very good. Thank you, Commissioner. That concludes our residential infill project item for today. Commissioner Hardesty, go ahead.
 Hi there. Remember me? Um, I, I also wanted to just add my appreciation, um, as someone who came in in the middle of this project, I always felt like I had excellent information. Any questions I had were answered and Joe, uh, Zender, I just want to say, you are also just an incredibly valuable resource in the city of Portland. Um,
 I don't know how you've been able to keep your head so low all this time at the city, but the work that was done, especially, I still refer constantly to the report that you put together in the middle of this project that really centered the racial history of housing in Portland and why we got there and how we got there.
 and what our commitment is to the future. And so remarkable work and remarkable patience to continue to answer questions that I'm sure you had answered 500 times before I asked. So I appreciate the whole team and can't wait to vote to get this thing implemented. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. So we will continue this conversation then on August 12th at 9.45 a.m. time certain. Is that the correct time and date, Carla? That is, Mayor. Okay. August 12th, 9.45 a.m. time certain. Be there. And with that, colleagues, we are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you.