Good morning everybody. This is the August 8th, 2018 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Here. Good morning, Robert. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business.
 The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings, so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record.
 Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify, unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up.
 If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass.
 Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you, Robert. First up is communications. Item 817, request of Dee White to address council regarding an update on lead in our drinking water and city in action. Good morning. What? You're going to put the chart up? Good morning. My name is Dee White. I'd like the chart to go up because I'm going to start talking about it immediately. Sorry. Okay.
 We got it.
 Okay. Good morning. My name is Dee White. Once again, I'm sad to report that among all large cities, Portland continues to have the highest levels of lead in our drinking water. This chart shows lead levels indicating the effectiveness of corrosion control from consumer confidence reports, otherwise known as water quality reports. EPA requires this reporting from water utilities yearly. There's Portland in the middle of the chart, the one that looks like a high-rise area.
 the highest bar by far. Flint is on the right. I didn't have room to get all the letters in, the names of the cities, but Flint is the far right bar.
 Lead in water is tasteless, odorless and invisible. There's no safe level. Pregnant women and babies who are exposed to even small amounts of lead suffer lifelong health harm to brain development and the nervous system. A 2016 OHSU study confirmed a causal link between childhood lead exposure and ADHD. Lead also causes irreversible blood cell damage that can lead to cancer,
 kidney disease and a major risk of death from heart attacks and cardiovascular disease.
 Portland is blessed with pure, soft, corrosive water from a pristine, federally protected watershed. Nevertheless, due to unethical and misguided policy adopted by our city council, we are facing a silent public health threat in Portland that has nothing to do with cryptosporidium, an intestinal malady, and everything to do with lead, a potent neurotoxin.
 Portland ratepayers will continue to be shackled with skyrocketing water bills for cryptosporidium treatment, unquestionably costly and unnecessary, while y'all simultaneously downplay the lead issue and delay optimal treatment of our soft, corrosive water. This is a travesty. Over two years ago, EPA ordered the city to expeditiously
 reduce high levels of lead. Unfortunately for our community, rather than trigger an alarm and immediately follow the law, the Water Commissioner deemed EPA's call to action a non-event. Commissioner Fish, you need to own this public health threat and not continue to ignore federal law, dismiss citizens' concerns, and blame customers' plumbing. Stop passing the buck to all of us when you know there's an inextricable
 link between corrosive water and lead levels found at customer taps. Somehow the public has been kept from learning that the Water Bureau's ongoing exceedances are preventable. I'll leave you with this question. You convinced City Council to approve a $500 million filtration plant for Cryptosporidium. Why did you not urgently demand to begin
 optimize treatment immediately to significantly reduce lead at the tap and protect our human health, our public health. Thank you. Next individual, please. Thank you.
 Item 818. Folks, just a reminder per council rules so we can keep things moving. Thumbs up if you like what you hear. Thumbs down if you don't. Thank you. Item 818, request of Joseph Walsh to address council regarding communications. He is not able to make it and will reschedule. Very good. Next individual, please.
 Item 819, request of Edith Gillis to address counsel regarding public policy and city proclamation to reduce public health risk.
 Good morning. Good morning. I'm Edith Gillis. I originally planned to talk about how the ICE encampment followed some of the highest standards of state and county health safety requirements and how city policy and Portland Police interfere with that. And...
 put public health and safety at risk. But in the interim, as a medic, Saturday I want to also talk about health and safety that was supported by peaceful civilians and attacked by Portland police. Regarding ICE, we repeatedly were picking up
 cigarette butts left by others, litter, the public and from the protesters sanitizing the porta-potties and compost toilets many times a day, having hand sanitizers at toilets, food preparation, food serving, and self-serving food. We had health sanitizing and continually cleaning the child care tents, the medic tent, the self-serve over-the-counter pharmacy, naturopath, herbalist tent, the chemical weapons decontamination tent, and the garbage recycling centers and the compost toileting.
 I and others hauled away to our homes garbage and recycling. We also were continually cleaning that up throughout every hour. I and others machine washed multiple times bedding, dish towels, clothing, first aid towels, et cetera. We checked for lice or anything else. We medics, RNs, doctors, other health professionals, fellow nurses,
 healthcare providers, risk management, and food handling professionals. We're making sure that people knew and abided by food safety and public health conditions. We turned away, I personally threw away meat or other things that were donated because we couldn't confirm that they've been kept at the proper temperatures for the proper times.
 We had from the school electricity for deep freezers and we had meat because it was considered a racist issue to not have everything vegan as we had earlier planned. We had state and county health department requirements for the three-system sink system ending in chlorine rents and air drying.
 We were continually watching for our patients and having signal threads, texts, so that we can maintain patient care in continuity. We were giving people information about chemical determination from ICE agents and heat care and...
 and providing that for folks. Now, on June 25th, the Portland police blocked ambulances, emergency exits, legal observers, lawyers, medics, and care providers for those who needed it. And the Portland police aided and abetted ICE, DHS, police who brutalized sleeping and peacefully assembled protesters who were there to protect the health and safety of Portlanders, especially children.
 Police threatened arrest, injury for those who are cleaning up the camps, and trying to package and donate materials to help the public safety and health of others. As at the Portland Police planted dog poop or human feces and needles at the Chapman Park Occupy Portland Camp, after we were cleaning up, they planted needles and dog poop at the camp. Saturday, as a medic...
 I observed Portland police directly firing at the crowds at face level and torso level. I treated people with head injuries, bleeding injuries, sprains, and chemical weapons that were given to them by Portland police and by the other fascists who were protected by the Portland police. One of the emergency room registered nurses who was a medic is now injured and she's not able to provide emergency care to the public.
 because of the police injuring her. Thank you. Appreciate it. I don't know if the next two individuals, Carla, wanted to come up together.
 Thank you. Yes, they want to come up together. They'd like to come up together. Very good. Thank you. 820, request of Eric Vega to address council regarding police directive 810.10 and issues with law enforcement's relationship with immigration enforcement. And 821, request of Teresa Venkata Chalapathy to address council regarding universal review of police directive 810.10. Good morning.
 Hi, Mayor. If it's okay with you, if Theresa starts out. However you'd like to do it. Thank you. Three minutes per person, please. We have lots of business today. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Theresa Venkata Chalapathy, and I'm a member of a local people power group that's been advocating for non-cooperation between Portland Police and ICE. We were really happy to see a number of excellent improvements to Police Directive 81010 in February, and we thank you enthusiastically for those.
 We've kept working with some advocacy groups to make sure our city code on this is clear and strong. And especially after recent news coverage on the ICE Council's cease and desist letter, we think it's important for us to sharpen our definition for what kinds of assistance we can provide federal agents who actually have a life or safety issue, while at the same time maintaining our determination not to spend local resources on the enforcement of federal immigration law.
 With 810.10 up for universal review again, we have some recommendations for things that could be improved, and I've included a copy of 810.10 with my testimony if you'd like to refer to it.
 First, the second sentence in Section 2.2 implies our officers can detain or even arrest someone for ICE if they present a judicial warrant. However, the federal government cannot require a local law enforcement agency to effectuate their federal warrants without violating the Tenth Amendment. So even if our officers technically have the authority to arrest or detain someone on the basis of a judicial warrant, we don't think they're federally required to do so.
 If that's the case, can Portland prohibit the police force from responding to judicial warrants if they pertain to immigration law? Or at the very least, can Portland emphasize in 810.10 that our police officers don't have to effectuate those warrants? We ask the City Council to look into these possibilities. Second, Section 3.2 says the Portland Police can provide cover or assistance for ICE operations.
 We hate the thought of our officers conducting traffic control for ice raids in our city. We worry they'd find themselves in a situation where they're basically enabling ice to do unethical things like kicking down doors or forcibly separating family members. Unfortunately, this seems increasingly likely today, and it would absolutely devastate community relationships with our police.
 Third, Section 6.1.1 suggests our officers can help ICE with criminal investigations if they're not related to immigration law. Unfortunately, immigration violations are increasingly being criminalized and immigrants are increasingly being profiled as terrorists. We'd like to see additional clarifications added to this section so it can't be used as a loophole.
 Fourth, Section 6.2 only restricts officers from sharing the types of personal information that are specifically itemized between 6.2.1 and 6.2.7 and only when it would be shared for the express purpose of enforcing immigration law. The list doesn't cover all kinds of identifying information. For example, it doesn't include license plate numbers.
 and the intention of using information is not always known. So we'd like that section to prohibit sharing of personal information, including but not limited to the items listed there, and regardless of the stated intent for using that information.
 We've enclosed a number of additional recommendations from the ACLU of Oregon and from the Innovation Law Lab. During this review period, please work with them, with COUSA, and with the Portland Immigrant Rights Coalition to make this code as strong as possible. Thank you. Thank you, Teresa. And can I get a written copy of your test? We have it. I'm sorry. Thank you. That's tremendously helpful. Thank you. Hi, my name is Eric Vega. I am representing the Portland Immigrant Rights Coalition. We joined Teresa and People Power in their comments regarding Police Directive 810.10.
 We have independently met with Sheriff Reese and Chief Outlaw and been impressed with their desire to separate local law enforcement from ICE enforcement. So I wanted to try to give just a little bit of context. I believe that what they're trying to do, their conviction, is that community-based policing is jeopardized by the ugly and divisive actions of the Trump administration and ICE.
 Their concerns, I believe, are reflected historically. Fear and hatred have been repeatedly used to hurt and exclude immigrants all around the country. I just wanted to give three quick examples. In 1790, the Naturalization Act passed by Congress said that the only people that could become naturalized citizens were white people. So it gives a kind of thematic to the way immigration is going to be viewed in this country.
 Two, in 1882, the Chinese Exclusion Act, Congress reflecting popular concerns, is trying to exclude Chinese people from coming into this country. And finally, as you know, in the 1930s, there was a major campaign to exclude Mexican people from particularly the western portion of the United States. Over and over and over again, demagogues have used hate and the incitement of violence to go after members of the community.
 On top of this, in the 1980s and 90s there were numerous and repeated efforts all across the country to hurt and demonize immigrants. Local law enforcement and governmental policies were devised to force them into self-deportation. In addition, I think it's important to know
 that historically the first third major party in this country's history was the Know Nothing Party. And it focused on Catholics, Irish, Germans, and it was both violent and mean. And we're talking about council members, senators, congresspeople, judges that were mobilized to create a massive political constituency to go after people not of this country.
 And the theme was, how do you use nationalist and racist rhetoric to win power? Because that's what this is about. And it continues to be true to this day. The Trump administration, its keystone is to mobilize a right-wing populist anti-immigrant movement. And they're doing everything in their power. I promise to be more quick right now.
 Today, the rhetoric and policies that you hear from this administration are about separating children from their families, about calling immigrants animals, about denying asylum, about saying that those others should be excluded. It's a violation of basic human rights. I want to end by saying...
 that Theresa's comments are friendly. It is about sustaining and promoting human rights. It is about making sure that the slogan, ice out of Portland, ice out of many communities in this country, is linked to making sure that local law enforcement does not simply become the lackey of ICE. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you very, very much. I was at Normandale Park last night for the Rose City Park Neighborhood Association National Night Out event, and that was organized in a very short time in response to the hateful act that happened at Normandale Park. And one of the speakers said that her son, who is white and American, has just got the visa for his wife that he married a year ago in Kenya to be able to come here as a legal spouse.
 legal immigrant being married to an American and I know that when I became was able to get in it wasn't because I was married to an American citizen. In fact if I had married an American citizen while I was here on a student visa I would have had to have left for 10 years.
 So I got in because I was a registered nurse and that was necessary at the time. That was a needed occupation. So you're right, it has been going on for a really long time. And I want to thank everybody who came to Normandale Park last night because that was a whole community coming out in response to one hateful person saying, no, this is not happening in our community. We have a lot of other things that we can and should and will do. And I'm just really appreciative of everybody who's been here and thank you especially for this excellent testimony.
 Carla, have any items been pulled off the consent agenda? Yes. So we have 823 and 824. Very good. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. Next item, item 822.
 Initiate foreclosure action on four properties for the collection of delinquent city liens placed against the properties. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioner. Morning. Morning. Welcome. My name is Marco Maciel, Foreclosure Program Manager. Don't move. Marco Maciel. Move the mic a little closer. Sorry. There you go. Thank you. Marco Maciel, Foreclosure Program Manager, Gaylord Jennings, the auditor's office.
 is assisting us today. Mike Liefeld is sitting here. He's a code enforcement program manager for the Bureau of Development Services. Thank you. And Brigitte O'Callaghan, city treasurer. Unfortunately, she had a commitment she can't be here today. And so we have Dan Simon, deputy city attorney with the city attorney's office. And we are all partners in this endeavor to make sure that continue this effort that we have pursuing so far.
 And if you have any answers, we are here to answer. Any questions, we are here to answer. This is the fifth foreclosure list we have brought to Council since focused effort began in 2016. The objectives of the process are to resolve the nuisance properties that we have throughout the city, minimize the adverse effect caused by these properties in the community, and bring these properties to a productive use. Foreclosure is used.
 as the City's last resort to address vacant and distressed properties. There is a cooperative effort by the Bureau of Development Services, the Auditor's Office, the Treasurer, and the City Attorney's Office. To date, the efforts of foreclosure process has resulted in 68 properties proposed for foreclosure by the Bureau of Development Services, of which 17 have been brought to Council for vote and 44 have been paid in full.
 The amount we covered is approximately $2 million, and the process has motivated many property owners to find a resolution to their properties. Based on our data, nearly two out of three properties that have been paid in full have been motivated by the foreclosure activity. Today, the auditor's office submitted to council a list with four vacant and distressed properties
 with a recommendation to be foreclosed could i ask you a question when you say vacant and distressed is is this what people colloquially refer to as zombie homes that's correct okay thank you i was trying to make sure i understood completely what we're talking about each of the properties is vacant and distressed and has been consuming the limited resources that the city has to continue working towards improving livability health and safety in our community
 The properties recommended for the city foreclosure, there are four of them, 13 liens within all of them, and the amount owed as of May 31st was $67,673.02. Two are extremely distressed properties enforcement program cases, and one distressed property with chronic maintenance violations. And one of the properties has a mid-county sewer project lien.
 The properties are located in the north, northeast, and southeast parts of town. The first property is located at 544 Southeast 137th Avenue. There are seven liens against that property. The delinquency range is from 2012 to 2017. And the total amount owed as of May 31st of 2018 is...
 is $31,378.02. The ownership is recorded as the Oregon Department of Veterans Affairs and the contract purchaser is Norman E. We contacted the Department of Veterans Affairs and they have no interest in the property
 the properties and the properties where the deed was issued or were issued to Mr. E upon right after payment of the property, pay off of the properties and obviously he has not conveyed the property to his name. The properties are extremely distressed property enforcement program cases, multiple violations cited including fire, life, safety and health sanitation violations,
 There were 26 police call services since May of 2011. The Bureau of Development Services has abated the exterior yard nuisance issues twice. There have been 14 inspections performed by BDS on behalf of the city, and the property is vacant and attractive for unlawful occupants. Four, the next property is located at 5616 North Howard.
 There are four liens placed against the property. The delinquency ranges from 2014 to 2018. The total amount owed on liens is $23,442.16 as of May 31st of 2018. The ownership is recorded under Norman E. This is a vacant and distressed property. Tall grass and overgrown vines over yard and into the house.
 several fire life safety violations, windows covered with metal screening, porch metal leg detached, 49 police calls for service since June of 2011. The next property is located at 8516 North Calhoun Avenue. There is one lien placed against the property. The lien was assessed in June of 2017.
 The total amount owed only on this particular lien is $6,944.21 as of May 31st of 2018. Again, this property is recorded under the Oregon Department of Veterans Affairs, and the same applies. The property has not been conveyed to the name of the contract purchaser once it was paid.
 This is one of the properties that was approved for foreclosure by Council on September 21st of 2016. And the property owner paid for the amount owed and retained the property. And here we are one year later because the other two that were sold, they were all in use. They were in very good state. And those two are exactly the same or worse than what they were when we first brought to Council.
 The next property is located at 4725 Northeast 22nd Avenue. There is one lien placed against the property. The lien was assessed in May of 2017. The amount owed is $6,797.43 as of May 31st of 2018. It's also under the name of the Oregon Department of Veterans Affairs and the contract purchaser, Norman E.,
 And this is again one of the properties that were foreclosed before. And we are here again foreclosing the property because it was paid off by the property owner. And the state of the property is exactly how it was before or worse. And we have to basically the city has been maintaining those properties for Mr. E. This is an extremely stressed property program case.
 There are many fire life safety violations against the property. The property has been vacant for over eight years. Construction debris materials abandoned in the backyard has been an attractive for unlawful occupants. There is an unapproved shower in the basement. Foundation wall is spalling. The chimney is deteriorating and falling apart. And there have been three police calls for service since June of 2011.
 The property owner has a long history of city code housing maintenance violations with many, if not all, of his investment properties. The property owner has had four properties included in two of the previous city foreclosure lists, as well as properties foreclosed by the Montnomah County. Two of the four properties included in this list have been included in one of the previous lists approved by council. However, the property owner paid the amount owed and...
 This paid the motto to the City prior to auction. The City has offered many opportunities to Mr. E to correct the violations and solve the delinquencies on his properties. When property owners are willing to resolve the violations, they can contact the Bureau of Development Services and request a review of the cases.
 Once the review is done, the amount owed is decreased, then the auditor's office will provide a payment plan that allows the property owner to repay the amount owed in up to five years in monthly installments. Mr. Yu was encouraged to apply many times to no avail.
 The Bureau of Development Services offered an amnesty program where if the property is free of code violations, the property owner can enroll and pay a portion of the amount owed and or pay the remainder in monthly installments. Mr. E showed interest, requested information and instructions, but decided not to pursue the amnesty offered by the Bureau of Development Services.
 The properties of Mr. E have been taken to the Collections Committee, and he made no attempt to do anything, to take any action to improve the quality or the situation of the properties. After four of Mr. E's properties were included in the 2016 Cities for a Curriculist, he requested to have an opportunity to rehabilitate his properties. The city agreed and required that the stipulated agreement be signed.
 The agreement was drafted and delivered to Mr. E, who never signed the agreement nor did any work in any of the properties. As demonstrated, the City has made many attempts to assist the property owners to rehabilitate his properties, but our efforts have been ineffective. Therefore, the City Auditor's Office recommends that Council approve these properties for foreclosure.
 The next steps in the City's foreclosure process are for the Council to vote on whether to foreclose on the properties within this proposed ordinance. If the ordinance is approved, the Auditor's Office will transfer the responsibility to the City Treasurer to conduct the foreclosure sale. The property owner can pay the amount owed up to the sale date. After the sale is conducted, the current owner has a one-year redemption period.
 This is the end of the presentation, and we are happy to answer any questions that you may have. Mayor, I have a couple questions. You know, someone who's maybe watching this for the first time is going to wonder, are we picking on Mr. Yee because of the frequency that he's appeared on this? And then also, why is the Department of Veterans Affairs contracting with someone else?
 who then is unable to maintain the property. So how do you respond to that? Okay. The first one has to do with the number of properties that Mr. E has in that situation.
 And so he never, I believe that he is one of those who invested in those properties with the intent of expecting that the market would be turned favorable to him. And at some point, without investing any additional money or even maintaining the properties, he would be able to sell for a good profit, which is still the case if you would opt to do so.
 And the second one, I did have the conversation with the Bureau of Veterans Affairs, Department of Veterans Affairs, and there are properties that they are not able to sell or to pass on to veterans. And so they make lots and sell those properties to a realtor in town who represents them.
 And so Mr. E is not the only one. We have had another one that came through council, but she had a property management company taking care of some of the properties. That's why we don't see the same number. And some of them she, in my view, have given up for reasons that I cannot explain to you why. And those properties, little by little, are coming to council too. Good. Thank you. Uh-huh.
 So does Mr. Yi typically pay the back taxes on all the properties that come before us? In general, it's very interesting because I contacted the Multnomah County, and he pays always the last one to give him that additional year and prevent foreclosure. And he has never failed with exceptional this year. There was one that he was unable to pay.
 So this is, in my view, is a way that some of those people have been operating for decades and obviously has been profitable to them. Otherwise, they would not be doing what they are doing right now. So he does occasionally sell some of these properties? He sold two on the last one, and that's why I think he was able to acquire the money to pay for the other two that he decided to maintain that are here today. Thank you.
 Very good. Any further questions? Is there public testimony on this item, Carla? No one else signed up. Please call the roll. Yes, there is public testimony. Okay, I'd ask people to please sign up in advance so we don't miss you. I have a problem riding with my pen, so it's an issue I have with my dog. No worries. Thank you. Good morning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning. Super watchdog. You're nothing but a bunch of vultures. Every last one of you. Mr. Yee.
 Over 65 years old, senior citizen. Mr. Yee, possibly a veteran. Obviously he's getting DVA loans. Mr. Yee, unable to maintain his properties. Mr. Yee, asking for assistance from the city and getting nothing. How do you sleep at night taking advantage of Mr. Yee? You are vultures. You should offer him...
 Some money to do some maintenance. And these police calls that you think are so outrageous that you call him the zombie home king of this city and put him on KGW. You know, the true definition of a zombie home is someone who doesn't make his mortgage payment. Mr. Yee has no mortgage payments. You are vultures.
 His debt, his reason for you forcing the foreclosure on him is you, not his mortgage. It is you for thinking that a private property owner doesn't have a right to buy a home and let it sit empty. That is a private property right of Mr. Yee.
 Not to be taken down with your anchors of nuisance liens, code enforcement liens. Have you even walked in half these properties? You walk up to these properties with a clipboard and say, Mr. Yee, your grass is long. All your doors have been kicked in by somebody off the street, and I blame you, who you are the victim. So guess what? I'll throw you a $15,000 little fee for you, Mr. Yee.
 to show the appreciation from the city of somebody who's been victimized. People coming off the street, kicking his doors in, and you look at the victim and say, well, guess what, Mr. Yee? We're going to fine you for that. Guess what? If those people kick your doors in on your car, break out your windows, we're going to call you a zombie car owner. This is pathetic. This is pathetic.
 DOJ, I want this to be investigated. DOJ, I want to make sure they've had contact with Mr. Yee. DOJ, I'm worried about the safety's owner. The owner's safety right now, is he safe? Is he okay? Are you concerned about that up here? No, you're concerned about how much you'll make on these auctions. Have you talked to Mr. Yee in the last six months? You have not, have you? Because you don't care.
 You see dollar signs in your eyes and that's all you're going to do. Thank you. You foreclose on this. I want the Adult Protection Services, DOJ, and I want everyone to be arrested if you foreclose on this gentleman. Thank you. Arrested. Thank you. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz.
 With property rights come property responsibilities, and there have been multiple attempts to contact Mr. Yeehan to help him with these issues with his properties. And I want to particularly thank former Mayor Charlie Hales for addressing this. Charlie Hales is an asshole! Sit down, please. Along with Auditor Hall Cavalieri. Sit down.
 Fish. Hope he sinks in a sailboat out there. What a fucking worthless piece of shit. Sit down, please. Fuck off. Or leave. I'm leaving. Thank you. Go fuck yourself, vultures. Yeah. So these are... Back off. Do not touch me. Antifa rules. So, colleagues, these are unsafe buildings out of compliance with city code.
 Mr. Yee has had a number of opportunities to cure the problem. In my notes, I note that he's hired and fired attorneys, missed deadlines, and no one's been able to reach him for some time. He's playing games with our code. This is an absolute last resort that we are taking. Commissioner Fritz is right. With property rights come responsibilities. These are beyond attractive nuisances.
 and we have to consider the impact on the neighborhoods where these buildings are unsafe and remaining vacant for extended periods of time. I hope that he gets in the habit of remedying these problems before we have to take foreclosure action, but the ball is in his court, and he has a well-established track record of avoiding compliance with our very reasonable rules. Hi. It's too late. Wheeler? Wheeler?
 Sometimes I agree with public testimony. In this case, I strenuously disagree. The steps that government goes through in a foreclosure process are many. It takes many years. It has to be documented, and it has to be legal. And I want to just give people a preface of where this will probably lead. We will take this action today.
 And in another two years, we will be back here having the same vote on the same individual because that has happened previously.
 Zombie homes are a significant problem in this community. There are hundreds of them that are either, you know, most of them are owned by banks, but many are owned by individuals. They are dilapidated, they are ignored, they become public health and public safety problems for other people. And where I disagree with Mr. Lightning is, yes, you have property rights. Yes, that is your property, but when you do not maintain
 your property and it becomes a problem and an infringement on the rights of other people, that's where the foreclosure process comes into play. So I appreciate the auditor bringing this forward and I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item please, 824. I'm sorry, not 824, number... Excuse me, you are in violation of council rules. Mimi, you are in violation of council rules. Please stop.
 or you will be asked to leave. Next item is 831. 831. All right, we are taking recess. Animal police brutality. Animal police brutality. Animal police brutality. Animal police brutality. Animal police brutality. Animal police brutality. Animal police brutality. Animal police brutality. Animal police brutality.
 I was wondering maybe if you could tax PGE and Nike and Intel. If you could actually... Test, test, test, test. I think that our city government will hear our voices and...
 Is there a Marty Maloney in the room? Marty Maloney? Thank you. No, please. You're supposed to testify for 835. Oh, okay. They probably left. Sorry. As promised in the bond measure, the...
 Money is intended to repair or replace Asian Park's infrastructure. I always have to say that we've got another probably $400 million worth of repairs, so... ...a little bit about the background. We'll talk about the performance, and then we'll go into the investments and the transparency public involvement. The bond program is implementing 52 projects in two phases. In your bond annual report, you'll see there's a map, which shows the investments.
 In year two, with input from the community, the bond team developed the phase two project list to spend the remaining bond funds on the 18 additional projects. In year one, we had 34 projects. The first two years of the bond established the foundational structure for the bond, including standards and phase one projects. In year three, we focused primarily on delivering the projects as the bond team continued to manage the project scope, schedules, and budgets.
 The program remains consistent with the bond language throughout the year and major maintenance needs over the next 10 years in our community parks, community centers, and other facilities. The map also shows, along with all the bond projects, the projects that we're doing with system development charges.
 These expansion projects funded by the system development charges are not part of the bond replacement program, but sometimes the two projects overlap, creating and leveraging funding sources. You can also see it's a very exciting time for parks, with over $100 million in SDC funds allocated to be invested over the next five years or so. So at this time, I'd like to turn it over to Robin to talk about the performance.
 Thank you. In this third year of implementation, several projects have moved forward through various stages of design, construction, and completion, while always maintaining consistency with the original language of the bond scope. And we've also utilized extensive mechanisms for tracking scope, schedule, and budget to make sure on a monthly basis that we're staying on track.
 At this time, all 52 of the bottom projects are either underway or complete. We've completed 31 right now are currently underway, and 21 are fully complete. And again, the majority of the projects continue to stay within their originally defined scope. This is one of our strongest performance measures that we've been measuring the team with.
 Simply fixing most of our urgent problems. Currently, five bond projects have had scope expansions due to leveraging the bonds investments by capitalizing on efficiencies where we can with SDCs, major maintenance funds or private fundings for extending our service while our project managers are working on the projects. Our schedule metric is also a positive one with 24 bond projects on or ahead of schedule and as I said, 21 that are completed.
 In this last year, the bond team has completed 13 in the last 12 months. We're really proud of that. Seven of our bond projects have experienced schedule delays for various reasons, including the really challenging construction climate that we have right now with some contractors in demand and some bids not coming in at all and some bids coming in very high.
 We've also faced some complex permitting and procurement requirements on a couple of our projects, and we have had some extended project schedules due to our desire to invest in increasing opportunities for MWSB contractors. Our project managers have taken some extra time with coaching and helping some of our newer contractors learn our system.
 The Bureau believes that investing this time and effort is worth it and results in a broadening and diversifying of the pool of contractors and also builds our capacity for future projects with the city. Our budget overview...
 is as of June 30th, the program has spent $28.1 million. We're still spending at a bit slower rate than we originally anticipated, and we're expecting with the next 13 projects coming on this year through construction, that's where all the money happens and we'll be increasing our spending rates there. All of our projects are currently within the original bond budgets except for two. Grant Poole had an originally, sorry, had a higher than anticipated construction costs,
 And due to an accounting error, Park Lane Lee was charged a little bit more than it should have. However, the overall project budget stayed within budget as that project also had SDC funds assigned to it.
 In a graphic that you can see in our report, you'll see that our spending on administrative costs has gone down over the last three years. Right now, we are really excited to share the news that our administrative expenses are continuing to fall since year one. And currently, our cumulative percentage of funds over the three years spent on administrative costs is at 5.1%. Original goals for the program were 10. So we're feeling really happy about that.
 To what do you attribute that? That's great news. Well, we were conservative when we started out, and we also had a lot of startup cost for administration. So that's why the administrative were quite high at the beginning when we were setting up the program. Well, I want to thank you, and I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for making that a priority. And I think that's a huge...
 statement around accountability and I know that when people vote to support these bonds there we make representations around accountability public expects us to uphold that accountability you guys are doing a fantastic job given x I didn't want that to be a footnote in space presentation thank you man and on his
 too modest to say so, but actually it's also because the staff work incredibly hard and there's not really enough to do all of this work and so they're all working massive amounts of hours and doing it willingly and with great skill. And so thank you very much to the entire team. Yeah, thank you. I was just curious, are there particular types of projects that we're not receiving bids for or are there still projects that we haven't received any bids for?
 There have been a few. You may have heard at our last presentation, St. John's Roof, the first time we went out to bid, the bids were too high. We restructured the package, sent it back out to bid, and we got no bids. Roof and contractors were just too busy. Most recently, the North Park Blocks Playground project was a renovation. We went through the prime contractor development program, and no bidder showed up for our mandatory pre-bid, so we had to go out on the open market for that one.
 We had them busy on lots of other projects. Yeah, so a lot of it's just that, again, that tight construction market.
 Another good note is our investments. We're working not only to improve our parks infrastructure, but we're really investing a lot of money in the local Portland community with disadvantaged minority women and emerging small businesses, giving them a lot of opportunities to design these projects, to build them, and to design them and bid on them and help construct them.
 Our success rate with the DMWSB firms has been laudable to date. 31% of the value of our professional technical services has gone to these firms, and 39% of the construction dollar value has gone to these firms as well. And as a reminder, the city's goals are 20% for those numbers. Our bond team is also very proud and passionate about our park system and really want to share this with the public.
 With our initial bond work, the extensive outreach process helped garner bond support, thanks in particular to Commissioner Fretz and Commissioner Fish. Building on these efforts, the bond team was engaged in a public outreach tailored to each of the bond projects. The numbers that you see on your screen, we can share these with you later. We've done quite a lot of outreach efforts and these numbers show that, and those are also represented in the hard copies you have.
 We realize that our work around community engagement has to reflect our diverse community and what their needs and desires are. To help foster these efforts, we're ensuring that we're hearing from a broad spectrum of Portlanders. Our community engagement staff have involved...
 community engagement liaisons. These are members of the community with ties to Spanish-speaking, Somali, Vietnamese, and Russian communities. And these specialists have helped assist us with our outreach with outreach and translation translation for a lot of our playground renovation projects. Project specific outreach has also been targeted to low-income and disability communities and an open house meetings have been held in conjunction with Greater Portland cultural events such as Summer Free For All and New Year in the Park.
 Continuing through transparency, our bond oversight committee continues to provide oversight for us. One member has changed in the last years. Chairperson Dion Jordan's term has ended, and he has resigned from the committee. A search for his replacement is underway.
 Our current committee includes John F. Colon, Karen Loper-Tracy, Zari Santner, Ken Richardson. This group has helped us a lot as we've gone through and grown the program. And in their annual report last year, their recommendation was to establish metrics that demonstrate the effectiveness of our efforts to be transparent with the community, engage with the public who feels like the process has been open and transparent, and that it welcomes participation.
 To address the suggestion, we are developing a targeted survey to measure how well our outreach and communication strategies have worked, and that survey will be available online at www.parksreplacementbond.org, and we'll have that up from mid-August until September 2018. And the Oversight Committee will also be visiting you again in the fall with their report on our work.
 So audits, those were part of the bond measure as a requirement, and we, in order to ensure fiscal accountability, to meet this obligation, we've hired an independent firm to provide a performance audit of the bond activities. This audit will serve as a progress check on how well the program is operating and as a guide for future work to ensure that the efficient delivery of the identified bond projects. The audit is currently underway and is scheduled for completion this fall. I expect we'll be giving a report on that when that's ready.
 I want to ask a question on the audit. Was there thought when we went before the voters to ask the city auditor to do the audit, or what was the thinking here? I spoke to the city auditor about that, and they declined because of their workload.
 at the time. And so she did help extensively actually with us in our RFP for the audit, auditor selection and also on the committee itself to select the auditors. And who have we selected to do the work? Harvey Rose. And Harvey, and that's a- Harvey, they're a professional firm in California, Harvey M. Rose. I see. They provide auditing service for a lot of government agencies on the West Coast.
 And that was recommended by our city auditor, too. Thank you. Sure. So, again, a lot of the bond projects have been well received with support from our three main stakeholder groups that have been involved in the projects, the public, our consultants, and our contracting community, as well as city council. Our goals for MWSB utilization have been...
 have been exceeded and the majority of our projects are, you know, as I said, on scope, on schedule, and on budget. So we're really happy with the progress to date in these first three years. Our slideshow, unfortunately, has a lot of pictures of our completed projects, but you can see that in your report. Just wanted to, yeah, so I don't want to go through all the details if we don't have pictures to support that. But I hope you'll find that we have a lot of wonderful improvements all over the city providing services where things were lacking and have been lacking for quite a while.
 I just want to interrupt for a second because I don't want to say this in my closing, but it's just really unfortunate that some people who want to yell and disrupt are preventing the public from seeing the good part of governments, the things that we've gotten right and the things that we've done for the Portland community. So thank you for continuing to present and I just know that it's unfortunate that freedom of speech apparently is sometimes a one-way street.
 Well, looking ahead, we have 10 bond projects that are scheduled for completion in the near future, and we're excited for this work. I do have this list on the slide. I want to read it to you just so you know what's coming to your neighborhood. Cooch Park, Lou, Cooch Park Playground, Ed Benedict Park Restroom, Fern Hill Park Water Supply, our Kenton Park Playground, Mount Tabor Park Handrails, North Park Blocks Playground, Raymond Park, Lou's, Selwood Park Kitchen Roof, and Peninsula Park Pool. Thank you.
 So with that, we're happy to present you with the long form of the annual report for the bond, which will be shared with the press and the neighborhood coalitions and will be available on the park's website.
 The information presented here can be found in that report. It's also intended to be completely transparent and honest, not only about what went well for us, but what did not. The short version, which is the one I gave to you, is also available and will be distributed at events throughout the summer. It's available in English and also translated into Spanish.
 So we anticipate we'll be able to deliver the bond, the Phase 1 and Phase 2 bond projects, as promised, for the $68 million, and we're happy to take questions at this time. Thank you. Very good. Further questions? And you will post on the website? We will. We'll post the PowerPoint. The PowerPoint that we wanted to see today but could not see. Sure. Absolutely. Yeah, thank you. So we have a motion? Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Fish. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman.
 Well, thank you for a great report, and thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your leadership in getting this bond measure approved by voters. And I really appreciate the very thorough approach you're taking to monitoring your administrative expenses, getting the audits done, and getting the work done, too, when we can find the contractors. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Fritz.
 Thank you very much for the report. It's good to see on paper and acknowledge to the community what's been going on with this bond measure. I just want to tell a quick story about the human impacts of these investments. On Sunday I was at the Buckman Community Association picnic and in the
 my neighbour had at Colonel Summers Park and two of the projects that feature on this report, one of them is the Colonel Summers loo and the other is the splash pad there and I was approached by a neighbour who said she lived right next door to the park and do we design these things with public safety in mind and I said with some trepidation, yes hoping that she wasn't going to say well you've done a terrible job and in fact what she said was it's transformed the park as it used to be a place where there was a lot of criminal activity going on, that there was a lot of
 drug use and other things happening and and if Monday fun day which was kind of mayhem for the whole community every week And because the loo replaced the restroom which was very unsafe because the splash pad has brought in families to the park and it was designed in a way that the location was
 intended to make sure that there was positive activity on both sides of the splash pad. So it's not just a recreational facility, it's transformed the park. And I definitely
 I don't know what the total investment was in those projects, I'm guessing it was less than a million dollars, but we were spending a heck of a lot of money beforehand on crime prevention, on police response, on various other less positive activities, and now we have this wonderful park that really is bringing the neighbourhood together, including people who live outside who were very welcome at the picnic and who were participating in picking up trash and helping out. So it made me feel really good that that was one of the things I got to do in the last week.
 Rwyf wedi mwynhau bod yn Parchnigwr Parc yn ddysgol. Rwy'n diolch i'r Prif Weinidog, Maeos, am fy ngorfforol i'w wneud am 4 mlynedd, a'r Prif Weinidog, am ei fod wedi cymryd ymlaen.
 Ac yn amlwg, mae fy ngwyl i fod yn gofalu am y parciau ein harwain a sicrhau bod pob Portlander yn gallu eu mwynhau. Felly gyda'r ffodd hon, mae gennym 50 o brosiectau drwy'r ddyniaeth, ac mae'n cynnwys 10 o adeiladau llw a rhestrwm, yna'r Pionier Courtel Square neu rhestrwm genedlaethol. Rwy'n wirioneddol yn ffodd o fod yn ddyn ddyn llw a rhestrwm. Mae hyn wedi bod yn y cynyddu mwyaf o adeiladau rhestrwm cyhoeddus yn y hanes o Parciau Portland a Chyd-ddychrych.
 Mae hefyd, fel y dywedodd, wedi llwyddo'r cyllid datblygu'r system ar gyfer gwella llefydd fel Pwll Peninsul, sydd nid yn unig wedi'i reno, ond mae'n cael gwella'r gwasanaethau.
 Mae'r gwasanaeth wedi bod yn ddynol drwy'r amser, fel y dywedom yn y fesur cyd-dynol. Felly, rydyn ni wedi cyhoeddi ardal chwarae cynhwysif ar gyfer pobl o bob lefel ar Gwabriel Park yng Nghymru. Fel y dywedodd, rydym yn agor Cwch Park, sy'n cael ei ddatblygu yn gysylltiad  Gwabriel Park Harper.
 Felly, gyda chyflawni Gwaredig Gwaredig y Gwrthrydd ar ddydd Fawr, mae hynny'n golygu bod y 4 o'r 5 gwaedrwntiau o Portland yn cael eu cyflwyno'n gyflym iawn, gyda gwaglenau cymhwysol cyffredinol, gyda'r ardal ddwyll ystod ei gyflawni. Felly, rwy'n hynod o ddiolch ac yn hapus am hynny. Diolch i'r holl staff ar Pwrllyn Parc a Chyfrifoldeb, gan gynnwys y ddynion wych sydd yma yn ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod yst
 Mae Keir Selly wedi bod yn gwneud swydd gwych fel Rheolwr Ynhygrydol. Mae Mike Abate wedi bod yn rhan iawn o'r holl rhaglen hwn. Mae Marianne Cassin yn rhan o'r holl rhaglen hwn. Diolch i'r holl staff ymgysylltu cymunedol, y tmau cyfrifol, ac yna'r Comisiynydd Nick Fish,
 a chymerodd y mesur ffond ar l y llinell diweddar yn 2014 ac wedi bod yn cymorth ar gyfer parciau am mor hir i mi gwybod chi ac rwy'n wirioneddol yn ffodd i weithio gyda chi. Christina Nieves, Pooja Bhatt a fy staff, yn y blaen, Pathy Howard a Tom Bizot ac wrth gwrs fy nghyngor, Tim Crail. Mae wedi bod yn honno ac rwy'n gobeithio y gallaf ddiolch i bawb gan enw i. Ffishe. Wel, mae Dan a Amanda wedi dweud yr un peth. Roeddwn i'n dweud bod hyn yn adroddiad model.
 ac rydych chi wedi sefydlu'r standard ac mae'r bar yn dda iawn. Diolch yn fawr. Ac rydw i'n edrych ymlaen at ddarparu arweinyddiaeth bywydol gyda fy nghymdeithasol wrth i chi ddod 'ch gwaith gwych. Felly diolch yn fawr iawn.
 Wheeler. Well, I want to reiterate my thanks to Commissioner Fritz. Her passion and her enthusiasm on this is obvious and it's contagious and it is exhibited tangibly through the work that's been done at these parks. And I do hope that people have the opportunity to take a look at what you described as the long form of the report, which honestly sounds terrible. It's terrible marketing on your part. But
 I want to stick to your overall objective. Healthy parks make a healthy Portland. And I could not agree more. And I thank you, Commissioner, for your outstanding stewardship. I thank the Parks Bureau team and everybody in the community who worked hard and advocated for and helped shape this vision and ultimately supported it with their own tax dollars. This, to me, is...
 a prime example of what is fantastic about our city and what makes it unique and what makes it work. So thank you. I look forward to next year's report equally. I vote aye, the report is accepted. Thank you. Thank you. Next up will be 837, Commissioner Fish.
 authorize a joint funding agreement with U.S. Geological Survey in the amount of $1,623,235 for stream flow and water quality monitoring. Commissioner Fish. Mayor and colleagues, for more than 40 years, the city has had an ongoing cooperative agreements with the U.S. Geological Survey to collect stream flow and water quality data in the Bull Run Watershed.
 Today's agreement will continue that successful partnership. It's my pleasure to introduce Edward Eddie Campbell, Resource Protection Group Manager from the Portland Water Bureau, to give us a brief overview. Eddie? Great. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Again, my name is Edward Campbell, Resource Protection Planning Director for the Water Bureau.
 As Commissioner Fish has indicated, the item before you today is the renewal of an intergovernmental agreement with the United States Geological Survey to maintain and operate water monitoring stations in and around the Bull Run water source.
 These 13 water monitoring stations provide critical real-time data regarding tributary flows, the reservoir levels, and water quality. That's essential to both our operations and then also with our ability to comply with the requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
 This agreement provides the city with the option of adding one additional monitoring site if we deem it necessary and that would be below our intake to help us manage our flows on the lower Bull Run River. So that is an option that's built into this updated agreement.
 The city's partnership, as Commissioner Fish indicated, with USGS goes back 45 years and has resulted in an uninterrupted data set, which is critical for us in terms of monitoring trends and doing planning for the future.
 The five-year total cost to operate and maintain this network is $1,623,235, of which the Water Bureau share is $1,026,020. Funding has been included in the current fiscal year budget, and in our out years it's included in our financial forecast. So this is not something that will change or affect our projected rates. With that, I'm available to answer any questions about the item.
 Colleagues? Carla, did anyone sign up to testify? Yes, we have three people signed up. We'll get someone to bring them in. Okay. Can we recess Carla until they come in? Yes, we can. Otherwise I'm just sitting here awkwardly on camera. You might turn your mics off until the play. Now you tell me. We're working out the kinks, folks. We're working out the kinks. Okay.
 I'm sorry. What about my job as a doctor? I mean, come on. It looks like they're out there ready to go. Are we ready? We've got...
 We have Charles Bridgecrane and Shedrick J. Wilkins. Very good. Coming in. Charles. Charles. Here he is. Thanks, Shedrick. You ready, Shedrick? Let Shedrick testify first, if you can. Very good. Charles, why don't you and Shedrick both take a seat to decide if something's normal? Exactly. Good morning. OK. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I commend the re-election of Commissioner Fish as the Water Bureau Chief. In January and in June after the election, I went to Pub.
 meeting in this building, especially June, and ask them, do you have any problem or has there been any complaints of us dipping into the Columbia River wells? And the answer, and I talked at the testimony, no. So if in the future the City of Portland continues to dip into the wells from time to time to get water, I don't hear any complaints about it. So I support Commissioner Fish.
 and this is a very difficult situation because there's a no-win situation because there are people who actually think they're getting poisoned from the Bull Run water system, and there's people who think they're getting getting radon from the Columbia River. There's no win, but I it was like a year and a half later, and I'm not hearing any comments from Pub.
 In fact, the only comment they wanted is they want a survey about whether Commissioner Fish is going to spend too much money on the filtration system. They put it on their website. So I got this, you can't win here in this whole thing. And I think the city of Portland will continue to dip into the Columbia River wells and if
 These are professional people too. These are not people that just come in. These are professional people. I talked to the woman's assistant director of the Water Bureau. I think she's under your employment and she said we didn't get any complaints. I mean major complaints. I'm talking about health complaints about the month that we in February of 2017. So that's all I'm saying and I commend his re-election and how he handles the Water Bureau. It's been the year of the water for me because I never went to pub meetings before.
 Okay. And I'm not hearing any kind of problem with the radon in the Columbia wells as being a significant problem. And it is kind of a no-win situation. Very good. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgegreen, and I'm glad I'm able to be here to testify, even though we've had to have two of our friends and neighbors removed under police arrest just a few moments ago. Okay.
 Just I don't know normally this is not a dialogue area, but Commissioner fish is often very helpful as things get discussed so when we look at this 1.6 million dollar agreement with the USGS and Becoming more informed or perhaps better protecting our bull run watershed it seems to me hard to determine if the federal contribution or the city contribution of
 EXHIBIT A TO C, THERE'S A TINY, I GUESS THE AMOUNTS ARE BROKEN OUT. HALF A MILLION, OH, WE GET TO USE THE GLORIOUS LANGUAGE OF PARTY OF THE FIRST PART. I DON'T KNOW IF COMMISSIONER FISH COULD MAYBE INDULGE US IF IT'S CLEAR TO HIM ON THE TOP OF THE HEAD WHICH PARTIES ARE WHICH AND IF WE'RE GETTING A NET BENEFIT. AS WE KNOW AND LOOKED AT OTHER ISSUES THAT ARE CRUCIAL TO THIS CITY, OUR QUALITY OF LIFE, OUR QUALITY OF GOVERNMENT SERVICES
 Significantly impacted by our ability to keep proper federal funds and maximum federal funding for good programs flowing into the city. The water matters, so I generally don't have any problem with city funds, if they're already in the water budget or the general budget being expended for water quality. But it looks a little legal easy-ish. In the ordinance itself, it makes clear that over the five year term, the Water Bureau will contribute $1,026,000.
 and the U.S. Geological Survey will contribute $551,000. And the Federal Stream Gauge Network will provide another $46,000. So that's how it's broken out over the five years. We are required to do this pursuant to some permits and other. This is a long-term relationship, and our cost is about two-thirds of the cost of this monitoring.
 All right. Thank you very much. And I hope that I guess this is natural stream. We probably have some small biologicals there. So we don't want to do any micro micro generation like some of these great new devices you see on Amazon. We can charge your phone by putting a little turbine in the water. But I appreciate the work of the Water Bureau in places where they've done in pipe turbine and hope that they'll someday be a public status report on that.
 While we're grateful with the water wheel, I think all of us should be grateful to the makers of Protect Skate Helmets, which may have saved the city from having a little bit of a Kent State moment. And let's hope that our citizens and our police department can get on a better page. Thank you. Thank you, both of you, for your testimony. Any further discussion? This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading.
 Next item, 838. Mayor, can we have 838 and 839 read together? Absolutely. Could you please? Excuse me, and 840? 838, 839, and 840, please, Carla. Okay.
 838, authorize the Water Bureau to acquire certain permanent and temporary property rights necessary for construction of the Penridge Mains Replacement Project through negotiation or through the exercise of the City's eminent domain authority. 839, authorize the Water Bureau to acquire certain permanent and temporary property rights
 necessary for construction of the North Jansen Avenue main installation project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority and 840.
 authorize the Water Bureau to acquire certain permanent and temporary property rights necessary for the Conduit to Trestle Rehabilitation Project through negotiation or through the City's eminent domain authority. Commissioner Fish. Mayor and colleagues, the Portland Water Bureau has three upcoming projects to improve water services, including enhanced services during natural disasters and fires.
 For these projects to meet the proper engineering and safety standards, the Portland Water Bureau will need to acquire permanent and temporary easements through negotiation. Today to present are Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer, and Ben Gossett, Right-of-Way Manager from the Portland Water Bureau. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. As Commissioner Fish indicated, you have three similar ordinances before you. The Penridge Replacement Project, the North Jansen Avenue Main Replacement Project, and the Gresham Trestle Rehabilitation Project.
 The three ordinances grant Portland Water Bureau the authority to negotiate and acquire easements and include using, including using the city's eminent domain authority, which is covered under the city charter chapter 9-108 as the last resort. And by the way, I'm Teresa Elliott, chief engineer, and this is Ben Gossett as well. And he is the right-of-way manager for the Water Bureau.
 The projects have been designed to achieve the highest, the greatest public benefit while minimizing inconveniences to adjacent property owners. Water Bureau will conduct all acquisition activities in accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter 35, Imminent Domain and Public Acquisition of Property, including with the respect to notice, value, offer, and if necessary, relocation and imminent domain.
 All affected property owners have been provided general project information for the three and invited to today's council meeting. I have given you four slides. They're what I provided Carla for the PowerPoint this morning, and it's of the four different sites that are included in these three ordinances.
 Item 838 is the Penridge project and it is located in the West Hills in an area that was annexed in 1986 by from the Sylvan water district the Penridge area was was identified in two different master plans as being undersized and inadequately covering fire current fire flow protections and
 The Penridge project is in design and will improve the fire flow capacity, system pressures, and improve system reliability in the service area. The Penridge project will take place in a privately owned road, and the Water Bureau will be seeking three permanent easements and two temporary easements.
 Item 839, the second page, is the North Janssen Avenue Main Replacement Project. It's located on Hayden Island. The Hayden Island service area was annexed from the Janssen Beach Water Company in 1988-1989.
 The existing North Jansen Avenue main segment is predominantly concrete and asbestos transite pipe that was installed by the Jansen Beach Water Company. The existing pipes are in poor condition with a history of leaks, and many of the services are not meeting current standards and need to be brought up to standard.
 The Jansen Beach project will replace about 200 or about 2,000 feet of pipes, improve fire protection and bring the service up to current standards. And this will help us improve our safety working around the pipes as well as improving the Bureau's system reliability. The Jansen Beach project is located primarily in existing easements in Jansen
 Avenue and Which is a service route for the houseboat owners and a storage complex the Bureau will be seeking a temporary construction easement for use of the road and three permanent easements Item 840 which is the last two pages consists of two different locations the Bear Creek trestle and the El Camino trestle both less both of them are located within the city limits of Gresham and
 The trestle projects have three permanent easements and two construction easements that we will be seeking. The conduit trestles will replace existing trestles to reduce our risk during damages from seismic and flooding events. The Beaver Creek trestle is the Bureau's largest trestle. It's over 120 feet in length.
 It has limited access in a wooded area with a wide floodplain. The El Camino is in a residential area in a subdivision, and to date we've talked to all of the property owners that are affected by these easements, and we believe that most will be willing for us to negotiate. Any questions? Yes.
 Commissioner Fritz. I'm interested, thank you for the presentation, it's very clear. Interested in the ones in Gresham. I'm kind of surprised that the City of Portland gets to do eminent domain over somebody else's area. So can you tell me about that? Certainly. We have easements that run through Gresham that date back from the late 1800s. I have worked with the City Attorney's Office and confirmed that in fact,
 For this public purpose, we do have the right of eminent domain to acquire these easements. And we've been in contact with those property owners? We have. And I see note that there was one property owner who was concerned. Are they able to be here, or have they been able to resolve their concerns? I don't believe that they are here today. My office has been in touch with those owners, in my understanding as of this morning, so that they don't have any concerns. Okay. Okay.
 I hope that's the case because it certainly was not a very hospitable environment as being city council chambers. Agreed. I'm sure you'll be working with them to make sure that it's addressed. Thank you. Very good. Just a question, Teresa. Once we give you this authority, what's the timeline for attempting to negotiate a willing buyer, willing seller relationship on an easement before you would ever use the hammer of eminent domain? Okay.
 Commissioner, I'm going to let Ben answer that since he will be the person doing the negotiation. Commissioner, ORS 35 requires a minimum period of 40 days to negotiate. We have built into our schedule about twice that. In addition to that, there's a period during which these easements will all be appraised.
 an offer will be made based on those appraisals. The ORA standard is a minimum of 40 days to negotiate from the date of the offer. And then again, we have time in our schedule above and beyond that. Very good. Public testimony, Carla? Yes, we have two people signed up. Shedrick Wilkins and Jan Schwartz. Very good, come on up. Can I look at the mayor when I say this?
 I just said that there's nothing wrong with our water after talking to Pub. And I think one time you said that you trust Commissioner Fish and the water issues. I also said it was kind of a no-win situation about drinking Columbia River water versus Atlanta River water. Recently, you are also being involved with a lot of no-win situations. Okay? And I commend you. I do not advocate that you resign.
 You know, I don't know if you want the stress of being reelected, but certainly don't resign. And I feel that you have said the right thing. And after looking at the water, you know, dipping into Columbia, there was no problem with that. And you said one time you support Commissioner Fish running the Water Bureau. I commend that and that your purpose is here to provide people who aren't satisfied with public input. And you're doing that, and I wish to say you're a good mayor for that. Thank you, sir. I appreciate that. That means a lot. Thank you.
 Good morning. I'm Jan Zwirtz, currently the president of the Janssen Beach Morridge. We're representing 177 homes there. And on 839, you're going to be putting in about 2,000 feet of water line directly through the middle of our property. I'm looking forward to this and having to work closely with all you folks on this. I am interested in...
 I'm trying to find out if the water line will be earthquake resistance because we are built on a fill that's all sand dredged in from the river to build it up. And I don't know if you have these answers now, but at least point me in the right direction for that.
 We have two Water Bureau staff people here today who can talk to you after your testimony. Okay. Thank you for taking the time to come in. Other than that, we look forward to getting this done because it's been postponed for many years. Yes, sir. Thank you for coming in. Great shirt. Thanks. Thank you. All right. So 837-
 is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. 838 is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It also moves to second reading.
 I'm sorry, I got that wrong. Yeah, retract that. 838 is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. 839 is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. 840 is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It also moves to second reading. So back to the consent agenda, we had two items, pull item 823.
 Authorize cooperative agreement with Portland General Electric and Portland State University to develop the Prep Hub pilot project to prepare for an emergency or natural disaster in an amount not to exceed $90,000. Two minutes for public testimony, please. Who pulled this? This was pulled by Edith Gillis. Very good. Is she here? I believe she is down in the Lovejoy. Very good. Take a recess until she gets here.
 The recognition of Amanda Fitts and the parks. I enthusiastically support prep hubs and improvements on them as well as many more solar powered loos and some warm showers and large lockers including emergency prep supplies and two bucket compost and sterile urine collection and rainwater purple water collection and filtration systems distributed equally per the population throughout all neighborhoods.
 Pocket parks, community food gardens, food growing, parking strips, open spaces for internal refugee camps for use between the major earthquakes, fires, toxic explosions, floods, and pandemics. Parks well run are one of the best ways to ensure public safety. Not only are we developing community and directing people to have a sense of empowerment and decision making and skill building, we're also
 the recognition of Amanda Fitz in the parks. I enthusiastically support prep hubs and improvements on them as well as many more solar-powered loos and some warm showers and large lockers including emergency prep supplies and two bucket compost and sterile urine collection and rainwater purple water collection and filtration systems distributed equally per the population throughout all neighborhoods.
 Pocket parks, community food gardens, food growing, parking strips, open spaces for internal refugee camps for use between the major earthquakes, fires, toxic explosions, and
 floods and pandemics. Parks well run are one of the best ways to ensure public safety. Not only are we developing community and directing people to have a sense of empowerment and decision making and skill building, we're also developing a sense of inner pride and community pride so we take care of each other, we know each other and we prevent crimes and we interact to come to each other's aid.
 By having these prep hubs throughout the community and having them individualized for the different neighborhoods we are able to Incorporate public art and have a lot more pedal stations than just one person pedaling They need to be modified and we have them modify in different neighborhoods And we can cut some of that cost that is doing that by incorporating the many other services in which it is
 aids the community. Neighborhood emergency prep training as done by Richmond Neighborhood Association and multi-use art structures with different language and graphics teaching disaster prep at the same places that we would do like a park horse exercise stations, supplemented by rain catchment systems
 in every few blocks throughout the neighborhood. Now, how are we going to pay for that? We take back the money that we are spending on armaments that are unlawful in war zones against civilians that we are currently using the Portland Police, and instead of having the weapons and this excessive policing that we should have
 emergency preparedness, community and crime prevention. And again, Amanda, thank you for all the good you have done for us. Thank you, appreciate it. Carla, please call the roll. I just throw mine when it comes out. Thank you. Okay, Michelle. Saltzman. Fritz. Thank you for your testimony, aye. Fish.
 Wheeler. I want to go on just a moment on this. This is a very important collaboration between the City of Portland, Portland State University, and Portland General Electric, and it comes with strong guidance from MIT, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, to partner on this Prep Hub pilot. And as Edith just mentioned, it's a program to improve disaster resilience and emergency preparedness throughout the city.
 And this is a pilot. It's going to test the durability of the structure and the capabilities around battery storage, the security of supplies, and we'll also be evaluating community perception and buy-in. This is going to serve as a place for the community to gather so that the community feels safe and well prepared for any eventuality.
 And it's our hope that this will eventually serve as a model for other cities around the country, making all of our cities safer and more prepared. So I'm very proud that Portland is going to be serving as a testing ground for this innovation and conserve
 as a model for other cities in preparing for community resilience. I vote aye and the ordinance is adopted. And just to be clear, this is the dollar part that's already been allocated through our budget process. So I vote aye, the ordinance is approved. Item 824 has also been pulled. And again, I just want to remind people that this is regarding a payout to a person.
 personal injury lawsuit resulting from an event in 2015 and we are taking testimony on that and that only. A 24 pay personal injury lawsuit of Anthony Allen in the sum of $25,000 involving the Portland Police Bureau.
 Who pulled this item? Dan Hendelman. Okay. And Edith Gillis also wanted to testify. Very good. Is there somebody from staff here to discuss this? Did you want to give a brief primer or just go right to public testimony? I would assist you otherwise, if we're having Why don't we hear public testimony and if there's follow-up questions, we can have you up. Okay. We have Dan Hendelman and Edith Gillis. Very good. Since there's only two, I'll extend the testimony to three minutes, please.
 Morning mayor and city council members. I'm Dan handleman with Portland cop watch First thing I want to say about this agenda item is that this should be on a regular agenda that this is a matter of Misconduct there have been other lawsuit settlements about police recently. Most of them have been about car crashes Those don't necessarily need discussion in front of the full City Council But this one I think should have already been scheduled for regular testimony as a result There may be other people who want to testify who don't know this items being discussed right now. I
 Since I can't hear from the city first, I'll just read parts of the lawsuit into the record here that you're settling today. It says that Port and Police over the course of years have demonstrated that they stop and search African Americans disproportionate to the population.
 that an officer yelled at Mr. Allen to stop and said, when I tell you to stop, you effing stop, indicating he may have violated the profanity directive as well as profiling one. Mr. Allen felt that he didn't have a legitimate reason to stop him. He wanted to leave. The officer grabbed his shoulder, threw him to the ground, leaned his knee into his head and neck. He was acquitted of interfering with a police officer. Portland Police says the lawsuit came to his workplace after this happened.
 And this lawsuit says the Portland Police should know that they're more likely to stop a black man and use force. There's been no discipline of officers for use of force, and there's been no accountability. I agree with all these items that were listed in this lawsuit. We're not here to oppose the $25,000 settlement. Hopefully you'll go through with it. But the issues that are raised in here are issues of policy which aren't addressed by giving money out to the police.
 to the plaintiff. So it happens that I ran across the stops data report for 2016, which only just got published at the end of June, to no public trumpeting. And so I accidentally stumbled on it yesterday, which does say that African Americans are stopped
 at a disproportionate rate to their representation of the population. But it goes through a lot of gymnastics with the statistics to say, oh, well, but that doesn't prove anything, because we have to look at the crash rates. And even though it says they're disproportionately surged, African-Americans are disproportionately surged three times more than they should be, that is not
 disproportionate and it's a very strange report. They also put the gang enforcement team numbers at the end in the back even though that unit is far out of whack with everybody else in terms of how many African Americans they stop. So we have an ongoing problem with racial profiling in the city and this case is another symptom of that. I should also mention there's political profiling that we've been talking about for a long time that goes on in the city.
 It was done over the weekend. You can't assume that people who are attending or standing somewhere are Intending to be violent based on I'm talking a little bit about profiling that goes on by the support and police Yeah, well I want you to know it's very intimidating coming in this little room and getting you know Locking people out of the council chambers. It's hard enough as a for a citizen to come up and talk to Completed. Thank you. Well, I appreciate that. I
 Well, you have to understand what you're doing to democracy by doing this mayor Wheeler You should set aside a half an hour for people to talk to you I'm gonna said
 And one of the reasons that we decide on a dollar amount and to pay amount is because it's a systemic problem. We have public policy and police practices of racial profiling, poverty profiling, and political profiling. And my children are ages 32, 27, and 24 who have seen the same kind of behaviors that happened to Mr. Allen.
 every single week when we would take them to and from Atkinson Elementary School and Franklin High School. We've seen police kicking in the back of the neck, in the back of the back, people who are kneeling or down on the ground, face on the ground with their hands zip-tied or a handcuff behind them. Totally helpless. Every single week, to and from school.
 And every single protest I've been at for the last 36 years at the end of them, and you'll see Patriot Prayer terrorists come to town the half hour before their permit is done, the police make false accusations and violently attack the crowds so that the parents can go around. Can you please keep this to the payoff? So what I'm saying is I think they deserve more than this because it is a policy.
 that's consistently going on and that I would like us to have
 a pie chart available to folks seeing how much money is being spent on these police payouts for police misconduct and we need to take the money away from weapons and And just fire these folks that are doing what they did to mr. Allen and instead have mental health support and services and in other ways as Amanda Fritz has been doing with the parks department because I
 This amount of money actually is less than it should be paid to them because of the ongoing problems our city has been guilty of. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Carla, please call the roll. Silksman. Aye.
 Fritz? Well, I agree. It's been, it's very intimidating to be faced with a lot of shouting people and it does shut down the public testimony of people who came to speak their truth. I appreciated what we had in citizen testimony this morning. We did make an exception a couple of weeks ago and have scheduled a special session to listen. And this is an accessible council, except when protesters make it inaccessible for everybody. And that's really unfortunate.
 I agree that we do have things that we need to work on and the Mayor agrees with that too and is doing so. So I hope that we have learned from what happened in this incident and that's it. We have, are working on making sure that it doesn't happen again and I hope Mr. Allen is doing fine. All right. Fish. Wheeler. Well this is an issue that I had too.
 educate myself on. This happened before I was here. This happened before Chief Outlaw was here. And having reviewed the facts of this case and understanding that this is a voluntary agreement that the family has agreed to, I support it. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted and we are adjourned.
 Very good. Good afternoon everybody. This is the August 8th, 2018 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman? Here. Udailey? Fritz? Here. Bish? Wheeler? Here. Sgt. Martin?
 I'll begin by discussing conduct during City Council meetings. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to speak briefly about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony, and we'll be discussing that in more detail for this land use matter later. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass.
 Thank you for helping keep your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. I would like to just start off by thanking our City Hall security team, Dorothy, and your entire team. I think you guys did a great job this morning under very trying circumstances. And I just want to say for the record, I think it is unconscionable that people would come to City Hall with the intention of, quote, shutting down City Hall, unquote. Thank you.
 and then attack our security, including Dorothy. Whatever message you thought you were delivering today, it was completely lost in your senseless acts of violence against our city staff. With that, could you please read the first two items, Carla? Mm-hmm.
 Item 841, consider the proposal of Tim Sotuda, Southwest Hills LLC, and the recommendation from the hearings officer for removal of conditions of approval imposed by prior comprehensive plan map and zoning map amendment ordinances for property at 2855.
 Southwest Patton Road, LU18112666CPZCN842, amend the Comprehensive Plan Map and Zoning Map Amendment to remove conditions of approval imposed by prior ordinances for property at 2855 Southwest Patton Road at the request of Tim Sotuda, Southwest Hills LLC.
 LU18-112666, CPCC. Thank you, Carla. First, the city attorney will make some announcements about today's hearing. Okay. We'll talk about some procedural aspects of the hearing. First of all, it's an evidentiary hearing, which means you may submit new evidence to the council in support of your arguments.
 I'm then going to talk about the order of testimony today. So first, we begin with a staff report for approximately 10 minutes. After that, counsel hears from interested persons in the following order. The applicant will go first and will have 10 minutes to present their case. Following the applicant will have people who support the applicant for three minutes each.
 After that, we will have the principal opponent. And in this case, because there's not a principal opponent, there will be two people who will be speaking for five minutes each during that time. Following that, the other people who oppose the application will speak for three minutes each. Finally, the applicant will have five minutes to rebut, and then there will be council discussion.
 At that point, Council may close the hearing and deliberate. This is a non-emergency ordinance, so it will necessarily pass to a second reading. Today, the Council may make amendments to the ordinance and findings and direct staff to return with amendments or amendments to the findings. And I'm just going to identify right now. Due to some portions of the findings that were not included, we know at this point that
 we will have to have revised findings and staff will speak to that in some more detail. There are several guidelines for those addressing City Council today. First, any letters or documents you wish to become part of the record must be given to the Council Clerk after you testify. Originals or copies of slides, photographs, drawings, maps, videos, or other items you show to the Council including PowerPoint presentations should also be given to the Council Clerk so they're included in the record.
 Second, any testimony, arguments, or evidence you present must be directed to the applicable approval criteria for the land use review or other criteria in the city's comprehensive plan or zoning code you believe apply to the decision. BDS staff will identify the applicable approval criteria as part of their staff report.
 Third, you must raise an issue clearly enough to give the council and other parties an opportunity to respond to an issue. If you do not, you'll be precluded from appealing to the Land Use Board of Appeals based on that issue.
 Finally, the applicant must raise constitutional or other issues relating to proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow Council to respond. Otherwise the applicant will be precluded from bringing action for damages in circuit court. And that concludes the attorney's remarks for now. Very good. Thank you. Do any members of the Council wish to declare conflict of interest? I'll start. Commissioner Fish.
 And Commissioner Fish, just for clarification, I'll ask about ex parte conflicts next. This is specific to the legal definition. Oh, I have no conflicts. Very good. No commissioners declared any conflict of interest. Okay.
 Does any member of the council wish to declare ex parte contacts or other information gathered outside of this hearing that they'd like to disclose, Commissioner Fish? Yes. At the request of members of the Southwest Hills Residential League, my Chief of Staff, Sonia Schmansky, and Policy Director, Asena Lawrence, met with a number of citizens for approximately 30 minutes.
 At the request of the Property Owners Council, my chief of staff met with Attorney Christy White for approximately 30 minutes. I have not been briefed on the particulars of either meeting. I also got a letter from Bill Failing. I read about half the letter until I realized it was relevant to this proceeding, so I gave it to my staff. And other than that, there's nothing that prevents me from being impartial in the deliberations of this matter.
 Are there any others who'd like to declare? Yes. Commissioner Saltzman. Yeah, my remarks are identical to Commissioner Fish. The Southwest Hills Residential League met with my chief of staff, Matt Grum, for approximately 30 minutes. And also at the request of the Property Owners Council, Matt also met with her, Christy White, for approximately 30 minutes. And I have not been briefed on the particulars of the meeting. Very good. Commissioner Fritz. Yes.
 I received an email from David Olsen, the former director of the Office of Community Technology, who is here today. Approximately over a year ago, it was before this land use application was submitted, and he asked me to look into the conditions of approval, and I did.
 don't remember what we did at that point and I didn't go back and look at the correspondence. Claire Adamsick on my staff met with some of the neighbours. She told me that the main takeaway from the meeting was that the neighbours are only focused on the retail and are not objecting to the other conditions going away. So if that's not the case then please make sure you tell me in your testimony. I don't think I've read any emails on this issue. I
 And I think that's the sum of my...
 outside of the record. Very good, and I have an identical scenario. One member of my team, Michelle Plenbeck, met with the Southwest Neighborhood Association and she understood that that would be an ex parte contact and therefore could not share the information of that session with me and she has not. I've been briefed with Michelle on the procedural issues around this issue but not on any of the substance.
 So with that, is there anybody here who would like to ask any of the commissioners any questions about their declared ex parte contacts? I do not see anyone who has requested that. All right. So we'll begin with the staff report for 10 minutes, please. Good afternoon and welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Fritz, Saltzman, and Fish. I'm Mark Moffitt, Bureau of Development Services. I have a very brief presentation, but I'll be available for questions later.
 So again, the case file number today, LU18-112666, CPZC, and I am here representing the hearings office for a recommendation. So in summary, oh, and I'll mention briefly, I do have Kurt Kruger and other PBOT staff here. There aren't any big PBOT issues, but if you'd like to speak with Kurt, he's available.
 In summary, the proposal is a comprehensive plan map and zoning map amendment to amend prior conditions of approval from an old zone change and the related ordinances at the former Strohecker's or Lambs Riftway grocery store site in Portland Heights. This is unusual because there is no change in the zoning map proposed.
 We are simply, by the code, required to go back through the same process we did that applied those conditions. So in 1984 and 1988, they did a comp plan zoning map procedure to get these ordinances and conditions in place. So we have to go back through that same process to amend or delete them.
 We have, this is just in a sort of abbreviated and partial list of the conditions, but generally the request is to remove ordinance conditions requiring that the site use be limited to a grocery store. Those conditions also prevented expansions or exterior changes to the building. There's some parking and loading restrictions that go a little beyond normal zoning code requirements. There are several conditions that
 restate other code requirements that would apply regardless. And then there's some rooftop and equipment screening, other sort of detail conditions about setbacks, exterior signage, et cetera. We have the standard approval criteria in Chapter 810 for comprehensive plan map amendments.
 The primary evaluation in this review is an on-balance evaluation of all the City's comprehensive plan goals and policies. So you look at the entire universe of goals and policies, you look at the policies that are relevant, and you decide whether on balance the proposal is equally or more supportive of those goals and policies as a whole than the existing situation.
 Again, it's not like a yes-no list of criteria that we're dealing with usually. It's more of a discretionary sweeping big picture look. In this situation, because our case crossed the timeline of May 24th, old and new code, we did get findings on both the old and new comp plan goals and policies, but it's really just the new comp plan goals and policies that are most directly relevant because we're here after May 24th. And then the zoning map amendment approval criteria, which are just basically are the public services there.
 in chapter 855. The zoning map, we actually have two. We have the CN2 zone map that was in place on the day they applied that has since changed to CM1. They're roughly approximate zones, sort of the low-scale neighborhood-level commercial zone. There is a site plan that doesn't really, not really that relevant or pertinent to the case. It just shows sort of the aerial view with the building footprint and the parking on the west side and then the street.
 This is another aerial view that's showing you the site in relation to the surrounding neighborhood. Lots of single-family homes, nice, well-maintained homes. And Portland Heights Park immediately to the west. And where frontage is on Patton Road. There is a bus, the Council Crest bus, which is not a frequent service bus, runs by the site. There's a stop right out front.
 And just a picture from Patton Road, looking back at the existing building. It's just really one story from the road. It does have a basement level on the interior of the site, which slopes downhill to the north. Just a shot of some nice houses across the street. This is the Patton Road side of the park. Portland Heights Park has kind of two levels. This upper level you're looking at now with the restrooms and a tennis court and a small play area. And then there's a lower field area with a stairway.
 sort of descending from the parking lot area of the site down to the lower field on the west edge of the park. This is a vast simplification of the neighborhood comments, but the Southwest Hills Residential League has expressed concerns about several of the relevant goals and policies and would like to retain a
 I'll let them speak for themselves, but they are looking for retention of the grocery retail use at the site and possibly some involvement in the future changes at the site. Most neighbors objected to the removal of the conditions. Most neighbors who wrote in talking about the need for local shopping opportunities, neighborhood character, the distance and difficulty of getting to other grocery stores.
 the surrounding residential and park context, public involvement in the application and process for new development at the site, lack of public transportation to the site, and questioning the applicant's claim that the grocery operator is not viable at the property. We did have one neighbor write in support of the proposal suggesting that it should just be redeveloped per the new zoning.
 But in general, the arguments were that the neighborhood retail use was critical to the livability of the site and the neighborhood, and residential-only uses would be problematic in a redevelopment scenario, and a lot of just concerns stated in many different ways about the neighborhood character and traditions. My job here again is to represent the hearings officer analysis. Just a quick summary of that. The hearings officer found that based on the evidence, a grocery store was no longer viable as exclusive use on the site.
 noting that even free rent did not entice tenants. I think the free rent was offered to Trader Joe's. Hearing's officer found that conditions of approval are overly restrictive and inhibit the use of the site for housing or other economic developments, contrary to many city goals and policies, and that on balance, the proposal to eliminate those conditions would support the city's economic livability and housing goals and policies.
 Here's officer found that there was no evidence in the record that the current rezone or some arguments made that when they kept the When they changed it to cm1 that that was intentionally meant to include the old conditions There's no evidence in the record that the planning bureau was aware of these conditions when they changed the zone Or kept it because of those conditions and we have a condition of approval for trip cap I won't go into the detail. There doesn't seem to be any controversy about that
 And there's no issues with the statewide planning goals or housing loss mitigation. For the zoning NAPA amendment, most of the public services were available. We do have conditions of approval regarding a sewer easement on the site and a trip cap for future development. This is just the hearings officer analysis. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on that. It's just a straight cut from the staff report.
 I will mention, and unfortunately I just discovered this this morning reading through the 100-page sharing officer recommendation, is that, and I'll consider it a Scrivener's error, he left off a two through four of the zoning map, excuse me, of the comp plan criteria, which is the findings about the statewide planning goals. There's like six pages there.
 That was never up for concern. And A3 and A4, which are about no net loss of housing, doesn't apply. And legislative projects doesn't apply. But he significantly left off the zoning map amendment criteria, which is where we have all the findings triggering the sewer and trip cap stuff. So we do have to do findings at the very least to plunk those missing findings that were in a revised staff report and publicly available into council's findings. That was more time than I hoped to take, but I don't have anything else.
 Commissioner Fritz. I have one more ex parte contact to report, and that is that I have visited Portland Heights Park multiple times, both for the Southwest Hills Residential League Summer Ice Cream Social, although I didn't get to go this year, and so therefore have partaken in the delights of the ice cream that was available. Very nice. Thank you.
 And I'm still a parks commissioner, so many of my questions will be talking about the impact on the parks. I do have one question for you, though. Did the old CN2 zone require commercial? No. You could have done all residential. Thank you. Yep. Anything else? Not yet. Thank you. Could you speak into the microphone? Yeah. White is speaking for the applicant for 10 minutes, please. Very good. Thank you. I'm letting you do the...
 I know, and I was aware of that, but I seem to have forgotten. So I'll be on it next time. No worries. That's good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. Good afternoon. I am Christy Carlson-White, appearing for the applicant. And with me here is Rene France, who's also been working on this case through the lower levels.
 The purpose of this request, as you were told, is to remove a set of conditions from 1984, which are 34 years old, that among other things require a single user a grocery store on this site. No other use is permitted on the site. If we can't find a viable grocery store, we're left with no economically viable use of the site. And that is exactly what has come to pass.
 Strohuckers went out of business in 2016, and the site has remained vacant ever since. This two-year vacancy occurred and persists, even though my client is a grocery store developer who bought the site to continue a grocery store use. This despite three brokers being engaged over the better part of two years to lease or sell the site to a grocery store, also to no avail. But before we turn to the substance of the presentation, I'd like to establish what I think is some important
 procedural history and other elements of the case. First, my client and his team have met with the community on multiple occasions to explain the dilemma that is created by this condition.
 And we want to be sure it is understood that we get it. We get the neighbor's disappointment that the grocery store is no longer viable. It's disappointing to my client as well. We understand the deep appreciation for the convenience of such a use in that location and the gathering area it became for the neighborhood. I'm sorry, am I too loud? I just saw the six-state interesting. It's fine, but yeah, about those distances. Okay. Okay.
 If a grocery store was viable, my client would have made it happen. But we cannot dismiss the fact that times have changed in the grocery business and such a restricted use on this site leaves us with no use at all.
 My client will continue to commit to best efforts in the development or marketing of this site to find some neighborhood-serving retail use to incorporate in any redevelopment. We cannot be sure of what the future will hold, but we can be sure that we will use all commercially reasonable efforts that are invited by the new CM1 zone to attract a retail, neighborhood-serving retail, hopefully food-oriented retail to the site.
 Second, the single user condition was actually requested by the then owner of the property, not the neighborhood, as a way of converting his non-conforming illegal use to illegal use under the zoning code.
 In fact, the owner wanted to expand his store on the site but was prohibited from doing so because it wasn't a legal use at the time and expansions of that non-conforming use were also not allowed. That seems a little ironic now, I understand. But the conditions were placed on the site as a measure designed to limit or restrict commercial uses instead of a permissive set of conditions inviting the commercial use.
 Second, like any other condition of a land use review, the code under 33730-1408 permits changes to the conditions, whether adopted by ordinance or not, particularly here where the conditions are over three decades old and span multiple zone changes.
 The code requires, as Mark said, that you use the current procedure for the same procedure that originally imposed the condition, and that's why we're here in front of you with a comp plan and zoning map amendment, even though we're not amending the comp plan or zoning map.
 Now turning to the staff report and recommendation of approval to the hearings officer and the hearings officer's decision. Of course, in cases like this, the planning staff and hearings officer and ultimately this council must tether their decision to the relevant approval criteria. Most relevant here is that the requested designation for the site has been balanced against all the relevant comprehensive plan policies and on balance has been found to be equally or more supportive of those policies
 than the old designation, which is the old condition here. So the legal question is whether allowing all the uses that would be permitted under the CM1 zone, which includes retail and includes a grocery store and includes residential, is equally or more supportive of the comp plan as a whole than restricting the use under that very same comprehensive plan that is the guiding policy document for the CM1 zone.
 It is hard to decide how we would conclude that allowing all of the possible uses under CM1 zone that's implemented by the comprehensive plan isn't equally or more supportive than undermining those same policies to restrict it to just one particular user.
 It's also important to recognize that we, again, are not changing the comp plan or zone in this case. We are only removing a restrictive condition of approval and a set of conditions around that. The Bureau of Development Services planning staff and the hearings officer conducted a thorough evaluation under that applicable approval criteria. Read all of the policies, balanced all those policies, and found that the majority, if not
 almost all of them, maybe absent one, were equally or more supportive of removing the condition. I think it's important here just to remind everyone that under any CM1 zone scenario, this proposal is highly consistent with the neighborhood character and all of the policies. CM1 is by its name a low-density, mixed-use zone. The maximum FAR is 1.5 to 1, and the base height is 35 feet.
 The height for the balance of the neighborhood is 30 feet, so we're talking about a difference of 5 feet. Further, the CM1 zone would allow the myriad of uses that we've heard people are interested in in this property. One, a neighborhood-compatible use in a residential neighborhood. Two, a retail use without any residential use at all would also be permitted in CM1 and seems to be even preferred by some who have been involved in this case.
 A mix of residential and retail uses is also permitted in CM1 and seems to be preferred by still others in the neighborhood.
 I guess the point here is that each one of these scenarios is permitted and all are consistent with CM1 zoning and consistent with the neighborhood character and compatibility and neighborhood serving convenient retail uses. We are not aware of any other CM1 zone property in the City of Portland or any other neighborhood in the City of Portland that is permitted to handpick a use within a zone, like retail use, and demand that only that use be allowed, even if that use is no longer feasible.
 That allowance would be a super spot zone and completely inconsistent with the city's comprehensive planning efforts. Lastly, the Seahem Zone is a, quote, small-scale zone intended for sites in dispersed mixed-use nodes within lower-density residential areas. The zone allows a mix of commercial and residential uses.
 Development is intended to be pedestrian-oriented and compatible with scale and characteristics of those adjacent residential zone lands. That code language exactly describes the relationship of this site to its neighbors. It's small scale. It's a dispersed mixed-use node. It allows a mix of residential and commercial uses. And it's pedestrian-friendly.
 Thus, the staff and hearings officer found that on balance, this proposal to lift the single-user restriction and restore the balanced CM1 zone was equally and more supportive of the comp plan than leaving the restriction.
 I just want to address really quickly evidence in the record about the extensive efforts because I just think this is a really important issue. The zoning code doesn't necessarily require that you demonstrate your efforts to disprove a use, but there is a condition here that requires grocery only. So I think it is relevant and appropriate for the neighbors to know what kind of effort we went to.
 The applicant provided evidence of the extensive efforts to attract a grocery store. There's a letter in the record from Marcus and Millichap, Exhibit 2 to the application, detailing the effort to market this to 12 different identified grocer, grocer co-ops, other brokers and developers in the grocery industry, nearly unanimous feedback that the site did not have the population density to justify even a small or urban grocery concept, and the location wasn't expected to pull customers from other sub-markets.
 The letter is supported by another letter by Steven Neville, who was also involved in those efforts, reaching the same conclusions. And perhaps the most telling evidence is that Trader Joe's was offered an opportunity to set up a grocery here at the site for a period of one year without rent, and they weren't interested in the offer. It probably would have been appropriate for a year, but what they said is the long-term viability of that grocery after a year of free rent was not something they could invest in.
 Some have argued that two years is not enough vacancy to demonstrate that a grocer use is not viable. We can tell you with the utmost confidence that it's quite long enough for a property owner who has no economically viable use of the site during that term. And finally, and most importantly, if a grocer ever does become a viable use on this site again, any level of grocer, a small meat and cheese deli to a grocery store, it would be allowed use under the city's adopted CM1 zoning.
 Thus, removing the condition does not remove the option for a grocery store, a cafe, an ice cream shop, a bagelry, any other thing that would be viable in the future. If we can market this site as a true CM1 zoned site, which allows...
 any developer in Portland to potentially develop a mix of residential and neighborhood serving retail, we have a much better chance of attracting the very user that the neighborhood is interested in seeing at this property.
 If the argument is that my client should not have purchased the site with the condition, or he doesn't deserve to have the condition lifted, that kind of seems well off the point. The fact is after 34 years, the single user condition completely removes any viable use of the site for anyone, my client or anybody else.
 And there's no sound planning reason to now undermine that CM1 zoning when it in fact invites and would implement what hopefully the neighborhood would appreciate on the site. The CM1 zoning is exactly what this site needs to fully serve the neighborhood and the dispersed mixed-use node. Therefore, we're asking you to uphold the staff recommendation and hearings officer.
 So, Mayor, I have a question. Commissioner Fish. So, Ms. White, you said at the beginning that your client commits to making best efforts to find neighborhood retail use, all commercially reasonable efforts, blah, blah, blah. We may hear a request later that that get memorialized as a condition of approval. And could you give us your...
 best sense of the difference between your representation and a condition of approval and what your view is of that? Sure. So they could be the same thing, a condition of approval that requires some commercially reasonable best efforts that are typical in the industry. My concern with that language is probably your concern too and planning staff's concern and the neighborhood's concern, which is how do we prove it?
 and what kind of slippery slope is that, and what standard do we use to judge whether or not we did well enough. A replacement for that is a time period. We do well enough for three months, four months, and then we demonstrate what those efforts were after being able to market the property as actually a CM1 zone property. See, that's a fact here. It's a simple fact.
 but I think it's a really important one. We haven't been able to go to the market with a CM1 zone. We've only been able to go to the market with grocery store only, and we have completely failed. So the opportunity to go to the market with CM1 zoning and say, look at this, it's a neighborhood dispersed mixed-use node. Look at the support you have for a neighborhood-serving retail use. And implement...
 emphasize that in the marketing efforts and then I feel pretty confident that with the development community that we have in the city of Portland who knows exactly how to do that and have an ice cream store next to a park in a residential neighborhood, we could pull that off. The only concern is how do you measure that? What needs to be proven? What is a commercially reasonable best effort? And how will that operate as precedent and other efforts on other sites that are in CM1 zone? But
 But just make no mistake that my client is ready to market this heavily as a CM1 zone property that would attract such a use. Thank you. If there are no other questions, we move to supporters of the applicant who each have three minutes. So name for the record, we do not need your address. The microphones slide around about...
 This much distance is the right amount of distance. If you hear your voice popping, that means you're probably a little too close. It's a pretty sensitive microphone. When you have 30 seconds left, you'll see the yellow light come on. And when your time is up, you'll see the red light come on. We just ask everybody, when you see the yellow light, wrap up your points. And when the red light comes on, please stop so other people can testify. So it's my understanding that there's nobody signed up on the...
 supporters of the applicant so we'll move I was a lot of wasted breath then there you go well there are other people good the principal opponent which is the two folks who want to do five minutes of testimony very good five minutes each
 Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Carrie Richter. I'm an attorney at the law firm Bateman Seidel, and I represent Blythe Olson, who is a neighbor who lives across the street from the subject property. First, I submitted a letter, and I participated before the hearings officer, so I've got a number of letters in the record. Okay.
 First, I want to point out that the City Commission is not under any obligation to revisit this issue at the applicant's request. As the staff explained, these conditions were attached to the property in 1984. The City Council revisited all of its zoning as part of its comprehensive plan and, in fact, rezoned this property from CM2 to CN1. That suggests that
 And as part of that, reaffirmed the conditions. Added to the comprehensive plan policies that talk about local access to food and how important that was. That was part of the Portland plan. Part of the equity in the Portland plan was local access to food. And no party during that proceeding objected. No party came in and said, when this applicant owned the property and said, wait a second, wait a second, I've got these owner's conditions that I need to have removed.
 That never happened in 2016. And now they're here asking for special treatment, asking for conditions to be removed, when just two years ago we went through this and made a determination that not only were the conditions appropriate, we were going to reaffirm those conditions with special plan policies that supported that.
 The mistake that the hearings officer made in his decision is that he assumed that all of the planned policies would actually be met. The replacement project would include everything. It would include housing that would be affordable. It would include local access to food. It would include jobs. It would include office. It would improve pedestrian improvements. It would have sustainability values, etc.
 Of course the CM1 zoning is compatible with the comprehensive plan because that's the zone you all picked. And of course, whatever that development is, it cannot meet all those plan policies. It won't. It can't. The reality is, whatever is developed, it won't do all those things. The property could be redeveloped to be one single family structure. Right?
 One, it would not encourage housing. It would not encourage jobs. It would not encourage local access to food. It would not do any of those things. So when you keep saying, oh, well, it opens up the door, it does open up the door for the unknown. And it's the unknown that is so scary to everybody in this room. Okay.
 Aside from the three plan policies that were found not to be met, the hearings officer failed to consider and give proper weight to specific plan policies both in the Southwest Neighborhood Plan. The Southwest Neighborhood Plan is specific to the Southwest Neighborhood, which means those plans deserve extra special attention.
 And one of those plan policies is to preserve a sense of space. You are going to hear testimony that that site, as a commercial node, preserves a neighborhood character-defining element, which is the commercial component and a grocery store where everybody can get together and everybody can know what's going on with their neighbor, which is as important now as it's ever been.
 There are also specific plan policies encouraging local access to healthy food, which is Goal 4C. There are policies about hazard resilience that this grocery store will serve, and it talks about focused growth. The City Council has an opportunity here to, should we open these conditions up? Are many of them unnecessary? Absolutely. I don't think anybody in this room is going to say that where the garbage enclosure matters at all.
 in comparison to how important the use is to this community. It's true that a number of the other plan policies you may hear testimony about are specific to centers and corridors, and this site has not been so designated. I'd like for you to consider the fact that even though this isn't a designated site or corridor, it acts like one. It acts like one for this neighborhood that does not have any other commercial zone property nearby. Thank you.
 This is largely a policy call for the council. Are you willing to cede the only zoned and planned opportunity for providing a much needed grocery and services to the property in exchange for a proposal that could be one single house? It is not true that condition zone changes are an anomaly in land use. The trip cap that's proposed is going to be a condition.
 We often preserve land for purposes that may not be economically viable right now. We do it for industrial land. We do it for farmland particularly. So it's not true that we can't impose new conditions, and I urge you to either retain them or think carefully about the replacements and preserve grocery on this site. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Thank you for your time. My name is Shannon Hiller-Webb, and I am a neighbor in southwest Portland. I have been part of the grocery industry for the last eight years. I started as a project manager for New Seasons Market and left in 2002 to be the co-founder of Green Zebra Grocery, a small format local grocer.
 I currently consult with small format grocers, and I do product development and strategic planning. I have reviewed the hearings officer recommendations and the influence of the Marcus and Mila Chapp letter that weighed in his considerations and thought I would provide some context. The grocery model is rapidly changing. Amazon's acquisition of Whole Foods in 2017 arrested the industry, and many grocers slowed and halted their growth plans to reassess the impact of the acquisition on the market. New Seasons and Green Zebra both slowed their plans.
 The timing of the Marcus and Millichap approach to these grocers is not lost on me. They were retained in February 2017 as the news was spreading about the Amazon Whole Foods deal and the official announcement in June 2017. Risk assessment for the industry was at an all-time high given the timing of their approach to the Strohecker space. I would like to specifically discuss the grocers approach from their letter. It appears that they may have targeted sheer numbers of grocers rather than good fit,
 Eight of the 14 stores have operating facilities within three miles of the subject property. That would need a cannibalization study related to the impact on their other stores and could limit the likelihood of the space being viable for them. In addition, several of the companies would not have been an ideal demographic trade area fit to begin with.
 I provided a list of those groceries in my testimony you should have before you. The brokers hired may have only considered a traditional grocery marketing approach, regardless of grocer audience, because of the ordinance restriction. Using a traditional grocery marketing when presenting to small format, single unit, and co-ops would prevent them from considering the site viable.
 Marcus and Millichap did not support their letter with evidence such as site overview, terms of market analysis to determine grocery store viability, though it allowed me to come to the same conclusion as their approach findings. I have provided a list of those grocers as well.
 If I may take a moment to specifically address a couple of the other grocers listed, Trader Joe's faced neighborhood opposition from Portland residents in 2014. Their new store announcement was met with gentrification concerns and protests, and they withdrew. I'm not certain that we would be the right trade market as there's high demand for their brand nationally.
 Thriftway was the last tenant, so I'm not quite certain if they never considered that the right site why they would be re-approached. Provador is a standalone multi-tenant store that opened in February 2016, and I'm not certain it was the right timing while they were still perfecting the current opening. Market of Choice has a small format store in South Burlingame. It is not their core competency, and I don't believe it will be a venture that they will pursue with a similar footprint.
 Natural Grocers was a likely candidate based on demographics, growth strategy, and site specifications. They seek underserved areas especially for those seeking healthy options and often act as an anchor to community shopping areas and they are considered a national small format grocer.
 The applicant is asking the city to accept that a traditional grocery is no longer tenable and the restrictions protecting for that use must be removed. While we can accept that the grocery format is changing, it does not make the case that the grocery ordinance should be removed but rather updated to retain the resource for the neighborhood. They are not mutually exclusive.
 The neighborhood has proven support for a grocer at this location for over a century, and it is entirely short-sighted to conjecture a grocery is not needed. The conclusion that the Strohecker site could not support a grocery store is not supported by critical, independent analysis and merely shows an inquiry was made. I agree that all the conditions listed could prevent a new model grocer from going into the building, but...
 But at an updated mixed-use retail grocery provision, the viability increases. The applicant's attorney claims in a letter dated June 2018 that the current owner
 An operator has grocery sites, which begs the question why more industry-supporting documentation of a good faith effort was not provided, given industry landlord expertise, such things as demographic data, trade area specifications forecasts, demographic studies for one-mile and two-mile rings, and daily trips.
 The companies I work with determine the education level, population density, and average household income are the three main demographic indicators. College education levels above 60% and household income above 45,000 determine best fit. With a revised mixed-use grocery favorable conditions, I believe in the current grocery market landscape, a small format grocer is a viable candidate and also could really help 
 solidify the space as a commercial node. There are a couple conditions that small format grocers require. It is not available in all commercial land that this specific space does satisfy. Parking of 10 to 20 spaces, ingress, egress, preferably signalized with high visibility and good daily traffic counts. So in
 Conclusion, this small format grocer is oftentimes a fresh shop that includes produce, meats, and prepared foods, which would help support other retail businesses adjacent to it. Thank you. I have a question there. Commissioner Fish. Ms. Richter, it seems to me we can have a back and forth about what the market is or isn't going to do. But it's also, we'd be putting the hearing officer in an impossible position to say,
 to be as smart or smarter than the market. The market is going to do what the market thinks is in its best interest. We've seen that in the kind of housing that we've gotten in the last four or five years. It's almost been exclusively at the luxury end. The market has spoken very clearly about that. What I'm concerned about here is imposing a condition that an applicant can't meet
 and therefore having an empty building for an indefinite period of time, which I don't think either side views as a win. What did you think of Ms. White's concept of putting a time limit on seeing whether with the CM1 zoning
 there's any additional interest. And, I mean, I'm a big fan of the Green Zebra model. I mean, there's one up around Portland State that we go to regularly. I get that there's different models and niches. But at some point, the market is either going to say yes or no. So what do you think of the idea that she floated that we allow the change, but we put some kind of time limit on testing the waters, if you will? Yeah.
 My concern with that is that what happens if it doesn't, I mean, how is the neighborhood going to have a voice in that discussion? In that how the site is marketed and in what ways and to what effect? I mean, there's not...
 I think the market has spoken when they've shown us that you can build 19 houses on this site and make $800,000 a house and make a lot more money than you can putting a grocery store. That's why they're doing this. So my concern would be the best efforts. My concern would be what would be the fallback to if it doesn't work. My concern would be that there hasn't been any...
 Proposal, one of the things that I would suggest rather than this time limit that Ms. White is proposing would be let's have a proposal. Why can't they bring a concept for a proposal? They can market a property as a CM zone site and go in with a partner and concept plan this and come in with a proposal. There's no reason why we have to remove the conditions first. Why does the neighborhood have to give up everything first?
 That doesn't, particularly when it's this important. So I would say let's hold off. If we need to set a time so the developer has some, or the applicant has some certainty, let's hold off for six months and let them try to market the property for CM1. So what's a good example of...
 for us where we've had a similar set of facts. You know, I'm struck by the fact that there's a lot of nostalgia here for when there was a Stoicers and a neighborhood gathering place. I grew up in a very small town in upstate New York. If someone had said we're taking away the diner or the movie theater or the corner news store, I would have stirred the same feeling. But I'm also cognizant of the things change. Business models change. The world changes. What...
 What's an example of a precedent that you can point to where we've grappled with this issue in some form or fashion? I can't name you a precedent in Portland. I think you do as a legal matter when you preserve industrial land. We don't look at whether manufacturing is the highest and best use for land when we preserve it for industrial uses. But in fairness, the industrial land issue is very different because 
 Whatever we do on industrial land has consequences to other parts of the comp plan. We don't have a requirement right now that says we have to have so many acres of grocery store capacity. Now, we are a city that's committed to addressing these deserts, these food deserts. We care about access to healthy food, but when it comes to 
 industrial land, if we degrade industrial land, then we potentially get out of step with state law in terms of requirements of setting aside enough industrial land. We can argue about whether we're getting the biggest bang for the buck in terms of jobs on the industrial land. But that seems to me entirely different than the grocery store example. Thank you.
 Well, I  It doesn't have the same related public policy concerns. We're not going to get in trouble with our state friends over not having an adequate supply of groceries to our land.
 Yeah, I appreciate that the protection of grocery stores is not a state law. I fully appreciate that. But you have, in effect, made it a city law by identifying it as many times in as many ways as the benefit realized by local access to food and the walkability and the sustainability values that are achieved with that law.
 But conditional zone changes happen all the time. And the example I can give you, because I'm the deputy city attorney for Oregon City, in Oregon City land gets annexed and when land gets annexed people have to give up certain
 rights in order to become annexed. And as part of that, we condition what they can do. We condition, we impose limitations on when they can connect to services. I mean, there is a trip cap that is proposed for this. This is, a trip cap is really no different. It's a limitation on trips because it's what the capacity our road can handle.
 Limiting the zoning because this is the place where a grocery store should go is really no different in terms of looking at what the policies we've identified and working hard to achieve them. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz and then Commissioner Saltzman. I really appreciated your expert testimony. That was really interesting, and I haven't read all of the details that you mentioned. Thinking of the Hillsdale community who had a grocery store that went into various different ownerships and is now a food front, was food front co-op looked at as an option? It was not identified as one of the co-ops in the letter. They only broadly said co-ops. I think...
 I can't speak to it specifically because it wasn't identified. Yeah, I noticed that everybody's got, well, many people have the thousand strong buttons on. And I know that the co-op model is based on memberships and people basically committing to shop there. I'm a member.
 So that's something that wasn't necessarily considered in the analysis that was done, as that was what I'm hearing. On the applicant's behalf? Yes. Well, they did mention co-ops were approached, but they didn't list out the co-ops that they did approach. So it's unknown to me. Okay. Thank you. And then, Mr. Richter, I was surprised to find out that our CM1 zone does not require commercial. In fact, none of our commercial zones require commercial, which is 
 something that I will be thinking about and talking to the planning staff about. But then the CN2 didn't either. Are your clients, is the neighbourhood completely fixed on a grocery store or would any kind of retail requirement to provide some kind of place where you could walk to get food
 do the second best? I represent only one owner. But my understanding is that the commitment right now is for some fresh access to food. And that fresh access to food is critical.
 So that's something I'll be looking to hear in testimony as to whether it has to be a full-service or specialty grocery store or whether the other options, the bagel shop or restaurant or whatever. Because I think this is... There's only a few neighbourhoods in Portland where there's no commercial properties. And so, to me, looking through the comprehensive plan, and knowing that area, particularly in the relationship to the park, there does seem to me to be some...
 need and desire for if we're going to talk about 20-minute neighborhood this neighborhood's not going to have 20 minutes service on a Lot of things but it wouldn't have any option for food purchase if this goes away, correct? Commissioner Saltsman, so who do you represent? I represent Blythe Olson who's a property owner on Patton Road Oh property owner. No property owner. Okay, when you said owner I was thinking like no a Property owner so I guess I mean I appreciate that
 Appreciate your expertise, appreciate your testimony, but I know from all of our hopes and aspirations as a city, we want grocery stores everywhere and they're very hard. They have their own chemistry as you very well attested in your testimony. It's very hard to jawbone a grocer into opening at a location we want them to open at, whether it's South Waterfront, whether it's right over here, River Place. We've tried.
 and they have their own calculus and they say, you know, thanks for the attention, but no thanks. So I really, you know, as much as I have fond memories of Stroheckers and everything else, I really think we're trying to put a square peg into a round hole and it's just, you know, it's, we can hold on to this notion maybe as long as our memories want to endure, but I just, I haven't seen anything happen there since Riffway and Stroheckers went away.
 But we also have more opportunities and different varieties and different types of grocery stores than we've ever had before. You know, 10 years ago, it was... Right, which all those things should mean somebody should be there now. There should be a green zebra there. There should be a food front. I mean, by all accounts, they should be there by now, and they should have been open for two years at least. May I say something? Why? Yeah.
 I can't confidently say why, because there wasn't any evidence brought before the hearings officer to show their good faith efforts in tailoring a marketing plan to capture something other than a large format grocery. Now, I get that they have conditions on there, but it doesn't preclude the other new market landscape to exist there when they've only been marketed to with conditions and a traditional grocery approach.
 Again, there was really no evidence provided other than a list of groceries, so I can't confidently say how they were approached. But I think it's premature for us to say without that evidence that there aren't potential rent clients. But by removing the conditions, doesn't that really, I think as the owner's representative said, that opens up all the possibilities in the world?
 It does. For any kind of a market or anything else, for that matter. But is that what the fear is? That it's going to become a residential property?
 Well, I can't speak for the neighborhood necessarily. I can speak to my area of expertise. I think there's not a lot of commercially zoned properties that suit a grocery store, nor do I know of neighborhoods that have quite the limited commercial capacity that this neighborhood does. And, again, in line with your own Portland plan and goals, I think there's a lot of commercial capacity that this neighborhood does.
 removing this as a mixed-use grocery component with new conditions reflecting the new grocery environment, I think is a loss for this community forever. They will never see this commercial property come back. There is not a single other commercial property within their zone, their neighborhood, that will allow for it to ever come again. That's a serious deficit that they will never regain. And again, it's the...
 There are certain conditions that are required to even have a small format ground grocer that are suited in this space and no other. So why in your opinion did Strohecker's and Thriftway not make it? Well, I haven't seen their business plan or, and I actually think that the. But you know, they had a following. I don't actually think they were here. Here in this room. Yeah. It served, both those stores served as strong community focuses for how many decades, I don't know, but why did they fail?
 I mean, again, I can't speak to them specifically, but I can talk about trends in the market. If they weren't updating their product mix to reflect organic, that's a huge shift in how people are purchasing. If they were staying with the conventional produce, I think, again, our information shows that a higher-educated, a higher-income person seeks out organics.
 If that product mix was not right for the neighborhood and they didn't understand that, nor were they testing it, that's a business failure. If they didn't have the right marketing approach to this particular demographic and the commuter daily trips through, I mean, that could be a deficit to why it didn't work. I don't know if the landlord increased the rent on the property that no longer made it viable. I mean, I don't know the conditions of which that specific store failed after grocers
 did not fail. I mean, we're successful for a century there. I can't speak specifically to why that one failed. I mean, I think you have to constantly be present with what the market is and respond to that. And that takes effort. And I don't know if that's what they were applying to that neighborhood. Thank you. So can I go back? So you represent a single property owner. And does your client object to a multifamily development at that site? No.
 Not if it included a grocery component. And what's the maximum density in that site? I think we calculated about 35 units without any non-residential use. So your client would be fine with a substantial apartment building as long as in the ground floor there was some kind of grocery store. And does the hearing officer's...
 report, and particularly around trip generation, support that kind of density? It can't support 35 units plus a retail or residential. I think we figured out, I can't remember exactly what we figured out in terms of how many units you could have plus a 10,000 or so square foot grocery, but we figured it out. I think it was about
 I don't know. You actually in your packet, I'm assuming you have a packet before you, you will have scenario models by Winterbrook Planning and there's five scenarios presented to you with the trip cap considered in all five scenarios. Okay, but this is our chance to actually have you answer the questions. But, sorry, I don't have that packet, so. You don't? So what is the, if you have the, from your point of view, the ideal grocery store, how many units are left?
 I think about 22. Sorry, I don't know. Which one are you referencing? So those are all the scenarios. About 25. About 25. What are the formal boundaries of this neighborhood? So does the neighborhood extend east to Ainsworth? You'd have to ask a neighborhood representative that. I don't know the answer. Okay, because there's 
 If you go east, you hit a restaurant across from Ainsworth and an antique store and some other things. If you go west, you hit an intersection with a gas station, a convenience store, and other things. So I'm just curious. No. Pardon me? Just a gas station. Just a gas station. I'm sorry. So is that all within the 
 I can speak to that. Okay. The gas stations zoned are 10. The Vista Springs Cafe is commercially zoned, but again, that space with a CM1 zoning cannot suit a grocery store based on parking, ingress, egress considerations for a grocery store. Or a small format grocer or even a deli grocery combo, multi-tenant grocery combo. Okay. Okay.
 And is the neighborhood represented by someone else in this, or are you the... I do not represent the neighborhood. The neighborhood is here to testify. Okay. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Really interesting. Thank you. Thank you. So next we have other opponents who will each have three minutes, and Carla has a list. Carla, how many do we have signed up? We have 22. Okay. Colleagues, does anybody else have the packet that was referred to? No. Okay.
 I show the first three as John Newman, Asha Lorenz, and Bill Failing. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is John Newman. I am the co-president of the Southwest Hills Residential League. There are two presidents. I'm one of them. Nancy, the other president, will be speaking today as well. We are the neighborhood association that overlays the Patton Street property. Thank you.
 To say that 2855 Southwest Patton Road has been a critical commercial, historical, and community hub to the Southwest Hills would be an understatement. For over 100 years, the former Strohecker's Market has been an important focal point for the history and character of the neighborhood. Myself and many of our neighbors purchased our homes in the neighborhood, knowing that this property would be protected as an amenity-based, walkable retail node for our community.
 SWIRL has followed this matter closely and testified at both May hearings, addressing specific comp plans goals point by point on why we feel that the application is off balance. We've also proposed and offered to collaborate with the owner to find an agreeable solution that meets the neighborhood's, landowner's, and city's goals and needs.
 In the past months, Swirl has worked hard researching and talking with residents to try to find a middle ground solution we believe will best represent both the neighborhood and the landowner's need for a viable property.
 The Swirl Board's position is to support the removal of the grocery store only and 24 related conditions in exchange for a new mixed-use grocery condition with the goal of ensuring some neighborhood retail space on the property, which CM1 does not require. Such a condition should include...
 square footage dedicated to a small format grocery store, and we've just heard expert testimony about the viability of such a format in our neighborhood. Additional square footage should be dedicated to other small shops that sell foods and services such as a coffee shop, bakery or cafe, but not offices.
 We are willing to discuss reasonable new conditions with experts, and we'll be, in fact, presenting some viable scenarios put together by an expert today, and I believe that those were just referenced as being in your packet.
 The 1984 ordinance and amendments represent a consensus between the neighborhood, the city, and the landowner that this property is integral to the livability of the Southwest Hills. They were put in place to ensure that this property would remain a retail amenities-based benefit to the community.
 We believe a new consensus can be reached. We thank you for your time and your attention to this important matter that has significant impact on the livability of the Southwest Hills neighborhood. Thank you. May I ask you a question? You've put a fairly specific proposal on the table. If you have an opportunity to share this proposal or discuss this proposal in any way with the applicant. Sure.
 I do not believe that we have had the opportunity to share a specific proposal with the applicant. Okay. Do you know if the applicant has seen this proposal?
 I do not believe they have. Okay, thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Can I add one more? Yes, sir. So we've been working, you know, we're all volunteers and we all work in the neighborhood, and we've been working diligently over the past few months. And so a lot of this has come together, and we've come to consensus just in the past few days. So this proposal was hours and hours of work. Yeah, thanks. Thank you. Do you have it in writing? Is that in our packet somewhere? Yeah, that's right. That's right. The top one. The top one. Thank you. Great.
 Great, thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I, Aisha Lorenz-El-Saeed, I'm Secretary for Swirl. I have a personal interest in this retail location. In 1909, my grandparents, Anne and Max Lorenz, German immigrants, camped in the woods below Stroheckers and slept in a tent until the log house near Periander was built. Thank you.
 My father was born at their house on Upper Drive. What a convenient place to camp, live, raise a family, and shop for your food staples right in the neighborhood. Walking the area was as necessary as it was a pleasure. I'm the third generation of the Lorenz family to live in this neighborhood within walking distance. And now my granddaughter is the fifth, and we are anxious to make use of the neighborhood amenities.
 In 1984, the City agreed to change the Strohecker's store zoning from R5, single-family residential, to CN2, commercial, allowing a significant expansion of the Strohecker's family grocery with neighborhood support. City Council agreed to impose conditions of approval limiting the site for use as a grocery and not allowing further expansions that would increase the building footprint.
 I believe my father, son of a contractor, was very involved with that. This was, in effect, a binding contract that gave the property owner permission to erect a larger building up to a specified size and in exchange the neighborhood was assured that an invaluable asset for the community would remain. In early 2016, the grocery closed. The property owner applicant, Southwest Hills LLC,
 acquired the property in January of 2012 and was admittedly aware of the limitations specified in the 1984 ordinance at the time he purchased the property. The applicant is requesting conditions be removed, asserting that they effectively deprive the property of all economical viable use with an unsubstantiated single claim that he has done his due diligence to prove a grocer is not a viable tenant.
 This request for elimination of all conditions in the ordinance would allow a wide variety of uses at a greater development intensity without any suggestion of what ultimate use will be proposed. The site is currently zoned CM1, which allows for commercial, mixed use, or residential only.
 It does not require any neighborhood serving retail component, though it has served as a one-stop shopping, offering a variety of services at the heart of our community, including a post office, pharmacy, espresso bar, bakery, deli, and liquor store. A grocery enjoyed success on this property for almost 114 years, from 1902 until 2016.
 The times and grocery landscape have changed substantially throughout the century, which is why this review is a timely approach revisiting its future preservation. Thank you, and perfectly timed. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, fellow city council commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to testify today.
 Most of you know me already, and I'm on the swirl board. I'm also a fifth generation Portlander, and my family, past and present, have lived in this neighborhood for over 100 years. City history is most interesting to me. I have recently served as board chair of the Oregon Historical Society, and I'm a strong advocate for preserving those icons which should be preserved.
 My first memory of Strohecker's goes back to 1944. I'm not that old though, am I? And I have been able to experience its informal community value provided for neighbors, my family, and myself. Retaining space for a food market and retail allows this property to continue to keep its community focus.
 This property, aligning with the adjoining Portland Heights Park, enjoyed by kids and adults alike, is the perfect catalyst to energize this local community. The City's 95 neighborhoods are each unique and should be viewed with overarching goals of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan with a lens that tailors an approach to the assets and deficits of each neighborhood.
 The Council's predecessors weighed in on the value and limitations unique to this neighborhood and valued this property as a resource that cannot be replaced. On multiple occasions, the City has reaffirmed its commitment to protect the option of a grocery store on this site by adopting a new comprehensive plan and tweaking the zoning from CN2 to CM1.
 a comparable zoning designation that allowed development limitations to remain in place. As Council chose to affirm the very provisions that the applicant is challenging here, that decision should be entitled to significant, if not decisive, weight.
 The current CM1 zone allows a broad range of options from one single-family home, multi-family housing options, a commercial retail service restaurant or office use, or some combination of these uses.
 The ability to provide commercial retail or service uses with the same intentions, scale, and variety that previously served the neighborhood will be difficult, if not impossible, once the use of limitations are removed.
 The hearings officer offered a fair and balanced review of the bulk of the ordinances, however, failed to recognize the singular value of this resource to the neighborhood. He also concluded that the removal of all ordinances would, on balance, satisfy the comprehensive plan policies, which would be impossible. Our desire is to protect the designation that has proven suitable for grocery stores in the past and update
 the conditions reflective of the changing grocery landscape so that it may serve as an asset to the neighborhood in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Next three please. Are Mark Vandevere, Jonathan Ader, and Dwight Stegner. Good afternoon. Good afternoon Mayor Wheeler and City Commissioners.
 My name is Mark Vandiver and I'm a retired software engineer. I live at one of the 551 residences in the Southwest Hills that are within one half mile of the Strohecker site. I've lived at my current address for over 30 years and I was a regular shopper at Strohecker's. And ask me at the end of my presentation as to why I think Strohecker's is no longer there, please. I believe we can all agree that most of the land use restrictions concerning the Strohecker site
 are either antiquated, irrelevant, or now superseded by current code. However, the hearings officers finding around Ordinance 155609, which is the one that restricts the use of the Storvacker site to a grocery store, was flawed. It's the neighbors' assertion that the value of the commercial site as a scarce resource to the neighborhood was not weighed properly against the criteria set out in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. And specifically, the 2035 Comp Plan
 requires in policy 4.86 neighborhood food access. And the policy states, encourage small neighborhood-based retail food opportunities such as corner markets, food co-ops, food buying clubs, and community-supported agricultural pickup drop-off sites to fill in service gaps in food access across the city.
 That's the perfect description of what the Strohecker site is all about. It's a fill-in sort of site. It's not a center, but it's vitally necessary for the neighborhood in terms of food access. The applicant's proposal to eliminate any requirement for a grocery store at the Strohecker site is in conflict with this policy, and the hearings officer was incorrect in including, concluding that the applicant's proposal is supportive of this policy because the proposal doesn't promise any food access, and as a matter of fact, it promises nothing.
 So we have a condition where we're actually trying to remove all restrictions on the property, but not offering anything in return.
 The hearings officer did find that, and I'm going to quote here, Given the unique nature of the site, the City Council could impose conditions requiring some form of commercial development on the site, either exclusively commercial or as part of a mixed-use development. In addition, the Council could require some form of food-related use, a small market or restaurant, as part of any commercial development."
 The neighborhood implores the council, you folks, to exercise its discretion in this matter and require access to fresh fruit at the Stovehacker site. Now, I also want to point out that I put in a six-page analysis of the hearings officer's decision contesting 17 points in that particular document. And I encourage you to read it because I did mail it to the council clerk here, so you should have it in your packet. All right? So why do you...
 Why do you feel Strohecker's didn't make it there? Well, I think Strohecker's became a high-priced thrift boy, and they did not adjust with the times. At the end, they had very poor produce, very poor meats, very poor selection of grocery items, and they simply were not trying very hard.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. Thank you. I'm Jonathan Ader. I've lived about half a mile from Stroykers for 20 years and in the neighborhood for much longer than that. I practiced law for 50 years and am now retired as the senior partner at Ader Wynn. I'm here to really affirm what several people have said, and I have submitted some prepared testimony in the packet. The gist of it is that the evidence submitted by the applicant is that,
 They can't find an exclusive grocery tenant. That evidence doesn't support the fact that a multi-use retail store
 is not viable on the site. And particularly, I'm paraphrasing a bit because of what we've already heard. I hear the neighborhood saying, we're open to some kind of multi-use retail requirement. There's no doubt that the council has the ability to impose conditions on the property. That's what we have heard. That's what your city attorney has told you. That's what the hearing officer, in the language that Mr. Van Buren just cited,
 essentially invites you to do. And I think if we look at the balancing, which the hearing officer did, he went from a finding that it was weighted too heavily for an exclusive grocery to a finding that you don't have to have any retail at all. That's not really a balance. That's a complete tipping of the scales.
 Your challenge is to get to a balanced result. The neighborhood is willing to do that. And I would be happy to entertain some questions. I do want to say, though, as just a neighborhood mobilization prospect, the fact that you have 1,170-plus...
 people stepping up and signing saying we want to work to get something plausible here is meaningful. I've never been in an effort that's quite this well supported. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council members. My name is Dwight Stegner. I'm a resident of Southwest Portland. I grew up less than a mile from Strohecker's and I remember visiting the store with my family as a young child
 As I got older, I was able to make those trips on my own to meet my friends there for snacks and ice cream after school and during school vacations. A grocery store and the ancillary services on that site made a critical contribution to the character and livability of the neighborhood. It acted as a community gathering place at a scale sized to fit the surrounding residential neighborhood. In responding to Comprehensive Plan Policy 5.6 requiring that the city...
 promotes and enhance the social character and identity of Portland's designated commercial areas, the applicant doesn't give significance to the 114 years that a grocery store contributed to the neighborhood.
 Instead, it focused on the past two plus years of the building vacancy. A grocery store contributed to the character of this neighborhood as evidenced by the support of the neighbors and those who supported the grocery store, regardless of whether that property sat vacant for a period of time before a new store user was identified. It doesn't change the fact that this treasure could be lost forever.
 In many places, the applicant states that the health and social benefits resulting from the grocery store are no longer realistic because of market changes, and they're no longer viable. However, economic viability of the use is not recognized by the comprehensive policy plan or value for guiding planning decisions.
 Land use planning, we hope, would be about making decisions that further the health, the safety, and the welfare of our communities. The nearest neighborhood commercial services are 1.7 miles away at Burnside and West 23rd. It's 500 vertical feet down the hill. And the 2035 comprehensive plans includes a number of topics favoring grocery, local access to food, neighborhood community identity, social services, and economic benefit. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you.
 Next three, please, Carla. Our Lauren Danahy, David Olson, and Nancy Seaton. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Do you want to go ahead and start? Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council members. My name is Lauren Danahy, and I am a registered nurse who works with senior citizens as a director of nursing in a local and small assisted living and memory care community. I'm coming to you today from that lens. I am aware of how important it is for senior citizens to be able to walk to a local grocery store.
 for their weekly groceries. Many seniors lose their ability to drive, and the layout of our neighborhood with its many hills is arduous to walk safely further than their neighborhood grocer. The elevation gate of nearly 500 feet is also problematic for access to the next available grocer, which is Zupan's.
 An article from the AARP states the average length of time that folks live past the point of their drivability or their ability to drive is five years for men and ten years for women. Our bus service is limited to commuter hours in the early morning and evening and not frequent enough to provide adequate travel options for seniors. The grocery provided fresh prepared foods and the opportunity to socialize and connect with the community.
 Socialization is an important factor for our seniors and for everybody, as they often become exceptionally depressed due to lack of interaction with others. The City has crafted thoughtful guides to safeguard this at-risk community. The Comp Plan guiding principles provided the following. Increase access to complete neighborhoods. Complete neighborhoods are places where people of all ages and abilities have safe and convenient access to more of the goods and services needed in daily life.
 These are places where they can get to grocery stores, schools, libraries, parks, cultural experiences and gathering places safely on foot or by bike and make it easier for people to have active lifestyles and integrate exercise into their daily lives. Build City Greenways, a network of safe, accessible and attractive streets, trails, parks and open spaces can make it easier to make healthier lifestyle choices,
 This network complements complete communities by encouraging active living, community interaction, and nature in neighborhoods. Walking, biking, and using public transit become the easy choice. I want to point out that this property is adjacent to the park, but as well, the 4T Trail goes right by there. And we highlight that as one of the places to visit in Portland. Growth and mobility coordinate activities.
 transportation and land use strategies along corridors to accommodate growth and mobility needs for people of all ages and abilities. I hope that you will take our senior population, which is very dense and high in that area, into consideration when evaluating removing the condition for access to healthy, fresh food and community hub. Thank you for your opportunity this afternoon. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thanks. I know you miss me terribly.
 I'm David Olson. I was your Cable Director for 30 years. It's great to be back at the Chamber. This property has special meaning to me because I lived in Portland Heights while I was finishing law school, starting my career, in the apartment previously occupied by Bud Clark. And I regularly shopped at Storker's, was active in the neighborhood both as a resident and as a precinct committee person, one of the most thankless jobs ever.
 Portland Heights remains one of my absolute favorite Portland neighborhoods with a history, an ambiance, distinct, memorable, bound up with the city of Portland itself. Clear back to the trolley to Council Crest. My testimony is to point out the hearings officer findings
 did not respond to the provisions of the comprehensive plan, specifically a number of the goals and a number of the specific planks. In terms of goals, it doesn't really address Goal 3A, City Design for People, 3B, respecting climate hazard resilient urban forms. I do cable, so I rattle off land use a little less, like, off my tongue. But focus growth, Goal C,
 Kerry, the attorney, mentioned human environmental health. Struckers, as you all know, also represented walkable scale, walkable scale in a place that's a desert for it, and a street environment, a unique street environment supported by a park, supported by people who love to walk up there. Lots of elderly and lots of people coming up renting rooms.
 And the whole town center concept and markets in town centers, comprehensive plan speaks to that. Finally, neighborhood food access has already been mentioned here. That's goal 4.86. The role of town centers need to serve the needs of surrounding neighborhoods. Comprehensive plan talks about that a lot. This is the place and really the only remaining place in this historic neighborhood where that can occur.
 These neighborhood centers need a mix of concentrations of development, employment, commercial, community services. You all talk about that in the comprehensive plan. This is a chance to recapture that. Finally, in this set, active gathering places, Strokers was always that. Any of you who went into Strokers in its declining years under Thriftway saw the process of it dying. Any of you who walked in there saw it die. Because...
 The Lamb's Thriftway Mega Store had about as much relevance to Portland Heights as the grocery warehouse does. It just wasn't working. So the comp policy refers to other gathering places. Portland Heights itself is a landmark in and of itself. Historic Portland neighborhood, this is the heart of that neighborhood.
 And housing diversity, the notion that the neighborhood doesn't support housing there is wrong. Nobody wants to roll the clock back to 1984. They all support that. Let's just put a neighborhood center there where it belongs. In conclusion, please don't remove the conditions and cut out the neighborhood.
 That's what you'll do if you ratify the hearings offers. Remove the condition, you'll cut out the neighborhood. I was here in 1984 in this chamber when the neighborhood spoke with the council. I'm honored, happy to be here again. Please reject that opinion and keep Portland Heights the distinctive place it is, the heart of historic old Portland. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, councillors. I'm Nancy Seaton, co-president and land use chair of the Swirl Neighborhood Association.
 I'm one of those stubborn people who hates to drive if I can possibly walk anywhere, and I always walk to Strohecker's for groceries, the pharmacy, for the post office, to meet friends for coffee. It's difficult now for many to have to drive to multiple places to run their errands and find those services, and I'd be so happy to have them back in the heart of the neighborhood. I'm going to talk about commercial scarcity in the neighborhood.
 The city's comprehensive goals should be applied with sensitivity to each neighborhood's unique assets and deficits without bias. Portland Heights' greatest deficit individually and comparatively is the lack of commercial property to support the livability of the neighborhood.
 The applicant's attorney, Rodler White and Park, states in their June 7th letter that, while the neighborhood believes that this commercial site is unique, there's not a compelling reason to treat it differently than other similarly situated CM1 zones elsewhere in the city. In fact, this property is one of only two commercially zoned CM1 sites within the neighborhood, which does make it unique compared to the rest of the city. As you can see in the data in your packet,
 The data shows that Southwest Hills, when compared to other neighborhoods in the city, has one of the smallest percentages of commercial mixed-use property within its boundaries, only 1% to provide for goods and services per the 12.2 goal. It ranks 13th out of 95 neighborhoods for commercial property. Okay.
 The hearings officer refers to Goal 12.2, Enhancing Variety, which preserves easily accessible neighborhood commercial nodes and states that the site serves as a commercial node within an otherwise relatively homogenous residential neighborhood. What he fails to state is that it's the only commercial node that could accommodate this development.
 The stated purpose of the commercial mixed-use zones in the comp plan is to support access to food and services in a healthy, walkable neighborhood. There's a good chance these goals would not be met without protection for retail use of the site. City Council's predecessors acknowledged the value of neighborhoods serving retail and the limitations this neighborhood faces.
 To ensure this scarce resource is preserved here, we recommend that new conditions of approval be crafted to allow for a reasonable amount of retail space as part of future development to include a small format grocery and shops and services. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks all three of you. Next three are Dale Farr, Blythe Olson, and Adam Lamott. Good afternoon. Would you like to start?
 Actually, I'm going to be in the middle, I think. Thank you. However you'd like it. Thank you. Sure, I can go ahead. Thank you, sir. Mayor and City Council, I'm Dale Farr. I've been a...
 a resident of Portland Heights for 45 years in various types of residential conditions, from small apartments to houses I've designed to big houses, small houses, back down to little apartments and moved away and come back again because Portland Heights is a special place in Portland.
 For those 45 years, I've also been the head design partner at Fletcher Farr I.A.D. Architects. And I take a special interest in the neighborhood and especially the area of Strohecker's and around it. I have no problem myself in a multi-use development with housing.
 except I think it really needs to have the condition that there is some component of retail included. I was the designer of Oringo Station, which again is different, but it's a large mixed-use station.
 development and there was nothing there before and it was one of those things. They didn't have stores, they didn't have anything. It was design it, design it well and they will come. I believe the developer, if the project is developed and designed properly, that retail will come there because I think they need
 pictures of what's going to be there. They need the actual things. Right now, it's kind of amorphous sort of thing, trying to talk to retail and other users for that property. Again,
 You're not involved in design review, I know, but I'm not sure because of where it is and the zoning, whether it is included in the design review process. Does anybody have any knowledge of that? The planner behind you is shaking his head. That does worry me that it is not part of the design review process and that 
 what could go in there would not be compatible, not fit. I think there's potential here for I think Strohecker's, having seen it over the years, was not really a very well designed store and it did not fit in as well as it could have with the park, with the neighbors. I think the opportunity is there to really enhance the neighborhood with a well designed and well scaled
 project. So if there is no design review, I hope the developer takes that into account when he does do his development. And again, I ask for a condition be added so that there would be some small or large portion of retail potential. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners Fritz, Saltzman and Fish. My name is Blythe Olson. I'm a 26-year resident of the Portland Heights neighborhood. I've been deeply involved in the changes with the Strohecker site, as I personally know neighbors from decades before me who have worked to preserve this site for the best use of our community today.
 I circulated a petition, a statement for city council, starting at the beginning of this application process, to try to determine what the neighbors' wishes were and to gather their support for retaining our voice in the whole process of any changes that take place there. This included a lot of door knocking. Thank you.
 and many conversations with neighbors throughout the neighborhood. The petition has had overwhelming support from neighbors with over 1,150, 70, something like that.
 signers as of yesterday, which is why we're here today wearing these blue and yellow buttons saying 1,000 plus strong, just general number. I'll read you the statement that we have this many endorsers for, and that is this, and this is what unifies us all.
 We as residents of the Portland Heights neighborhood and nearby respectfully request the following. Any modification of allowances slash restrictions on development of the historical Strohecker's grocery property should not be approved by the Portland City Council until Portland Heights neighbors have been consulted and allowed a meaningful opportunity to review any development proposal.
 Such proposals should recognize the distinctive character of the neighborhood, address the need to restore a retail grocery and ancillary services, mitigate possible parking and traffic impacts, and preserve the integrity of the adjacent Portland Heights Park.
 The hearings officer was placed in a position to speculate findings without having a meaningful development to respond to and analyze thoughtfully. A conclusion void of a plan compromises the city's goals being applied appropriately. The city should consider some conceptual development proposal to make this analysis meaningful and weigh which goals apply to this valuable resource, in absence of which a decision should not be made.
 Should there be a decision, we hope Code 33.130.050A and 33.130.050B will provide a voice for us in the process. Thank you very much. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you.
 Thank you for hearing us today. My name is Adam Lamott. I've lived in Council Crest for about four years. One of the reasons that my wife and I chose this neighborhood over others is because of the Strohecker store. Us neighbors have collectively launched an online survey to solicit the thoughts and feelings of the neighbors most impacted by development of this Strohecker site. The response was overwhelming with 516 households taking the survey.
 The results show that the majority of neighbors would like a retail only or mixed use development that ensures a grocery component. Retail services and community focused use for the development is preferred and safety with access by foot and by bike are important. Increased traffic congestion resulting from the new use development is also a concern. One of the things that we put on the survey was the chance for people to
 put in a little bit of their own opinion. So I thought out of the 170 or so that I would boil it down to just a few choice ones. This is one. Strohs was a place we could all walk to. Losing it means getting in our cars to do any little thing. For this reason, loss of retail services is a major step backwards for the many people's health, for the neighborhood, and for the city.
 Another one, I am just really hoping that we can make this space truly benefit our community in the future and provide a grocery store for our neighborhood, especially during snow and ice. Walking four miles round trip to overpriced zoo pans simply isn't sustainable. There's another one, it's damn near impossible to get downtown and back to get groceries during the worst parts of the winter. I had no idea how good we had it with Strohecker's.
 and another. Hoping for just a place to walk to, something to buy something, coffee, ice cream, baked goods, drinks in the evening, to eat, to meet others, a reason to take a walk.
 Another one. I have deep experience in commercial real estate private equity and would be happy to provide a balanced opinion as someone who lives two blocks from Struer Heckers yet also fully understands the obsolete zoning that is currently in place for the site. In my opinion, a mixed-use plan that activates retail along Patton while enabling the owner to build multifamily apartments or condos, which would provide demand for the on-site retail and possibly provide for additional community amenities, is our best bet.
 That's all I have. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Of course. Next three, please, Carla. We've got some changes here. No worries. The next three are Greg Ewer, Eric Lawrence, and Randy Miller. Thank you.
 Deliberate like we normally do or is that going to get postponed to another hearing? We'll see what the time is. Okay, sorry. And... Okay, please. Let's go ahead and go with Paul Kennedy. Oh, we've got three here. Good afternoon. Hi. Mayor and city council members, my name is Greg Ewer. I'm a homeowner in the Southwest Hills area. We believe the hearings officer recommendation that a trip cap be imposed is premature without a development to consider.
 A recent traffic plan can only be crafted with an informed plan. We are concerned if a trip cap is retained that it will limit the potential use for the community. We understand the necessity of not imposing undue burden to the owner and hope there is a solution that can weigh the community need for mixed-use grocery and the potential for diverse housing should that be the desire.
 We engaged Winterbrook Planning, who drafted realistic scenarios within the trip-trap criteria to prove viable options that serve the interest of the owner and the community. We hope that has weighed in your decision to apply a condition to the property. We would be remiss if we did not point out that the intention of the owner in this matter is to remove limitations while also requesting a limitation that could potentially prohibit true commercial retail services for the neighborhood.
 We understand that PBOT is moving forward with adopting new transportation standards, the alternative mobility standards, that would eliminate the need for a trip cap. The alternative mobility measures will allow the city to identify smaller cost pedestrian or bicycle improvements that will make up for the additional congestion caused by the proposed use.
 As there is not a development to directly respond to, we would ask a trip cap not be imposed in light of future change. And if a trip cap is necessary, we would ask for a trip cap self-destruct condition that would invalidate it when the new alternative is available. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you. Mayor, city council members, my name is Eric Lawrence. I'm a Portland metropolitan native. I'm a husband, father of three. I'm a business owner. And I'm a resident of the Southwest Hills.
 Our thanks to each of you for your dedication and service to the city, evidenced by the applause, I believe, coming from the street for the good job that you do. I think it's just the heating system turned on. Oh, is that what it is? It sounded like applause to me, so I'm going to roll with that if that's okay. We have important issues in the city of Portland to work on, and the work you do is invaluable.
 On the surface, this issue is really, truthfully, a small thing. It is just another development project in a city besieged by development. But in our neighborhood, it is so much more.
 There are only two zoned retail properties within our neighborhood serving over 2,000 households. It is a scarcity that we cannot afford to lose, and the city, in support of the comprehensive plan and strategic goals, cannot allow to slip away. The 2035 comprehensive plan contains specific provisions to protect lands suitable for grocery stores and for the local neighborhood commercial nodes which keep our communities connected.
 In 1984, our neighborhood ceded an existing residential limitation in favor of a limited retail grocery limitation to ensure a valued community connector and scarce resource remain in perpetuity. The city reaffirmed that commitment to this neighborhood in 2016 with the adoption of the comprehensive plan and subsequent zoning designations.
 The hearings officer was unduly positioned in their report to conjecture, applying city code in the absence of a development proposal by the owner they could thoughtfully respond to. The report leaned too heavily on the only expert testimony provided, which we have shown to be fundamentally flawed. The report simply did not weigh the importance of the site as a scarce resource to the city and to the neighborhood.
 There is no scenario where these policies which encourage local access to a grocery store will be met to an equal or greater degree if these restrictions are removed. One of the most important takeaways today in many regards is having a voice.
 If the Council votes to support the property owner's request to remove all development conditions on the site, the neighborhood could lose its voice. We could lose an essential tool available to negotiate responsible development of the site which matches with the community's needs and reflects the strategic vision of our city's leaders.
 We support the removal of the grocery-only zoning and 24 related conditions in exchange for a new mixed-use grocery condition to include a small-format grocer and retail mix so we can maintain our scarce neighborhood retail space.
 We have been and continue to be willing to sit down as a neighborhood and discuss reasonable conditions with experts which would be fundamentally beneficial to the neighborhood, the city, and the owner. We ask for our chance to have a voice, and we remain 1,000-plus strong. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Thank you. I'm Randy Miller. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, appreciate being here. I'm also a Portland resident, kind of a business guy with a diplomatic position as well. And not to let Bill Failing upstart me, I'm also fifth generation Oregonian. And also, of all my life within five years, I guess, I've lived within a mile of Stryker's and very familiar with it.
 I've totally switched around what I was going to say because everything is going to be redundant and you've heard enough facts. But what I want to talk about to you is how other cities aspire to be like us and why. And most of you know I've been leading these best practice trips. Some of you have been on them. And we've gone all over the city and all over the world. And when we go to these different places, it's amazing how well-respected Portland is. And so they're very prepared when we get there to have some dialogue about what it is that makes us special and what they aspire to be like us.
 And it's very, very instructive. And, of course, a lot of it has to do with certain themes. And the same ones come up everywhere about how much they know about Portland. Real quickly, environmental stewardship, land use, urban footprints, urban transportation, our metropolitan form of government, our PDC being not a bureau but necessarily a semi-autonomous agency, and they all know about this, the 20-minute neighborhood concept.
 They're just overwhelmed with that. And that's how it relates to this. Because in the 20-minute neighborhood concept, with being as close as we are to that store record's property and the ability to get the neighborhood service as well as food, of course, that is the major driver for this whole thing. And with that concept comes, of course, the sense of community. And all of you have probably read Robert Putnam. Everybody knows about Robert Putnam, who's a sociologist and the former dean of the Kennedy School who writes about civic engagement. Right.
 And he puts Portland at the very, very top of the heap because of our ability to bring people together and also for civic engagement, which is one of the qualities of Portland here that is among the most important elements that we possibly have.
 So as we take a look at all this and what we aspire to do, it is, I think, significant that we have been so fundamentally successful with this concept and what we're trying to achieve that other cities all over the place are looking to aspire to be just like us. It says something because we have something really special. And the Strohecker's property proposition and proposal underscores everything that that's all about. So thank you. Thank you. It's good seeing you.
 Thanks, all three. Thank you. Next three, please, Carla. Are Paul Kennedy, Marilyn Eichinger, and Sharon Van Buren. Stop, fine, thanks. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Councilman. Carla, one more. Paul Kennedy. I don't think Paul is speaking today. Okay, thank you. I live quite far from Strohackers. I live by Healy Heights Park.
 So when I need something from the store, not having Strohackers, the plaid doesn't carry eggs by OHSU. So your choice is Food Front, New Seasons, or Fred Meyer's, or Zoo Pants. So it makes a whole lot of driving. And during the inclement weather, we could walk to Strohackers and get milk. But now, you know, we can't walk to Zoo Pants.
 in the ice or food front. So I would wish that you would really consider the availability of food for the neighborhood. And that's all I have to say. Very good. Thank you for coming in. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Thank you for listening. I'm Marilyn Eichinger, and I've lived on Sherwood Drive for the past 35 years when I was brought to Portland to run OMSI.
 My concern in part has to do with the lack of respect being given to a legally executed deed. People sold property with honored encumbrances for ownership of lumber, oil, and mineral rights for centuries. In this case, the property was sold to an out-of-state individual who was cognizant of the restrictions that made the local citizens the beneficiary.
 Mr. Strohecker, whom I knew, knew the community benefited by having local grocery store, a place within walking distance of most houses. He also knew that a multi-story building would add to road congestion. The question I raise, however, is what right do I have to sell my property in a way that benefits my neighbors? How can I know that my gift will be honored?
 When land and building were given to the Episcopal Church near Military Road, it was stipulated that the Elk Creek Gardens, also known as the Bishop's Close, would remain open to the public. The deed was honored and hundreds of people benefit every year by it. Why shouldn't Strohecker's property be treated similarly? Mr. Strohecker was community-minded, going out of his way to bring specialty foods and drink into the neighborhood.
 He treated his customers with love and caring. His place was a center that served us during snowstorms, when homebound, and when we needed a cup of coffee or ice cream cone. He advised us about wine and organized food events that brought neighbors together. It's not surprising that Lance Fifth Way could not succeed.
 My guess is their rent was too high. Nobody knows what it is. It was more than necessary, probably, than to return a decent profit. But the store did not sell quality merchandise. People do have a right to make a living. But just because they want to maximize earnings does not mean that they should do so on the backs of a settled neighborhood. People who live in this area are the deeded recipients of the sale. Thank you.
 We demand that the city honor Mr. Strohecker's encompasses. The new owners have been playing a waiting game. They knew the restrictions when they purchased it, and it was only a week after they purchased it that I was told the process that they would go through in order to get the restrictions lifted. I don't like it. I certainly do not believe that the hearings officer had the community's interest at heart.
 And over and over again, I'm worried that the city is not paying attention to the local community. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. The last three I show who signed up are Sarah Bachman, Walt Crate, and Norman Hotz. And is there anybody else who thinks they signed up and their name has not been called? Okay, very good. I guess you get the last word. Okay, so is that...
 rotten place to be between the people conducting the hearing and your coffee or wherever you're going after this. So I'll make this short. I want to pick up on what Randy Miller said about civic engagement and address two issues that were alluded to by Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fritz. I'm a newly minted NET volunteer and I want to bring you up to date with the development in our neighborhood.
 I live about 25 minutes walk from Strohecker's, up on the hill, and until recently was taking care of my mom, who died just short of 90, and my dad, who died at 193, not 103.
 And it was extremely important to me, both as a caregiver and a NET volunteer, to be able to get to emergency services that were closer than the emergency services that we currently are closest to. They're now the closest emergency caches of medical supplies are at Bridal Mile and Ainsworth.
 far too far away for me as a caregiver to get to by foot if I was my parents were still alive. So I've been working with Father King at St. Thomas More to bring together some emergency supplies there at St. Thomas More closer to where 110 houses are at the top of the hill. Before St. Strohecker's closed
 Strohecker's was our closest emergency meeting place. When it closed, the NET volunteers had to move their emergency meeting place down to Ainsworth, farther away from the people in my neighborhood. So that's a kind of untold story about the importance of Strohecker's and the adjacent park.
 to our neighborhood in a way that Portland is commendably building. An ability to bounce back from a very large earthquake or other emergency. With regard to Commissioner Fritz's concerns about parks, the park, good news, is very well used and is becoming more well used over time. And...
 I would hope that a restriction would be placed on the use of the property adjacent that would allow cars to park where they have always parked for people who are using the park. And I have run out of time. So thank you very much. Thank you. We appreciate it. Very good. So thank you, everybody, who testified.
 Legal counsel at this point, could you give us a frame? The last remaining is the applicant has the opportunity for rebuttal for five minutes if they would like to. What comes next? So what I would anticipate is today that counsel would have some discussion of, I guess you would call it, almost stroppling or developing some sense of where counsel wants to go and then directing staff.
 to work on revised findings, a revised ordinance, and to the extent council decides any revised conditions. Prior to that, I'd like to have staff come back. I have some questions for staff. Okay, very good. After they've...
 Very good. Welcome back. Thank you. If you could just state your name for the record, please. Christy Carlson-White for the applicant. I'll make my rebuttal as quickly as I can in under five minutes. First, the legislative action of 2035 did not reaffirm these conditions. Nothing in the record establishes or supports that fact. Two, in fact, the code requires this process and this process only for removing the conditions.
 Food Front and Green Zebra were both approached for this property, provided all the marketing materials, and declined. The prior grocer was allowed to reduce rent to stay in business, and that still didn't save that operation. Specific user restrictions are not precedented, even in an annexation. A zone is the restriction, not a specific user within the zone.
 And we have heard a majority of opinions here about grocery, about retail, about a single residential home.
 There is a divergence of opinions. We've been asked to pre-design a project before we come through the comprehensive plan and zone change process, which is not a requirement of the code. But we understand all of the thoughts around that and they seem to boil down to this idea that it is very hard to lose Stroheckers.
 It's very hard for us to change that fact. We haven't been able to change it for years. But the neighborhood still wants some access to retail in this particular project. So listening to the testimony, my applicant can accept a condition of some minimum amount of retail square footage that would be dedicated on the property.
 through the building permit approval process. And again, this is a minimum. What we think we can make at least market feasible is 1,500 square foot of retail. If you compare that across the market, that...
 That is a bagel shop. It's a cafe. It could be any other small retail use. Again, this is a guaranteed minimum. It is not a maximum. The CM1 zoning would, of course, allow us to exceed that, and the trip cap would allow us to exceed that. So it is something that we're willing to propose because we understand the
 At least the neighbors that have testified today believe they would be able to access that retail and support that retail. Another point, the hearings officer's decision where he was cited here as saying that the council could require some form of food-related use, a small market or a restaurant as part of commercial development,
 The last half of that quote is, however, as the current application demonstrates, such site-specific conditions can reduce future flexibility for development on the site as shopping habits, consumer preferences, and market conditions change over time, and the CM1 zone properties are not subject to these restrictions, allowing the local economy to determine the best use.
 And lastly, what's great about the new CM1 zone in terms of design is that it comes with design standards. So there are new design standards under the CM1 zone that speak to neighborhood compatibility and design of the project, which is a good thing.
 insurance mechanism for the architect who spoke about design the scale is 1.5 to 1 so you can go a little higher than that if you build affordable housing but the base is 1.5 to 1 and then lastly there's a new community outreach requirement in CM1 zoning so that prior to submittal of building permits you're required now where usually you weren't to go to the neighborhood, review your proposal and then submit your building permit
 Without all close. Commissioner Fritz. So it seems clear that we have consensus that many of the conditions should go away. So at the very least, that's one thing that's likely to happen in this proceedings. I'm going to hand out to my colleagues and then to Carla to hand to you a requested condition from Portland Parks and Recreation.
 Because it's not clear to me why the hearings officers didn't include this or why the staff report doesn't recommend. Do you need a copy of this? It's coming around.
 Thank you. So basically, this memorandum dated April 16th to Mark Moffitt from Brett Horner in Portland Parks and Recreation says, Goal 8H of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan states, all Portlanders have safe, convenient, and equitable access to high-quality parks, natural areas, trails, and recreational opportunities in their daily lives which contribute to their health and well-being.
 The city manages its natural areas and urban forests to protect unique urban habitats and offer Portlanders an opportunity to connect with nature. To support this goal, Portland Parks and Recreation requests as a condition of approval of this proposal and any future application that the applicant be required by development services to maintain public access to and from the existing stairway in Portland Heights Park that connects to the western property edge of the subject site.
 and also to review any applications to ensure that proposed developments allow for safe, inclusive accessibility to this pedestrian connection.
 Do you have any comments on that condition? So just reading it, some concerns. I don't know that there's a dedicated public access currently on this property. And there are existing, I think, improved sidewalks completely surrounding this site and accessing the park. So the concern would be not knowing where this access is. I don't know how we would design a site if...
 But the access went right through the middle of the site to a stairway? There is an access way. It's just basically from the parking lot of the grocery store, that's how you get to the top of the stairs. Now there is access from the sidewalk, but it's a minimum. I know that parks would like to see if there is a residential only building on this property, that the residents of that building could get directly to the park without having to go out and back and round.
 Sure. So what I understand about this is that right now it's a parking lot, but upon redevelopment there won't be that parking lot. So the concern would be to understand exactly where the access point would be, how it would be even possible to design around it.
 I think, and I could be wrong about this, so it's really more appropriate to ask the BDS planner. But as I understood it, this was requested down below, and the answer was that this would be determined at the time of the redevelopment proposal to see if the use that was being proposed was related to a park access condition, and then there would be some conversation about that. Okay.
 But I'm not positive. Thank you very much. I wanted to give you an opportunity to comment. I appreciate those. And I'll ask the planner. Thank you very much. Great. Before you leave, has the applicant or you ever sat down with the Southwest Hills Residential League and talked about it?
 Their newest proposal? No, not a newest proposal. There was a suggestion for a meeting a couple of days before this hearing, but that meeting was canceled because it was preconditioned on grocery only. And we just can't live with a grocery only condition. We can live with some minimum, at least a commitment to some minimum level of neighborhood serving retail, which of course does not preclude or prohibit
 reaching the maximum under the TRIP cap and CM1 zoning, and when you apply a minimum and you get one user in there, there's the potential that more users come, as you heard testimony, and feed off of that user. So this could be one way of a clear path.
 So you can't commit to the grocery-only condition because of your experience to date, of the applicant's experience to date, trying to? The experience to date trying to market to a grocer, there's no viable way we can redevelop this property with a grocer. And the kind of grocers we're talking about have square footages that obviously they don't think are supportable on this property, even at a free rent rate.
 But you can do two stories above whatever's on the ground floor. Not really. So if you do retail, it's generally, I mean, you could modify this, but generally in the industry, retail is ground floor and 18-foot floor-to-floors to invite that ground floor window environment. The height limit is 35 feet.
 So you can't put two floors of residential within 35 feet above a ground floor of retail. That's not how this site would ultimately be designed. Well that's on the model, but like the Green Zebra at Portland State has housing above it. Yeah, for sure, but they don't have a 35 foot height restriction. We have 35 feet total.
 So you could keep going, but you have that height limitation. So what I'm saying is if you have retail on the ground floor and you're taking 18 of those feet, you have 17 left. You can't get two floors of residential and 17 feet. So you'd have one floor of residential, so it would be a lower density residential if you were to go.
 all across the site with the ground floor retail, but I'm not sure that would be the right proposal either. The point is the CM1 zoning allows you maybe to mix and match that. So, you know, it sounds like we're going to close the record today, but I'm a little concerned that there hasn't been this conversation with the neighborhood about alternatives, and there's a proposal that we really haven't had a chance to really evaluate. Okay.
 Ultimately, we're going to have to make a decision, and that includes whether there's additional commissions of approval. Is there a value in first giving the applicant and the neighborhood a chance to sit down and have that conversation, or are we at a point where 
 you don't think that would be advantageous. So let me be clear. There have been previous conversations with the neighborhood, but as to whatever was handed to you, and I understand and sympathize with what was said when that was presented. It's difficult to get everybody together, and we have heard very divergent opinions today.
 So I will say that I'm not left with a great level of confidence that when we meet, we'll figure out those that want grocery store and not grocery store, just retail or some minimum square footage. What we're telling you today is we are definitely able to agree to what we have stated here as a condition of approval, knowing that it is a minimum and not a maximum. But you would be willing to sit down with them?
 always willing to sit down with neighbors, but we have to be clear about where we think that might head, given the previous conversations. I have not seen the proposal. I heard a starting point here. If I could, Southwest Hills Residential League, the Swirl Board position is to support the removal of the grocery store only and 24 related conditions in exchange for a new mixed use grocery conditions
 to maintain some neighborhood retail space. And then they go on for specifics. But I believe I heard you...
 indicate that that first part is actually okay. Yes, that we maintain some retail, not grocery, but retail. I share what Commissioner Fish said. It feels like just by virtue of the fact that we've had this hearing, it feels like the parties are moving closer together. But the $1,500 is not acceptable. No, and I heard that, but at least there's not diametric opposition.
 That's not what I'm hearing. So the council has been asked to decide this question. I'll be, just to be clear, Mayor, at 4.30 I have to go. Understood. We will decide this question. We have.
 of making tough decisions. I would prefer to make the decision knowing what the best option on the table is that the neighborhood could agree to and the best option that the applicant could agree to and then being able to decide how we're going to reconcile those two if they're not aligned. It does seem to me the stakes are pretty high on this one, and so I would prefer
 I would urge that we give the neighborhood and the applicant a chance, a brief window, Mayor, to have a follow-up conversation, come back, close the record, come back to council with options that have been discussed, but the understanding that those would be presented to us in advance of the next hearing date, and council will decide this question. We will decide based on what there has been discussed.
 tentatively agree to or if there's no agreement, then we'll do what we normally do, which is we'll make our best judgments. Yeah. Well, first of all, I'll ask the applicant's representative, does that seem from your perspective like a viable path forward? At least would you accept that if that's what we decided to do today? Without turning around and looking at my client, I'm always wanting to be optimistic that there's an easier path that we can pursue here that meets everyone's needs and interests.
 I am a little tiny bit pessimistic here because you're hearing grocery, grocery, grocery, and we cannot do a grocery. And Commissioner Fish is saying at the end of the day what we may end up with is two final positions. Yeah, and you make the call. The council will have clear reference points on where the two baselines are. I wouldn't extend this more than 30 days. If you're a little skeptical, I would say 30 days is plenty of time to have those conversations. Have a time certain.
 We've done this recently, not that long ago, where we required close the record, required submissions from just as to potential conditions. Give us your best shot, and then we decide the case. Exactly. I would prefer that outcome. I'd like to ask legal counsel, having heard this.
 what your advice to us would be. If the parties are amenable, there's no, we don't have a 120-day clock for a comprehensive plan map amendment. So you have the flexibility to do that if you think it would be fruitful to come back for a time and date certain, and that wouldn't require us to send additional notice. Okay. And if we wished we could close the record today? You could close the record today. And they could still have that conversation, and then if there was, I'm just being hypothetical, some compromise or,
 a proposed alternative that would then be put on the table. We could reopen the record for that. With the reopening of the record for that specific proposal. I think that's a good idea to close the record today so we're not continuing to get new material in, but anticipate that you will have to reopen it to take more testimony from the parties about what their final position is. Mayor, what I would propose, just by way of a, just to test a straw man here, straw person, is that we close the record
 We set a, we continue the hearing for 30 days. We give the parties, the applicant, the neighbor a chance to meet, encourage them to give us submissions as to their best position prior, a couple days, several days prior to our reconvene date, with the understanding that we would then reopen the record to hear those proposals, and then council would deliberate and make a decision. Commissioner Fritz would like to hear from staff as well. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, you dropped your ID there.
 Wow. Oh, we had to bring these today for the... Yeah. Thank you. It's a special day. It's Portland City Hall. It's Wednesday. So before we close the record, if you'd come back up, please. I want to make it clear that I did put in my analysis of what the comprehensive plan, the new comprehensive plan says in regards to this application. So that's in the record, and both sides' attorneys have them. From city...
 development services. Is there a minimum density in the CM1 zone? There is no minimum density. So it's actually complete, it's possible that one single family home could be put on this property? Correct. I mean, yeah. Whether the market would result in that or not. Could there be 17 single family homes on it?
 Or is it out of the limits? It's a multi-family? You could. I mean, single family homes have to be on their own lot. That'd be a subdivision, but 17 condos or 17 units on there. And that's allowed in a CM1 as well? Yes. There's no unit limit. It's just an FAR, so 1.5 to 1 of the site area. Okay. So it's basically a three-story building on there. It wouldn't be able to cover the whole site. That would be kind of the max.
 And I'm correct in thinking before the Stroheckers got the conditions of approval, it was zoned R5. Right. The 1984 change was to go from residential that had been since the store opened in 1902 to the CN2 zone. And at the time, the neighborhood was very much opposed to that, and these conditions were intended to put some sideboards around it.
 I wasn't there and the 1980s records have very little in terms of findings and stuff. We just have the ordinance basically. That's what I get. That was my deduction. The results speak for themselves. My deduction was, and I think the applicant's attorney said that it was intended to be a restriction rather than a requirement.
 Ms. Eichinger, sorry if I'm mashing your name, noticed the encumbrance, because in a sense, these conditions are encumbrances, which the Stroheckers agreed to. And I'm thinking back, Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Saltzman, in our comprehensive plan process. If somebody had come to us in a comprehensive plan process and said this entire neighbourhood is zoned R5 and we want to do this one lot of CM1, I think the answer might have been no.
 But because it was already in an existing use, that's why we then changed the CN2 into the CM1. So I appreciate Commissioner Fisher's suggestion for how we move forward, and I'm also thinking that a single multifamily facility
 dwelling unit without any retail there is not in compliance with the comprehensive plan and certainly one single family home on a massive lot by a park is not what I envision the highest and best use for a lot which is what we were thinking of in the comprehensive plan what are the highest and best uses for this
 So in the process where you do this, and I would suggest you have some mediation, some facilitation to have this conversation, I would like you to consider the Portland Parks condition of approval or requested. And if that's not what they've said is not feasible, could there be something that would be indicative that this development on this lot needs to relate to the park in some way?
 I will just mention, because it's a little bit of a mystery why the condition went away, the hearings that staff had reworded this condition from parks to be slightly different.
 requiring them to coordinate with parks on the public access, and then suggesting that they provide vehicle ownership or vehicle parking for parks users off hours, provided they met the joint use parking requirement, which is just something parks didn't catch up on. But when you want to have someone else use your parking, you have to give us a little analysis that says there's room for both, basically. Right. So as long as...
 they could show us that there was room for both, the condition said, yeah, you should provide parks, parking, and
 To be clear, what that condition would require would be a minimum six-foot walkway running from kind of the top of the stairs all along that western property line out to Patton Road. That would be sort of the minimum requirement. Your walkway has to be six feet wide. You've got to get from the stairs to the street. Well, if you could include those discussions in your mediation to figure out if you can come back with a package of conditions of approval that would...
 either everybody can agree with or something that addresses the park's concern when you come back to council. Thank you. Okay. I had a question also. So we heard testimony about the 35-foot height limit. If there were a mixed-use redevelopment that included affordable housing, is there a higher height limit it could be built to? You do get, and I didn't bring the code, but you do get extra FAR. You do not get the extra height in CM1.
 So CM1 is the one zone where you don't get bonus height. All the other commercial zones, CM2, CM3, CM4,
 CE, you get another 10 feet of height. But CM1, no matter what you do, you never get that bonus height. We're here at the city council. We make the rules. So that might be part of the discussion too, that if an additional height would allow a ground floor grocery in exchange for more housing on top, would that be acceptable? And that's something I think you should think about.
 okay all right so the path forward as i understand it and i'm not doing this i just want to put it out on the table and make sure we got it right and i'm specifically looking at the city attorney we will close the record today we will continue both the report and the ordinance to we'll say a month from now and carla will work on a specific date some number of days prior we will receive
 effectively the last positions, is that a fair way of putting it, of both parties. We will then reconvene on that date certain and time certain that Carla will find us. We will reopen the record very specifically to hear those two proposals and take testimony on those two specific proposals or no.
 So one of the things we need to clarify is that it's clear who the applicant is. It's not necessarily clear who the party is on the other side. And I'm not sure if that's the neighborhood association that you're anticipating getting a proposal for or somebody else. So I think that would need to be clarified as well. Mayor, I would limit the testimony to just the parties that submit, the actual party that submits any proposal.
 So that for the purpose of making sure we understand what the proposal is, but then I think we go right to deliberations. And I think that's what I'm trying to get some clarification on is who is it that would be bringing the proposal back. I'm not clear on that yet. I think the concept...
 makes a lot of sense to me and I think Carla's already looked at some dates that might work but I do think you need to have some clarity on who would be submitting who we anticipate would be submitting something and who would be participating in the mediation so the who would be participating in the mediation seems to me could be designated by the neighborhood association since they're being representative if we decide a number of
 people, they can work with Ms. Richter, whomever else they want to, to have the people that they want at the table. Does that make sense? It makes sense to me.
 Since they are the designated and recognized neighborhood community group. Thank you. So in terms of having this group of council members back, Carla has identified that September 6th in the afternoon is at 2 p.m. 2 p.m. is really our only option in the weeks before and after that. So that's not quite 30 days, but it's close. And then we would ask for the submission of best offers by the 4th we could do, which is a couple days before that.
 And those would go to the Council Clerk. So the record would be closed up until September 4th, open to allow those submissions, and then we would deal with reopening the record for testimony on the 6th. At our discretion. We would take more testimony if it's at our discretion.
 Correct. I suppose if the proposals are self-explanatory and you don't need to hear from anybody, you wouldn't necessarily need to take additional testimony. My preference is not to have dueling proposals and lots of testimony. It is to have a self-contained document with a proposal, hopefully one that's a consensus document, but if not, your best shot, and then we're able to have a deliberation, which is all we're doing is postponing our deliberations. Yes.
 So they would go in by close of business on September 4th? Yes. So 5 o'clock, Carla? Yes, that's the Tuesday, September 4th, 5 p.m. And that gives you one day, development services staff, and city attorney staff before the hearing on the 6th. Is that enough time? Literally, we'd be, like, emailing you the stuff the morning of the 5th, right? The day after we got morning. Which we'd be sitting in council all day. Okay.
 It certainly would be to the benefit of both of the parties to be talking with BDS staff as they go, so that it's not a surprise what we're seeing on the 4th. But, yeah. I mean, we could have it the week prior, have it due before Labor Day if we want to. But I don't think we're going to be working on it over Labor Day weekend. Well, that might be the only time I would be able to work on it. So if you could have it in by the end of close visits on the 31st, because I don't think it's unlikely that they'll be doing any mediation meetings over the Labor Day weekend. Okay.
 That would be helpful. Our usual, I'll just throw this out, our usual deadline is noon Thursday the week before. That's so you guys get it usually on Monday because there's all these steps involved. Yeah, we're just trying to strike the balance between giving the community and the applicants enough time versus giving you enough time. Should we take a five-minute recess for the applicants, attorney, and the neighborhood association to huddle? Why don't we do that? Let's take a five-minute recess. Sure.
 I'm here, whatever you end up, whatever you agree on. I'm fine. I'll just, I'll just. I'm going to have to remind him. He'd be in lots of trouble. Special bike. He's going to walk out this morning. All right, sorry, we were having too much fun. We are now back in session off of our recess.
 I believe there's been a conversation. What do we know? So a few things. We have agreed to return on the 6th and with the deadline of the 4th for submission of the new information. So you will get it right before, the day before we come back. That's fine. Okay.
 The Swirl co-presidents will be acting officially as the neighborhood representatives with the involvement of other neighbors and Ms. Richter, the attorney for Ms. Olsen.
 Just as staff, I'm going to assume that the direction from council is to reimpose the parks-related condition about the walkway. If there wasn't a whole lot of discussion, I'll just bring new language on our part of that memo. So to just frame this a little bit, to narrow the conversation, and my colleagues may have heard something different. But what I heard, and first of all, I want to thank both of you.
 parties in agreeing to get together and see if there is an opportunity for an agreement. I certainly appreciate that. A key question here is both the nature and the size of commercial slash retail on this site. And the second area pertains to park access.
 And what I heard the applicant say was that retail should be considered more broadly than just grocery store. And I heard varying opinions on that, but I think that needs to come back with some clarity if possible. There was an offer put on the table with regard to the minimum amount of retail, and I think there's a question about what is the floor price.
 of the retail and Commissioner Fritz raised the question of access to the park given that it is an immediate proximity to the park. That's a very minimum from the development but preferably for the public as well. That was what I was understanding. Does that square with your recollection, Commissioner Saltzman? Yeah, I think your emphasis on the point that I think we're open to some retail but I'm not sure what it has to be a grocery.
 I mean, to fulfill the needs that I've heard expressed today for a presence in the community, a place to go do things. I mean, getting food is nice, but it may not have to be part of the ultimate compromise. We will cover those bases for sure. Okay, so legal counsel, listen to me carefully, and if I get this wrong, please do not hesitate to correct me. So we are going to keep the, we're closing the record today.
 except as it pertains to this potential compromise, in which case the record for that remains open until September 4th, or do we keep the entire record open until September 4th? My understanding is the entire record is closed until September 4th. The parties, either together or individually, so if they come to a compromise, can submit something on September 4th, or individually submitting their own.
 And only those designated parties. Okay, so that is the case. So we will continue both the report and the ordinance. We are closing the record until September 4th. On September 4th, we will open the record for the designated parties to be able to submit proposals. Then we will be back here on September 6th, time certain 2 p.m. Is that correct, Carla? That's correct. To continue the hearing.
 Is there anything else we need to do, legal counsel, or is that it? No, I think you are good. With that, thank you, everybody. We are adjourned.