Let's rock. Let's roll. Good morning, everybody. This is the morning session of the Portland City Council on August 9th, 2017. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Wheeler. Here. Here.
 Folks, the purpose of city council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. We want everybody to feel safe, welcome, respected, and heard. Council rules dictate that...
 We let people, when they have their opportunity to speak, be heard. When the council needs to deliberate, we want people to be able to hear what we're actually saying. So the council rules are no disruptions or interruptions. If you interrupt, you'll be asked to stop. If you don't stop, you'll be asked to leave. If you don't leave, you're potentially subject to arrest for trespassing. Nobody wants to see that happen, so let's stop.
 Let's just all endeavor to hear and be heard respectfully. There's two opportunities for public testimony. The first is the communications, which we'll hear from in just a minute. That's an opportunity for folks to come up and testify on any subject that they would wish for three minutes uninterrupted.
 in order to reserve one of those spots, one needs to sign up with the council clerk in advance. There's also an opportunity for people to speak on the first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. Typically, we give people three minutes to speak on those matters.
 If there's a lot of people signed up or if we're short on time, then sometimes we shorten that. There are three microphones. We'll make sure they're on, but if you see the green light on, that's usually a good sign. There's a little box there 30 seconds before your three minutes is up. The yellow light goes off. There's a little beep. When your time is up, the electric prod in the chair starts igniting.
 So there's a tradition in the council. If you like what you're hearing, thumbs up. If you don't, thumbs down. It just keeps things moving along if people don't express themselves verbally. That's really helpful. So thank you. And with that, the first communications item, please, Carla. Item 874, request of Jan Johnson to address council regarding Freedom Cities. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm Jan Johnson. I'm a Portland voter and a member of the People, Powers, Graps, Roots mobilizing organization. Can some of my fellow People, Power folks please stand? All right. Lots of People, Power today. Yeah. Good morning. We're here to talk about why the city as well as the county should adopt the ACLU's nine model rules and policies. Yes.
 We think that the current policy for the city doesn't have enough teeth to really protect our immigrant neighbors.
 If we are meeting the Trump deportation agenda even halfway, we are normalizing fear. Some of our People Power volunteers in Hillsboro are delivering food and diapers to families of farm workers too afraid to even leave their homes to get groceries. We've had conversations with Presiding Judge Nan Waller about the courthouse where the city conducts its traffic court and other business.
 and she talks about not only the fear people have of reporting crimes, but even showing up as witnesses or any other part of the judicial system, which creates a lack of access to justice for all of us. We think the current policy invites some legal liability for the city.
 You'll see in some packets that we've made available for you kind of a little give and take between the ACLU's nine, the city's response, the ACLU's lawyer's response to this. You'll also see some news stories about Clackamas County and a 2014 Fourth Amendment suit that they lost recently.
 And there's also other elements in this packet. Commissioner Fish, in response to some questions you had to one of our fellow people powers a couple weeks ago, there's a list compiled by one of my colleagues about
 all the ways the city touches immigrants in various bureaus and departments. There's also an email trail with the MIRA staff about why this issue is not being taken up at this time due to other important business. We recognize you have a lot of important business, but we see this as very important too. And we want all cities and all counties and all states to adopt the ACLU 9 in writing guidelines
 We think it's going to take less time to deal with us than to keep batting us away. We're not going away. We've got far more people than this.
 writing letters and doing their part for immigrant justice. We are going to be back here before you and your council on August 23rd, if not sooner. We would love to have a continuing dialogue with you on this topic to make sure that good policies are even better and put in writing. Thank you. I would be happy to entertain questions. Colleagues, any questions? Thank you for your time. We appreciate it. We appreciate your colleagues coming in, too. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next item, please. 875, request of Catherine Smith to address council regarding issues with the police. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Catherine Smith. I timed this. I might go over about 20 seconds. Is that okay, Mayor Wheeler? Fine. Go ahead. Okay. I'm addressing this to Mayor Wheeler mainly, but of course all of you, it's very important because I'm
 The mayor is a police commissioner, but it's important for everybody to know this. Mayor Wheeler, have you talked to PC Marshman asking him about the tactics used in my case or about transferring my case to another cop that is about attempted murder done to me and my son remotely by some Tigard cops? So we've had this conversation multiple times, and our staff has had this conversation multiple times with you. There is a jurisdictional issue here.
 We are not the Tigard Police. We are the Portland Police Bureau. Okay. A brief answer because I want to get this all in. I live in Portland. The assaults are mainly happening in Portland. That makes it Portland's jurisdiction. It does. And they know that. And you should know that. Okay, let me try to get all this in since I spent a few seconds there. Since it appears someone put a gag order on you about my case, usually...
 Although you are at fault because you seem to have agreed to it, I will make a few questions that you should have or likely would have asked me to obtain enough facts and evidence to be able to make a good legal decision about how to make Portland Police not continue to facilitate these daily assaults, threats, stalking, attempted murders, etc. For those of you who don't know, these mainly microwave and ultrasound weapons, voice to school weapons, are easily verifiable.
 Question number one, since you say some Tigard cops are shooting you remotely, how do you know it's them shooting you? Because they told me around late 2005, early 2006...
 They're shooting me with microwave weapons and ultrasound weapons. I also know it's them because when they shoot me, especially when it's a hard shot that feels like a needle was just stuck into me, they often make a comment taunting me about the pain they caused or the injury, burn, et cetera they caused and where they shot me, even when I don't touch that place on me in response to the pain. Also, I recognize the voice of some of them because I've talked to some of them in person before.
 Question number two, how do they talk to you? They use voice-to-skull weapon technology. When used remotely, it goes through the cell phone towers. They have so many targets that they talk to them remotely, but they say if a cop carries it, it's about the size of a radar gun that cops aim at people as they drive to see how fast they're going.
 For voice to school to work, they must aim it at your head for you to hear them talking or when they turn the volume down to give you a subliminal order or influence. That means they must know exactly where you are, and it means they're stalking you. Number three, you should have asked or likely would have asked me, what is their motive to do these assaults, harassments to you and your son? Sergeant Eskin, Lieutenant Rhodes, then later other Tigard cops...
 told me in early 2006, they love to harass people. They also said they love to torture people.
 They said they do this to me and others to destroy, weaken, or kill us parents so they can have more access to our money, possessions, and our kids. They are pedophiles. They admitted to that to me many times by their actions and what they said. They also say they try to take away or weaken the kid support systems to more easily turn them into pedophiles.
 mentoring candidates who are making it appear they committed suicide. They have additional motives. This is my last sentence. I have a question for you. Can I finish my last sentence on this and I'll be right with you.
 They have additional motives to target me and others. Hate crime reasons. They are Nazi cops. They admit it and often say racist comments. I had this much more, but I guess I used up my time. Go ahead, Mr. Fish. Ms. Smith, thank you for coming in today. And I've lost track of the number of times that you've come to counsel on
 and essentially shared this same story. And each and every time we've tried to direct you to someone in the community that can provide some support and assistance. And I feel like that as this continues, somehow we're failing you. That's for sure. Well, on many levels. And I just want to say to you that having this conversation before us when it's a different agency,
 and the nature of your claims, we have tried to connect you to people and services. Because there's a public forum and there are privacy issues, we can't talk about that publicly. Well, I've tried to get meetings with the mayor a few times, never got a meeting. So I wouldn't have to say all this awful stuff in front of everybody. No, I understand. The question is, do you have someone that you are currently working with on this issue?
 The way to stop these crimes, Mr. Fish,
 is to report them to police. Occasionally, I'll run into an officer who tries to say something helpful. The problem is there are too many of them who, because of the kind of technology they use, cover it up. I live in Portland. It is Portland's jurisdiction. Ms. Smith, we don't have time to continue the discussion. I'm going to talk to the mayor and see if there's some other approach that we can come up with because I feel like
 This is imposing a huge burden on you, and it's not leading anywhere productive. And I feel like we're missing an opportunity to perhaps address something more important. So, Mayor, I'd like to have a follow-up conversation with you, and we'll see what's possible. Yeah, I'd be delighted to do that and to share with you the many, many conversations we've had with different people. It is a Portland police jurisdiction, though. I live in Portland. Thank you. Good. Thank you very much. Thanks again, Catherine. We appreciate your being here.
 Next item, please, Carla. 876, request of Shedrick J. Wilkins to address council regarding Terminal 1. Let's try again. Terminal 1, it's back. Good morning. Well, Mr. Mayor, one thing about coming up here, somebody emailed me about where Homer Williams is doing his next one, so that conversation went out the window. So I'm a homeless kind of like alternative energy advocate, and she actually emailed me because I'm talking, so...
 I'll look, I'll email her back. You bet. Good morning. Carly, you can start at 3 now. Thank you. Good morning. Can I get going? I believe in alternative energy for reduced income people. The other day, my power went out in my apartment. I grabbed these devil horns I bought at Target. I'm walking around with the bathroom. I'm thinking about putting some solar panels in my window to charge up a phone and things like that. It makes a lot of difference, a phone, a...
 radio, and some lights. These things are useful, too, if you're looking for a job and you're homeless or something like that or low income. You need these kind of things. I want to say something. I feel right now the United States is on the verge of a financial crash. Basically, this crash is based on automation.
 For example, the next talker will talk about losing postal jobs. People are losing postal jobs because people use phones and computers. And, in fact, I got my message by e-mail and not by regular mail. This means there's decreased amount of – and President Trump will cut postal jobs. In this whole process, I believe the worst thing people can do in a bad economy is have a lot of kids.
 So in the future, as a homeless advocate, I support Planned Parenthood. And I support Governor Kate Brown. And Democrats tend to support Planned Parenthood a lot more than Republicans. Thank you. Mayor, this item does say regarding Terminal 1.
 So I would like to share with the council that the purchaser of Terminal 1 has increased their earnest money deposit nonrefundable to $1 million, which means they are hoping to close later in August. And we are in the process of scheduling a ceremonial closing, Mayor, with the buyer. And you and I will join the buyer at a signing ceremony. Very good. There's good news. Thank you. I appreciate it.
 Next item, please. 877, request of Jamie Partridge to address council regarding saving downtown postal service and at-the-door mail delivery. Good morning, sir. Good morning. I'm Jamie Partridge. I'm here representing Communities and Postal Workers United. And I'm here because I've been unable to schedule a meeting with the mayor's staff for the last six months. So I thought I'd come here. Okay.
 We have two sets of petitions, one on saving the downtown postal service and one on saving door-to-door mail delivery. We have about 1,000 signatures on saving our downtown postal service and a few hundred on saving at-the-door mail delivery. PDC, that is Prosper Portland, has an agreement with the U.S. Postal Service to...
 to relocate the downtown, the main post office, to within seven blocks of the current location when it's demolished. But there's no agreement about the level of service that will be provided. And we're concerned that the same level of service or better service be provided.
 downtown. It's the best post office in the city. It opens early, stays open late. It has a 24-hour lobby with access to thousands of post office boxes and parcel lockers and a parcel mailing machine. And it has general delivery for travelers and the homeless. It has good parking off-street, etc. And
 We're asking for a public hearing so that the Postal Service will testify about what they're thinking about, what their plan's on, and that the public can weigh in. The Postal Service has refused for the last year to hold a public hearing. Title 39 of the federal code dictates that public elected officials hold hearings and have testimony from, and that's on the top of your packet, that federal code.
 and hear testimony. The second issue is that of saving at the door mail delivery. There's a bill before Congress, the Postal Reform Act of 2016, which has been passed out of committee, bipartisan, unanimous vote.
 to go to the floor for, and it has a poison pill, Section 202, which would eliminate at-the-door delivery over time that has forced everyone, residents and businesses, into cluster boxes down the block around the corner or at the curb delivery, which would severely impact service for frail, elderly, disabled people and, of course, businesses and eliminate tens of thousands of letter carrier good living wage jobs.
 So we're asking that you pass a resolution or send a letter in support of at-the-door delivery. And I'm happy to answer any questions you might have about these two petitions. We're asking for a public hearing on the downtown postal service and a letter or resolution on at-the-door delivery. Colleagues, any questions? Yes.
 I thought the post office is in the Constitution. Is that correct? I'm sorry? The post office is in the Constitution. That's right. So does it specify what the post office means? What the post office what? When it's referred to in the Constitution of the United States. Do you know what was designated? It doesn't say that it has to be public. It could be privatized. It doesn't say that there has to be universal delivery, which currently there is.
 So it's, you know, we can't rely on just lawyers to make this happen. It is quite special to be named in the Constitution. Thank you very much for being here. It's the only federal agency. Yeah, I want to apologize. A couple of people have mentioned today that they were not able to secure meetings with me, and I do want to apologize. Well, we were actually just trying to get a meeting with your staff. Well, here's the deal. There are over 600,000 people in the city.
 A typical non-council day for me has between 14 and 16 meetings. We're actually extending that even farther. So I will now be taking breakfast time meetings every day with the exception of Friday because I still do want to take my daughter to school at least once a week.
 But I just want people to know it's not that we don't want to have meetings, don't take meetings. We have so much time in the day and lots, I mean, every day we get dozens of requests for meetings. So please do not take it personally if we don't extend a personal meeting to everybody who requests one. And I wish we could, but...
 I would love to have a staff three times larger than the staff I have, and we will be talking during the next budget season about the capacity in the mayor's office. For now, we're working with the capacity that we inherited for the second half of the year. We've extended it a few more bodies for the current fiscal year that we've just entered. Obviously, we're going to be working with the mayor's office.
 The demand for meetings in my staff is swamping our ability to do it, and I want to apologize. We're doing our level best. Thank you. And I will be there bright and early for people who are willing to get up early to meet with the mayor. Thank you. Appreciate it. Appreciate it. Thank you. Next item, please. 8.78, request of Hank McCurdy to address council regarding extending streetcar into John's Landing. Good morning. Good morning.
 I've given you a little packet. If you can go to the last page, that'll help our discussion here. So my name's Nick McCurdy. I'm an owner and developer of the Boathouse Apartments on the river in Johns Landing. And it's my understanding that there's a discussion in the city about extending the streetcar to Hamilton Court, which is the southern boundary of the South Waterfront. So I'm here to urge you to extend it much further. So if you look at the map, I've got two arrows.
 I think the first one is Hamilton Court. The second one is where our apartment is. And if you look at the Hamilton Court area, you see there's a bottleneck. And it's simply ineffective for the people in John's Landing.
 So the population in Johns Landing is growing. There's three new apartment developments, 481 units, another 1,000 people in population. There's about 5,000 people living there, lots of businesses. And this is really, I think, kind of a softball. And I bring this to your attention because I know the council is just swamped with lots of complicated issues. This is pretty simple, okay?
 The right-of-way is already there. It's been there for 100 years. There's a pretty vocal opposition of people living on that right-of-way to this proposal. I don't know how many people there are. A couple hundred, I would say. They've made their voices heard at City Council. And the 4,000 to 5,000 other people who this would really benefit would.
 you know, I'm going to try and make those people heard. So we're putting up a website and we're going to gather signatures and that sort of thing to give you some political support but, I mean, it's pretty simple. I'm not going to talk about the environmental benefits because you all know that. The biggest expense of light rail, streetcar, is the right-of-way. That's already there. It's been there for a hundred years. The people who live along that who are vociferous and complaining, you know, I mean, it's
 right smack in their face when they buy these condos and so on. So we have to have some balance. I think this is fairly easy. Maybe it would cost $4 million. I know when I say easy, there's a little smile that creeps up on your faces because really nothing's easy. But compared to what you deal with, it's, I think, pretty straightforward. So, you know, this would be cheap, very effective.
 because it's not going to be impeded by street traffic, which is the biggest complaint, I think, about streetcars. So thank you. Thank you, colleagues. Any thoughts? I have one. Yeah. First of all, I agree with you. Okay. Second of all, I've agreed with you for many, many years on this subject, and you're bringing back a little PTSD for me. The...
 When I was the Multnomah County Chair, I lived in a condominium that actually the bedroom looked right out onto this right-of-way, and I was still very supportive of it, and I was actually supportive of the extension all the way to Lake Oswego. And I hope you're joking when you say easy.
 because that was a really hard-fought battle. And at the end of the day, the communities, plural, were extremely well-organized and virtually unanimous
 in their desire to make sure that there was not an extension. And I remember back in the day, you know, those of us who worked at the regional level, the county folks, my counterparts here at City Hall, we sweetened the pot multiple times, including even offering up a free resident-exclusive stop along that right-of-way. Okay.
 And it still went nowhere. So I think what will eventually happen is people who commute will get tired of that commute. I know I would already be tired of it.
 And someday I think the environment will be more receptive of that kind of a solution. It's a really obvious one. From my perspective, this is as close to a no-brainer transportation solution as they get. No doubt it is, to some degree, a disruption or a change to the neighborhood. It is. And we have to be honest and acknowledge that.
 But I like your forward thinking on this, and I want you to know that. Yeah. I've been there for a long time. Yeah, the Lake Oswego thing is just a tremendous headache. You know, into John's landing, I don't think. Now, when I say this is easy, I want to add some levity to your day.
 But I, you know, I realize, but, you know, I'm thinking in the scope of the tremendous issues that the council faces, this is, you know... It's a good one, and we're lucky that we do have that right-of-way. Oh, yeah. That's really fortunate. And when the Selwood Bridge was reconstructed,
 the opportunity was deliberately left open through the engineering solution on the Selwood Bridge. Because I think most people think it is inevitable. But if there's one thing I've learned in politics, you have to listen to the community. Oh, yeah. And the community is still very clear on where they stand on this. You and I are in the minority.
 Right. Well, I'm not sure if that's the case in John's landing, and I'm going to make the effort to show you that the $4,000.
 people versus a couple of hundred people. Yeah, I mean, what could be better? I mean, walk outside from your home and a few minutes later be in the downtown court. It'd be great. It's quiet. Commissioner Fritz. I'd just like to provide some context from the city's perspective since I was involved in that. There's also the question of what's the most urgent need for streetcar. If I had...
 the ability just to say, Foster Road, a circle route along the north-south routes in East Portland, where being near the streetcar could actually stimulate development. The downside of being on the unused trolley track is that it's not necessarily going to bring the investment in the adjacent properties. That is one of the chief reasons that I've supported streetcar in the past. Yeah. So my response to that is that volume pricing...
 tack this on to the Foster Road thing.
 It's going to be cheaper. Thank you very much. Good. Hey, thank you for coming in. We sure appreciate it. Thanks for everybody who testified this morning. All right. First, let's see. Let's do the time certins, and then we'll go to the consent agenda. Could you please read the first? Mayor, I won't be here. Commissioner Fish? I won't be here, so let's at least adopt those portions. So you're leaving at what time, Commissioner Fish? 10-20. 10-20. And we have you, Commissioner Udeli. I was kidding on that.
 You were kidding. Okay, good. How many items have been pulled from the consent agenda? 883 and 886. 883 and 886. Commissioner Saltzman, it's my understanding that 886 you've requested to pull that until next week. Is that correct? Let me check here. Yes, that's correct. Okay, so that one is off the table. 883...
 First of all, let's call the roll on the remainder other than 883, please. And 886, correct. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Call 883.
 Authorize the purchase of certain real property located at 3000 Southeast Powell Boulevard at a price not to exceed $3,720,000 to develop affordable housing. And do we have somebody from the Housing Bureau who would like to discuss 883? Mayor? Commissioner Fish? My suggestion is we just move this to the end of the agenda. That's on the consent stuff because we do have time certain ahead. Any objection? No.
 We'll move it to the end of the agenda. Please call the first time certain item number 879. Media Institute for Social Change Summer Documentary Program. And one change. We have Director Krieger here. So after this item, we'll hear briefly from Director Krieger on the item that we just moved to the end.
 So 879 colleagues, today we have the pleasure of having students here in the chamber from the Media Institute for Social Change Summer Program. And they're here today to present their short films. It's my understanding that the students have chosen to share with us the following two films. The first is Rage On. Is that correct? Yes.
 Rage On, it's a film regarding senior activism in Portland by the Raging Grannies. And this is a group that has come and testified before this council on many occasions. This film is by Emily Curtis and Lucy Stevens. Emily graduated from Reed College in 2016. She's originally from Wilton, Connecticut. Okay.
 and she has chosen to remain in Portland. We're grateful for that, and is beginning a career as an audio documentary producer. Lucy Stevens is a rising senior at Carleton College in Minnesota, where she studies film. She's originally from Portland. Single Track is the second film. It's a film about gateway green and off-road cycling in Portland. The film is by Kiana Kultzer and Maddie Stapleton.
 Maddie Stapleton is a rising sophomore at Western Washington University, where she studies political science and journalism. She's originally from Kansas. Kiana Kultzer is a rising senior at Western Washington University, where she studies cultural anthropology. Born in Seattle and raised in Southern California, she hopes to work in nonprofit communications after graduation.
 To present the films we have with us today, Coral Yang, a junior at Tufts University, an international student from Shenzhen, China, who is majoring in anthropology and minoring in political science and media studies, and Emily Curtis. So ladies, thank you for being here. We appreciate it and look forward to seeing your work.
 Thank you. Good morning. So I'm Emily. I'm Coral. And we are here as students of the Summer Documentary Program at the Media Institute for Social Change. If you don't know much about it, the Media Institute is a Portland-based media lab that brings activists, media makers, and community members together through lectures, film screenings, and courses in film and radio production.
 The summer documentary program is a seven-week media intensive that has brought 11 of us, and the rest of us are back here, aspiring media makers, podcast junkies, and film nerds to figure out how to tell meaningful and impactful stories in an increasingly dissonant media landscape.
 This is all culminating tonight at our final event where we are screening our short films at Shout House at 7. So we would love to see as many of you as have the time there tonight. And before I hand things off to Coral, I would just like to make a few comments. As a Reed graduate, I've called Portland my home for five years.
 And as a student with a background in religion and ethnography, the power of conversation to reveal the contours of our community and that you can't know a place until you talk to its people is a truth that I live by. And one of the great revelations of my work this summer at the Media Institute has been the privilege of being able to live in a city that reflects those values in its media landscape.
 Working with KABU, X-Ray, Open Signal, I've seen that Portland is a city that's really a crucible of community-based media that brings locality and the people that live here back into the way that we think about stories, political action, and justice.
 It's a constantly evolving ecosystem that emerges from the streets and engages people in the telling of their own stories. And I think what makes it more special, just as Portland itself, is that there's the idea of access not only to consumers of media, listeners of KBOO, listeners to OpenSignal,
 for people to learn how to produce media. And I guess as a resident of Portland and as a student of this program, that is what I would love to see the city to continue to support, is that kind of access to emerging medium.
 Can I ask you a quick question? Yeah. Could you tell us again where the screenings are tonight and what the address is? I will. And how people can get more information? Yeah. So the screening tonight is at 7 p.m. at Shout House, which is –
 near or under the Hawthorne Bridge. The address is 210 Southeast Madison Ave? Yes. Yeah, one of the Madison Suites you'll see under the bridge. And you can find out more on the Media Institute's Facebook page. The event should be listed there, so you can find out details of what will be going on tonight there. All right.
 Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, before going into the film introduction, I would also like to make a few more comments. As a student from China, studied internationally at United States and Portland this summer,
 As during my time in the Media Institute, I've also been keeping an eye on the media landscape changing in my home country. It's been radical and has affected me personally. And I'm very glad I'm here at Portland where I've met a lot of authentic change makers and media makers that have encouraged my longstanding ideal to stay telling the truth.
 and handed me some very powerful tools to accomplish my goal as a media maker. I've made contact with people and local community advocates in Portland, celebrating diversity, celebrating cultural authenticity, people like in the Milagro Theater, the community theater group, and others.
 other places like the Portland Chinese Garden and the Chinese community here has been encouraging to me as in how they represent the community well. So I thank Portland for that. I think my opportunity here has been worth it. So during this program...
 Students here have made a total of five films. We will be only presenting here two of them, and the remaining three films are about... One of them is about a homeless veteran who has been living in Hazelnut Grove, a homeless village here in Portland.
 who came out from the street and found her community and finally become a community advocate for the homeless, houseless population. One film is about the Muslim Education Trust, a young woman who works as a community ambassador. They're trying to, I guess, represent the community in a broader context and community.
 the community engage in education. And one other film is about the big float. It's called The Water's Fine with a human access project about the Willamette River and the effort in handling water pollution in Portland has been going very well. We're a fun movie. I encourage you guys to check out our movies on our website. It will be online I guess soon or
 yet now and then we have been making uh radio pieces individually and they will also be presented at our website um yeah i wish the city council do take the time to address our issues um in the movies and the radio pieces that we'll be presenting to you guys can i ask you we've asked phil bussey this in years past um if the if any member of council wants to either link to a film or put it on facebook or whatever
 What are the ground rules? Are there copyright issues, or do we just have to give proper attribution? Proper attribution is great. We would love to share them. Thanks. Okay. Okay.
 And so I guess without further ado, you already gave a wonderful introduction. We're going to be showing Rage On and Single Track. Rage On, just to reiterate, is about senior activism in Portland through the lens of the Rage and Grannies. And Single Track is about increasing access to off-cycling trails and the way that that is happening at Gateway Green. Tell them about your eight-year-old. Social justice...
 My granddaughter, who is about to turn nine, so on September 1st, has been very politically aware and is now losing sleep. It breaks my heart to even talk about it because she can't fall asleep at night because she's so worried about the political situation. And she's worried.
 She's afraid of the current administration, and she's also a biracial girl, so she's even more concerned about what is happening, and it just breaks my heart. So if I can do anything to protect her and other children, no matter who they are, whose grandchildren they are, whose children they are, I'm going to do it, man, until my dying breath. It's just there's, in today's political climate, there's just one thing after another.
 I'm Judy Romano, and I'm 69 years old. I'm Alice Shapiro. People often call me Allie. I am 71 years of age. And I like 71 years of age. Yes, because I don't feel old. I don't feel old until I look in the mirror, and sometimes when I look in the mirror, it's like, Mom, what are you doing here? Oh, it's me. Laughter
 So I was not tremendously active growing up. I think I was interested, but I didn't do a whole lot until joining the Raging Grannies. So for me, it's been a big change and a real positive one.
 Five, probably six years ago, there was a No Monsanto action, and I went there, and here comes this group of women in lovely costumes and hats carrying their banner that said Portland Raging Grandies, and I went, I found you! So I ran over when they were finished singing, and I said, I want to be there with you, and that was how that happened. They were my age, and they were up there singing these songs like
 All we are saying is give peas a chance, give corn a chance. Anyway, I just went, I've got to be part of this. We don't have to memorize the songs. That's right. And we can make the print as big as we need. People start singing with us. The words get pretty clever. Don't ask me which ones because I don't remember. Right.
 They go wild for us. They really do. It's I've never had that in my life You know, I mean it's really something so I I think we're blowing any little old lady stereotypes because we're not I get do you know the expression for clamp clamp? Oh
 It's like you tear up, but you're not really crying. You just get very emotional at the Pride Parade. It is unbelievable. And the love that we're pouring out and the love that's coming to us, and we've often talked about how we probably represent to a lot of people who have come out
 their grandparents or their mothers or aunts or whatever who haven't accepted them and we're marching and accepting them and the outpouring of love is is just sometimes i i i can hardly get the words out i'm just really moved y'all better give it up for mcquay and a
 Yes! I'm an older white woman who's physically not very large. I have a lot more latitude. I'm not as likely to be targeted. I can speak, even though sometimes I know I don't represent and I haven't walked in the shoes of people of color or immigrants. I can still use my voice and I won't be put down, I won't be silenced
 as quickly. I won't be arrested as quickly. I won't feel threatened as quickly. Yes, we cannot deny our privilege. We have this privilege and now let's use it to the good.
 When we're out there and younger people are out there, we're in this together. Yes. And we could, we're retired women, we could be, you know, just sitting back and playing bridge and eating bonbons, but we're not just doing that. So we are still involved and still active and active.
 I think that, you know, to show that we're in this with you. We're not just like, oh, well, we had our education. We had our lives. We're retired. We're, you know, it's up to you now. We're not doing that. We're not taking that position. We're in it together. I don't know what you're doing. We get strong as we get old. Rage on. Rage on. Stay strong. Stay strong. And then raging granny. Rage on.
 Still got so low. This happens with every PowerPoint, so don't feel like you're being singled out. Gosh, it's hard to even put into words what it would mean, the value it would bring to my life to have easy access for offers like this. Yeah.
 I mean ideally Gateway Green is the sea change that the off-road cycling community has been hoping and waiting for. And that is the opportunity to help change the conversation about what off-road cycling is and who rides mountain bikes and what kind of impact they have.
 There is no street access, it's a super special park in that capacity that you can't just drive your car right up to Gateway Green. It's located between two interstate highways, between Interstate 84 and Interstate 205.
 fairly fresh out of college and I wasn't quite sure who I was. And I was like, okay, I guess this is it, but there's got to be something more. And so mountain biking was introduced to me and I would go out every single weekend and learn how to ride. I found myself there. I found myself on my bike and I found myself in the people that I was riding bikes with.
 I love riding my bike, but if I had the chance to do more of my commute on an unpaved surface through a treed landscape where I could hear the birds, what a beautiful way to wake up in the morning. Or what a nice way to come down from the stress of a work day. It's not the super adrenaline-based, daredevil, hyper-masculine activity.
 You'll see adults out there that it's clear they're trying mountain biking for the first time just coming to our sports. And then you see little kids out there with scooter bikes, they don't even have pedals yet. Really all that was expressed the most by the community is they wanted to make sure
 I'm running the Shred Academy program and basically we teach kids from ages like 5 to 14. Today camp is really awesome. Thursdays are like our super fun day. After lunch we ride our bikes out to Gateway Green and we have an afternoon session on the dirt and it's like, it's the best day of the week. It's a really cool way to implement some outside riding within the Lumberyard Shred Academy.
 Getting to Gateway Green is actually super awesome. We talk about etiquette on the streets, looking both ways before we cross, using hand signals to turn. It only takes us about 10, 15 minutes to get there, and so it's a quick trip. We go there, we ride our butts off. The kids are so psyched to go, and when it's time to leave, they don't wanna leave, and then on Friday, they have to go again. So it's adding a huge element to what we're doing here.
 You learn by engaging with other cyclists that have been through the beginning stages that you're going through. And it's also good for those of us that have been cycling for a really long time to be able to see the enthusiasm and the joy and the fall down but get right back up and dust yourself off kind of attitude that beginners bring to our sport.
 So another really valuable characteristic of Gateway Green being located in East Portland is that East Portland has the highest percentage of school-aged children in the entire city of Portland. But it's also our most park deficient neighborhood in the whole city. So tons of kids that need safe places to play, but they haven't had it up until now. I think like having this sort of situation for kids is super important because there's some kids out there like myself that grew up with like ADD.
 And so this is a really great outlet for these kids to be able to accomplish their own personal goals on their bike. So I am optimistic that we're at a turning point right now in the city of Portland when it comes to off-road cycling access. And we're really excited that Gateway Green will stand to be the standard of which we will look and hopefully educate people that it's really open to everybody and a really healthy way to get out there, spend some time in nature, spend time with your friends.
 to bring people together, enjoying themselves, they're comfortable being around each other. We can have more of a conversation to determine where else mountain bikers could ride their bikes here in Portland.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you for publicising about Gateway Green and Linda Robertson and all the community's help there. It was fantastic. Two things that people need to know. First of all, opening day it was 100 degrees and the kids were still acting like it was 60 degrees. And secondly, they all were wearing their helmets and that was kind of becoming the norm there that...
 that's just what you do if you're going to be riding a bike. So I was really pleased with those two issues. And thank you for publicising one of the things that we're doing with system development charges and other investments in East Portland.
 Thank you so much, and we hope to see you guys tonight. Great, thank you. These were excellent works, and we'll look forward to watching the others that we didn't get a chance to see. And could you just stay one more time for the record where the viewing public can see these films? It's called Shout House. The location is 210 Southeast Madison Ave.,
 Under the Hawthorne Bridge, I believe. And then if people want to see it on the web, where would they go? It's going to be on mediamakingchange.org. Mediamakingchange.org. Thank you. Excellent work. Really well done. Thank you. We're going to do time certain 880 next. We'll move to 881 after that, then go back to the item that was pulled from the consent agenda. So item 880 next, please. Okay.
 880, approve new construction financing in a total amount of $1,377,173 for new meadows from the Interstate Corridor Urban Renewal Area.
 Colleagues, this is a joint venture between Bridge Meadows and New Avenues for Youth. This would be new construction of a 15-unit multifamily rental property that will house former foster youth who have aged out of the foster care system and may be homeless or facing homelessness, possibly with a dependent. This is a companion project to the successful intergenerational Bridge Meadows project nearby.
 Of the total cost of the project, approximately $3.9 million, nearly $2.0 million will be paid for from private sector donations. A private donor has also contributed $1 million in operating subsidy for the first five years of operations in order to allow time for the project to bring together various funding sources that may be available to former foster youth being housed.
 Because residents are not expected to arrive initially with incomes, all of the units are restricted to those at or below 30% MFI, which is $15,690 for a household of one and $17,940 if with a dependent household of two.
 I will let Kurt talk about the funding sources, and just as a note, I will make sure everybody is invited to the groundbreaking. Director Krieger. Yes, thank you very much, Mayor and members of council. It's my pleasure to be here today.
 Really the last action before us, the loan before you will close tomorrow. And it's important to note that of the sum, $1,377,173, this occurs in two allocations under two different housing commissioners. The first allocation of $800,000 was in the 2014 NOFA authorized under Commissioner Saltzman's.
 supervision and the second allocation this winter made under Mayor Wheeler of $577,173. So our investment is approximately $1.4 million, but we're getting much more value from that. It's important that you know that the funding comes from the interstate corridor urban renewal area, so it's tax increment financing.
 and it will serve emancipated youth. With me today is Dorinda Schubert. Dr. Schubert is Executive Director of Bridge Meadows. Sean Sub, Executive Director of New Avenues for Youth, and Ross Cornelius, who's the Project Manager for Walsh Construction and a board member of Bridge Meadows, which is an important connection because of their donation of materials. Last, I'd like to say that this,
 This particular project has been made exempt from the preference policy because it is serving a larger population than just North Portland youth. We felt that that was an important distinction to be made. It is important to note, however, that of the 1,000 people served in 2014, 40% were people of color. So it is serving a valuable purpose, and I will let the sponsors speak for themselves with regard to this project. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Good morning. If you could please just state your names for the record. Sean Su, New Avenues for Youth. Dorinda Schubert, Bridge Meadows. Ross Cornelius, Walsh Construction.
 Well, I'm going to start, and I think the Raging Grannies video was a perfect lead-in to they cued us up because it really is what this project is all about. I want to say on behalf of New Avenues for Youth, Bridge Meadows, and our combined New Meadows project, we want to thank the Portland City Council, Mayor Ted Wheeler, and the Portland Housing Bureau and Housing Bureau staff and leadership for your continued support and investment in the New Meadows housing program.
 We set out too many years ago to find a creative and effective way to address the tragedy of young people in our community transitioning out of foster care into homelessness. In that time, those challenges have only gotten worse. I know just last night that we, in Portland, we had young people in foster care sleeping in motel rooms because DHS doesn't have placements for them.
 And we repeatedly see young people aging out of our system without the skills or community relationships they need and without access to safe, stable, and affordable housing. New Meadows is not only a public-private sector housing development partnership.
 but it represents the coming together of Bridge Meadows and their multi-generational housing community of elders and adopted families, and New Avenues for Youth, and our rich array of support services for transition-age youth. Together, with your help, we're about, in the Portsmouth neighborhood, we're about to build a safe place for these young people to call home, a place where youth coming out of foster care can,
 can be embraced by multiple generations within their community and receive the mentoring, skills training, guidance, and support they need to be successful. Now, my colleagues, Dorenda Schubert and Ross Cornelius, are going to talk a little bit about the project's readiness and where we are in the construction timeline.
 Hello, Mayor and Commissioners. So nice to be here today. Thank you. And I think we need to introduce the raging grandmas and the bridge meadows grandmas. The power they'll bring together is amazing. Thank you so much for once again believing in an innovative, affordable housing model to solve a social issue in our city and in our state. The power of our two organizations coming together is a testament to how serious our boards are about helping to be a part of this solution.
 I'm excited to tell you and pleased to tell you that we are ready. The money has all been raised, especially with your investment. As Mr. Krieger stated, over $2 million of private funding has been raised for capital and $1 million for operating, which is really unheard of. And we are very deeply grateful to all of those private donors who stepped forward, as well as the public investment of Portland Housing Bureau and Oregon Housing and Community Services.
 The permits are ready. The construction team is idling their construction equipment. And Bridge Meadows clinical team and the New Avenues clinical teams are ready to dive in and develop a really strong program for these youth. And on top of that, the Bridge Meadows families, children, and elders cannot wait to welcome these young people home. So thank you. And with your investment, we are going to start digging in the dirt next week, Mayor Wheeler. Please dig. Thank you.
 Just want to clarify, this is Ross. I'm actually not a board member of Bridge Meadows, as reported earlier, but I've been involved since...
 the early one in 2006 or whenever we started. And comments about leverage. Definitely qualifies an honorary board member. Just about. I think you just got drafted. Could be. I want to reflect Director Krieger's comments about leverage. And we think about the investment that we had made in Bridge Meadows. The city has made, the state has made,
 This is an opportunity to leverage that investment to even greater outcome. We're often looking for partnerships, not only public-private, but as was mentioned, between two very skilled and capacity nonprofits to perform and meet a need that isn't really met right now. This is an unmet need. These kids that are aging out have nowhere to go.
 And so we are taking on a very innovative approach here. This hasn't been done before. And we appreciate everybody's support to let us give it a whirl here. It's going to be successful because of the people at the table here.
 And then the leverage of being able to bring in so much private funding in addition to the public money is another benefit. So there's a lot pulling for this project. We'd like to get underway. We appreciate your patience as we've worked through so many issues to finally get to this point, and we look forward to breaking ground. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions of the director? Anybody on the panel? Commissioner Udaly. Okay.
 Yeah. First of all, I want to say thank you for this. I'm a fan of Bridge Meadows' model, and I'm really excited about this new project. So there'll be 10 studios with kitchenettes. Those are for the youth, correct? Yes, there'll be 10 studios and then four one-bedroom apartments for the youth because we anticipate that some of the youth will be parenting. Okay. And so I'm just thinking about the 30%.
 income limit because that would exclude someone with a full-time minimum wage job. So are we assuming that these youth are still in school?
 and won't be employed full time? Yeah, the, you know, the, one of the advantages of having private leverage dollars is to be able to have young people come in who are not ready to be housed. And so we're really looking for those young people who are engaged in school or just starting job training, really have zero to very, very little income.
 And really the goal is to both connect young people to community, but it's to help young people launch. And so the hope is to get folks there and then help them find their next step. And we're very hopeful that their next step will include staying connected and rooted to that community. So they may live there for a number of years. Is that the thought? Okay. Great. I was just kind of curious how it was going to work. Thank you. Thank you.
 Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have one person signed up, Jim Wittenberg. Come on up, Mr. Wittenberg. You guys can go have a seat. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate it. Thanks for being here. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. I'm not opposed to this. I just think that there's some deficiencies, which after next year will be 50 years of lobbying here in Portland. Right.
 for public interest. My first lobbying job was with Ted, excuse me, with Tom Hartown to go to Salem so we could take people who were addicted to cocaine and and
 opioids and other drugs like marijuana so we could at the time they had to be convicted of a crime and sentenced and then they could go in and have treatment in the state and that was the only way they could do it whether it was a severe marijuana addiction or whether it was
 was hard narcotics. I've always felt that was a turning point here in Oregon, that we seem to understand finally that people do get addicted to drugs, and it's a health problem, not a law enforcement problem. Secondly, my dad, just before he died, wanted me to promise that I'd quit involving myself in politics. It was such a dirty business.
 And I promised him that I would quit and to go back to my pharmacy job. It's $3,500 a month at that time. So I was making a very good salary. I made $45,000 a year. And he didn't live long enough after that that I had to disappoint him and go back into this dirty business, as he calls it.
 He was a great man who always stood before city council and told them just where they were and wasn't ever afraid of them. I lived the first few years being afraid of the mayor and the city councilman. And when Terry Strunk called me into his office, I thought, this is it, Jim, you're never going to survive this. A policeman held me by the ear and brought me down to City Hall.
 And he said, what are you messing up my city for? And I said, what are you talking about? He didn't like the fact we had formed the Oregon Council on Drug Problems at that time, worked with the alcohol and drug section in the state. And we would do benefits before PTAs like Park Rose, who had 700 people at it,
 And unfortunately, it didn't survive because I went back to Washington, D.C., and the people that were with it didn't quit bringing their own personal problems to the fore. One of the mothers had had her child killed by a train. It was a marijuana. I woke up at 3 o'clock today, so I'm a little tired. I'm getting to that age. I can't sleep anymore. But I ran across this. And if you remember this guy, probably, I don't know if you.
 from your mind. One of the things I liked about Charlie is I always knew where he stood. I didn't have to guess. I knew he loved this city.
 And I knew that he had things he wanted to get done. I knew he wanted his streetcar finished and he wanted it out. But he would have just had a terrible time if he ever saw this terrible mess that we've become. This is what Portland's become now. This is a terrible, terrible mess. My pharmacy's right underneath these down here. So I have to go by it every so often to see that dang ugly, stinking mess.
 And that's what the design commission is letting get through right now. You better do something about them because the east side of Portland is looking terrible right now. I went out to the hospital last night, yesterday, and I saw...
 building after building after building going up out there, five and six stories. I just... My city's being ruined right now. I know you want to put up all these buildings so you can...
 Make your constituents happy, but you're ruining the scene, and we're not having any place to park anymore. You know, you're not putting up buildings that go out of the sidewalks. And my caregiver is a black lady, and she still resents the fact that she tore down their houses out in Chicago.
 in North Portland with a bulldozer, and then you left the lots vacant out there. The city council did this, and that was a terrible thing to do to the black population of this town. They still don't like you very well. I don't know how long it's going to take that they like you again.
 Chloe, I do need to get in your office one of these days. So if I can do that again once more, then I'll be finished here. Great. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it. Colleagues, any further questions before we call the roll? Please call the roll. Saltzman. Well, I know at least Commissioner Fritz and myself spent a lot of time on our comprehensive plan in 2016. And we heard the concept a lot about the missing middle housing concept.
 The housing that's missing for affordable housing in neighborhoods. And this is, New Meadows is, and I know my colleagues Commissioner Udaly and Mayor Wheeler will get their fair share of that middle housing, missing middle housing concept because there's more to come. But the analogy is very apropos, I think, for what we're talking about today with respect to New Meadows. We're talking about a missing middle for people, some 8,000 kids in foster care in Oregon today.
 The missing middle, which is a place to live, a place to be surrounded by peers who have survived foster care, similar situations, and to be surrounded by the love and care of the Bridge Meadow families that will be literally right next door, the seniors who serve as grandparents and the families that are there committed to raising and adopting foster kids.
 And this missing middle is so missing. It's, it's, it's a shame that new meadows is, is the only thing we got going in this regard virtually. And I hope this is not the last investment we make in helping kids who at age 19 or suddenly find themselves turned out in the world, uh, often with no family support. Nobody did ask the questions about how do you establish a budget? You know, how do you buy a car? Anything like that. They don't have that guidance. They've lost it. Uh,
 They've been through millions of foster care placements. They've been through millions of different schools, and they just don't have it. And this is New Meadows is the opportunity to provide a stable, loving environment for these kids so they will go on from the middle to become successful, prosperous adults and contribute to this great city that we all live in. So I'm very happy that Bridge Meadows and New Avenues for Youth
 and Walsh Construction with Ross Cornelius, who downplays incredibly his role. But without Ross Cornelius, there wouldn't be a Bridge Meadows because he understood how to pull all those complicated funding streams together and actually get something built out of that. So my hat's off to all of you, and this is a great investment in transitioning youth, and I hope it's not our last investment. Hi. You daily?
 Thanks for being here today. I am an aspiring, raging granny, and I also hope to live in intergenerational housing one day. So, aye. Well, thank you for all your work in all the varied ways that you work in our community. I've had the opportunity to visit Bridge Meadows a couple of times. I really appreciate that you allow the Neighborhood Association to... We welcome the Neighborhood Association to be there. Thank you.
 This particular site was a little bit controversial along the way, and I'm glad that we were able to make it work, and I would anticipate that the community in North Portland will embrace this as well as they have Bridge Meadows. I think it is as much good for the older folks as it is for the younger folks, and I appreciate that in our society, which is sometimes disconnected from biological families,
 across this great land, that there's an opportunity to really intentionally create this caring community, and I appreciate all of your work on it. Aye. Wheeler. So this is exactly the kind of thing that the city council should be doing, and I think all of us here today understand the particularly precarious position that people aging out of our state's foster care system find themselves in,
 And I have said many times previously, and I'll say it again, it's unconscionable how many of them are going right from foster care onto the streets of this community. That is unacceptable. And as adults, I think we still have an obligation to see these young people through.
 to success. And this project is a big step in the right direction. So I'm really grateful to everybody who's worked hard to bring this to fruition. And as with the last one, I'll make sure everybody gets invited to the groundbreaking. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Director Krieger, I've spoken to Constantine since you're here. Why don't you come up and let's get to the next item on the agenda, which is 886, which was pulled from the consent agenda. Right.
 So – 886. 883. 886, authorize intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University to conduct a cultural assessment and develop an – I'm sorry. I meant 883. Commissioner Saltzman had pulled 886. Yeah. Got my 88s wrong. 883. Thank you. Okay.
 Authorize the purchase of certain real property located at 3000 Southeast Powell Boulevard at a price not to exceed $3,720,000 to develop affordable housing. Colleagues, this property at 3000 Southeast...
 Powell is large and the Housing Bureau anticipates up to 300 units of affordable housing and homeownership opportunities that can be built here. The property has a relatively close-in location. It has good access to transit and it neighbors Cleveland High School, making it ideal for families with students.
 We're using all the tools available to help us move on addressing housing affordability, in this case funding from hotels and short-term rentals. We could use bond proceeds to develop the property if it meets the final criteria that you will vote on in the not-too-distant future.
 stakeholders in the Bond Oversight Committee have been working diligently on those criteria. We could also bring other resources to the table for affordable housing. The most innovative part of this particular proposal is that while it's being permitted, we can use the space temporarily as shelter space. And I've directed the Housing Bureau to pursue this option with the Joint Office of Homelessness Services and the county.
 Ultimately, to address our affordability crisis, we have to use all the tools available, and this is one example of how we can move forward together. Director Krieger. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 Members of Council, it's my pleasure today to bring to you the first new site acquired with transient lodging taxes. Portland is really quite distinguished amongst cities nationwide, especially on the West Coast, in that we are harnessing the sharing economy and the value created through the short-term rental platforms and redirecting that money to mitigate the loss of affordable housing.
 The inevitability of the sharing economy is such that we, frankly, as a city, decided that we weren't going to forestall it. They're active in every country, really.
 but North Korea and Syria, literally. So we are able to take the $1.25 million that you've allocated in transient lodging taxes to the Housing Investment Fund and bond against it with a revenue bond. So some $9.8 million will be raised through the sale of revenue bonds backed by the general fund with the first pay coming from the transient lodging taxes.
 Last summer I was before you when the Powell Division Corridor locally preferred action plan was under consideration. And the East Portland Advocate community had asked for a commitment from the city for 300 units of housing in the corridor. And at that time, nearly a year ago,
 Exactly. I committed to do that. And the council was somewhat surprised that I didn't also ask for more money. I said at that time that the just-approved 2017-18 budget was sufficient for us to accomplish this. So we began looking last summer for appropriate properties that were large enough to hold significant property.
 investment in affordable housing. This particular site has been the location of the Safari Club, one of 54 strip clubs in Portland.
 It is zoned appropriately for our intended use, and as the Mayor indicated, we have an interim use in mind. I would say that because it's immediately across the street from Cleveland High School, that our preference would be if it's used as a shelter that it be confined to women or to families. We think this neighborhood might have suffered quite long enough with having a strip club across the street from a high school. We do, insofar as next steps are concerned, we would like to consult with the adjacent neighborhood. There is a residential neighborhood to the south.
 and consider ways in which the property can be designed in a way that enhances their value and ensures that impacts are reduced as much as possible. There is some historic fill on the property, and the price of the property was reduced during negotiation to account for the necessary removal of that fill. It must have been an unauthorized landfill of some material because methane was detected in our due diligence.
 So we've conducted both level one and level two environmental assessments with the full knowledge that we would have to mitigate that, and that will be a cost of the project. I'd be happy to answer any other questions. Colleagues, any questions? Any public testimony on this item? I didn't have a sign-up sheet. Please call the roll. We have one individual who would like to speak. Anybody else? Come on up. Name for the record. Three minutes. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. At first –
 I originally thought this was going to be purchased off the affordable housing bond, but I can see that is not the case. So I'm glad you offered me clarity on that, that it's coming actually from the transient lodging taxes. And then you've leveraged out a bond up to $9.8 million, my understanding. So I'm at total agreement on that. Again, I like the numbers that I'm seeing as far as your –
 projecting out maybe 100 to 300 affordable housing units. Again, I want to have a clear understanding when these projects are being presented, is one of the main focuses I want to see on these type of projects is how many jobs will be created when we do these projects. Because a lot of times on presentations, I don't hear that. And I want to have a clear understanding when you're putting these package deals together
 How many jobs will you be creating on these type of projects? It's very important to me to have a clear understanding on that. Again, I like the overall location. I understand the existing building there. I assume you'll be demolishing that building and having that removed. Sometimes I like to have that...
 removal of the building itself negotiated in the original deal up front to the current property owners. And you've stated again you've done a level one, level two, so I feel confident you've done an assessment on any environmental issues on the property, on the land itself, but I want to have a
 more of a clear understanding of the building that's currently there, any environmental issues that could be in the building itself, and possibly more of an estimate on when you do remove the building, what the overall cost will be on that. Sometimes I like to just have that up front to have a clear understanding before you move forward on the new development. But again, I like what I see, and...
 One question I might pose is that on the new development, can that be funded by the affordable housing bond, or do you plan on using financing from other areas? I'm not quite sure on that yet. I'll wait to possibly hear the answer. Thank you. So the answer to that question is possibly yes, depending upon the final framework agreed to by the city council for the bond, which will...
 then be subject to the Bond Oversight Committee per the ballot measure language. But seeing the urgency to this issue, we are being flexible in terms of our source of funding, and if it's not appropriate for the bond, we already have this alternative set up.
 through the lodging tax structure. So we're ready to go. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Good morning, sir. Good morning. Thank you for your time. My name is Christopher Gray. I'm the general manager of Safari Show Club. And before you guys vote, I would like to posit that you consider there's about 45 people that will lose their jobs if you decide to tear down this club.
 Most of my staff are heavily licensed by the DPSST, the OLCC, and we have done great work in the last year since I took over management of the establishment to clean up our particular area. We have fostered a strong relationship with the Portland Police.
 And, I mean, we've had only two calls to the police in the last nine months, which is exceptional for any bar, let alone a strip club. Most of the problems in that neighborhood come from the Motel 6 that is located next door. Just two months ago, they found a dead prostitute in there. That's the source of issues on Powell. As a Motel 6, it doesn't require a credit card to get a room, and that just fosters...
 or a really poisonous environment. I mean, you guys can blame Safari Show Club for any issues over there, but we have done great work in cleaning up our area. You're going to take away jobs from about 25 single mothers. And a number of my staff are parents. They're all going to lose their jobs at the end of the month if you do this. So just wanted to put that out there and maybe think about that. Thank you, and we appreciate your testimony. Thank you. Collings, any further questions?
 I guess my only question was why was this not on the regular agenda? Because it's – It should have been on the regular agenda, and that's one of the reasons it's been pulled. Director Krieger – and frankly, I want these on the regular agenda because there is a narrative out there in the community that we're blowing off affordable housing. Okay.
 This will be the third one we've discussed this morning. I want them into the public view so that people can see that we are actually taking this seriously and that we are moving forward. Director Krieger, do you have a question? Yes, I apologize that this was an error that occurred on the consent agenda. There were about six people that touched the front sheet, including myself, and I should have caught it. That's okay.
 I was just... The council needs a fourth or fifth vote anyway to acquire real estate, and this is of great importance. So in the future, all acquisitions by the Housing Bureau will be on the regular agenda. I think there was a question about remediation of the building itself. Nothing disqualifying showed up in the way of hazardous materials in the building. It's a shell with plumbing improvements and...
 Since there's no historic significance to the building and it's not older than 1906, I don't think it needs to be hand dismantled. We are cognizant that the property around it is quite dense and urban, so we don't want to create a lot of dust and debris. So that will be closely managed. And we regret that this has an impact on the employment of people currently gainfully employed there and doing work.
 perfectly legal work. The current purchase and sales agreement closes September 30th. The escrow will and all documents will have been signed by the 29th of September and the business will, under this current schedule, close September 30th. We are only buying the real estate. We're not buying the operating business.
 Thank you. Is it the intent to use the building itself for the shelter? Yes, it is. We've been working with the Joint Office of Homeless Services. The operating money needs to come from the Joint Office for this to be repurposed temporarily. There will be some employment, obviously, connected with the operation of the shelter. Obviously not the same, very highly likely not the same people.
 But there will be some employment, beneficial employment. And to Lightning's point, there are construction labor indices that we can always refer to if you're interested in knowing what job impacts are. I mean, that's a fairly standard practice. I'd be happy to include those in our future work.
 impact statements as these come to Council. We're getting a head nod from the folks who are here today that they'd like to see that. I think it would be useful to see that as well. Perfectly legitimate, especially since we're talking about employment losses and gains. Absolutely. Yeah, good. Thank you. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Well, what's not to like about this? It takes lodging tax.
 which is paid for by visitors, and I think all Oregonians like the idea of visitors paying us taxes, and we're taking that tax money and investing it in affordable housing and providing for a shelter as an interim use. Sam, with all due respect to the Safari Club and the impact it will have on your employees, this is something that 300 units of affordable housing with a shelter as an interim use, as we all know, are sorely needed in our city at this time.
 And I'm very happy to support this project. Aye. You, Daly? Well, I certainly don't relish the idea of the city putting anyone out of business and decreasing jobs. But the reality is we're so far behind on our demand for affordable housing. And I'm assuming that this particular lot is really our...
 or most economic chance at creating affordable housing in this neighborhood. So I vote aye. Fritz. Well, thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Director Krieger. It's a very helpful explanation of what's going on here and taking each step at a time. And I do agree with your suggestion to have it be a women's and children's shelter with the close proximity not only to Cleveland but to other services nearby. So thank you. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Invitations will be out shortly. Next item, and I know we have our folks from the police bureau waiting. It will be about ten minutes. We'll get the appointment taken care of here with IPR, and then we'll get right to you. And I really appreciate your patience this morning. Thanks, Captain. Next up, please, is, where did I put it? Here it is. Item 881, please.
 Appoint Daniel Schwartz to the Citizens Review Committee Advisory Board to the Independent Police Review, a division of the City Auditor's Office. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, members of Council. It is my distinct pleasure as the IPR Director to introduce Mr. Schwartz for appointment to the Citizens Review Committee for a three-year term.
 You know, as all of you know, these are pretty difficult times for community police relations nationally, locally. The CRC serves a particular role in providing and acting as a bridge between the community and
 and the Police Bureau, and serving as a kind of direct community involvement in police accountability. The CRC is comprised of 11 community members. Mr. Schwartz, should he be approved by you folks, will join them. And Mr. Schwartz is an extraordinary individual who is a long-term, long-time Portlander, a Lewis and Clark graduate, resident of North Portland, and
 works as a research associate at OHSU, as well as owning a small business owner. Oh, sorry, owning a small business. He is exactly the type of person that we need on the CRC of having a variety of backgrounds, and so that the CRC is not just comprised of attorneys, which historically it has been, and also having younger folks on the CRC.
 You have the packet. Mr. Schwartz is prepared to give a brief statement indicating his interest on serving on the CRC. Great. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Good morning. Thank you. Thanks to Director Sevier for referring to me as younger folks. So the preservation of a citizen's utility to observe and provide input on the Portland Police Bureau's disciplinary process is an indispensable element of police oversight policy.
 I hope to be able to be a part of that process as a member of the Citizens Review Committee, and I have full faith that I will be able to carry out my responsibilities in a fair and independent manner. I look forward to working with the City of Portland, and I thank the City Council for your time. Colleagues, can you tell us about your small business? Sure. The small business is Parkside Pub. It's a very, very small restaurant that's adjacent to Kenton Park, actually about a block away.
 west of the Paul Bunyan statue in Kenton. I think it would only be responsible, Commissioner, if we did a field trip, an investigative field trip. Background check, yeah. Thank you. I'm delighted that you're stepping forward and we could really use your perspective. It's a very important committee, as you know, as part of the accountability measures that we have in place today.
 And, Director Saverio, I appreciate your bringing forward such a qualified candidate. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes. We have one person signed up. Would you mind just hanging out for just three more minutes, and then we'll be right back with you. Thank you. Dan Hendelman. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm rested up after last week's five-hour session and ready to testify today. I'm Dan Handelman with Port and Cop Watch, and we regularly testify when people are being appointed to the Citizen Review Committee. We have no particular problems with Mr. Schwartz. We read through his application, which I know all of you have because that's required by the ordinance. It was actually interesting, the
 The application seems to have a new question on it, which I don't recognize. It has described your comfort level disagreeing with a community member who thinks an officer engaged in misconduct, but the evidence does not support the allegation. There's not a similar question for disagreeing with a police officer's point of view, and I'm not sure why that is. As it happens, most of the time when a police officer comes before the CRC and appeals to them...
 The CRC lowers the level of discipline or disciplinary finding that was supposed to be imposed on them, and for the first time that didn't happen in June when an officer came forward and they upheld a sustained finding. But frequently the CRC seems sympathetic when an officer takes the time to come before them, so it's odd that the question has to do with bias towards the civilian population.
 I should also add that Mr. Schwartz has attended, I believe, more meetings in the last year and a half than Jim Young, the person that was reappointed by Council in April. And I was told by an IPR staff person that Mr. Young resigned recently, which leaves an open seat. And as far as I know, Mr. Schwartz is the last alternate, and I'm not sure how IPR plans to refill that seat. But it means that your appointment that was made just in April, where Mr. Mayor, you asked for them to let Mr. Young attend by phone, right?
 and he didn't, he only showed up to one meeting I think since then. That seat could have been filled by somebody else and now it might end up being open until October when their cycle ends for applications. I also should note that Mr. Young's seat could be filled on an interim basis from time to time by a police review board member had City Council changed the ordinance the way we recommended, Portland Cop Watch recommended back in April
 And we were also promised at that time there was going to be a work session about how to fix the system. And I haven't seen that on the agenda. And we, Portland Copwatch, have asked to be included in that discussion. We're the only organization in the city that's attended every single meeting of the CRC ever. So we're hoping that when that does happen that we'll be invited to the table.
 Good. And I don't know if the director of IPR has any reaction to any of the public testimony. As you know, IPR is an independent entity under the city auditor who is an independently elected official. So I would defer to them if they have any reaction. Seeing none, colleagues, do you have any further questions or comments? Please call the roll. Saltzman.
 Well, thank you, Mr. Schwartz, in advance for your service to our city. Appreciate it. Aye. Udailey. Thank you for your service. Aye. Thank you very much. I did appreciate your answers to the questions, and I know that you are understanding the importance of the role that you're taking on. Aye. Wheeler. Glad to have you. Not opposed to an interim appointment. Aye. The appointment's approved. Thank you. Next item, the long-awaited 887 and our very patient...
 Officers from the Portland Police Bureau. 887. Yeah, 887, please. Authorize the police bureau to donate eight horses and equipment from the mounted patrol unit.
 Colleagues, I am very proud of the budget that we passed as a council this year. It's no surprise to anybody that Portland is in the midst of a housing and homeless emergency. We're in need of infrastructure and road upgrades and replacements, and this budget prioritized addressing these issues with record investments that we collectively made.
 That meant we had to make some very difficult budget decisions, including ending the mounted patrol unit. We appreciate the contributions and the service of the officers and the non-sworn members of that unit who served MPU. Please join me in thanking our mounted patrol unit staff and the horses, Monty, Asher, Red, Murphy, Diesel, Major, Olin, and Zeus.
 for their services. I actually wish that my parents had consulted the people who named those horses, because all of those are great names. When the city takes ownership of the police horses, the contract often includes a right of first refusal when the horse's service has been completed with the city.
 While not all of our horses have that clause, all of the former owners were contacted, and some of the horses will go back to their former owners. If the previous owners were unable to take the horses back, a good home was identified, and we ensured any required ongoing medical attention that can be provided.
 Today we have Commander Kelly Schaefer, Captain Larry Graham, and Sergeant Martin Schell to answer any further questions that the Council will have. I just want to mention Monty is being returned to the original owner, Jacqueline Shock. Asher is being returned to the original owner, Tina Smith. Red is being returned to the original owner, Arne.
 Andrea Vaughn Murphy is being returned to the original owner, Randall Snow. Diesel is being returned to the original owner, Catherine Kleinwachter. And Major is retired to Larry Kanzler.
 Olin, the original owner, Keith Hyde, would like to keep him to be retired to a local therapy program. We're working with Mr. Hyde to identify which program would fit Olin's unique medical issues. Zeus, the original owner, has indicated that they cannot afford to care for him due to an injury to his leg there.
 We recommend that he be retired to the care of stable attendant Taryn McAllister. She's willing to rehab him and take care of his medical issues. We want to thank all of the previous owners, and we want to thank those who are ensuring that the transition here is a humane transition for these animals that have served our Bureau so well.
 Colleagues, thank you. Welcome, Captain. I don't know if you wanted to start off with any commentary. No, I mean, the horses are kind of like...
 the canine dogs, where they're part of our family. They are officers that are retiring. They're finishing up their career. As such, the most important thing for us and the people that we've worked for carrying them all these years is to make sure they end up in a place where they're going to be loved, where they can be cared for, and they're going to be treated accordingly. And I know they've been working really hard over the last two months since the vote to make sure that that happens.
 And I want to thank you for your hard work on that. I know you guys have had many, many meetings. You've been burning up the phones. You've been pursuing every lead, every option, and I want to thank you for that. Colleagues, any questions of this panel? Any public testimony? Yes, we have three people signed up. All right, gentlemen, ladies, you can take a seat. We'll see if there's any further questions. Jay Veronica Vernier, Jim Wittenberg, and Dan Handelman.
 Jim, were you interested in testifying on this issue? Great. Come on up, sir. Dan, why don't you go ahead and start off, please. All right. I'm, again, Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. And I'm glad to hear the horses are going to good homes and that they're not being treated as property, which is how they're listed in the ordinance today.
 It's sad that for years they had to walk on sidewalks and the pavement, which is not what horses are meant to do. They were put in the middle of sometimes chaotic protest situations, which caused a lot of fear and alarm and injuries.
 Members of my group had issues, including one member who had their foot stepped on by a horse and I was pushed up against the wall by a police officer on a horse. Years ago, a mounted patrol officer broke somebody's arm by grabbing them off of a horse.
 So I think it's better for everybody, the horses, the community and the police to have these horses be retired and I really appreciate the council for finally taking this act after years of private money flowing in to keep this program alive.
 And we've made the comment numerous times that if Port and Copwatch had enough money, we would come up with all sorts of programs that we could do, like have police walk around in clown suits. And I don't think that public-private partnership is appropriate with law enforcement.
 So, again, we appreciate that this program is ending and the horses are being treated in a kind and humane way. Thank you. Thank you. And it may be worth mentioning, it sort of got buried in other news earlier this week, that our police bureau has been working very, very hard on increasing its community policing presence, particularly foot patrols.
 And so there are actually six new areas that will be the beneficiaries of these foot patrols in the near future. So I just wanted people to know that we have moved in that direction with a specific program and funding in place. Good morning. Good morning. How are you? Gracious. Good morning, Mayor Ted Wheeler. It's nice to talk to you in person. And I guess...
 You know, I just wanted to start by saying that I've always supported the police. I've grown up with police horses. Palomar Riding Stables is where we went as children, and we always fed the police horses from San Francisco Police Department. They'd always feed them carrots and apples. And so I grew up knowing horses, and I began riding at about age five on horses on the beaches. So I know a little bit about horses.
 Horses and police sequestering in detail. I also know that in Golden Gate Park during the 1960s, the mayor's always, especially Mayor Dianne Feinstein and also Mayor Art Agnos and some of the other mayors, Mayor Mosconi,
 used police horses to control crowds and of and they worked quite well they're above the level of the crowd and they they are actually known they're not police equipment but they are an added adjunct of the police department um in approaching a horse you always kind of look them right in the eyes and smile friendly and say i'm going to ride you and and that and that's a
 in putting horses out to pasture, I think that we should give credit, give them all medals for service because they do go above and beyond the call of duty. Now, I knew horse Bob and horse Frank, San Francisco...
 equestrian detail and that was during Mayor Feinstein's administration, Mayor Moscone also. And both of those horses were great. We got to know them in the Haynashbury and they'd come out in the panhandle all the kids would pet them and that was a good thing. So I think respect is important. I just wanted to say one tiny thing here. During the latest Montevilla um
 street fair, we had Shetland ponies. And I watched them go around. I thought this was just great. The kids got up on the ponies and they got to ride the horses. And they developed a sense for farm animals and an appreciation for what horses do.
 I think that they are specially trained. I think there's not a fear factor there. I once got up on a horse named Mabel, and my ex-husband had one named Firecracker in Yosemite Park, and I couldn't get the horse to go, so he said, take a whip and hit it. And then he did something that's kind of like when you kind of click your lips or something like that, and he went...
 Like that, the horse took off and headed for the nearest tree. I almost knocked me off. But that's another horse story. But I just want to say that, you know, it's not like Francis the Talking Horse or anything like that, but we do appreciate our police equipment in the cars, and the horses have had a wonderful life with the city. So I think, I don't know where the horse pastures are, but I hope it's a nice ride for them.
 Thank you for your testimony. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and the Commissioners. I really approve and I'm very happy about your new appointment to this police chief. I found out at a province hospital that a woman can do this job very, very well. About 10 of them surrounded me and made me feel that. When I was a little kid, I remember back when I used to come to Portland from Roseburg.
 from Roseburg, Oregon, with my mother, who was a furniture, a holder of a furniture store down there. She sold furniture all the time. And she, to get us to come, she always used to tell us about, as I remember, it's 70 years ago.
 that we can go see the horses if we go to Portland to get us into it. So every time we'd go to Portland, either there or in Aloha after we moved, we had the horses to look forward to. It's one of the humanizing parts of Portland. It was one of the things that always was around and we told ourselves that this would be a staple probably for, excuse the word, forever.
 And I know you've had a hard time the last few mares are keeping these horses with private donation stuff. But this is one of the saddest days of my life to see this happen to Portland. Because how much more are we going to take away from the people of Portland and tell it's good for them? We decided this is a good thing for you. So we're going to take this away and give you this.
 And I don't know if we're getting the input that we should be getting about what is taken away and what you guys give us. I like to have some say in that. I paid taxes over the years for 50 years in this town, and I deserve a voice in the matter.
 And I deserve to have you guys listen to me and make choices sometimes about what I have to say.
 you sometimes forget that we are real people out here. We bleed and we have stomach aches and we can't sleep at night sometimes because we're worried about the president bombing North Korea and getting bombed by them right back. But we need your support and we need you to like us and to be our fathers and mothers as it was. We need that. Some of us have lost them already.
 And I just don't feel that right now. I used to feel it from Charlie, and I do from Nick sometimes, and maybe Amanda. But it's just not enough anymore. You're just taken away so much and say, this is good for you. You'll like this. We decided that this is the best thing for you.
 I don't know. Maybe my dad was right. This is a dirty business, and I should stay out of it. Anyway, thank you so much. So, Jim, let me respond to that. Yeah, sure. Because you've raised it twice this morning, and I feel like as the mayor I owe you an official response. Good. First of all, you mentioned that you felt more heard by the previous mayor, and that may well be the case that you were better heard. Right, right.
 But then you went on to say, as your example of what we've lost, was the Burnside Bridgehead, which my recollection was that was firmly in place many, many months before I ever took over as mayor. So that's just sort of thing number one that struck me as interesting. Thing number two is nobody on this council,
 took pleasure in eliminating the mounted patrol unit. It's not something like we said, oh, goody, we get to eliminate one of the most popular community-based programs in the city. The decision we had to make, and what I think is really the challenge of being a local elected leader today, and my colleagues up and down the West Coast would tell you the exact same thing, it's about choosing between options with a limited pie of resources. Right.
 And I did make some very clear choices. I chose foot patrol over mounted patrol. I was very, very overt about that in three different budget sessions. We made another decision around affordable housing investments over other popular programs within the Parks Bureau. We had to shift resources. So...
 Really, it's not about not listening. It's about absorbing what people are saying and then making the hard choices, the tradeoffs between things. And so I will strive to do everything I can to ensure that you and everybody else feel like they are being heard. And I think if you come to today's session at 1 o'clock.
 You'll hear a lot of people saying, wow, this city council actually does listen to it. It would be nice to see some police officers on the street. Yes, sir. It's been a long time since I've seen it. The second thing, just tell me what affordable housing is. I sure can't figure out what it is. It depends. There are legal definitions, typically 60% to 80% of median family income. I talk about it in very basic terms. And then 30% and under is what we would call deeply –
 discounted or heavily subsidized housing. Some people call that government housing. I really think about it generally. I think about workforce housing on one hand, which means people who are here who hold, one, sometimes more jobs
 And still they cannot afford to live in this community without some sort of a discount. Or alternatively, I think about on the other end of the spectrum, people with zero to no income and zero to no potential. That could be overpriced.
 older folks on a fixed income. It could be people who have severe disabilities. It could be people who live with mental health issues. And from my perspective, there's a compassion argument there about the values of this community and supporting people from our community who truly need that hand up. But there's lots of different definitions, but that's how I think. I think of it as workforce, and I think of it as very affordable. Last comment.
 I went to Seattle four years ago after I had my first heart attack, and then I had my second one up there. And I couldn't find a place to live up there. I tried for four months. A girlfriend, a lady friend of mine was up there. And I never could find a place. I shared a place.
 a place that I had to go to the city and complain about because it had gravel on the floor and gravel on the bathroom floor. Right. But that's all opportunities we had, and I'm afraid that's what's going to happen down here, that that's all we've got left. And that's the great challenge. Unless you're wealthy. Right. Yes, sir. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Okay.
 Although me and the Police Bureau may have a lot of disagreements on a lot of different issues, to me, what has happened here is to, when we talk about community policing and bringing the community closer to what the police actually do, I think by not having this program in place, it's a big mistake. I think that the horses themselves...
 the Mounted Patrol were a fabric of the community that the commissioners and the mayor have taken at a discount. And when you remove something like this, it's kind of like when I was fighting for the memorials to stay in place, or I compare this to almost like the Royal Rosarians, the importance of seeing that as a community member of,
 and understanding the tradition behind it and the importance and the time it's been within the community and the history behind it and when you rip that out of the communities such as if you just said royal rosarians you're not allowed at city hall we don't want anything to do with you you're ripping the heart and the soul out of this city and let me tell you up here
 That chair over there, the bad karma chair, which you... That's me, everybody. I appreciate it if you don't speak during my testimony. The bad karma chair passed to you by Randy Leonard, and you won't get re-elected. And let me say this to you. When you come in here and rip this apart because of Sam Adams, Sam Adams' karma against Bob Ball, it's pathetic.
 And Mr. Adams, you should have never been the mayor. You're a blatant liar and you're a disgrace. And let me tell you, this is your legacy. This is going to be your legacy. And let me tell you something, it will never be forgotten in this city.
 Big mistake dismantling this. Big mistake supporting this. Big mistake to say this great city, who is producing more income than they ever have, we just can't find the money. Who's going to believe that? We just can't find the money. Well, leverage some of that money and do a bond, like they just did on affordable housing.
 You didn't even try to save this program. Sam Adams, this is your legacy. Go to hell! And I will remove myself out on being disruptive. Thank you. Dan, did you testify already? Yes, I did. Very good. Any further comments, colleagues, please call the roll. Saltzman? Well, I'm happy to hear that the horses look like they're going, most of them going back to their original owners or previous owners or headed to otherwise good, caring hands. Yes.
 I wanted to thank Sergeant Schell and his officers for so ably providing Mounted Patrol over the years. And I know your passion for your job and your horses is very apparent. So I appreciate your service. And I also want to acknowledge, I think I have his rank right, Reserve Commander Bob Ball, who is also tireless in his passion for the Mounted Patrol.
 And he has been a real trooper over the years. And, you know, I'm sorry that we are doing this, but I do agree with the mayor that we had to make some tough choices, and this was one of those tough choices we made. But I appreciate the service of all those in the Mounted Patrol and all those who were tireless advocates for the Mounted Patrol. Hi. You daily? Well, I'm sorry Mr. Lightning has left because I wanted to apologize to him for interrupting his testimony. Okay.
 Reality is he, on any given Wednesday, he's often speaking more than I am. So with that said, I may regret saying this, but I'm just going to share it. As someone who grew up in rural Oregon with horses and as a protester who experienced the use of horses for crowd control, I'm glad to see the horses off the street. They don't belong there.
 And to be clear, we haven't used horses for crowd control for a long time. The patrol was really more of a community outreach tool than any kind of real enforcement patrol. And I just think it's interesting how many people come and complain about how we're wasting money, but in this case with...
 mounted patrol that was mostly decorative and community outreach. They want us to keep spending money. We had eight horses. We had two riders. I wouldn't have fought keeping this program but I didn't
 feel particularly strongly about it remaining. I realize that Portland is changing at a rapid rate and that is traumatizing for a lot of our residents, myself included. I'm wondering if the public can go visit these horses in their new homes, which I'll just close by saying I'm very happy to hear how seriously we're taking the humane treatment of these animals who have served our community and I'm very happy to hear
 And I am voting aye. The thing that was most surprising to me in the write-up on this was that the average purchase price of these horses was just $3,000. And I say that knowing how much it costs to train a guide dog, for example, and they're very expensive.
 So, and I mentioned that to the mayor when we were talking yesterday, and he said that's because the officers do all the training, that the horses are not being sold to us or given to us, ready to go out on the street. There's a lot of work that's done. I do remember the story of the overweight horse, I can't remember his name, who, was it Murphy? Something like that. It was one of the horses that wasn't in tip-top shape, and the...
 staff were able to get him into order. And so it is something that community members do, many community members do relate to and will miss. It has been a tough choice, and I think especially thinking of having to provide a new home for them when Centennial Mills is redeveloped, then that piece of the cost equation was meaningful to me. So thank you, Mayor, for your leadership. Aye.
 Wheeler. I think I've already given my speech. I want to once again just thank the people who over many years were involved in this patrol unit, served it well, and led with dignity. Thank you. Aye, the ordinance is adopted.
 So, colleagues, we have one, two, three, four. One of the four is a second reading, those giving testimony. Given the tightness of the schedule, I'm going to simply ask if you could maybe give a few sentences. Top line, we've all read the reports. And if anybody has any questions, entertain questions from the city council. So first up will be 888.
 Accept bid of Moore Excavation, Inc. for the Wheeler Reconstruction and Green Street project for $7,886,940. Thank you. And while they're coming up, the usual disclaimer, I have nothing to do with this from a Wheeler Reconstruction perspective. Purely coincidental. Good afternoon. Good morning. Sorry.
 Good morning, Council. I'm Larry Palat from Procurement Services. I'll kind of cut through the front part of the typical report. This report is to award a contract to Moore Construction and Excavation, $7,886,940. It was previously approved in an authorizing ordinance.
 The Bureau of Environmental Services and Procurement Services established the typical 20% subcontractor and supplier equity goal. There is a total of $891,162, or 11.3% of DMWESP participation for the project, including seven DBE firms at $726,600 doing trucking, concrete cutting, and traffic control, one MBE firm at $105,000 for boring,
 And two WBE firms had a total of $59,562 doing landscaping and cure-in-place pipe lining. Moore Excavation is located out of Fairview, Oregon. They are fully compliant with all city contracting requirements. That's the short version. We have someone here from BES and someone here from work construction if there is specific questions.
 So I only have one, and it's the obvious one. We fell below the city-targeted goal on MWESBY. The outreach was done there in compliant with all of our SEP subcontractor program requirements. They've done outreach. They've been able to check all the boxes. More excavation is here. Gary Stevens, if you want to ask a specific question. Please go back. Okay.
 Yeah, if you wouldn't mind coming up and just giving us a few details on that. Good morning. Thanks for coming in again. Appreciate it. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Gary Stevens. I'm the Chief Operations Manager for Moore Excavation. Thank you. We solicited 86 solicitations for MWBE contractors. We received 18 quotes out of those 86 solicitations. Thank you.
 for only 20%, which was consistent with the last time I was up here was ironically it was 20% also. I'm not sure if you know the effort that we go to, but we're required to do a good faith effort, as you're aware of. But we fax and email requests to all 86 of these contractors.
 And we follow up with phone calls. We just don't send a fax and just expect them. We follow up, phone call, and remind them about the bid opening. And it's just really disheartening.
 They only get 18 quotes out of 86. Is this in part... I have been hearing anecdotally in our conversations around housing construction that subcontractors are just overwhelmed with opportunity right now. Is that part of the problem in your estimation? Especially...
 I would say especially in commercial and house building, but there's more opportunities in what we call vertical. We've talked about it before in past discussions. Vertical construction, be it housing, whatever, has more opportunities for subcontracting, opportunities for minority contractors, but
 Our work, especially this project, where we're literally open cutting and putting in new pipelines, the entry-level capital outlay is very high.
 which reduces the amount of participants, let alone once those participants are in the market. We're getting a lot of competition. What we're experiencing with city work, and we've talked to managers within BES, there's just a tremendous amount of, as you know, private work. I mean, you look at between Happy Valley and Hillsboro,
 you know, the thousands of homes that are going in and the earthwork and utility work, we just can't get people to quote the work. I mean, it's just the market pressure that's happening. And I appreciate that perspective, and I am satisfied that you've made the effort, and our staff is satisfied that you've made the effort. I just wanted to give people an opportunity here because it is not at our standard. Thank you.
 And I think we needed to have this public conversation as to why. I'm past president of the Utility Contractors Association. I'm on the board. And we've had many meetings with BES and purchasing and previous discussions. I must say that the 20% is quite aggressive. It's the highest of any municipality and or state.
 body in the state as far as minority participation. Our ESB, it is very aggressive. We're quite proud that we've got 11.3%, quite honestly, participation on this job. Out of 15 subcontractors, 10 of them are WBE ESBs. So 75% of our contractors are...
 We were quite pleased with the results. It's just, unfortunately, we can't get to that. We haven't been able to get to that. Oh, I got one I haven't shared with purchasing, but we just, there was one subcontractor of ours that just received their WB certification with the state. So we have another 2-plus percent that we'll be applying for for approval for this job. So...
 There's some plus. So we're in the 13% or 14%. Okay, that's good news. Yeah. That's good to hear. But it's just the market right now. It's just real competitive. Thank you for clarifying that, Commissioner Fritz. Well, I certainly appreciate it. You have been here many times on these contracts, and you know that we're always going to ask questions. So I do appreciate the effort. Do you have any suggestions for us? Is there anything the city could do to help in this challenge? Sure.
 Well, you know, it's a big task. And Commissioner Fish in the past has discussed about disparity studies, and the city has gone through disparity studies. You know, and it's expensive for the city to do that. I would propose, and I'm speaking for our NUCCA chapter, I would like to have a roundtable discussion for any commissioner and or obviously purchasing. I think we need to revisit...
 this aspirational goal of 20%. I think we need to take another look at it. It's an exception. I haven't seen a job yet quite where we've received 20% because I monitor all the bids. But I'm more than happy, and I'm volunteering our NUCCA, our Utility Contractors Association, to sit down with a roundtable and just talk through this process. And if anything...
 to maybe help educate the commissioners on what we're up against. Yeah, I appreciate it. And I think you've just gone a long way towards doing that. And we've had others testify.
 to similar effect about the current market conditions. So I appreciate that. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions? I'll entertain a motion. We have someone who wants to testify. Yeah, I will get there. I'll entertain a motion. Move checks out the report. Second. So we have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Saltzman. And we have one person. Yes, Shedrick J. Wilkins. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning.
 Since this Green Street project did not mention street lights, can I defer my idea to the next talk, which is 888? So just I'll mesh it together. The one that does the lighting. You know what? Go ahead. Well, that's fine. Yeah, we'll have you up for the next. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The procurement report is accepted. Next item, please.
 889, extended contract with Fastenal Company to provide facilities maintenance, lightning products, and industrial supplies for use citywide by $700,000 through June 30, 2018. Colleagues, is there any staff here on this particular item? Good morning. And I'll just ask, colleagues, do you have any questions at this particular point? Seeing none, why don't we take public testimony on this item? Thank you.
 We made you get a little exercise there. Sorry. Since I'm kind of a solar energy advocate, I've always had this idea that we use street lighting as a way to make solar cells in an artistic way. I live near Sisters of the Road where they have this artist that has solar panels and has this curved kind of thing that lights up.
 But I'm more interested in the idea of having streetlights that are self-contained, that they use the sun's energy as a form of art as well. And somebody might come up with this idea because we live on the –
 Cascadia fault line, there could be an earthquake at any time that might crack the concrete and the wires or the electrical lines going to the lights themselves. So you might want to look into that. If I don't come up with this idea, somebody in Seattle would. So in fact, the artist that has these things around the Sisters of the Road Cafe is from Seattle. And also one could, if any, excess power from the sun would.
 be used. You could actually, people could plug in their cell phone in an earthquake or call 911 or something like that. They would be cell contained off the grid. And I think about, I was here with the Lou thing about how Randy Leonard had this idea. It's the same thing. My idea is to do something that Portland can sell and
 I have a target date, too, is pretty soon that we will complete the Multnomah County Health Building, which does do triaging in an emergency. And it would be interesting if some of the streetlights around it would function, even if the power was gone. So I want to push that. It's interesting, the first time I met you, Mayor Wheeler, I was at the Chinatown Neighborhood Association. Mm-hmm.
 And you came in there talking about the building itself that was going to be built, and I'm sitting there, I didn't know I was talking to you. You were the head of Moldova County. It was just funny. You were just like that. It was like, you know, I didn't really know who you were. It was kind of funny for me to do that. Now you've become mayor, so...
 Again, I think it's a good idea that if we are in this area where we could be hit by an earthquake, the streetlights should function for crime and other things. And just like the Portland News, we could sell these to other cities. That's an interesting idea. Thank you. I appreciate it. Any further discussion, colleagues? Commissioner Udaly? Very good. Please call the roll. Can we have Larry please come up? We have an amendment that he wants to bring up. Oh, an amendment. Bring it up. Okay.
 Thanks, Larry. Thanks, Mustafa. Good morning. Larry Palat again. Really quickly, 889 was to amend the Fastenal price agreement to add $700,000 in a year's time. In reality, some due diligence by procurement services has determined that the actual spend has not reached projected amounts. We're asking that the ordinance be amended to simply add the time and not the money. We don't need the money.
 So what it really does is it changes this ordinance to an administrative one. It wouldn't normally come to the council because it is administrative. It would fall under the CPO authority. Truthfully, I'm just here showing off a little bit because the due diligence that we did in this kind of thing, which we do anyway, but it's on the council agenda. It's here. I thought I was going to take a second just to say, all right, we're doing due diligence. We are.
 covering money. We're transparent. We look at things. We look at what's efficient and what's necessary. And we determined that we really didn't need to add a bunch of money to this contract. Great. So like I said, I thank you very much for your time, attention. I'm just showing off. So would you like an amendment to that effect? I would approve. I would appreciate an amendment to that. We'd be happy to entertain it. Colleagues?
 So you want us to move to remove that $700,000? Yes, ma'am. Wherever it appears in the entire... And to just extend the contract? We're just extending it. For June 30th. It is a price agreement based on the state of Oregon, competitively solicited. So we're just piggybacking on a state agreement. And we're just saying we need another year. By the time we get to the end of that year, we will probably have spent the original amount. Okay. We don't need the money. So I move to amend...
 The ordinance. So we have a motion. Do we have a second? A second. And that's amended by removing the adding $700,000. And I will ask you to work with legal counsel. They're huddling over there to make sure that we have the exact language throughout the document. Very good. They're nodding yes, that that is fine. Let's vote on the amendment. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Great amendment.
 Happy. The amendment's passed. Any further comment on the ordinance itself? Very good. Please call the roll on the ordinance as amended. Seltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amendment. Thank you. Thank you all very much. I appreciate it very much. The next item is a second reading. Please read 8, 9, or 0. Okay.
 Authorize a grant agreement of $21,307 with Southwest Trails for the development of the Robert Gray Trail for the period of July 20, 2017 through December 31, 2017. Any further discussion on this item, colleagues? Please call the roll. Saltzman. Saltzman.
 Well, as we heard last week, this funding will provide Southwest Trails PDX the opportunity to make safe and important safe route to school for students at Robert Gray Middle School and others traveling in the neighborhood. Eugenie Lee. Aye. Fritz. Thanks to the staff and volunteers at the Southwest Neighborhoods, Inc., and to all the volunteers at Southwest Trails. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. Last item.
 891, authorized appeal of State Building Code Division's determination that City Sprinkler Ordinance violates Building Code preemption in the matter of the City of Portland, Oregon. Building Code's Division number C2015-0200. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. When I became Fire Commissioner about six years ago,
 My first action was to introduce an ordinance to require sprinklers be installed in all nightclubs, existing nightclubs in the city of Portland. And I did that because I thought, you know, why wait until the tragedy occurs and then convene as a council at our next meeting and do the same thing, pass an ordinance to require sprinklers be installed in all existing nightclubs? Why not anticipate and try to avoid that tragedy? And I believe that's what this council did.
 in adopting the ordinance. Our ordinance was subsequently approved by the state fire marshal and now we are being challenged by the building codes division as overstepping our bounds and they are maintaining that we are preempted from the action we took. And I should say when we took this action we gave all the companies or all the nightclubs 18 months to come into compliance. So I believe they've all come into compliance by now.
 But nevertheless, this issue persists. The Building Coast Division is threatening to fine us $20,000. Some other daily fines may be going with that. And they're demanding the council repeal the ordinance. So, you know, to me, this is clearly an example, and I hope Governor Brown takes note of this, of a state agency overstepping its bounds and overstepping it in the wrong direction.
 not making our public safer, not making young people in nightclubs safer, but instead reverting back to an old standard, which could result in a tragedy none of us want to see. So we're here today to urge the council's support, our appeal of this fine by the Building Codes Division and the decision ordering the council to repeal the ordinance, which I would predict not one person on this council would vote to repeal the ordinance. So I think they're running up against a brick wall.
 And I hope Governor Brown will take note of this because she can make this go away. And with that, I will turn it over to our Assistant Fire Marshal. Yes. Okay. Do you want to add any comments? Mr. Mayor and Council, thank you for this opportunity. First and foremost, it was about public safety. That's what we wanted to do. We don't want a station nightclub to ever happen again anywhere.
 So I support this ordinance and felt like we did everything we needed to do working with our counterparts at the building department and with the state fire marshal's office. It was disappointing to see that BCD thinks we went and stepped outside of our playground, and I would urge the council to allow us to go forward with the appeal. Very good. Great. Any further questions or comments for this panel before we ask for public testimony? No.
 Thank you, and thank you for your patience also. Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. This is a non-emergency first. It's a resolution. This is a resolution. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 I'm particularly interested in kind of pushing back against state interference with our local freedoms. I'm also very concerned with public safety. But at the same time, I would want to make sure that we're not placing an extraordinary burden on business owners. So if that...
 is an issue. I'd hope we could come up with a way to work with these business owners to get them into compliance. I think we, I'm a fan of the Fire Bureau and of Chief Myers, and I believe that he's not someone who's interested in creating hardship and kind of overstepping his bounds. And I just want to put that out there before I vote aye.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for your leadership several years ago and again today. It's incomprehensible that the state building people would want to not have sprinklers. I mean, it just doesn't make any sense. So I hope that our wonderful city's attorneys can push the case in court and get it resolved.
 Wheeler. Yeah, this is a head scratcher. And Dan, you're right. I certainly would not take a vote to rescind that ordinance. It is in the best interest of public safety. And there have been examples around the country where not having an ordinance like this implemented has obviously made a difference in the wrong kind of way. So thank you for your strong leadership on this. I, the resolution is adopted. Colleagues, we are adjourned until 1 p.m. today.
 Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to the afternoon session of the Portland City Council. It's August 9th, 2017. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman. Thanks, Mr. Hoffman. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Wheeler. Wheeler.
 Here, I won't read the whole statement. I think most people here know the drill. We want to create an environment where people feel safe, welcome, and respected as they give public testimony. People here want to hear the city council's deliberations on the matters before us today, so we're asking everybody to do that.
 to work with us to maintain decorum and order in the council chamber. As per council rules, disruptions are not allowed. If anybody disrupts, you'll be asked to leave. If you don't, leave your subject to arrest for trespassing. We don't want that to happen. We want everybody to be heard today.
 Please be respectful of people testifying. If you are testifying, you need only state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, we need to know that. If you're here representing an organization, that would be helpful to know as well. We try not to verbally expose you.
 express either support or disappointment for what's being said. So a simple thumbs up or a simple thumbs down helps us keep things moving. So that is that. We have three ordinances that are before us. Carla, could you read all three together, please? Thank you.
 892, adopt new post-deadly force procedures for police bureau and authorize legal proceedings to determine validity. 893, approving amendments to settlement agreement between the United States and the City of Portland in United States District Court Case No. 312CV02265SI and plan for Portland Commission on Community Engaged Policing.
 And 894, amend independent police review code to revise filing process, investigation, and appeal provisions of complaints of police officer misconduct. Colleagues and to those gathered here,
 We're opening this meeting with amendments to the DOJ settlement agreement. This came to the Council last week as first readings of three proposed ordinances. The item that's gotten the most attention and to which most of the testimony was related, related to the community engagement piece of these ordinances.
 I believe we've put together a framework for an effective, incredible engagement body. I also believe that it can be significantly improved. As I said, the council heard testimony last week. That testimony, in my opinion, contains some really excellent ideas. I said at the beginning of those first readings that nobody on this city council had come to a final conclusion.
 I said that we were here to listen to the community and solicit feedback. I want you to know that I heard you and that my colleagues have heard you. And this is the legislative process, and this is how it is supposed to work. So thank you to everybody who took the time to come in and testify last week. Over the next two weeks with regard to the portion relating to public engagement,
 My office will compile the information that we have collected, both the oral testimony from last week and the written testimony which we've been collecting. We'll write amendments to the proposal. We'll give the public time to review those amendments to the proposal, and then they'll be brought back to the council for a vote.
 I think there's more we can do, particularly around the issues of policy review. There's improvements that can be made. There's more that can be done around public meetings and assessment of the DOJ settlement agreement. And again, I appreciate the perspectives and the ideas that were brought forward. I think we can make the body's work accessible to Judge Simon.
 And I think we can secure professional independent services to ensure that the board has the training and support to affect true institutional change. I want to thank those who...
 but I also want to thank the many people who sent written testimony to my office. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz, who spent many, many hours going through and being thoughtful about reviewing these proposals and spending a lot of time over the weekend and working with our team on these issues. I look forward to working with my colleagues and the community over the next two weeks. Thank you.
 I'd like one week to put all of the amendments together and get them out to the public, and in week two we'll allow for public review. I can tell you today that we have a time-certain slot reserved at 2 p.m. on August 24th for public review of the amendments that we will attempt to get up at least a week prior to that time-certain 2 p.m. deadline.
 on August 24th here in Portland City Council Chambers. I'd like to say one more thing on this issue of public engagement. The COAB faced many challenges, and I believe that the successor, especially the final product, will address many of the challenges that were raised by COAB members head on.
 But while the Coab had its ups and downs, it had many successes upon which we can build. Those who participated in the Coab put their time, their effort, and their commitment into the Coab. They owned a process and a body even when they didn't receive the support they should have from the city and other players. The Coab produced a lot of work. I have here...
 In my hand, the recommendations of the COAB. My staff has reviewed all of them. I have reviewed them. There are many excellent ideas contained amongst these recommendations around mental health, the use of force, bias-free policing, and other areas.
 There's a lot of good ideas in here, and I'm going to identify areas of the agreement where we can make the changes and implement the recommendations and do so quickly. I want to thank you for your hard work on the COAB. With regard to the 48-hour rule, Commissioner Nick Fish and I will offer an amendment to honor the intent of the most recent police contract.
 This will end the 48-hour rule and allow the city to interview officers involved in use of deadly force within 48 hours of the incident. And unlike the current version, we'll implement the policy now rather than waiting until a court gives us the okay to do so. There is risk associated with this strategy.
 And that risk was clearly laid out by the district attorney and others. But I believe that the principle of eliminating the 48-hour rule, an element of a recent police contract which was hard fought and hard won by the city council, is worth the risk and that we stand on strong legal ground to begin with.
 With regard to IPR, the final portion, there was broad agreement on that issue and will go forward today. So here is the run of show. I will ask Commissioner Fish in a moment to please introduce his hard work.
 and I want to thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your hard work and collaboration on this issue in recent days. I think it's been great to work with your team on this, and I want to thank you for your leadership in particular. We will take testimony on the proposed amendment around the 488-hour rule, so those of you who are interested will have that opportunity. With regard to the community engagement piece, I will keep the written record open.
 There will be an opportunity for public testimony. And as I say, we will post the proposed amendments in about a week. And on August 24th at 2 p.m., we will take testimony. We will obviously take written testimony between now and then. And I would encourage communication on that written testimony. With regard to the ordinance around IPR, it is my intent that we take the vote on that today. So that is where we are.
 Commissioner Fish, I'll turn it over to you for an amendment on the 48-hour rule portion of the settlement agreement. Thank you very much, Mayor Wheeler. And I will turn my switch on before I'm admonished by you-know-who. Mayor, I do offer the substitute ordinance, 892, and I ask if there is a second, and then I have an opening statement. Second. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 I am very pleased to co-sponsor this substitute with Mayor Wheeler. As the mayor indicated, last year we negotiated a contract with the Portland Police Association that included the removal of the so-called 48-hour rule. As a result, the city is no longer required to give 48 hours notice before compelling an interview of an officer involved in a deadly use of force.
 In March of this year, the district attorney weighed in, expressing concerns about whether compelled administrative interviews could jeopardize a parallel criminal investigation and possible indictment. The city continues to believe that a firewall can be placed between an administrative and a criminal investigation consistent with the practice in every other state in this country.
 Originally, the mayor drafted a new policy that reaffirmed our right to compel interviews, but out of an abundance of caution proposed that we not implement it until the underlying legal question was answered by a court. Based on the testimony last week and our review of legal memoranda and a follow-up briefing with the city attorney, the mayor and I have concluded that our right to compel is supported by the Oregon Constitution,
 and the great weight of case law, and that any risk to a parallel criminal investigation is small. Here is some context. Since 2010, there have been 32 officer-involved shootings, 20 of them fatal. And during that period of time, a single indictment in 2011. That said, to protect against an instance where an indictment seems likely –
 We have given the police commissioner, in consultation with the police chief and the city attorney, the discretion to defer an interview until such time as he or she deems it appropriate. Now, in two weeks, the new policy, Directive 1010.10, will be brought forward for approval. It will continue to require investigations into all cases involving deadly use of force,
 affirm our right to compel interviews within 48 hours, establish a strong and constitutional firewall between our internal review and the district attorney's investigation, and protect the constitutional rights of our employees. That directive will be brought forward in two weeks at the time certain that the mayor alluded to, and it is getting polished, and we want to bring it forward in its final form.
 Today, we propose to reaffirm our right to compel statements, to provide the police commissioner in consultation with the police chief and the city attorney the discretion to delay an interview, if necessary, and most importantly, to preserve our right as an employer to investigate and discipline when necessary. The underlying reform was hard fought and one that the community demanded for a long time.
 And the Mayor and I believe that today's action is faithful to the Constitution and to basic fairness. And we want to be crystal clear. We are not picking a fight with the District Attorney. Reasonable people can disagree on this question. I want to join the Mayor in thanking Tracy Reeve and the City Attorney and all the lawyers for the assistance they've given us in a short period of time on this important set of questions. We want to thank the American Civil Liberties Union, Oregon Chapter,
 for their guidance. I want to thank the National Lawyers Guild, and in particular I'll refer to the August 2nd Memorandum, which was submitted, which provides a comprehensive review of the current case law and has a risk assessment. And we want to thank all the community members who took their time to come and testify and give us their input. And finally, I want to thank Mayor Ted Wheeler, my colleague, for his deep and ongoing commitment to police reform and accountability. Thank you.
 I also want to give a shout-out to Amira Streeter, who is on my team. And in my nine years, I can finally say in a meeting, if it's something that I can't grasp, please talk to my lawyer. So with that, Mayor, I turn it back to you. Commissioner Fish, thank you. So, colleagues, just to make sure I have my house cleaning in order, I would ask the city attorney, we now have a substitute.
 on the table. Commissioner Fish is moved. Commissioner Fritz is seconded. Do we need to take a formal vote to put the substitute into play? Yes, and then you can take testimony after that. Very good. Colleagues, any further... Can I ask a scheduling question? Yes, please. So, yeah, I'm planning to be on vacation August 27th and 28th.
 So there will not be a vote on this matter on those dates, I presume? I believe it was so the 24th. You and Commissioner Fish are both gone on the 24th. So I'm taking – I've actually reversed that vacation date. So I will be here on the 24th. I was talking about next – the following week, though, in terms of a second reading and vote. The following week would be a second reading. That's correct, and a vote. So I'm scheduled to be –
 On vacation, I guess I would ask out of deference that that vote be put over until the first week of September. Commissioner, could you call in? It's a vote only. It's a vote only? Yeah. Okay. Why don't we do this? I guess my experience so far has been sometimes we think we're doing vote onlys like today, and here we are. No, I respect that. So I would ask that it be set over to the first week of September. Let's do this. Do we have to set it over to a time certain today? Okay.
 I guess I'm looking at legal counsel. Okay. So I apologize because I was not here for the last hearing. You first asked me questions about the substitute ordinance, which is an emergency ordinance. But now you're talking about a different ordinance? Now we're talking about what would be, yes, because the only one that will be moved over is the public engagement ordinance. So that would be ordinance number 893. Okay. So that piece we are...
 We are withholding so that we can put together some amendments. And so the question is, do you need a date and time certain for when you're going to set that over to? Yes. So my assumption is we'll need two weeks in order to give people ample time to read the amendments we want to put on the table. And there's some outreach we need to do with regard to drafting those amendments. Yes.
 We'd like to have them public for at least a week so that the public has an opportunity to weigh in on those amendments. On the 24th, it would be my assumption that we would take testimony on the amendments. We could introduce at the end of that testimony, if there's broad agreement, an emergency clause.
 and vote there, or alternatively, Commissioner Saltzman is saying, if we go through the usual process and the second reading is a week later, he will not be able to participate. So the question is, could we move it two weeks to give him the opportunity to vote on that? Yes. You could at the 24th, after you take testimony, instead of moving it immediately to the second reading, set it for a date further out and just announce when that date and time certain is announced.
 Or the date doesn't need to be a time, sorry, to take the final vote. Okay, and am I correct that we need to do that today? We need to ascertain those dates today? If you want to – I'm sorry, Mayor. Tracy Reeve, city attorney. If you want to –
 continue it today and not re-notice the hearing you need to have a date certain you're continuing it to you can pick a date certain that you're continuing it to and further continue it after that time alternatively it can be re-noticed
 For a new date. But if it's going to be a continued matter, it needs to have a date that it's being continued to. All right. Well, let's do this rather than continuing to confuse everybody. Our office will work with my fellow commissioners' offices. We will re-notice it on the city's webpage, and we will endeavor to get the word out to the news media and other outlets. But...
 Assume for right now that there will be public testimony on the public engagement piece at 2 p.m. on August 24th as the first step. And within one week, we will get those amendments up on our website and out to the press so that people have an opportunity to digest them. And then what is up in the air is when we will take the final vote.
 So, Mayor, you can just continue the matter to August 24th at 2 p.m., and then it will be determined after that. Good. And that is the house cleaning we need to do right now. Mayor, thank you. Commissioner Fish. So, thank you. There's a lot of stuff before us. Thank you for clarifying what we're doing, what we're not doing, and the run of show. And since we're about to take a vote on placing the substitute on the table before we take testimony, again, I just want to be very clear that,
 What the net effect of voting today on the final vote on this substitute, which does have an emergency clause, is that we will be affirming that the version of Directive 1010.10
 which was previously in effect, will continue until we bring the revised version of Directive 1010.10 forward. And so we'll be maintaining the status quo that existed last year after we negotiated the changes in the police contract for the two or three weeks before we adopt this new directive. And we would have had the directive today, except it was the consensus view it needed a little more polishing.
 And so we want to get it right. But this effectively puts us back to status quo ante and continues the policy that was in effect before the district attorney opined about his concerns. So that's the net effect of adopting the emergency date. And it is a bridge until that new directive comes forward.
 All right, so to remind everybody where we were in the house cleaning process, we now have a substitute amendment on the table. We're taking a vote now to accept the substitute amendment in exchange for what was there previously. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? I know this is all very confusing. This vote is just to put the substitute on the table as described by Commissioner Fish. Aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. So the substitute amendment. I'm sorry, Ms. Smith. We forgot somebody. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The substitute amendment is now in place of what was there previously, and in a moment we will take testimony on that item. The next piece of housecleaning is formally, I would like to continue this.
 Ordinance 893, which relates to the public engagement part of the settlement agreement, to August 24th at 2 p.m.
 I'm seeing a head nod from legal counsel. And after our discussion and potential vote on 892, we'll take up 894. So without further ado, unless my colleagues have anything further to say with regard to Ordinance 892 pertaining to the 48-hour rule, we'll open it up for public testimony. Could I see a show of hands in terms of how many people would like to testify on this issue?
 It looks like we have plenty of time for three-minute testimony. Two and a half minutes in the yellow light will go off. Three minutes in the red light goes on. Please just state your name for the record. And if you'd like to sign up, please sign up with Carla over here. And you can read the first three names, please. Our Lindsay Burrows, Joanne Hardesty, and Dan Handelman. Very good. Thank you. Mayor, if there's questions, any questions that come up, we'll take them down. We'll have the city attorney come up and answer.
 Good. And colleagues, as questions are raised, we'll be taking down those questions, and then at the end of this we'll have the city attorney come up and work with us to answer those questions.
 Hi, I'm Lindsay Burrows. I'm testifying on behalf of the Portland chapter of the National Lawyers Guild, and my preferred pronouns are she, her, hers. The NLG thanks the mayor and the city council for listening to the public at last Thursday's hearing and taking action in that direction. The NLG is pleased that the city is postponing its amendments to the settlement agreement for further analysis, and the NLG believes that the latest proposed amended ordinance is insufficient to meet the minimum demands made by the AMA coalition and other community organizations and members. Thank you.
 The NLG believes that the amended compelled testimony ordinance before you today is an improvement over the former version. The amended compelled testimony ordinance could present good policy if, one, if it changed the within 48 hours language to by the end of the shift or at least within 24 hours. And, two, remove the exception stated in paragraph 21.
 That exception, which gives the city discretion to defer an administrative investigation until after a criminal investigation in any circumstances it deems warranted, is overbroad and vague. It creates an exception so wide that it will swallow the rule.
 We make policy in neutral settings like these, where the public has a chance to weigh in, outside the pressures of an actual use-of-force incident, so that when incidents do arise, actors can follow the clearly thought-out rules and procedures put in place without having to make emotionally charged decisions that have lasting effects and greatly impact community trust.
 The exception provides no guidance regarding when and how the city will determine whether, quote, the circumstances suggest a deferral is warranted, end quote. It vests with a few people the discretion to decide when to pursue an administrative investigation, thereby subjecting those people to outside influence and pressure, which undermines the ultimate policy. It's insufficient for the city to tell the community, just trust us.
 The exception minimizes police accountability by threatening to undo the compelled testimony mandate when it is most necessary in the confusing situations. Instances where the chief of police or police commissioner would feel the need to use the exception are likely the same instances where the administrative investigation is most important. As such, the exception unacceptably fails to address community concerns.
 Moreover, the amended compelled testimony ordinance no longer mandates, as I understand, the city to seek judicial review of the deadly force directive. The NLG is uncertain why that change was made and believes it does not serve the interest of finality on the issue. To clarify, you know, we think that the 48-hour rule substitute should go into effect immediately, but also seek a court ruling in the interim. Can I address that one point? Certainly.
 and I have an annotated version of the legal memo that you submitted. And I'll tell you what the intent was, and we can either resolve it today or we could certainly resolve it by the time the new guidance comes back to counsel in two weeks. We're just talking about a bridge here. There's a reference in your legal memoranda that a court may be reluctant to issue an advisory opinion.
 and that that may not be the most – so we cannot compel a court to give us, in effect, an advisory opinion. And so we may not be sort of the masters of the process about how it gets to a ruling.
 And I think the intent, at least from my point of view, was to set community expectations at a certain level so that, yeah, obviously we would like to have a ruling at some point. We'd all sleep better. But we didn't want to mandate some kind of process to get that ruling. It could come up if an indictment is collaterally challenged. It could come up in a number of different ways. And as you've noted,
 The one wild card is a court may be reluctant just to offer an advisory view on it. We've reviewed the cases. We've reviewed the Constitution. We think we're on solid footing. We're not saying we don't want to at some point have a ruling. We're just decoupling the requirement from this process because we're not sure how we're going to get that ruling. So that was the intent. Thank you.
 that you'd like to propose over the next couple of weeks, obviously I want to sit down and go over it with you. That's great, yeah. And the point on the court ruling piece is just...
 Reading paragraph 21, I mean, I understand and I completely agree that the city believes it's on strong legal footing. I certainly believe that. But paragraph 21 doesn't indicate that that's how the city really feels. If it's going to create this sort of discretionary thing. So I'm saying if there's worry about the constitutionality, let a court decide. Get rid of paragraph 21. Okay. Yeah. And I'm quite confident over the next couple weeks we can have that conversation.
 So thank you. Thank you. So, Commissioner Fish, just to be clear so you understand my intent and it's on the record, I believe absolutely we would seek that judicial clarity. Okay.
 Great. Thank you. We will. Very good. Harmonize the language. But what Commissioner Fish is saying is also accurate. We can't make him do it, but we should absolutely seek it. Yes. I agree. And in the interim, remove paragraph 21, and we'll all be on the same page. Yeah. With regard to paragraph 21, just so my colleagues know, I'm ambivalent. That's not one I'm going to fall on my sword for. I think we've all heard the risk of...
 that is there. And my only ask here on August 9th of 2017 is if we get five or six years down the road and there's a bad shooting and a judge somewhere throws out a case because he agrees with the political opinion of the district attorney and the attorney general, you'll be standing with us.
 at that time and saying we were there and we agreed the risk was worth taking in order to support the principle of eliminating the 48-hour rule per the agreement we have with the union. Just to be clear. Yes. Excellent. Thank you. Can I just make one? Commissioner Fish. The mayor, if I could just...
 modify one thing, Ted, you just said, if it's the legal opinion of the DA, not the political opinion. We recognize that as the district attorney interpreting the law,
 there are going to be occasions where we have a disagreement. But that disagreement does not prevent us today from confidently moving forward with the policy that we negotiated with the police association last year. Right on. So a point of clarification for us non-lawyers, which paragraph 21? I don't seem to have the paragraph 21.
 I'm thinking about paragraph 21 in the resolution. Okay, thank you. Just on the page three, the very last paragraph. Thank you. May I? Please. Good afternoon. For the record, I am Joanne Hardesty, and this initial statement will be read on behalf of the Albina Ministerial Alliance Coalition for Justice and Police Reform.
 The AMA Coalition for Justice and Police Reform calls on the City of Portland to modify its amendment plan regarding compelling testimony and deadly force incidents. The AMAC commends Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Fish for putting forth an amendment requiring immediate implementation of a directive that mandates prompt compelled testimony from police officers who use deadly force.
 I guess I should have paused when I said we commend you, just so that you could have that sink in.
 I don't even know what that means. Commends. Thank you. This is good. You did something good is what they said. Thank you, Joanne. Appreciate it. I figured I should pause because we normally are beating up on you, so we just want to appreciate that. Thank you. It is unclear whether this proposal requires compelled testimony within 48 hours or 24 hours. The AMAC hopes it is the latter for the sake of obtaining an accurate account and reducing the likelihood of collusion.
 The AMAC is discouraged to see that the revised proposal does not direct the city attorney to seek judicial clarification of the constitutionality of the directive. This is especially concerning because the amended proposal includes a new broad loophole for compelling testimony.
 Paragraph 21 allows the city to defer an administrative investigation until after the criminal investigation is complete, where circumstances, and this is in quotes, suggest that such deferral is warranted in a particular case.
 If the city has a particular concern about compelling testimony, it should seek judicial review of the directive or include only a very narrow and specific exception to the rule that testimony should be compelled within 24 hours.
 A minute and 15 seconds left for the NAACP. I want to, using my NAACP hat, also commend you for really hearing clearly from the community last week. It is wonderful to finally get from the City Council Chambers an acknowledgement of the incredibly hard work that Community Oversight Advisory Board members did.
 I am so proud, Mayor, that you actually have their recommendations, and I'm even equally proud that you read them and plan to do something with them. This is the first time in my memory that anyone from this podium has said anything good about the work of the COAB.
 And so thank you for that. I also want to say, please remember that there's a reason the Department of Justice Civil Rights Division was invited to town. What the Department of Justice suggested at that time, clearly under a different administration, was that after-action reports would be written at the end of the shift when a deadly force incident took place.
 What you are now proposing is instituting the 48-hour rule even though we paid $10 million for it to go away. And so I would encourage you to go back, review the settlement agreement, the original one, not the one that's been revised. Yes.
 and make sure that what we're doing is making sure that we get a statement as soon as possible, and the community prefers at the end of the shift. There's no reason why police should have more time than the rest of the public. Thank you.
 Thank you. And just to underscore a couple of points you made, I mentioned a moment ago that I was ambivalent on this question of paragraph 21. And the reason, I should probably be precise about why I'm ambivalent about it so people don't think I don't care about it. I care intensely about it because I am mindful of the DA's interpretation of
 The reason I'm ambivalent is twofold. Number one, I agree with you. I believe we're standing on strong legal grounds, and I've had the opportunity to vet this with a lot of people who have great legal minds, not me, just to be clear. I am not an attorney.
 But fortunately, we have access to lots of people who are. And we believe, I believe, we're standing on strong legal ground. The second one, for my own part, Joanne, I would obviously use that exception extremely judiciously.
 But I'm also realistic, and I understand that politicians saying, trust me with this tool, doesn't carry a lot of weight in today's society. It's too bad that it doesn't, because the truth is I was elected to use good judgment, and ultimately I can be held accountable by the public in my exercise of that judgment, either good or bad.
 But I understand that what I'm setting here isn't a policy that comes and goes in a couple of years. I'm attempting to lay down a foundation that many mayors and many city councils will abide by in the years ahead. And so I understand that for many people, asking for that opportunity to judiciously use that tool may be going too far.
 So when I say I'm ambivalent, I just want to be clear. I don't mean I don't care. I'm weighing these competing interests, and at the end of the day, I believe we're standing on strong legal ground. Thank you, Mayor. If I could respond just very briefly. You bet. I think the challenge is that you are advised by the attorneys that advise the police officers.
 And so there's no way they're going to give you advice that is in conflict with the advice they're giving to those same police officers. So the fact that you have the same attorney does not make this exception work better. Well, in this case, I think you'll find the attorney is actually very clearly in support of what we're discussing here as a legal framework. But I get your point, Dr. Bates.
 But you do understand that. And we do, I do reach out beyond just who is here in the room. But it's really important that the council really understands that if the police union is seeking advice and the mayor is seeking advice, they're seeking advice from the same attorney. Sure. Right? Sure. So you're not going to get different advice based on whether there are police involved.
 or not. Well, I'll let the attorney defend the work of her office. No need. No need. Very good. Mr. Handelman, thank you for coming in. I apologize. I have to leave for a meeting. No worries. Thank you. See you later. Hi. Again, city council members, I'm Dan Handelman from Portland Cop Watch and I had to scramble to rearrange the testimony I was going to give today because I read the
 Draft substitute that was put out on Monday and then another one was put out yesterday. They'd only just read before the hearing and
 It was my understanding that what you were going to do was implement the rewritten policy that we saw last week right away, and that seems to be taken off the table in favor of writing yet another version of the directive that's supposed to be happening in conjunction with the DOJ over the next week or two, right? So there's a reason for that, Dan. I understand, Commissioner Frisch. I just want to make sure I understand what is happening. We are, and it's because...
 Quite frankly, that directive was not ready for prime time, and because that directive was not going to be put into effect for a year or two or to whenever the judicial process ended, it had not been vetted, in my judgment, for prime time. So what we've done is we've said, let's make sure it's the final version and that we've dotted our I's and crossed our T's. I don't think you're going to see –
 hesitate to say this, Dan, but I don't think you're going to have substantive objections with the final version. And if you do, we will sit down and talk about it.
 Okay, I appreciate that, Commissioner Fish. But as one of my colleagues has already, or both my colleagues have already said, what it already says is that the compelled testimony should happen within 48 hours, and Portland Cop Watch joins our colleagues in saying that it should say the compelled testimony should happen as soon as possible, and if necessary, no later in any circumstance than 48 hours, except...
 that the paragraph 21 should list specific reasons you might exempt the compelled testimony. The only one we can think of that's a good reason is if the officer's incapacitated, right? Because obviously you don't want to try to get them to talk from their hospital bed if they can't speak. So other than that, we can't think of a good reason why you delay it since we all believe the legal standing is there for you to compel the testimony.
 The current directive that's in place is silent on what Internal Affairs does, and I should have brought our testimony about how things changed between that version and the version the Bureau was going to implement until this is going to take the Bureau's revised version off the table, which we submitted in November of 2015 and then again in early July. I'd also like to point out that we could have had this conversation before we got to this point if as soon as...
 the policy that's currently in place actually got changed without any written notice because, as was testified to last time, the officer who shot Terrell Johnson wasn't interviewed for six weeks after that shooting. So that means the current policy allows, unless I'm wrong, allows for them to wait six weeks to interview. So let's hope there's not another shooting in the next two weeks before you adopt the new policy.
 Just in terms of the changes that are being made so rapidly, it's like we're on a merry-go-round where you all know where it's going, you can get out and we're getting thrown, the community's getting thrown off the side because we don't know when it's going to stop. So it's really hard to follow all of this. I'd like to interrupt. I'm glad it seems that way because I think there's a lot of things moving on our end too. And it's because we're trying to respond to testimony.
 Well, we're very appreciative, again, of what Cheyenne said about the community's impact on this. But we could have had the discussion a lot earlier because people knew that this policy change had happened. So, Dan, can I ask you a question? Yes. In the original ordinance, the one that was filed last week, in the therefore clause,
 Sub B, it says the city attorney's office is authorized to file legal proceedings if appropriate and or join any appropriate parties or intervene in any legal actions, blah, blah, blah, to determine the validity of this policy. Just to both you and the National Lawyers Guild, is that the paragraph you'd like inserted back in?
 Sure. I mean, if, and I think our point is that it's unnecessary and maybe not even possible, as you indicated, to get a judicial ruling. But if there is still concern that's leading to paragraph 21 being in there, then the way to deal with it is through seeking the court ruling, not in adding this discretionary piece. So the one thing I would ask both of you is if you would take a look at that language between now and the 24th. And if you have any wordsmithing of it, let me know, because I
 I see no harm in putting that back in, but I want to make sure it has –
 It's written in a way that you think gets it at what you testify to. I appreciate that too, Commissioner Fish, but I don't see the reason why to put it as an option for the city attorney. Why don't you just give the attorney the directive, as the original ordinance said, to go to the court and ask for a ruling. If the court says no, we're not going to rule on it, well, whatever. We're back in the same place, but at least you've tried. I just read from the original ordinance. Oh, no, you were reading from the one that came out on Monday, because I think it's a... Unless I'm mistaken...
 Well, we can... Okay. This is fun, but...
 My understanding, the original one, was it directed the city attorney to file that. We'll ask the city attorney when she comes up. Okay, thank you. So my last couple points are, we know one of the parties that's going to be very concerned about this is the Portland Police Association. I don't see them here in the chambers today. Their concerns when they are brought up very rarely happen in this room and we're tired of that. We want to see them here and expressing their concerns so with the community we can have a dialogue about how we can all move forward together.
 And just as another point, there's been no indictment on a death since 1969 of a Portland police officer. Last point about the PCCEP, glad you're taking it off the table for now. Our main point that we didn't get to in an oral testimony a couple weeks ago is that this is for beyond the life of the DOJ agreement. So therefore, to make sure that the elements of the DOJ agreement stay in place into the future...
 They should be able to look at whether the implementation is happening. So please don't take that away from them. Yeah, and we have heard that loudly and clearly, and we are drafting an amendment in order to honor that exact belief. Thank you, Dan. And we're in agreement. Commissioner Fish, could I ask you one question? So the substitute ordinance is an emergency ordinance. Is it your proposal that we would potentially vote on that today or no? Yes, because...
 precisely because of what Dan Handelman just testified to, we want to make sure that we're operating in the landscape that predates the district attorney's opinion and any changes in policy. You and I have agreed we want to go to status quo ante, restore the policy that was in effect after we negotiated the police contract and before the district attorney's opinion,
 When we bring back the revised Directive 10.10.10, it's my intention to offer an amendment that would direct the city attorney to seek a legal review of that, but we have to have that policy adopted before we can see it. I agree wholeheartedly, and thank you for that clarification. That was my expectation. Next three, please. Next three are Barbara Boschinski, Edith Gillis, and Shedrick J. Wilkins. Coming up.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Barbara Boshinsky with CopWatch, and I was going to get taken off, but I just want to say I agree with Joanne Hardesty and Dan Handelman. And I am also concerned because I don't feel that police departments in general are maybe the city council is, but I have a mistrust of the police departments because –
 When Trump made that joke about hitting the heads of prisoners, the police laughed, and police chiefs were saying, oh, no, no, no, that's not what we do. But my understanding is that none of the police unions have really come out against that. And I think that there's some level of thinking that some of these behaviors are just okay, so that I think it's really important that
 to have a strong wording, and I'm not a lawyer at all, and a strong wording so that they can't then sympathize with some police officer who's upset, understandably, about what he did, and then make it okay because he's upset and they know him. So I would like a clear statement. Very good. Thank you. We appreciate that. Good afternoon.
 Hello, my name is Edith Gillis, and I'm back to paragraph 21, page 3 at the bottom. I want us to compel...
 Testimony within eight hours of the incident, and I want to have that recorded and available. I want to make sure that we specify under what conditions it would not happen, and that is to be specified as the officer is incapacitated, unable to hear or read, sign, speak, or write. Okay.
 I want to have all the other witnesses and participants, whether they are city employees or not, who are as contractors or employees of the city to be compelled within that time period also. I want to make sure that all the evidence is secured. Over and over, Portland Police Bureau employees plant weapons at the scene and say, oh, it was found, that's an excuse. No. No.
 That is a crime. We need to prosecute it as it never has been. Thank you. Good afternoon. Yeah, my feeling about the police, and I rarely want to comment about this stuff, is police should not rule by intimidation. I support Mimi Gurman and Starr's proposal of cutting ammunition practice. When you're in a practice range, the target doesn't move. In real life, they move around, evade a bullet. So I don't think you're learning much by...
 I mean, obviously you feel uncomfortable with a gun. You don't need to do this all the time. I really support the new hiring of a woman African-American police chief in October. This is really great. I thought I was dreaming last night when I heard about it. I mean, this is good because you might see some sort of sensitivity about what people feel about the police. And also, too, I believe ultimately...
 Police not ruled by intimidation, but I do believe that we should stop calling emergency response teams, just call it what it is, it's a SWAT team. And the purpose of a SWAT team is to make sure some guy buys a bunch of automatic rifles and thinks he's going to shoot up the place, is not going to survive 10 telescopic guys with rifles. And it's going to end right there. You either turn yourself in or it's it. Okay? It's a SWAT. It's like swatting a fly. Stop calling it something else. The police are swatting you.
 And, you know, having these kind of guns puts ideas into people's heads, you know, and that's the way it must be. And, again, I do not believe police should rule by intimidation. I don't think we should have mounted police on a horse, and I don't think we need to have target practice all the time. Thank you.
 Next three, please. That's all who signed up. Very good. So, colleagues, why don't we invite Tracy back up to the front of the room. You've heard the testimony we've had today. Commissioner Fish, not at all. So, Tracy, I've heard three arguments through the testimony. One is that we should include –
 the directive about your office filing legal proceedings and the like, which was in the July 21st draft of the ordinance. Dan is right, so go back to that one. That we should include that in any final document. That's the judicial review piece.
 Two, that we should put sideboards on this exception that's been carved out under paragraph 21 so it's clear that it will not be abused. And three, a question about whether a compelled interview should occur earlier than 48 hours or 24 hours or prescribing a particular time frame.
 Those are – and Mr. Handelman also said in his testimony that this feels a little rushed. There's a lot of moving pieces. Amen to that. The goal was by today to have an ordinance that says we're back to where we were last year and then finalize the directive. In a perfect world, we do it slightly differently. But I think the intent is right. The intent is to put in place our preexisting policy. Those three issues – judicial review –
 the time frame for the interview, and sideboards on paragraph 21. Those are all important issues to me and to the mayor. We've done a lot of work to get to today. My question to you is, the mayor has said he wants to file amendments next week that people can review and then come back the following week. Could we, over the next week, come up with amendments that address these three issues, have them as part of the mayor's package, and then bring that back on the 24th?
 So we could include, you know, if you provide staff direction today, we could certainly include in what the current plan as this is contemplated is that –
 a policy substantially similar to what people saw. And I'd just like to clarify a bit. Under the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement, there's 48 essential policies that before we implement, we're supposed to negotiate with the Department of Justice and their police practices experts to ensure that we're implementing best practices. Because, as Commissioner Fish noted, the 10-10-10 that is not now going into effect but that was negotiated before,
 to recognize the district attorney's concerns had gone through that process. It was intended to take effect simultaneously with a new 1010 policy that has been fully vetted that improves the police bureau's use of force policies. Right now, we're going to have a period of time where the use of force policy is not synced up with the new policy.
 investigation of uses of deadly force because we're making improvements in responding to community concerns. So I guess my concern is that we not extend that period of time anymore. We need to where we have less than cohesion between the police bureau policies.
 Department of Justice is working on and making some, I would say, non-substantive suggestions to what we're working on. So I think it will be very similar to what people saw. In terms of the directive, it will not be to wait 48 hours. It will be that the interview should be compelled as promptly as possible. It just defines the outside impact.
 edge of that as 48 hours, but there's no reason that those interviews can't occur within 24 hours where that's possible. Right.
 In terms of the exception allowing some kind of a discretionary exception in particular circumstances, I'll be honest, that is intended to get to situations, and many jurisdictions do this. Seattle, after their whole Department of Justice policy, has a policy that does this. They do an initial, very...
 kind of gut check evaluation of whether a shooting looks like it's likely to be put colloquially a bad shooting, because that's the shooting that has a chance of meriting a criminal prosecution. In those circumstances, Seattle does not compel a statement. It defers to the criminal investigation. So there's a number of jurisdictions that have policies of regularly compelling statements, but have a...
 A situation, and I'll give an example. We had the shooting. Luckily, it did not result in a death, but it was nonetheless a tragic situation where we knew right away that the officer had intended to use beanbags and actually shot someone with live ammunition. In a situation like that, that might be a situation where you say, hey, this looks like...
 There is potentially criminally negligent behavior here. And in that situation, the police chief and the police commissioner are going to make a determination. We do not want to risk immunizing an officer for what we look at. We take an initial look and say there's a possibility, a significant possibility at first glance.
 examination that this is potentially criminal behavior. And because there is a significant risk, we think the better view of the law is that you can wall it off, but there is nonetheless a significant risk of immunizing potentially criminal behavior. So that's the intention. That's ultimately a policy call for the council. But I will tell you that many jurisdictions with
 21st century policing policies do have that kind of an escape hatch. And then finally, this question about whether you're encouraged to file legal proceedings or directed to, do you have an opinion on that? I do, and I would prefer that if you're going to add something back in that –
 in that regard that you make it that I'm directed to explore doing it. I'll tell you the reason why. There is a statutory provision for a procedure called a validation procedure. That is what we intended to invoke had council gone with the option of we're going to adopt this policy but then we want you city attorney to go get a court ruling.
 To use that methodology, the court ruling has to be gotten before the policy goes into effect. It cannot be used to validate a policy that actually takes effect. Any other kind of court proceeding, I think we have a very, very, very high risk. In that instance, it would be self-defeating if we went that route. So this is where I'm seeing our friend from the National Lawyers Guild nod. So, Mayor...
 This is why it's my considered opinion, since we've been working diligently to get to this point, that we take the time over the next week to craft some amendments that are carefully considered with the city attorney's office. And I have learned a lot in the last, you know, four days, two and a half days.
 work days. And I'm the lawyer on the council. That doesn't count for much, but I mean, it just means that I look at this through a lawyer's lens and I'm trying to get it right. And I'm not entirely sure what the right answer is. And there is no reason for us to do the amendments today because this was only intended to get us to the point in which we had a directive that we could adopt because it is that directive that will then be subject to challenge.
 The directive is the actual policy. Correct. What the ordinance does today and what I would urge you to consider is that it directs the police bureau not to implement the 10-10-10 policy that has been approved through the DOJ process that will otherwise take effect on August 21st and that would not happen.
 compel interviews until after the criminal investigation. So if your intent is to not have that conversation
 directive that is slated to go into effect on August 20th. And we have to act on that today? Yes. And that, to me, and the Mayor, is the most important issue on the table. The question of under what circumstances we direct you to seek a judicial decision, the sideboards, which I hear the concern. I think we should consider how to frame those sideboards.
 I think those, for me, because I've been spending a lot of time on this, would benefit from another week of working with advocates in the city attorney's office to draft the right language. And so that's my suggestion. We adopt this, and we bring amendments in two weeks. So could I suggest that we remove paragraph 21 today? It's of no moment either way.
 We've heard from the community they would like that. I do respect when you say there's a significant risk that the criminal investigation could be tainted. However, with only 54 officers having been indicted nationwide since 2004, out of tens of thousands of shootings, about 400 a year, that to me doesn't seem like a significant risk because it just doesn't happen. But can I just be clear on this as someone who's been putting a lot of time into it?
 All I'm suggesting is we make that decision in two weeks. I'm not arguing the merits. I may very well agree with you. All I'm saying is I think the three issues that are before us are important issues. I think they require thoughtful consideration. I would actually like to talk to my colleagues with the city attorney's office. I'd like to follow up with the National Lawyers Guild and ACLU with language. All I'm saying is I think we can resolve that in two weeks. I would prefer not to vote on that today. Okay.
 But isn't that part of your substitute that you are asking us to vote on?
 No, all we are doing today is essentially saying we're not adopting the revised 1010, and we're going back to the status quo that existed last year following the police negotiations. So we're going back to the position that we started, that we can compel interviews, and there's no 48-hour rule. The additional things that have been brought up I would consider important fine-tuning, but they do not have to be decided today. They can be decided over the next two weeks.
 And if I may, the only operative portion of this ordinance, the portion that Commissioner Fritz is referring to, is in one of the findings. It is not in the council directs. The only thing that this ordinance does legally is have the Bureau withdraw the 10-10-10 that would otherwise take effect and
 have us and the Police Bureau work with the Department of Justice to prepare, and it says right now file within one week a revised version, that will be a resolution because it will be an internal policy directing council, so that could be amended.
 based on any testimony and still voted upon at the same hearing. And then finally, sub C says until that occurs, the police will use the 10-10-10 that's currently in effect under which they can compel, and it says they shall promptly compel or obtain a voluntary statement. So that's helpful to me in terms of the resolved is what we're actually directing
 The findings. Do we need to amend the findings? No. No. All right. No. And I say that only because this has a very narrow purpose that directly responds to the concerns raised by the community. It has been vetted for that narrow purpose. And –
 It may very well be that the council decides to adopt all three recommended changes with some wordsmithing, and that would be your privilege to bring those forward, to argue for them. There may even be consensus. All I'm saying is I don't think we do our best work on the fly here on that, and I would just urge that we take the week to come up with amendments and then debate it when we come back for the second hearing. Thank you. That's much clearer. And I would strongly support that strategy.
 There is a timeliness issue, and it's been raised previously with regard to the implementation of 10-10-10. And so it's my personal preference that we move forward on the substitute ordinance today, take that time. Personally, I think it's a tough ask to figure out how to narrow that rule. It gets back to that statement I made earlier. It's really an either-or situation.
 it's not a refinement of. But if people have good refinements, I'd be very, very happy to listen aggressively to those refinements.
 And I am very interested in seeking that judicial review. I think we need to have this issue addressed once and for all. I understand exactly what you're saying, Tracy, and I appreciate what you're saying with regard to the availability of that tool, depending upon how we handle this situation. So if there is no further discussion on this, I'd like to call the roll on the substitute ordinance 892. Substitute ordinance, I'm sorry, 892. Okay.
 Saltzman? Well, I want to thank Commissioner Fish and Mayor Wheeler for your work on this. I think it's an improvement. I guess I would want to see judicial review happen in some form or another. I am, I guess, with all due respect to our city attorney, about Section 21 or Paragraph 21. I am sort of wondering if we need it or not, and I guess I'm leaning towards maybe we don't need it right now because the exceptions will always sort of drive events, and when the events are in the thick of it,
 in a shooting, a controversial shooting or something like that, it seems like the benefit always accrues to the officer and not necessarily to the public's interest. So I think I could live without a Section 21 exemption at this point. Just to clarify, I think that's completely a policy call for the council. Okay. So I guess that's where I'm landing right now. I'll wait and see what gets developed in the ensuing weeks. And, yeah, with that, I vote aye. Udailey?
 Well, thank you, Mayor and Commissioner Fish, for taking this on. This was an issue that my office had flagged, and it's always nice to have one less thing on our to-do list. I wanted to take a moment to address something that one of the community members said in regards to recent statements by President Trump. It's not surprising that the public is cynical about this.
 The police, given that the largest police union in the country endorsed Trump, the police take a lot of criticism. Some of it is deserved. Some of it is undeserved. But I just wanted to point out that police departments across the country spoke out against that statement by Trump that officers should be roughing up suspects that they're arresting, including police.
 the department in Suffolk County where that comment was made. Aye. I also thank Commissioner Fish and the Mayor for their willingness to engage. And thanks to all the community members who've given such diligent advice and the city attorney being willing to listen to it. With Commissioner Saltzman, I would...
 prefer not to have an exception. When I was 22 years working at OHSU in psychiatry, I was required to document at the end of every shift what happened. You document in very objective language, and if something went bad, you were also something untoward happened. You also had to fill out an incident report at the end of the shift, and I don't see why officers should be any different. I'm going
 I'm going to enter into the records an email that I got from Professor Daniel Riceburg at Reed College, who's an expert in psychology about stressful events. And he's basically saying that, yes, testimony might be better after a few hours to decompress a day at the most. But otherwise, any claim that any longer than that is going to be better is just false.
 So I think we are getting there on this and many other things, and I appreciate the collaborative way that the council is working together in one-on-ones, and then we come together and we hash it out in public, which is exactly what should happen. Hi. Fish. Yeah, I want to thank everybody who has been working on this. It is complicated stuff.
 We've done this, we've done a month's worth of work in about three days. But I think we've been clear about what our goal, and our goal is to go back and affirm a national best practice of ensuring that these interviews occur in a timely manner so that they can aid the city in doing its investigations and potentially determining appropriate discipline. And that we continue to believe that there can be a constitutional firewall which protects the integrity of both the criminal investigation and the administrative investigation.
 For those of you who want to do some additional research on this question, for whom this hearing has piqued your curiosity, I would go online and I would urge you to read the National Lawyers Guild legal memoranda, which has about 50 footnotes and has a lot of sections. And it basically walks through...
 the case law, the policy issues, and how they end up landing on this. Everyone's free to reach their own conclusion. I think it's an excellent place to start if you're not familiar with this question. Tracy, thanks to you and your legal team for the advice you gave the mayor and me. Thanks to my team and Mayor Streeter, Sonia Schmansky, and others. Mayor, thank you for the...
 relationship with your office. And I want to echo what Commissioner Fritz just said. We've had some very complicated issues come through this council in the last month. And there's this lore out there that all you need is three votes to move legislation in this building and that's fine. I reject that. Three votes is the minimum requirement for moving something.
 But what I think we've learned as a body, and I think we've demonstrated in the last six months, is that if we take the extra time to engage every single perspective on this council, we get a much better outcome and a more sustainable outcome when we get to five, because it is respectful of all the perspectives on this council, not just to what three people think on an issue. And I will tell you, while getting to three is certainly a path, I view it as more of a shortcut.
 Getting to five takes more work, and it requires more consultations and trust and other things. But I think the more complex issues that this mayor steers to a vote of five will ultimately reflect well on his leadership style. So thank you, Ted. Bye. Wheeler? Right back at you, Commissioner Fish. And I've enjoyed working on this council. We have some good leadership.
 discussions, we have disagreements, but at the end of the day, everybody up here pulls their weight, puts in their homework, and works hard to come up with the right solutions. I want to thank people in the community who took the time to testify on this. It's been really good and important testimony. This is one of those values conversations that's been disguised as a policy discussion or a legal framework. Thank you.
 And I think part of the reason the public was so aggravated by the approach that, and I'll just confess up to this myself, the approach I originally took on this was,
 Because, frankly, I was looking at the settlement agreement and compliance with the settlement agreement and making sure that we had policies in place that were clear, that were achievable, and would move us towards the stated reforms that I ran on. I think that actually came into conflict with a deeper, more emotional values conversation that we needed to have today.
 in this chamber, in which we have had and which we will continue to have around these important issues. So I, for one, thought it was a great exercise. I have to stand it in contrast to a different conversation we had earlier in the day. Getting to real estate, there's a narrative out there that my – is it not working? Did it bug out again? They're switching captioners. It'll be a moment. One second. One moment.
 People waiting for real estate will be right up in a minute. That captioning thing is interesting. They actually do that manually. How can you tell whether it's this? I don't know. Sometimes they'll log themselves back up. It looks like they're... Well, this is just the exact opposite of some of my early council sessions.
 That was funny. All right, anyway
 I was just going to say, there's a balancing act here. I know to many people this feels like we're moving forward at the speed of light. And in many regards, we are moving very quickly, and there are timeline considerations here that are driving that conversation. So I apologize for that, but it seems like everybody's keeping up and giving us good counsel and feedback on this. So without further ado, I...
 The substitute ordinance is adopted. As a reminder, we have moved item number 893. We've continued it to August 24th at 2 p.m. We will continue to keep the record open on that written record, and there will be testimony on the 24th. We have a second reading of item number 894. If there's no further discussion, I'll call the roll.
 Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? This is on the amendments to the Independent Police Review Code, and thanks to the auditor and Director Sevier for your very diligent work on this. It was good that there was universal support for these changes last week. And on that issue, I have found it so helpful to have had respectful hearings where people are certainly still extremely diligent
 anxious about what should happen and forceful in their comments, but that we haven't had disruptions the last two weeks. And that's helped me be able to focus on things that people are saying rather than sometimes where we're in and out a lot. So I hope that that mutual respect continues to go on.
 Thank you, everybody. Aye, the ordinance is adopted. We'll take a three-minute break, and then we'll come back for the hearing. Thank you for those of you waiting for your patience. We appreciate it. Folks, I will ask Carla, please, to read item 895. Thank you all for your patience. We appreciate it. We're about 25 minutes late, and I know people's time is valuable, so I want to thank you for your patience. Please read item 895. Thank you.
 Appeal of Landon Kroll against Design Commissioner's decision of denial for design review of a new five- to six-story, approximately 70-foot-tall, 17-unit apartment building in the Central East Side Subdistrict of the Central City Plan District at 1122 Southeast Ankeny Street, LU16-184524DZM.
 Colleagues, does anybody have any new ex parte contacts to declare?
 Nobody has any ex parte contacts to declare. Does anybody have any questions that they need to ask regarding ex parte contacts? Seeing none, I will ask staff to come up to the table to provide an update. While they're doing that, I want to be clear there is new evidence in the record. Participants will need to be allowed to testify about the new evidence. Okay.
 Typically what we would do is we would allow three minutes per person, or if people feel like they need more than that, if people could let us know. And so the run of show will be I'll allow the applicant to describe or testify to the new evidence.
 I'll allow any other participant to testify to the new evidence, and then we will deliberate and hopefully come to a conclusion. And if I got that wrong, I will absolutely be corrected by legal counsel at some point. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, council members. My name is Grace Jeffries from the Bureau of Development Services. I have a brief presentation for you today which consists of six parts, background information,
 Council feedback from the last hearing, revisions since the last hearing, how the revisions addressed the Council's comments, a staff recommendation, and the alternatives facing the Council. So, in terms of the background summary, the pre-application conference for this proposal was held on February 16, 2016, and was followed by the design review application and five design commission hearings, and ended in the denial of the application. That decision was then appealed to the City Council, and this is the fourth City Council hearing of that appeal. Thank you.
 Through the design review process, the Design Commission found that the proposal did not meet all the applicable approval criteria. Therefore, the request was denied. Seven design guidelines were cited as not being met. These included A4, A5, C2, C3-1, C3-2, C5, 4, and C5. Under their final findings, the Design Commission identified three major aspects of the proposal that did not meet the guidelines.
 These include the massing scale and bulk of the sidewalls, the impact of the open stairwells on adjacent properties, and the quality and permanence of the proposed metal cladding. At the last hearing held on June 21, 2017, a revised proposal was presented to the Council with four-foot setbacks on the south side, a slightly reduced height for the tower on Southeast 12th, and the addition of wood cladding.
 The council commented that, with the setbacks in the wood siding, the massing on the south side appeared more contextually responsive. However, the council still had several concerns, including the contextual response on the north and east property lines, the impact of noise and light from the open stairwells on adjacent residents, and the impact of construction on adjacent properties, as well as the challenges of ongoing maintenance of cladding on the zero lot line walls. Thank you.
 The appellant has now submitted a further revised design, and as requested, a full set of design review drawings was submitted to BDS staff review prior to this hearing. This package was forwarded to the council, shared with interested parties, and uploaded to the city's website for public access a couple weeks ago. As recommended by BDS, the appellant also held a preliminary fire and life safety meeting, and the minutes for this meeting are attached to this memo that you have in front of you, hopefully. So this revised design incorporates...
 The changes appellant presented at the third hearing, as well as new revisions added to respond to the council's comments. This includes setbacks on the property lines on the south, north, and east, including four foot setback on the south property line with added windows on those elevations. A three foot setback along part of the north property line with added windows and a one foot six inch setback for the remainder of that property line.
 as well as a new three-foot setback along part of the east property line adjacent to the Sturgis property, which is the property immediately to the north of Southeast 12th Avenue lot. It also includes the slight height reduction of the tower on Southeast 12th and the addition of the stained cedar wood siding.
 As well, there's a new provision of a construction management plan, and like that offered to the neighbors to the south, the neighbor to the north was offered a baseline evaluation of their structure for comparisons of the conditions before, during, and after construction.
 So how these revisions address the Council's previous comments. So the setbacks proposed provide the opportunity for a more contextual response of the sidewalls and massing changes and added windows help reduce the scale of the tall exposed sidewalls. These setbacks also help address construction and maintenance concerns by allowing construction and maintenance to occur without necessarily imposing on the neighbor's properties. These setbacks would have been welcomed by the design commission during the design review process.
 The stained cedar vertical wood siding will provide a durable, more residential feel for the neighborhood. The construction management plan addresses concerns about the impact of construction on the adjacent neighbors. It illustrates how the construction can occur without imposing on the neighbors' properties, if necessary, and by switching to a less impactful foundation system, addresses concerns about impacts the construction might have on these adjacent structures.
 As well, the baseline evaluation offered to the immediate neighbors will document existing conditions as well as help the appellant's contractor develop recommendations for construction protection measures and monitoring, if necessary, to protect the foundations during construction. The appellant advised that the project will follow the reasonable recommendations of the study.
 And finally, in response to concerns about the open stairwells, several changes were made that flow from the increased setbacks, including moving the elevator shaft and adding open walkways on the upper floors. The stairwells have been placed behind the walkways, as viewed from the Sturgis property, to address concerns about the impact of lighting and noise from the open stairwells. The extent of these open areas has increased due to the relocation of the elevator shaft. However, these walkways are set back from the property lines by approximately 12 feet.
 New screening has not been added to the stairwells in order to preserve the passage of natural light between the building segments, which was desired by the adjacent neighbors. So the staff recommendation. This site is in the central city and has zoning allowances greater than those allowed directly across the street, which is outside the central city. These allowances allow for larger scale development with potential to have greater impact on the surrounding built environment.
 With these larger allowances comes a greater responsibility to respond to context. Therefore, a design overlay was added in these higher density areas. This site is also located at the very edge of the Central City Plan District, and additional guidelines were added here to ensure that the transitional nature of the area is considered. These include C3-1, which is designed to enhance existing themes in the district, and C3-2, which is respect adjacent residential neighborhoods.
 Given the small size of the site, the unusual shape of the lots, and the ambitious programming, from the start, staff had major concerns with how the proposal would meet the design guidelines, as discussed with the appellant at the pre-application conference. With this revised proposal, staff would like to have seen even further breakdown of the massing, which would have in turn allowed for more refinement of the composition.
 However, the changes that have been made help the design move closer toward meeting the guidelines. Based on these changes, staff feels most of the Council's concerns at the last hearing have been addressed and is now the Council's task to make findings on this case. Alternatives facing the Council include denying the appeal and upholding the Design Commission's decision to deny the proposal, grant the appeal and overturn the Design Commission's decision to deny the request, thereby approving the appellant's revised proposal,
 or thirdly, grant the appeal and overturn the design commission's decision to deny the request with added conditions of approval and or further design revisions, thereby approving a revised proposal. Thanks for your approach. So we would have to add more conditions of approval if we wanted to do number three. That's correct. And have you drafted those? Staff does not have any conditions of approval to add. Okay.
 I just need clarity on the second option, grant the appeal, because it doesn't say thereby approving the appellant's revised proposal on the screen, which is what you said. Thank you.
 Right. Well, I guess on the third option, I mentioned revised because that would be further revised. I guess we are speaking to the appellant's proposal that is sitting on the table at this moment. So we would be approving the revised proposal? Yes. I guess I should have said a further revised proposal. We would be granting the appeal. We would be overturning the design commission's
 decision to deny the request with conditions of approval or design revisions and thereby approving a revised proposal. Is that right? Because that's what I've written down. We could add the date of the proposal to help clarify that. Great. So if we were to do that, I would think we would have to have a condition of approval about the construction management plan and the mitigation for that. Yes.
 What happens if it turns out when they're doing the pile driving or the foundation that they can't use the auger, that they have to go to pile driving? Well, I think at that point, they will have their construction management plan in place. They will be doing monitoring because they had done it. If the neighbour so allows them, they will have done a baseline for the adjacent neighbours and they'll be continuing monitoring those foundations. So my thought would be that...
 they would proceed with care. It'll be a monitored process, so you could add a condition of approval. Yes, these are fragile, very old houses, and I know we've had lots of discussions at council about central city pile driving and how disruptive that is, even to new buildings adjacent to them. Yeah.
 So I'd be very concerned if they had to change. Yeah, you may want to ask the applicant that as well. Yeah, I don't mean to be a stickler, but I've been coached that I'm not allowed for us to bring new items to the table other than the design review issues. So the construction issue, I think it's appropriate. If we want to ask them if they happen to come up, I think it's an appropriate question, but it should not necessarily be considered in the case of this particular appeal. Well.
 I would actually maybe argue against that because, I mean, there are approval criteria on respecting adjacent residential neighborhoods and designed to enhance themes in the district. Well, let's ask him. Let's get him up here. Commissioner Fish. Yeah, I just want to foreshadow. Today I'm prepared to cast a vote on this issue, and I think it would be helpful to have the appellant,
 Tell us, answer any questions counsel has to see if we're all in accord as a way of resolving that issue. So legal counsel, just to be clear, so we still have to stick to the process, which is the appellant gets some amount of time.
 why don't we do this? Why don't we give the appellant as much time as they need to make their case, and then we don't charge them time to ask our questions and have our deliberations? Then we'll give opposing parties the same amount of time. Does that seem like a fair proposal? Yes, as long as it's the same amount of time. I'm –
 It would be good to set some limits on how long the applicant gets to speak so that when all of those in opposition start speaking, they're not also speaking the same amount of time. I think last time we had 10 minutes and then 10, 10, 10, and it got long. So that's up to you. That's your decision. Well, I will evoke the great leadership of former Mayor Vera Katz when she was Speaker of the House. Do you want to hear yourself talk or do you want your project? Okay.
 is maybe the operative word. Did our council just say 10-10-10? Yes. I don't even know what that is. I think we're moving up your vacation schedule. All right. So any further questions for staff before we bring up the appellant?
 I just actually wanted to answer a little bit more to your discussion about the base. So in terms of the construction management plan, I think that can't be the basis of the decision. However, as policymakers, you can speak to that and talk to the applicant about that. Great. I think that's it.
 All right. Thank you. All right. The appellant. So let's try to stay within five-ish minutes just so we all go home tonight. But we want to give you full reign to make your case. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We have three people to testify, and our hope was to stay under ten minutes. Perfect. For your record, my name is Tim Ramis. I'm legal counsel for the project.
 With me also is Landon Crowell, who's the project owner, Jerry Waters, who leads our design team. When we last met, we were left with three fundamental questions to respond to, and what our objective here today is is to let you know where we are on those.
 The first was, can you do something to soften the design effect of this project on the properties to the north? And the answer to that is yes, and Jerry will go through the changes in more detail, but they are along the lines that Grace described. Essentially, this project has moved from being a zero-lot line project to one that has setbacks, and that distinction has allowed us to address things like maintenance questions and the construction issue and those things that were being raised.
 The setbacks have been added so that it allows us also to add windows and create some separation to the properties next door, including being able to keep the historic eight-foot separation that is typical in this neighborhood between structures. So we're able to accomplish that. Second question is, are you going to be able to build and maintain this building without encroachment? And the answer to that is yes, and we've submitted a plan.
 in the record where Vic Construction describes how that will be done. They have been constructing zero lot line and close to lot line buildings since 1947 in the city. And so we think they are a good, credible source when it comes to designing how to do it. The third question is, can you soften the construction impact, the construction period impact on surrounding properties? And the answer to that also is yes.
 While we might not be able to be conditioned involuntarily to address some of these things, we volunteer to have the construction plan attached as a condition. So you need not worry about the question of authority, but we volunteer that. Essentially, there are two key aspects of it. First, there will not be any pile driving at all. There will be no digging of a basement, so there's no issue of shoring, safety, and collapse whatsoever.
 There will be no driving of piles because we'll use an auger system where we'll drill a hole in the ground and inject concrete into that. And if you want more detail on that, we have someone who can describe that process. But there will be no pile driving. So that's a non-issue. If we tried to do it, it would violate the construction management plan and therefore be a violation of our conditions and we couldn't do it.
 Also, Mr. Krause agreed that even though he doesn't have a settlement agreement with our neighbor, Ms. Sturgis, he will volunteer to extend to her the same protections that are being extended to our neighbor to the south, which were negotiated on their behalf by the Schwabe law firm.
 That would include a process by which no construction would take place until there was a survey done of that property to the north, including a qualified structural engineer examining the foundation and making specific recommendations as to the construction techniques that would have to be used in order to protect the properties to the north. And the contractor will be required contractually to honor those recommendations from the structural engineer. So that's the process that we'll use for protection. Thank you.
 I'll stop there and turn it over to the design folks. Thank you. Good afternoon. I think Grace did a fairly nice job of describing where we've come to since our initial hearing before you.
 The big one being the addition of setbacks on the 12th Street property side, where we've included a four-foot setback on the south in response to some neighborhood meetings and direct negotiation with the neighbors on the south. On the north, we've extended a three-foot setback for over 50% of the building portion.
 that you can see here. This piece back here is actually a void, so there's really only building from here to here. That portion we're giving an 18-inch or 1-foot-6 setback, and we believe that we can maintain that. And then along the rear property of the Sturgis...
 property line of the Sturgis property or our east property line on the Ankeny Street side, we've added an additional three-foot setback along their property there, again, to be able to construct and maintain this building and not cause any interference with the Sturgis property.
 Here are some massing views showing some of the changes that we've made since that time. I think Grace started with those. So the massing on that north side of the 12th Street has increased in its differentiation with volume and mass. The height has come down by more than five feet, and we've added additional setbacks and notches to increase the windows, which was a comment that both Design Commission and the neighbors had.
 So here's a view of where we were when we sort of finished up with design commission on the left and the changes that have been made to date. The Ankeny Street side, other than material changes, has really not been an issue. But here's the 12th Street side going back to wood siding and the addition of windows, the additional setback, and the massing changes to articulate that north facade and not have such a blank space.
 blank sheer facade. Could you please point to the wood siding just so I'm clear on where that is? So the wood siding will be from level 3 to ground. Ah, okay. So it's wood on the first three levels and then when it steps back then that's when we transfer to a zinc siding. So the zinc is a 100 year material, long lasting. It's used on buildings throughout Europe that are very old. And our wood siding we're using a factory applied
 semi-transparent stain that when it's factory applied with a primer and two coats, we can get an industry 25-year warranty on. So we feel that we're providing both the sort of residential feel that has been asked for, and at the same time, the durability and maintenance issues are really being put aside. How much more is the setback on the top structure? The top is three feet from the north property line.
 From here, from Ankeny. Yeah, so this piece is consistently three feet from the property line. But that structure on top of the square is set back where there's a tree in the foreground. How far back is that? Oh, how far is that? I don't know if I know a dimension off the top of my head, but it's at least eight feet, I would guess. Because there's a balcony space up there. There's a courtyard space up there? Yes. Okay. Thank you. And so I think that...
 pretty much concludes the bulk of the changes we've made in an effort to meet the suggestions and negotiated requirements. Very good. Now, this is not our decision point on this basis, but you've gone essentially through a design process by committee where you've heard lots of voices and you're making changes responsive to neighbors.
 I have no standing to say this, but I actually think the revised building is an improvement over the original building. It's a very handsome building. So I congratulate you for balancing the neighborhood concerns but also having a building that's quite distinctive. Well, thank you. I think any time you spend more time working on something, in theory, it should get better, although sometimes we worry about death by a thousand cuts. I don't know. Yeah. Okay.
 But I also would like to add that in all of this, we have maintained our desire and goal to be a net zero project. Thank you. Okay. Anything else for this panel? Oh, I have a question to the lawyer. So just so I'm clear, because we've done a lot of work today, and I just want to make sure we have our eye on the prize here.
 What is your recommendation in terms of the action we can have you share? And would you wordsmith it for us? Yes. We are asking for a motion that would approve the appeal based upon, A, the revised design which you have reviewed today, and, B, the addition of a condition requiring compliance with the construction management plan. Okay. I can follow that. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fruits? What does happen if you get in there and it turns out you can't use the auger? You have to do with pile driving. Because we're conditioned at that point to do the auger, if we wanted to change the construction technique, we'd have to come back and apply for an amendment of conditions and go back through the hearing process. Thank you.
 I might mention, too, that the structural engineer has already approved the auger cast pile. In fact, we had originally started with GeoPeers because it would have saved us $30,000. And rather than do that, we're spending $30,000 more to address the city – I mean the neighbor concerns. Yeah.
 And I might also mention that we're looking for innovation wherever we can find it because this is going to be the first prototype. We want to be right all the way across the board, so we're considering modular construction too. So that will eliminate some of the noise and what have you. That's an interesting idea. Good. Any further questions for the panel? Great.
 Thank you. Have a seat. Okay. We'll be right back. I would be remiss if I didn't thank the staff for all the work they've performed on this, and also Ms. Sturgis, who although we haven't reached agreement with, she was very forthright in letting us know her issues so we could at least attempt to address them. Very good. Thank you. So next up, I don't know if there are other participants who would like to testify about the new evidence. Yes.
 They don't have to be in opposition. They can be in support of. Is there anybody here who would like to testify in opposition to the revised proposal that's been brought forward? All right, colleagues, that leaves it up to us. Unless legal counsel, am I skipping any part of the process here?
 Commissioner Fritz, when I asked the attorney to give us his recommendation, did he accurately state the position that you had originally articulated? Yes. Would you like to offer that as the resolution?
 Well, I suppose I have to, because the code says that an application will be approved if it meets the conditions of approval or if it can be conditioned to meet the conditions of approval. I have to say I'm really reluctant to reward a process that's had five hearings at the Design Commission, five hearings before us. I don't think your Bureau has had
 compensation for every step of the way. So I hope that when future applications go to the Design Commission that things will get resolved there before five times because, as I say, this is not the best use of the council's time. It's not the best use of your time either. And certainly I appreciate the neighbours having been responded to at the end. It would have been better to have responded to them at the beginning. That said, I move that we...
 Approve the appeal with the revised conditions of approval. Second. So we have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Fish. Legal counsel is giving the head nod. Any further discussion on this matter? Call the roll. Call the roll.
 Yeah, I mean, you said revised condition of approval. So based upon the revised design and the condition requiring construction, the construction management plan. Correct. And you'll have to come back with revised findings, won't you? Yes, it's a tentative decision, and then we'll come back for revised findings later.
 Based on the applicant needs to prepare the revised findings, I believe his attorney has already started to do so. So I'm not sure when a good date to come back is. Our office will want to review them as well. Do we have to specify a time certain today, or can we hold off on that and just notice? We should have a date to come back. Carla's got the book. Oh.
 Do you want to go two weeks out, or how long do you think you need to do the findings? I can have a draft to staff by the end of this week. Okay, so we're kind of pressed for time here. Are we under a clock? Okay, so I see a nod. So you want to bring it back the 24th? We just need five minutes.
 You know, you just put the police item to the 24th, and then the Portland Police. What time is the police item? 2 o'clock. Let's put this at 2 as well. This is five minutes. We can't do two time certs. We've got to have like a 205. Why can't we do this in the morning? Huh? Why can't we do this in the morning? It's only going to be five minutes for the vote. I'm going to be here in the afternoon. I want to make sure you have a full compliment. Could we make this at 2 o'clock in the afternoon and move the police to 205 in the afternoon? Yeah.
 That would be up to you. I don't... Just so all we're doing is voting. This is a weighty decision. Yeah. I would hate to have you have to re-notice the police decision by moving it five minutes out. We're just going to inconvenience people five minutes. They're going to come at five. We're going to take it up at 2.05. Mayor, you have that discretion. I don't have a problem with it. I mean, legally, do you have a...
 re-noticing it means sending out another email and hitting send. I'm okay with that. You're just going to be here in the afternoon. You won't be here in the morning. Is that the concern? If you want me here in the morning, you'll have to take it up with my wife.
 I will be gone next week. No, it's the week after. Oh, okay. I will be back. It's my vacation, but I'm going to come back in the afternoon. If the three of us are going to be here in the morning of the 24th, we could do it. And you just let us design your building. This is great. Sorry, go ahead. I am very sorry. I am...
 I'm getting a message from our chief deputy land use attorney that we would like at least three weeks so that our office can do an adequate review. Good. So pushing it out one more week, and that still leaves us within adequate time to satisfy any statutory timelines. Great. Chip been blown anyway. Third is it? The 31st. It will be Thursday, 31st at 3 p.m. is available, and only Commissioner Saltzman is out. Let's do it. Does that work with the APCA?
 There's usually very little drama when it comes back with the findings, but just in case. That's my birthday, by the way. I prefer ice cream in case anybody's wondering. Are we good? I think so. Yes, Thursday, the 31st at 3 p.m. time certain. Very good. All right. Call the roll. Eudaly. I think this was the first land use appeals hearing that I got to sit in on.
 it feels like that was eons ago and as fascinating as it's been, I'm really glad it's almost concluded. I don't think either side got everything they want, and maybe that's the best we can hope for in this process. I just appreciate everybody's input and your willingness to address our concerns. Thank you.
 Well, I made my comments before, but I'll stress again, thank you, Grace Jeffrey and Tim Herron, for all the work you've been doing. Thanks to the Design Commission, who obviously tried to do their best to get it to an approvable form. And I hope we never again have applications that take 10 hearings in order to get it right. Hi. Bish. Well, first of all, I want to say that I think the final result –
 is pretty terrific. And if this is built to these specifications, I think it's going to be an asset to the community. And I love the fact that you're setting the bar so high in energy efficiency. This process is inherently messy, as is democracy, but the goal is to get to the finish line and to bring as many people along with us as possible. And I appreciate the fact that everybody is stretched today,
 I, too, would prefer that these things in a perfect world come to us from the design. If there is an appeal, that there be narrow issues, and that the bulk of the work be done at the administrative level, because that's how the system was envisioned. But there is this opportunity to appeal to this body. I will say, though, that given the amount of time
 cranes in the air and applications pending before the Bureau of Development Services is probably unsustainable for us to be spending this much time. And just as I'm sure the applicant in this case is looking forward to not returning to City Hall in the near future and focusing on his business. But that said...
 We are all charged with getting to a result that the code anticipates, and I think this is a pretty terrific project, and I thank everyone for guiding us to this point, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Wheeler. I want to thank the applicant, and I want to thank the neighbors. Thank you.
 who spent a considerable amount of time going back and forth on this, and I think coming to a very solid and amicable resolution. It seems like we've made slow progress at every one of these four hearings, but when you compare what has been...
 what is now in the final proposal versus where it started, it looks like there was a lot of motion and a lot of input and a lot of good decision-making along the way. I want to thank all the staff members who are heavily engaged in this, and I'm delighted to vote aye. So the appeal is granted. It has overturned the Design Commission's decision to deny the request.
 There are conditions of approval which have been attached, and therefore we have approved the revised proposal. This is a tentative vote, and it will be revisited on August 31st at...
 3 p.m. 3 p.m. for the final reading. Until then, the appeal is granted. Thank you. We take a two-minute break as we get settled? It's 3.30 times 7. Oh, excuse me. Okay, good. Yes, we have to take a break until 3.30 because the next hearing cannot start until 3.30. So we will be in recess until that time. Very good. We are back in session.
 Could you read item 896, please? Appeal of the Hayhurst Neighborhood Association against the hearing officer's decision to approve the application of Vic Remmer's Everett Custom Homes with conditions for an 11-lot subdivision at 5920 Southwest 48th Avenue, LU16-159330, LDSEN.
 Colleagues, this is a hearing that's been continued from June 22nd. The record is closed.
 And just to be clear, I have been made clear by legal counsel that if we choose to do other than deliberate amongst ourselves or if we bring staff back up for further discussions, that could trigger reopening the record. So I just want you to be aware of that fact. Counsel is here today to deliberate and to adopt a tentative decision for the record. I was not here.
 for the prior hearing. However, I've reviewed the entire record, and I will be participating in today's hearing. Do we need to do ex parte comments again or not?
 I don't believe we – well, why don't I ask just to be on the – Yes. Yes, okay. And Mr. Mayard also asked because you were not at the – Yeah, okay. I'm sorry. Thank you. Because I was not at the prior hearing, I also want to take the opportunity to declare that I have no conflicts of interest in this matter. And –
 I do want to ask if any members of the council have any ex parte contacts to declare information gathered outside of this hearing to disclose, including any contact that might have occurred since the last hearing. Does anybody have any ex parte contacts? I just want to declare, as I stated previously, I have met with members of the Hayhurst Neighborhood Association, or Hayhurst Neighborhood, I should say, about this development prior to the appeal being filed by the neighborhood association.
 Subsequently, Matt Grumman, my staff, has met and spoken with neighbors, as well as the attorney, Mike Robinson, for the developer. And I have been briefed on those conversations. And in addition, I did see a KATU story on the news on July 12th about this proposal as it affects safe routes to schools. Does anyone present in the council chamber wish to ask commissioners...
 Thank you. I need to say that Claire Adamsick on my staff has talked with neighbors and has briefed me on those conversations. Does anybody in the council chamber wish to ask Commissioner Saltzman about any ex parte contacts or information he has disclosed? Come on up.
 State your name for the record, please. For the record, I'm Peggy Hennessey here on behalf of the Hayhurst Association, Neighborhood Association. Go ahead and grab a seat. I would like to ask what the applicant's attorney's comments to your staff were.
 I'd have to ask my staff that. Okay. You said your staff had briefed you on what he had said to them, and we were just curious what that was. Yeah, so I think generally it was all in the context of trying to find some sort of a compromise here. I was interested, I think as I stated at the last hearing, about the notion of a cul-de-sac. So I'm sure the applicant's attorney probably provided some feedback on that idea. And then also the agreed-upon condition of approval that both sides have agreed to that –
 I want to offer as an amendment today. Okay. Thank you. Probably about those deals. Thank you. Very good. Would anybody who is in the chamber today like to ask Commissioner Fritz about her contacts or information that she has disclosed? I do not see anyone. Have any members of the council made any visits to the site involved in this matter?
 Since the hearing on June 22nd, the record was held open. I would like to note that the entire record is here and has been placed physically before us. So at this point, colleagues, we are ready to...
 deliberate. We can tentatively deny the appeal and uphold the decision of the hearings officer and return with revised findings. We can tentatively deny the appeal and uphold the decision of the hearings officer with additional conditional approval. We could return with revised findings or we could tentatively grant the appeal, overturn the decisions of the hearing officer and return with revised findings.
 So, Mayor, as I indicated a minute ago, I do have an amendment I would like to offer to the decision. And this was agreed upon by both the applicant and the appellant. And it reads as follows. The applicant and the Hayhurst Neighborhood Association shall agree upon a plan for barricading the extension of Southwest Pendleton Street. And such agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld.
 so that the extension may be used only by pedestrians, bicyclists, and emergency vehicles, and such plans shall be approved by the Portland Bureau of Transportation prior to the approval of final plans for the subdivision's construction and any ground-disturbing activities except for site testing. So I would offer that as a condition to the approval. So that has been offered up. Is there a second to the amendment?
 For purposes of discussion, I'll offer a second. So, yeah, I believe this is an effort that will protect what I do think is a safe route to school along Southwest 48th, I believe the street is, and also prevent traffic infiltration from Southwest Cameron through Southwest Pendleton to Southwest 45th or other points. I think it does provide for...
 pedestrian bicycle access and emergency vehicle access. And I think we have done this type of situation elsewhere in our city. Commissioner, could you explain how it could provide access for emergency vehicle and not regular vehicle traffic? I mean, how would that be controlled? Well, I believe that the Portland Fire and Rescue does have situations where they have access to
 roads that are otherwise locked by gates. And so I would imagine this would be either gates or bollards or something to that effect that could be removed in an emergency situation. Okay. How does that jive with our policy of having connected streets? Well, I guess it doesn't. I mean, it does, it jives with it in respect, as much as it does provide pedestrian and bicycle access, but it doesn't jive with respect to vehicular connectivity of streets.
 We have a transportation planning rule that allows a variation from the street connection standards when the topography prevents such connections, but the topography doesn't prevent such connections here. Well, we have a rule, but I guess I also believe we should be mindful of the individual circumstances of each case that comes before us, and then how those rules apply is up to us to make a decision on. And I guess my coming down on it is this type of a compromise reached by both sides...
 It has merit and will, I think, protect the safe routes to school and also allow the development to achieve its objectives as well.
 So I'm really concerned about the precedent being set here. I mean, we've had lots of discussion about this southeast 148th subdivision where we're requiring a connection against the wishes of the Arge Terrace Neighborhood Association. I see this as, you know, the recommendations from your staff in transportation is to have the connected street. Right. Yeah.
 Perhaps, Mayor, we should test the amendment. Well, I was going to ask Commissioner Saltzman if he wanted to revise that or if we should just call the question. Well, I don't have – I'm taking the language that was presented to us by both sides, so I don't necessarily have an alternative version in mind. So we could call the question if you want. Since the amendment is new, though, so don't we have to take public testimony on that?
 I believe that opens the record back up. Yeah. Isn't it a condition? Yeah. So it's being offered as a condition. If you would like to take public testimony, you would need to reopen the record. This meeting has not been noticed as. No, my question is, do we have to take? No. It's a condition. Okay. Sorry. Call the question. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Eubaley? No. Fritz? No.
 Fish. No. Wheeler. No. The amendment is not adopted. So I will entertain at this time, colleagues, if people have a preference, any of the three options, I'll accept a motion. Well, as with the previous hearing we just had, if an application is...
 meets the approval criteria or if it can be conditioned to meet the approval criteria, we are required to approve it. And so I move to deny the appeal and uphold the hearings office decision. Second. So we have a motion from Commissioner Fritz to deny the appeal. Commissioner Fritz seconds that. Any further discussion? Call the roll. Saltzman. Okay.
 Well, I will oppose this motion. I do believe I've been convinced by the hearing and also the record that there are legitimate concerns about people getting to and from Hayhurst School, legitimate concerns about traffic infiltration into the neighborhood, and so I vote to uphold the appeal. I'm voting yes.
 So you're voting no? No. I'm voting no. No on denying the appeal. I'm voting no. Okay. I was just that confused. To be clear, the motion is to deny the appeal. Okay. I'm voting no. Commissioner Saltzman is voting no. Udaly? Well, I sympathize with the neighborhood. I feel like our rules and codes are very clear and that the developer is in compliance with them. And our bureaus have also...
 seemingly supported that, so I. Fritz. Yeah, the rules don't say is it the best that can be done. I mean certainly if I was starting over on this, and possibly even if the applicant was starting over on this, it would be different compared with after having the neighborhood input. But the rules don't say is it the best that can possibly be done. It says what the standards are, and it's important for people to be able to rely on those standards.
 The rules allow for discretion. Excuse me, please, no interruptions or deliberations.
 The rules are such that reasonable people can and do disagree, and that's what's the essence of a land use decision, is that that's why we have public hearings, that's why we have approval bodies to make a choice. I will have to say that the piece of this application that really disturbs me is the unprotected seeps and springs, which I think will be a problem for the house that's very closest to them and may indeed be a problem for the watershed areas
 I had thought in the subdivision process that I was involved in on the planning commission that we had fixed that problem and apparently have not. So I hope that that in a future Bureau of Planning and Sustainability code effort will get changed. I would say to neighbours when I was a land use chair of a neighbourhood association
 When I didn't get what I wanted, at the very least I tried to fix the code so that things didn't happen again that way. And that's what we have to do. If the outcome is not what you want, then the rules perhaps haven't been set up the way you want them. And please continue to participate in the planning processes. I. Fish. I thought in this case the appellant and the neighborhood association did an excellent job putting forth its case. Yes.
 and well represented and made a good record. I'm persuaded, though, that based on the code and the record before us, that the proper outcome here is an aye vote, so I vote aye. Wheeler?
 So I am in a like mind to Commissioner Fritz in terms of the rules being explicitly clear so that we are agnostic in terms of the players that are involved. I appreciate what Commissioner Saltzman is raising as an issue, and I think it is a legitimate safety issue, and I know that PBOT is.
 and the applicant are prepared to install mitigation strategies, including speed bumps and the like, if necessary. And that's something, obviously, we want to continue to work with the neighborhood on. I vote aye. The appeal is denied 4-1. And just to be clear that that was a tentative decision. Tentative vote. Thank you. And the final decision will be on. We'll go to the calendar. Carla, sorry. How long do we need to come back?
 So that applicant will need to prepare revised findings and then prepare them for staff in our office to review. Are we on the clock on this? No, we have time. We have a very busy August, so we push this out sometime in September. Okay, so early September. Is there a – No. It should be a five-minute item. Let's say 11 a.m. on the 6th, Wednesday the 6th. That's the first week in September.
 Which, for those of you who may be coming, probably means closer to 12, but it's scheduled for 11. September 6th at 11 a.m. time certain. September 6th, 11 a.m. time certain, Portland City Hall Chamber will be the final vote on that. We are therefore adjourned until tomorrow, Thursday, August 10th, at 2 p.m. Thank you. Yes. Right now they are.