Okay, so take keep off of the recycling one. Hi, it's Nick. Would you have me come to you? Are you ready? Yes. Okay.
 Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Thursday, August 3rd, 2017 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Assaultsman? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Here. I'm going to shorten this today. We've got a big agenda, and I'll probably be reiterating it later. We're all here. People want to be heard. Thank you.
 Everybody should be respectful. If people are testifying, let's not interrupt them. If the council is deliberating, let's not interrupt the council. While the council is deliberating, anybody who's disruptive of other people's testimony, well, that's just rude. Please don't do it. And if you continue to do it, we'll have to have you leave. And if we ask you to leave and you don't, well, then you might get arrested for trespassing. And I'm sure we all agree nobody wants to have that happen, so let's all just...
 Thank you.
 We do ask you to state your name for the record. We don't need your full address. If you're a lobbyist, we are required to know that information if you're here representing an organization. That's helpful, too. We have a couple of kids here today. That's cool. It's nice to see you. How are you guys doing? Thanks for coming to the city hall. It's exciting. All right. So with all that, first item, please, 868.
 Appoint Ben Bortolazzo to the Planning and Sustainability Commission for a term to expire August 31, 2021. So this is exciting. About a month ago, we appointed the new Youth Commissioner to the Planning and Sustainability Commission. And today, we have an appointment for the last time.
 current vacancy on the commission. As with all regular PSC appointments, this position is designated as a four-year term with the possibility of being reappointed for a second four-year term.
 Ben Bartolazzo is my recommendation for this position. If confirmed, he'll begin his term on the PSC on September 1st with a term end date of August 31st, 2021. Susan's going to make some introductory comments first. We're going to embarrass you a little bit. How's that? Sounds good. Excellent. Excellent.
 So good afternoon, Mayor, Council, Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. We're really excited that the mayor has chosen to recommend Ben to join the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Susan, could you hold one sec? Sure. This is such an important part of our hearing. I want to make sure it's on TV because we're not getting anything on our screens. We're working up here, so...
 You are showing something? Yes. So it's just not on our screens? I think so. I'll check the internet. Just want to make sure that our honored guest. Oh, yeah, my monitor was turned off. Make sure our honored guest and his father are on TV today. So our honored guest's father, whose name is Ben, leads the planning and design team for OTAC, a local firm here in Portland. OTAC's known for its, I'd say it's multidisciplinary approach of bringing together engineers and architects and landscape and design.
 Planners all together, Ben's the director of planning and design. He's worked in a multitude of places and creates really engaging, dynamic, successful projects and plans really all over the United States. He began his studies in Venice. I wish I had began my studies in Venice. Earning an architecture degree and went on to earn a master's in architecture and urban design from the University of Washington.
 Ben will definitely bring some quality design and community engagement experience to the Planning and Sustainability Commission.
 As many of you remember, the PSC is a diverse group of 11 individuals. They volunteer many, many, many hours each month reviewing plans and policies that affect land use and all sectors of our community. Each PSC member brings a particular set of knowledge and talents and experience from architecture to transportation to economic development. We have folks who are housing specialists, environmental education specialists,
 This is different than most cities. Most cities, their planning commissions are generally comprised of people who are part of the development industry. In Portland, our Planning and Sustainability Commission embraces a much broader approach.
 I'm personally very happy that Ben's going to join the commission. I think he'll provide a lot of value and a lot of knowledge and some great perspective. I know he's very passionate about the city here, and his kids wanted to come along and say hello. Very cool. Hey, Ben, maybe you could just take a minute or two and tell us a little bit about yourself and why you wanted to serve on the PSC. Sure. Well, thank you for the wonderful introduction. Thank you.
 Mayor, Commissioners, thank you for allowing me the opportunity to serve the community through this role in the Planning and Sustainability Commission. I was born in Italy, where I was influenced by some of the world's most known public spaces. I studied architecture and urban design. I met my wife, Katie, who is here in the audience today, while at the University of Washington, after which we moved to Italy.
 When my wife and I moved to Portland from Italy about 12 years ago, we deliberately chose to live in Portland. A decision that was driven in part by Portland's livability, walkability, and great public realm. We now have three children, Angelo, who's here, Teo, and Francesca, who's cheering from the audience. We live in Southeast and Woodstock neighborhood.
 And we love our neighborhood, and every day we get to reap the benefits of a well-thought-out city. Experiencing the benefits of great city planning in Europe and here in Portland inspired me to apply for a seat on the Portland's Planning and Sustainability Commission. I would like to offer my diverse and unique professional skill set in stewardship of Portland's legacy and to help shape the city's future, building upon the positive direction that's already been set by our predecessors.
 I'm passionate about urban form and urban design that contributes to creating a sense of place. Having grown up in Italy, I'm very familiar with places that are frequently regarded as humanly scaled, that are memorable, and encourage people interaction. My academic and professional expertise spans the fields of architecture, urban design, and planning. And I consider myself a generalist and a big picture thinker.
 and I trust these skills match the Planning and Sustainability Commission's mission of stewardship, development, and maintenance of the city's long-range plans. I'll be happy to answer any questions you may have or hear about any ideas or guidance you may have.
 Colleagues, any questions or comments? Commissioner Fish? Ben, you mentioned that you have spent a lot of time in Italy. My wife and I spent our honeymoon in Italy, Rome, Venice, and Florence. Where did your family live, and what was your experience? Northeast near Venice, a small town called Bassano da Grappa, which is right at the edge of the Alps, so northeastern part of Italy, northwest of Venice. I went to school in Venice, actually. Very cool.
 Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one else signed up for this one. I'll entertain a motion. Colleagues? So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz to accept the report. Colleagues, any further comments? Please call the roll. Saltzman? Well, thank you, Mr. Bortolazzo, for your willingness to serve. It is a very time-consuming job, so we appreciate your willingness.
 Well, I wanted to acknowledge former Planning and Sustainability Commission Don Hanson, who's in the audience, who I think also works for OTAC. So Don's probably spilled the beans about the lot of time you spend on this commission. But we appreciate it, and it does serve us well. We rely heavily on the advice and recommendations of the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Though we don't always accept them, but we do rely heavily on them. Hi. Eudaly. Congratulations, and thank you for your service. Hi. Hi.
 Fritz. I served for seven years on the Planning Commission before it became the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and I really appreciate your willingness to serve and also your family's willingness to let you serve because it's certainly a lot of extra time that you wouldn't be home for dinner and those kinds of things. So thank you to the whole family. I. Ish. I was thinking I have a 13-year-old home. You have three young children, so that's going to be a lot of balancing. So thank you very much for taking on this assignment.
 Also, we should note that OTAC has been a great partner of the city in a lot of the work that we've done. I remember when I was the housing commissioner, OTAC was a key partner in building housing and providing professional services. And I think all of us here at one time or another have gotten robust advice from Nozad Offman about something involving the city's future. So, yeah.
 Congratulations and thank you for taking this on. Thank you. Wheeler. Well, I'm obviously thrilled, Ben, that you're willing to step up, and it's great to see your family here and sharing in this.
 So speaking a little more broadly, we're very, very lucky that you will be joining a commission that has some really great people on it. And I think it's terrific we're all in a city where we can attract such talent to come in and be part of the public process and help this council and help this city on what's obviously a very important function that we provide. So thanks to you. Thanks to your family. The report is accepted, and the appointment is approved. Thank you for your service. Thank you.
 Next item, please, Carla.
 869, accept the Portland Recycles Progress Report and Action Plan dated August 2017. And could you also read item 870 with that concurrently? Sure. Direct Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to review Portland's franchise system for collecting residential solid waste, recycling, and composting. Colleagues, we may not think very often about how our garbage recycling and composting is collected.
 but staff at BPS are working to ensure that for the most part we don't have to. Twenty-five years ago, the city launched its curbside recycling program as part of franchising garbage and recycling collection at single-family homes. Every five years, we have the opportunity to take a step back and review the franchise agreement and make sure that it's still serving our needs and helping us to meet our goals.
 This is obviously time for another midterm review. We have staff here today from BPS to give us an update on the progress over the past decade and to get approval to launch a system review. So without further ado, I'll just turn it over. Susan? Thank you.
 Thank you. So good afternoon again. I'm Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And with me here are Bruce Walker, Solid Waste Program Manager, and Ariane Sperry, Program Coordinator. The mayor mentioned 25 years ago we started the franchise and recycling system, and Bruce was here. So pretty much all of the great things that have happened here.
 And all the things that you haven't heard about because the system runs smoothly, a lot of it has to do because Bruce has been here all along. Today we're going to talk about two things. One is we're going to start with a progress report on citywide recycling efforts. And then after a vote to accept the report, we will follow with a discussion on updating the residential solid waste franchise. Okay.
 So, the Portland Recycles Plan was adopted nearly 10 years ago in 2008 under the leadership of Commissioner Saltzman. The plan sets goals for the amount of waste that's recycled and composted, for reducing the total amount of waste generated, and it sets goals to improve the overall sustainability of the waste collection system.
 One of the primary goals was not just to recycle more, but to actually reduce the total amount of waste that's generated by everybody, both what goes into the landfill and all the recycling and composting. This includes all the residential and commercial waste, because while it's great that we do a good job at recycling, and we do, recycling –
 isn't the only answer, and we need to actually reduce aggressively the amount of stuff overall that we purchase and throw away. We can do that by buying less packaging, buying more durable goods, repairing items, wasting less food, reusing products, and so on.
 And Portland residents and businesses have been doing a really good job in the past five to ten years in this area. As the diagram shows, total waste generated per person, so that's everything that's going to the landfill plus recycling, composting,
 has dropped by 16% from 4,200 pounds to 3,500 pounds. So 700 pounds less per person per year. But that's still a lot of stuff. So we hope to continue this trend. Our goal for waste reduction is to cut per person waste down another 700 pounds to 2,800 pounds by 2030. So we're going to hopefully keep moving in this direction. Thank you.
 In addition to our efforts to reduce and reuse, we all know Portland is great at recycling. Portland residents and businesses recycle or compost 70% of all materials, so only 30% goes to the landfill. That's twice the national average, something you all should be very proud of. All residents and businesses should be proud of. We're sort of leaps and bounds ahead of many, many cities. Chicago recycles about 10%. Denver does about 20%.
 But we're not on top. San Francisco, San Jose, and L.A. all recycle more than we do, recycling 75% or more. I think it's important as we promote recycling and composting to local residents and businesses that— The next slide, please. Thank you.
 The city government really walks the talk that we need to be doing our part too. This slide shows three examples of work that the city is doing now. The first one on the left there is,
 is a waste audit at a fire station. They're literally picking through the garbage. This enabled them to quickly find out just how much they were actually throwing away and see how much stuff they could recycle and or compost. As a result, all Portland fire stations now compost their food scraps. Overall, city government recycles and composts about 75% of our waste, and we have a goal to reach 90%.
 Second, we're also making the collection system less polluting by cleaning up the privately owned fleets of garbage and recycling trucks. We now require waste and recycling haulers to use cleaner fuels like biodiesel or compressed natural gas and upgrade their trucks to run cleaner. We also have hopes, or I have hopes anyways, for an electric garbage truck sometime in the next couple of years as a pilot.
 And finally, we've also made recycling a much more visible part of our community. So we have recycling containers on the transit mall, something that I don't know why we didn't forever, but we do now, which is great.
 So for most of the people who live in single-family homes and lived in single-family homes over the past 10 years, single-family through fourplex, the most visible change that came from the Portland Recycles Plan is the collection carts that you all have at home. So in 2008, we rolled out the big blue and green roll carts that serve single-family, duplex, triplex, and fourplex throughout the city.
 Three years later, in 2011, we changed the system. And so everybody had their roll cards, and what we decided to do was pick up recycling and yard debris and compost every week, while your garbage only gets picked up every other week. And literally this one change caused the total tons of residential garbage thrown away to drop by more than 30,000 tons.
 So it was almost overnight. About a third of the garbage disappeared because there wasn't as much room as there was before. And almost immediately, people figured out how to get that stuff into the compost bin, into the yard debris bin, and into the recycling bins.
 So that's a great accomplishment. At the same time, it was a political risk of great kind of groundbreaking at the time. Those of you who were here every other week, garbage. People did complain. We knew they would. And the complaints lasted about three or four weeks.
 And then it became normal. And I think just like riding your bike or walking or anything else that we do, once you get to do it a few times, it becomes normal. And it's just the way we do it here. So that's how we've done residential waste. And we've been copied now around the country in terms of switching to every other week garbage collection. And it's working great.
 Could I just add, excuse me, I don't think the complaints to council offices fell off all that much after four weeks, but the BPS information, our waste information email, your staff there were absolutely fantastic at getting back to people and explaining and helping them through. So thank you very much. Thanks. That was a while ago. I think maybe the sky, I tend to remember things much nicer than they really were.
 So that's residential waste. And when we say residential, we're just talking about single-family and duplex, triplex, fourplex. What we need to remember is that as much as we seem to talk about it, residential waste and recycling accounts for only 20% of the total waste stream. So 80% of it comes from businesses and construction sites and the larger multifamily properties.
 So what's up next is that we're going to focus a whole lot more on the commercial areas. For multifamily, we will increase our efforts to make sure that we provide quality recycling opportunities for multifamily residents. Eighty percent of our growth is going to be in apartments, as we know. Through the growth scenarios, through the comprehensive plan, we need to do a better job there.
 And then second, for the commercial sector, we will primarily focus on construction waste and food waste, as those are the two largest waste sources that are going to the landfill still.
 Since the adoption of the Portland Recycles Plan in 2008, food-related businesses such as restaurants and grocery stores, they've been required to separate food scraps for collection. Our enforcement has been really focused on technical assistance. And we now have more than 1,200 businesses collecting food scraps, which is great, but unfortunately,
 Many of some of our largest grocery stores still don't do this. So in response, we're going to ramp up our technical assistance to ensure that all large food industry companies meet the requirement within two years. Metro is now working alongside us and is proposing to ban all food scraps from the landfill from businesses by 2023. So...
 Other places have already done this. We're a little behind on this. We've been in the, I call it the Portland way, which is we pass a rule, and then we cajole people into doing it before we actually get around to enforcement. And at this point, it's been many, many years, and it's time for us to just move on this. Thank you.
 So that's the report. Recycling, composting, 70% of all our waste. We reduced the total amount that each of us is throwing away. And in the next five years, we'll focus on construction waste, food waste, and improving recycling for multifamily apartments. When you say multifamily apartments recycling, does that include food waste?
 Yes. So currently, if you want food waste, if any apartment building wants food waste to be collected, their hauler needs to do that. So it's a requirement now on the haulers. It's just there isn't quite as much demand. And we've worked with
 Hundreds of buildings, really, already. But it's a little different. There's not yard waste in there. So we're working on a whole bunch of different ways at other cities that are more urban than us that have a huge number of apartments, how they've done it. And so we'll get there over the next two years. Great. Thanks. Yes, ma'am.
 If there's not any questions, then I think we just need a vote to accept the report. So I'll take a motion now. Don't we have to stop public testimony? Yeah, we can take a motion, leave it open, and then take testimony. Sure.
 I move to report the pension. So we have a motion from Commissioner Fritz. I'll second that. A second from Commissioner Udaly. Is there any public testimony on either of these items? I do. Some people may have signed up on the wrong sheet. Let's do this. Because we, you're, no, let's actually, I'd like to hear them together and have testimony once for both of these. Oh, okay. So if you wouldn't mind giving the presentation for the resolution as well. Okay. Okay.
 Then the next item up is the renewal process for the solid waste residential franchise system. Bruce will describe how the system works, and Ariane will lay out the work plan for how we're going to get a revised agreement in place over the next six months. When you vote today on this, you'll be setting the renewal process in motion. The current franchise requires us to come and get your approval to kick off the—
 The process, and then once we start, it requires us to finish it within six months. So I'll hand this over to Bruce. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. So as a reminder, our residential franchise system, the services, the collection services for garbage, recycling, and composting are provided by 14 franchisees or private collection services.
 companies, they service approximately 160,000 single family through fourplex. As Susan described earlier, the fiveplex to multifamily residential units are considered commercial. Commercial businesses and multifamily are able to
 negotiate directly with a hauler, and it's not part of our franchise system. So the franchise agreement, think of it as a framework. Yes, it's a contract, and it aligns that most of the rules that are governing the collection services are
 extensive set of administrative rules are separate from the franchise agreement itself to allow us some more flexibility in fine-tuning rules. But this contract is with the haulers, then they must, it directs them to follow the rules that we establish. The franchise service, service or the agreement also establishes the geographic territories
 where each company provides services to the residential customers. It also lays out the methodology for which we oversee a rate review process that establishes the franchise fee that comes to fund programs that we use to oversee the program, the solid waste and recycling program, as well as it sets a target operating margin for the haulers.
 The franchise agreement establishes a renewal process, and that's what we're here to discuss today. In terms of franchise renewal, our current agreement went into effect in February of 2013. It's a 10-year agreement, so it will run through early 2023. Okay.
 We currently are at the point in the agreement, the midterm point, where we launch a review. That's what we're hoping you do today. And that agreement will give us guidance for how to move forward with that review. We're asking you to approve the next steps. And at that time, we will set forth in this outline here.
 We may come back with a new agreement that would be for another 10 years. There could be additional options that you include in the franchise agreement for us or another range of approach. But what we will take under consideration as we look forward are going to be the guiding principles and methodology that Ariane is going to cover. Thank you.
 So as Bruce mentioned, franchise review is a required step in the franchise renewal process, and it's a time when city staff take a look at the franchise and ensure this is in the public interest. It's still helping the city meet its goals.
 So the review factors that are identified in the franchise agreement itself are quite broad and give staff a lot of latitude in terms of what to focus on. So we've developed a set of guiding principles to provide focus for this review. And this is exhibit A to the resolution that I'm going to go over.
 So, of course, we need to make sure we're continuing to advance our climate action plan goals related to waste, which are reduce food scraps sent to landfills by 90%, reduce per capita solid waste by 33%, and then we want to recover 90% of all the waste generated. We also want to ensure cost-effective, safe, and environmentally sound operations.
 This includes establishing rates through a process that promotes operational efficiencies while meeting policy goals, including equity. Employing a rate-setting methodology that provides franchisees the opportunity to earn a reasonable operating margin without guaranteeing a specific return to any franchisee. Developing programs and conducting operations to ensure public and worker safety. Reducing air emissions from collection vehicles. And, of course, the cost of the product.
 and improving the safety of collection vehicles for hauler employees as well as other road users. We want to ensure exemplary customer service, which means responding promptly to and communicating appropriately with customers, using technologies to provide more responsive, reliable, and convenient customer service, and keeping and maintaining accurate and accessible customer and operational records.
 And finally, we need the ability to develop a resilient and equitable system. We want to increase participation of women and minority workers. We want to reduce barriers to economic opportunities for minority-owned and women-owned companies. We want to collect clean and marketable, recyclable, and compostable material streams and maintain the ability to adapt to emerging policy goals. So those are the guiding principles that we've laid out.
 As mentioned earlier, we're asking you to vote today to formally launch the franchise renewal review. So your vote would start the clock on a six-month review period, and we would go away, conduct our research and our analysis, have conversations with stakeholders, and come back in January with our report.
 And if we don't vote to accept it, what happens then? Pardon? If we don't vote to do this, what's next? So the franchise agreement would just continue along and expire in 2023. And we would have to come up with another system to have a collection of residential recycling, compost, and garbage. Thank you. Very good. Colleagues, any questions before we open it up for public testimony?
 All right. You get a few minutes to cool your heels. Thank you for the presentation. Carla, do we have people? You mentioned two before. How many do we have now? We've got about 11 on the list. Very good. Okay. The first three are Noni Kazi, Harley Bird, and Tony Jones. Come on up. State your name for the record. Three minutes. If you're a lobbyist, let us know. If you're here representing an organization, let us know. But we don't need to know your specific address or anything like that. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Council Members, Mayor. My name is Tony Jones. I'm the Executive Director of Metropolitan Contractor Improvement Partnership. We're the education arm of the National Association of Minority Contractors. We are here to support Resolution 870 to have the franchise review of the waste hauling system.
 MCIP, for short, we provide business technical assistance focused on minority and women-owned construction businesses. We work with about 40 to 70 businesses a year in providing business technical assistance and training to those firms. And we welcome the review of the franchise agreement and how we include minorities and women, in particular minority and women construction businesses.
 or businesses in particular that has waste hauling capability to provide them the opportunity to do this work. So we support this review.
 The comments I want to make is real quickly is that most of you are very aware of the economic disparity between African Americans or other minority groups and our counterparts. When we look at wealth, I believe the numbers are white families have a net wealth of $111,000 a year, and African Americans are either somewhere, I don't have the statistic right in front of me, either between $9,000 and $13,000 a year in terms of net wealth.
 So the economic disparity is huge. So any time that we have an opportunity to provide economic opportunity to African-American, other minority businesses and groups is strongly encouraged. And we were very encouraged to see in the resolution and in the language of Congress.
 prepared by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, that that is a goal of theirs, is to make sure that there's economic equity for minorities and women in the waste hauling system. So we think this is a great opportunity, a time to review those policies, to review what we can do. And the biggest barrier, I would say, for minority women-owned businesses is entry.
 It really is. Many times they have the capability to do the work. They have some of the systems to do the work and understand what the work is. The biggest barrier is getting their foot in the door and having the opportunity to do the work. So we really encourage you to support this resolution and really hold the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability accountable to...
 come up with a process and a system to get more inclusion of minority women construction businesses to do this work. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Harley Bird. I'm here today in support of this resolution. I was involved in this waste hauling business in Seattle, Washington from 1984 until 2007. I only got that opportunity
 because the city council in 1983 put goals for minority and female participation in the contract. The contract was not a franchise system. It was a bid citywide contract. Prior to that time, no minority or women companies had any participation in the largest contract that the city of Seattle led at that time. I'm very...
 I'm very thankful that I had that opportunity. It provided a good living for myself and my family. I was able to have my two kids graduate from the University of Washington, with no debt, by the way. And, you know, I had two great-grandchildren. You know, this also benefited from my time in the West Halling business. This business traditionally...
 has been dominated by large companies, multinational companies that not only pick up garbage in the U.S., but around the world. Waste management, republic, allied waste connections. Sometimes the names change because they merge with each other.
 Allied waste today becomes republic tomorrow. Same thing with respect to this franchise system that you have here. You started out with how many? 60-some franchise. And now you're down to 14. And during that process, the big boys gobbled them up. You know, like a Pac-Man. You know, they just... That's what they do. They acquire...
 You know, extend their territory, you know, grow their business. And so the little guy, you know, it's very tough, you know, to break into that system. And they can only break in if you provide a vehicle by which they can do so. I thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you, sir. We appreciate it.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Noni Kazi. I'm the Executive Director of BEAM, which stands for Black Educational Achievement Movement. Our organization has been around for five years, and...
 We have had the honor of bringing groups of black high school and college students together each year to work with colleges and employers. Because in our city, if students can't see you, it's hard for them to be you.
 And this year we were able to bring together 600 African-American high school and college students in with businesses so they could see people that look like them and ask them about the industry that they're a part of. In Oregon, we have one company that's owned by an African-American family.
 and I'm here to actually support, in support of this resolution. It's very important for me that our students get an opportunity to look at a wide range of industries, and waste management is huge. Recycling, it's international, it's global. And...
 usually minority-owned, women-owned businesses tend to have a larger percentage of folks that look like them. It's just the reality. So...
 I'm here to support one of the only companies in the state of Oregon so they can expand, so our young people can see that company grow, because it's very important for them to see people that's in this industry and that profits stay local.
 how will we grow if we don't have the language that are in resolutions to make this happen? So I just wanted to come and support this. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. Thank you all for taking the time to come. The next three are Nate McCoy, Mike Dewey, and Dean Kempfer.
 Good afternoon. Nate, you want to start us off, please? Yes. Mayor, commissioners, thanks for having me. For the record, my name is Nate McCoy, Executive Director of the Oregon Chapter of the National Association of Minority Contractors. I won't belabor some of the points you've heard already today because I think you guys kind of get it. What I do want to stress the point, and Noni stoned a little bit of my thunder, but it's about that next generation that I'm most concerned about.
 She was spot on when she said, if you don't have one in which these youth can see the potential to become, then you have nothing. And what I've come to find with this current franchise agreement, and I don't want to correct my elders in Harvey, but there was actually 104 businesses listed.
 in the franchise system and consolidated down to 14. And of that 14, the question on the table is, are any of them considered MBE minority-owned businesses? And I think you'll find, as you asked our opposers in the room today, if that's true, the answer is no.
 And it strikes me that the great work of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability has already put forth a resolution with guiding principles, which I think is positive, that speaks to this issue.
 And as we've heard, these are only documents. So until we actually put action behind it, it's kind of meaningless. So what we're really here today is to really stress the points that I think Amanda Fritz was raising as what would we do if we didn't co-sign this. We'd go back to what we've been doing all along, status quo, which –
 is a concern because it's a barrier. And I think given that we have one that's viable for this opportunity, it opens the door for others in the future.
 So what I would stress is let's give somebody a chance who doesn't always have access to these opportunities because they're already working with the youth today. And I would love nothing but over time to see our homegrown businesses in a state that has a majority of small businesses. It strikes me that we have one at the table and we have some big conglomerates at the table, but they get the lion's share and some don't get anything.
 So I would just stress to keep some of our dollars local as much as we can and give opportunities where we don't have them today. So those are my comments, and I thank you for the time. Thank you. We appreciate it. Good afternoon.
 Thank you. For the record, Mike Dewey representing waste management, and I am a lobbyist. So I do represent a large company. There's no question about that. Dean Kamfer is here if you have any technical questions. First of all, I want to congratulate the city for the vision that you have. I've been involved with solid waste and waste management for 25 years.
 And there are perhaps four cities, one to four, that have the best recovery recycling rates in the country. And you're either one, two, three, or four. So you ought to be congratulated for that. Waste management, and we're proud of this, is an integrated system.
 We own a lot of facilities, which we think it makes us more efficient. It's much better for the taxpayer, the ratepayer. We have, and you probably don't know this, in Hillsboro, a dry waste facility, which is a landfill. And we take demolition waste and construction waste for recycling. And it's amazing how many tons of recycling we do at that facility. And it's not large enough, and we're going to basically enlarge that facility. Thank you.
 We have about 260 employees in the state of Oregon, so obviously it's a substantial workforce. We have 140 compressed natural gas trucks. We're converting all of our trucks over time to diesel, excuse me, from diesel to CNG trucks. And obviously the emissions and health effects are significant.
 and those trucks are more expensive. There are some tax credits, but nonetheless, that's where we're going. You talked about the plan. We support the plan. It's good to get ahead of the curve. The low-hanging fruit, and because I know this from time to time, I dwell in Portland, and on the multi-housing, recycling, and recovery, there's no question that we need to do more.
 Perhaps you don't know this, but Waste Management in the City of Portland Environmental Services have partnered up on the Metro Food Scrap Program. The RFP is complete, and in that we've talked about how we would use the wastewater treatment facility to produce additional energy.
 And it's under our core system. And the nice thing about it, our facility is about two miles from the wastewater treatment facility. Excuse me, I have a cold, so that's why my voice is a little bit different. One thing I did want to talk about is diversity. In that RFP, 20 points is awarded to diversity. And so we had to look at our programs.
 Last year, we had 100 military recruits in terms of the camps that we went to. And we now have 3,000 employees that were veterans. We have a women's program, and we continue to reach out to minorities. One thing I want to stress very quickly, if I may. Thank you.
 We want to be a little bit careful about what you do over the next five years because you want to encourage, if you're going to change the system significantly, you want to encourage companies that exist in the system today to continue to invest. You don't want them to stop because they may not be in the system in five years. Thank you. So that's something that you need to think about. Thank you. Quick question. Commissioner Fish. Sure.
 When your client shifted to renewable natural gas on the trucks, we know about some of the environmental benefits, but how did the cost structure change in terms of the operations of those vehicles? That's a good question. Dean, you want to go? Sure. Yeah, I'd love to, Mike. To convert our fleet over to compressed natural gas, first thing we had, we couldn't buy the trucks without having a fueling station. So we invested in the fueling station, which was about a $3 million, $4 million investment.
 Once we did that, we also had to upgrade our shop, which was another $400,000 or $500,000 to make it safe to maintain and work on these trucks. And from there, we've invested in over 100 trucks. Each one of these trucks are in...
 about $325,000 to $350,000 apiece. So we've made significant investments in the Clean Fleet program, and it was from the direction and the foresight of the City of Portland's direction. Just not exclusive of the fixed costs you've incurred at the front end, what's likely to happen to your energy costs going forward compared to buying diesel or gasoline versus natural gas?
 Yeah, three, four years ago there was quite a spread between the price of natural gas versus diesel. That spread has come closer together, but there still is a little bit of an economic advantage on the fuel. But the big advantages are the emissions, lower particulate, lower greenhouse gases, quieter for the communities, quieter for our drivers, and lower maintenance costs as well. We're going to continue to invest.
 Thank you.
 Thank you for your time. Yeah, my name's Dean Kamfer, municipal marketing for Waste Management of Oregon. I just wanted to share a little bit about my history. In 1952, my parents moved from the dairy farm to Portland. My father purchased a small company in lower southeast Portland. In 1979, I acquired that company from my father. And then in 1990,
 1995, my partner and I were at a point where we would have had to make major investments to upgrade our fleet, our containers, and it was a turning point where we said, it's time to exit the system, and we sold to Waste Management. And Waste Management has taken that company and, you know, continued and brought the company to a higher level. Myself, personally, I've continued to work for Waste Management for the last 15,
 gosh, 25 years. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Mike Mercer, Valerie Hill, and Brian Heberg. It's my understanding you have two more after this, is that correct? Three more. Is there anybody else who'd like to testify on this item? Let's close the list. Good afternoon. Hi, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Mike Mercer and I'm the
 a Portland City resident and a principal for a local business called Emerser Consulting. So I do work with clean energy, climate transition at the state level, engaging business leaders in that policy work. But also here in Portland, I work with companies that are looking to become B Corps, and so help them through that, steward that process for them. So I'm here today testifying in support of the resolution, but even more specifically the guiding principles for Franchise Holler Review, as we've seen.
 The proposed guiding principles provide waste haulers and those making franchisee decisions with greater clarity on the desired outcomes of our waste management system. We should look beyond the lowest cost, greatest efficiency, and look to those outcomes with others, put those outcomes with others such as climate impacts, benefits of our local economies, and equity and inclusion of historically disadvantaged populations.
 These outcomes are not just feel-good measures. They're being driven by emerging shift in how business owners, like myself and others in the B Corp community, view the function of capitalism. You know, what is that shift they're seeing? And that shift really is rather than focusing on maximizing shareholder value, how do we maximize stakeholder value, which includes our communities, the environment, and the employees that work for us? This movement's being driven by business leaders and not government.
 As one of those business leaders, I appreciate when government takes action in support of the business community and the vision that we hold. Again, I ask you to support the proposed guiding principles for franchise haulers. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and city council members. I'm Valerie Bruder-Hill, president of the Portland Haulers Association.
 I'm also an owner of Grutter Sanitary Service, a family-owned garbage and recycling company serving Portland residents and businesses since 1951. I am speaking as a woman owner of a small hauler business. Our company was started by my hardworking mother and father. My father was an immigrant from Europe, and he and my mother lived the American dream. They were able to build a successful small business which offered a needed public service and provided for their family.
 I have been privileged to continue building our company through perseverance, long hours, and customer purchases. In 1992, after arduous negotiations facilitated by the City of Portland with other haulers, we negotiated an equitable designated residential franchise area as a small business owner
 I wear numerous hats, management, administrative office duties, customer service, public relations, and even roll cart assemblies with occasional deliveries. My brother and I have followed the example demonstrated by our parents through steady work and stepping up to challenges. Our company has grown from one open truck for collection to six specialized trucks that pick up specific materials.
 I'm proud of the partnership that we have formed with the City of Portland and the staff. We have been committed to implement and carry out the programs that have made the City of Portland a leader in the collection of garbage, recycling, and compost. We have been able to safely and efficiently reach mutually agreed upon goals. Reuter Sanitary Service has many grateful and appreciative customers. Thank you.
 We have invested heavily monetarily and have made several changes to reach the City goals. The last 25 years have seen changes to equipment plus improved methods of sorting and collecting materials. It is my hope that the City of Portland appreciates the successful partnership that has been formed with our company and the other haulers in the City of Portland.
 The franchise system has served the citizens of Portland well and has been a good vehicle to reaching waste and recycling goals. Let's continue our relationship so we can achieve, improve, and meet new goals for the citizens of Portland. Please approve the resolution before you to renew the franchise system. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of council. My name is Brian Heiberg. My brother Bruce and I own and operate Heiberg Garbage and Recycling here in Portland. Our parents purchased their first collection company in Portland in 1947. This year we're celebrating our 70th anniversary of providing garbage recycling collection and serving our customers in Portland.
 HYBRT grew and developed for some 45 years prior to the city's decision to franchise in 1992 to meet the state mandated recycling goals. At that time, we, along with the other haulers, worked with the city to develop a residential franchise collection system that has evolved into an award-winning program that it is today. We have worked closely with the city to help meet the solid waste recycling and compost goals.
 We were a part of the pilot project to include food in the yard debris and change to every other week garbage collection. We increased automated collection and transitioned from cans to roll carts. We have gone above and beyond the Clean Fleet program by investing in clean natural gas ourselves.
 These vehicles are quieter, are clean-burning, and this investment was huge on our part. It's kind of scary at this point to think that we may not be able to use that in five years from now if this program doesn't continue. Through the hard work, dedication, and continuous investment we've made over the years, we've been able to grow our company and provide the quality service to our customers in a cost-effective way that they deserve.
 According to the 2016 community survey conducted by the city auditor, 76% of residents felt positive about the garbage recycling and compost service quality. This represents a significant increase over the 66% report in 2012. This brings us back near the level of satisfaction it was before we changed to the Every Other Week Garbage Collection Program in October of 2011.
 We are not a large company, but by reaching out and approaching other companies, we've been able to expand and grow over the years. Just this past year, we negotiated a purchase of Cloudburst Recycling. This is not a closed system. We have grown from one truck and one employee to a family-owned business that we are today. We are proud of the family wage jobs that we're able to provide, as well as the diversity of our workforce and the quality service our team provides to our customers.
 We look forward to working with the city during the periodic franchise review so we may continue to make the long-term financial decisions needed to upgrade our fleet, to compress natural gas, and to improve the service we provide the citizens of Portland. Again, thank you for this opportunity to address you today, and I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you for your testimony.
 Looks like you're off the hook. Thank you. Thank you, all three of you. And there's two more. Is that correct, Carla? Last three. Last three, I'm sorry. Beth Vargas-Duncan, Alondo Simpson, and Susan Mead. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. You can start if you'd like.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, members of the City Council. I'm Beth Vargas Duncan. I'm the Regional Director with Oregon Refuse and Recycling Association. And in that capacity, I represent another association separate from ORA, the Portland Haulers Association, whose members provide residential and solid waste and recycling collection services within the City of Portland.
 Portland haulers represent a diverse group that range from large publicly owned companies, as you've heard, to the family and women-owned businesses. We actually have about 12 different companies represented within our membership, and three of them have women owners. Portland haulers are proud that their customers have historically rated the solid waste recycling and yard debris collection service that they receive among the best city programs and services.
 Considering the goals identified in the franchise review resolution before you today, including the waste reduction and recovery, providing cost-effective rates, developing a resilient and equitable system.
 Portland haulers evidence their support of these goals by continually examining, improving, and investing in the current system. As you've heard, they were a part of Include the Food and the Yard Debris Program that started in 2011. They've embraced the clean fleet with their clean natural gas trucks, which cost about $25,000 to $30,000 more than the diesel trucks.
 They've invested, some of them have invested in natural gas fueling stations, which are necessary to support that activity.
 We've also looked forward to enhancing the automated service and roll carts. We have committed to purchasing residential roll carts for all customers to further increase efficiencies, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, streamline service, and promote worker safety. The Portland Haulers Association proposed a transition from cans to carts this summer to city staff. However, an actual transition date has not yet been identified.
 The PHA haulers, Portland Haulers Association, are committed to work with staff for planned implementation of that soon.
 PHA members are committed to diversity and actively seek to do more. Some members hire workers and provide training for new employees to gain required certifications. Some advertise new positions to all their customers, inviting everyone to apply. PHA also is currently discussing options such as employee education, expanding outreach to underrepresented neighborhoods,
 and helping folks with their commercial driver's licenses, maintenance scholarships for minorities, and developing new relationships. We ask that you support the resolution before you today, and I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi, Mayor Wheeler, members of the City Council. My name is Susan Mead, and I'm here representing the Recycling Advocates of Oregon.
 And I just wanted to be here and applaud the city of Portland for the last 10 years of progress in their recycling program.
 I think we did some of the activities with them, and they were met with a lot of success. However, I don't feel like this is any time to be complacent, and I want to state that Recycling Advocates stands behind the City of Portland's goals for the future, as was stated by Susan, and they align very closely with Recycling Advocates of Oregon's goals, and I look forward to working closely again with the city in the future. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Mayor Willer, members of the council, for the record, Orlando Simpson, owner and vice president of City of Rosa Disposal Recycling, local minority-owned business, B Corp certified business, and actually, as far as I'm concerned, the only African-American-owned solid waste company in the United States of America. Thank you.
 And I'm here today to actually support and complement the Bureau of Planning Sustainability and the Planning Commission and their efforts to try to figure out ways in order to make this system more equitable, more diverse, and more inclusive. I myself spend countless hours trying to figure out what it is City of Roses can do to truly support the city of Portland and its efforts to be becoming the most sustainable ecosystem in the world.
 And I feel like there's still a lot of work that has to be done. But one important element to become the most sustainable ecosystem in the world is we have to find ways to sustain our local businesses. We have to find ways to maintain efficient businesses and operations and systems that allow our profits to stay local so we can reinvest those profits local and have higher impact and higher return on investment for our local communities.
 It's nothing against large entities. I just believe this is the paradigm and the path we're going to have to go down to truly find a way to make things work for everybody and create true prosperity. And I'm just here today to let you know that I'm willing to work with industry, the city, and a partnership in any kind of capacity that is available and afforded to us in order to achieve some of these barriers that still exist here so we can not only become the most sustainable region in the world, but we can set the precedent and the model to how others can follow behind us. Thank you.
 Excellent. Thank you, Orlando, and thank you for your service on many efforts here at City Hall and around the region. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. So could we get the staff back up, please? And I'm sure we have a couple of questions. Thank you again. Colleagues, any questions? Well, I guess I sense a tension here, and I guess I'm trying to discern what is the tension underlying the testimony here.
 All in favor of this resolution, but clearly there's some underlying issues here. So could you, in a nonpartisan city staff way, explain to us what the tensions are here? Sure. So we have an existing franchise system, and the only way to gain entry into the system is to buy out one of the existing franchisees.
 So the barrier to entry is, you know, having the cash and the ability to do that and having a willing seller. If we are to... I think our two opportunities in terms of...
 Increasing economic opportunity are, one, making sure that we look at the workforce of all of the firms that are haulers in the city, large firms, small firms, and not just ownership. So that's first. And then second, looking at opportunities to either help people negotiate and purchase opportunities,
 existing franchises? Or, and here's the tension, do we want to blow the whole thing up? Which basically would mean, do we want to not have a franchise system, have contracts? You could have three or five or six contracts for the whole city and have people bid on it. We have a whole lot of...
 investment currently in all of their system in the trucks, and we don't want to just walk away from that, and we don't want those companies, small companies, to be harmed. We have two goods we're trying to get here, and when we had this discussion five or ten years ago, it was all about should we keep the franchise system because it allows us to have small businesses
 thrive. So we will still want to have small businesses thrive, but we also want to have women and minority owned businesses be a part of this system. So what we're asking you for today is go figure this out. You're telling us, you know, you're gonna pass a resolution, we're gonna have lots of meetings and discussions and come up with some options, have individual meetings with all of you to come up with, you know, what might work and then put some options before you.
 So contracts are different from a franchise in that they're only good for a finite period of time, and franchises are more or less indefinite? Is that correct? No, the franchises are for a particular geography also. Geography, right. The franchises, the way we have them is they're a 10-year franchise, but we take a five-year sort of pause and look at it all and start over again. It's not impossible, but it –
 I mean, I need to look at the city attorney again, but we need a lot of legal advice to be able to make sure that what we propose is a legal option that we're not going to end up, you know, not being able to stand behind. I think we are all on the same page, and that's why I think you heard a lot of agreement that we want to be able to both support small business, but we also want to have more opportunities. So there's the tension. Thank you.
 Colleagues, any further questions of the team here? Very good. So we have a motion on the table and a second for the report. Please call the roll. Solzman. Well, I appreciate the staff explanation, and I do appreciate the need to support our small businesses, but also at the same time to be able to provide more opportunities for more diverse businesses.
 to also enter this field. So I will be looking very keenly to the recommendations that the experts at this table and others will provide. I know we have a Solid Waste Advisory Committee, I believe, that will also weigh in on this. But it's a very important issue, and I do think that...
 Many of the families we heard testify have served this city for a long time and served us well. But there are also new entrants that wish to be players as well, and we need to provide for that as well. So I look forward to meeting with you in the future as we get this right. Hi. Mayor Wheeler. Commissioner Fish. Just point of order. So just to be clear, we're taking up 869 first and accepting the report? And then we're going to take up the second matter? Correct. Yes.
 You daily. I guess I spoke on the wrong item. My item was directed towards the resolution in front of us. And if I may, we do not have a solid waste advisory committee anymore. We've moved that function over to the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Oh, okay. You daily. Thanks for the report. Aye.
 Fritz. I'm going to make my speech on this one too. Thank you very much everybody who came in to testify. I heard a lot of support on all sides and a willingness to drill down and figure out how we can both provide certainty and also provide opportunity. So thank you very much to the staff and thank you Commissioner Saltzman for the presentation.
 really initiating all of this a while ago. Mayor Adams then combining the Office of Sustainable Development with the Planning Bureau. And look where we are. It's actually working. So thank you very much. And I've got to figure out what is the £10 per day that I throw away and see if I can find some ways to not do that. Aye.
 Fish. Thank you for the report. Congratulations on the progress. And I live in one of those apartment buildings where we're looking forward to being brought into the family of recycling. Hi. Wheeler.
 So I want to acknowledge the past here, because this is definitely building on a past legacy, and it's a very proud legacy. And as the director mentioned right up front, we're 25 years into what was a cutting-edge program in its day. And I want to acknowledge my three fellow commissioners who have been here for a while, and I also want to give acknowledgement to former Mayor Sam Adams, who,
 who initiated the green bin program along with Commissioner Saltzman. And my recollection is that that was not overwhelmingly positively received at the time it was implemented. But now look at the results. Yes.
 And I would argue that it is actually a very popular program. Not universally. There is no program here that is universally popular. But it has made a significant difference, and it is a national model and one that Portland should be very proud of in terms of diverting
 the waste stream to the landfill. And as Susan mentioned, it had a significant measurable impact almost overnight. And for my own part, as a newcomer here, I look forward to seeing what the next innovations are. And I believe that this provides us with that opportunity. My only admonition
 to those who are engaged in this business. And my only admonition to you, as the leadership of the Bureau, is think big. Let's not just be marginal. Let's think big and think about those new innovations. And I was thinking in particular about the multifamily opportunities and continuing to seek leverage there, but also on the commercial side. I think we can...
 There has been fair warning. People know where we are going. And so I am perfectly okay with an aggressive posture to continue to meet our overall objectives on this program. Good report. I vote aye. The report is adopted. Now to the resolution. Colleagues, any further conversation before I call the roll? Please call the roll on the resolution. Saltzman. Those remarks I gave were directed towards the resolution. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you very much. We will take a three-minute recess, and then we will reconvene. I see. And two. Yeah, these are the amendments to the supplementary amendments, and then this thing, if you get 4.1, some of them, you have your amendment. That's true. Yeah. And the mayor and I have discussed them all. And of course, it's your turn. I'll keep that there. That's weird. Yeah.
 Oh, there it is. Yeah. Remember that one? Simple fashion content together in a mock-up issue at Cannes. When did you first get to see it? The proposal. All right, are we ready to go? When it was published. Oh, again, Ted!
 All right, good afternoon, everybody. This is a continuation of the Thursday, August 3rd afternoon session of the Portland City Council. We are back in session. We are going to read the three following items for the afternoon together. If you could read 871, 872, and 873, please. Thank you.
 871, appoint new post-deadly force procedures for police bureau and authorize legal proceedings to determine validity. 872, approving amendments to settlement agreement between the United States and the City of Portland in United States District Court. Case number 312CV02265-SI and plan for the Portland Commission on Community Engaged Policing. Thank you.
 and 873, amend independent police review code to revise filing process, investigation, and appeal provisions of complaints of police officer misconduct. Colleagues and folks, welcome and thank you all for being here today. There are people here in this chamber. There are also people in the overflow room. I want to assure people that – Excuse me. Sit down. Sit down.
 You are already disrupting the proceedings, and if you continue, you'll be asked to leave. ...around police? Fuck you! You know what? Here, man. Here, take this. Eat this shit. The public needs to come in here to hear what's going on, not be stuck in a hall somewhere else. How dare you do that? That's a child's country! Sit on me!
 I dare you to use the word transparent today, Ted. More equity. More equity. Let them in. Keep them in. Lying. Son of a... This will all become relevant later. This is an important hearing on a subject of great importance to all Portlanders. I know that today's conversation is going to be a tough one and that these are emotionally charged issues.
 Our community is ever-changing and evolving, and policing must evolve too. I was elected in part on a platform to improve the police bureau. During my campaign, I identified 10 key reforms or improvements that I want to see as both the police commissioner and as the mayor.
 Those 10 reforms are still available. They're on my website, and I'm completely committed to seeing those reforms through. The ordinances we're going to discuss today address some of those changes. It's important to me that we continue to build trust between our police bureau and the community by strengthening accountability and providing meaningful information
 opportunities for public engagement. The ordinance that I'm bringing today come after months of facilitated discussion, mediation, and other input. These ordinances give us a path to compliance with the DOJ settlement agreement, an agreement that I made clear during my campaign for mayor that I would support. I support the tenets of that agreement regardless of who is in the White House.
 In the absence of these ordinances being adopted today, the path to compliance is much less clear. And you're going to hear why during the testimony. There's understandably a lot of public interest in these matters. The council is here today to listen with an open mind. None of my colleagues, none of them,
 have pledged support to any of these ordinances prior to this hearing. All of them have indicated that they want to hear public testimony on these three ordinances before making a decision. Therefore, it's important that we get through public testimony without disruption. All of us here today, I assume, want everyone...
 regardless of their point of view on these ordinances, to have the opportunity to express their views. For the benefit of everyone who came today who wants to be heard, I'm asking everyone to adhere to the council rules of conduct. They're basic. Be respectful of people testifying. Allow them to have their voice heard. Allow them to speak uninterrupted.
 Under council rules, disruptions are not allowed. If you disrupt the proceedings, you will be asked to leave. Because if you're disrupting the proceedings, that means somebody who waited to come and speak their piece doesn't get to be heard.
 If you're asked to leave because you're disrupting other people's testimony or counsel deliberations and you choose not to leave, then you could find yourself arrested for trespassing. Those are the counsel rules. We don't like to do that, and I assume nobody here today wants that to happen. I'm convinced that here in Portland, Oregon, we can have a forum on policing while abiding by the rules of decorum.
 I'm convinced that we can both be heard and that we can hear. I ask for your help in ensuring that we do so. Today we're going to hear on three ordinances that are essential in fulfilling our responsibilities under the DOJ settlement agreement. Here's the run of show, just so you know what to expect. A brief introduction by me. I'm going to talk just very, very briefly.
 about the three ordinances, not get into any detail, call it the 30,000-foot view, and why I think each of the ordinances is important. There'll be a staff presentation. We'll have invited testimony. And in case you're wondering, I've actually invited people who do not agree with these ordinances. I think it's fair to hear all sides of this issue.
 I'll ask my colleagues if they have any questions or wish to offer amendments based on the staff presentation or invited testimony. We'll take public testimony. Council amendments will then be offered based on the public testimony, if council members so choose. We'll have our deliberations, and then we'll make a decision. So that's the run of show. With regard to the three ordinances, there are three.
 The first one, item 871, court review of compelled interviews. The first ordinance attempts to resolve questions around the so-called 48-hour rule. Much has been written about this. Much has been said about this. Unfortunately, with regard to my position on it, much of what has been said and written is inaccurate. Excuse me. Apparently the captions are not working for me.
 One moment, we're going to wait while we see what's happening with the captions. I'm sorry, let's take a quick, are they back up? Okay, thanks. And please let me know if the captions stop working. The first ordinance attempts to resolve questions around the 48-hour rule.
 It's my belief that we can, in fact, compel an officer involved in the use of deadly force to interview within 48 hours for the purposes of an employment investigation. Further, I believe that the employment investigation can be effectively walled off from the criminal investigation.
 Unfortunately, the Oregon Constitution, as interpreted by people who are very knowledgeable about the Oregon Constitution, the Oregon, the Multnomah County District Attorney, the Oregon Department of Justice, and others, indicate that compelled interviews and walled-off employment investigations are not sufficient."
 This interpretation of the law is the best interpretation we have at this time, but I'm not convinced that a case from 1982 should be the final word on issues critical to police accountability and the public trust today. That's why this ordinance, if passed, creates a policy that would compel interviews and wall off employment investigations."
 I oppose the 48-hour rule. I'm clearly on the record to that effect. The previous counsel paid a steep price to eliminate the rule, and I want it gone. While I oppose the portion of the use-of-force policy that refers to compelled interviews, I am not prepared to immunize an officer who uses deadly force from criminal prosecution.
 The policy before the council today is a good policy. We think it's legal, and we're going to take it to court so that a judge can tell us that we're right. The next ordinance, 872, PSAP and other amendments to the DOJ settlement agreement. The next ordinance makes amendments to the DOJ settlement agreement.
 The item that's obviously gotten the most attention is the Portland Commission on Community Engaged Policing, or PSAP. Meetings of the former co-op devolved into shouting matches, racist and sexist slurs, and even threats. Appointed members expressed actual fear about attending meetings. Many felt threatened or harassed.
 Many members of that organization called the COAB resigned, including two of its chairs. The police refused to show up, and the city council, for the most part, refused to appoint replacement members until the process was reformed.
 The new engagement body that this ordinance contemplates, PSAP, will allow for the dissemination of information to the community and meaningful public feedback. It will turn what was previously chaos into credibility. PSAP will propel community engagement into subject areas that go beyond what was originally contemplated in the settlement agreement.
 And PSAP is planned not just to exist for the remainder of the settlement agreement while it's in place, but it's intended to go on long after the settlement agreement is gone, providing a permanent and reliable community engagement vehicle. We interviewed many, not all, but many former co-op members for this process. They rightly complained that the city had also contributed money.
 to the co-op not being as successful as it could have been. I listened to them, and I agree with them. They rightly complained that there was insufficient orientation and training. The PSAP fixes that. There was no responsiveness from the city government to their recommendations, and often their questions went unanswered.
 The PSAP fixes that too, and it requires responsiveness on the part of the city. There is also no self-direction. The PSAP gets to set its own direction. The broad parameters allow them to take up any issue related to constitutional policing, but it allows them to go into new areas...
 that the COAB was not allowed to go into, including racial justice issues, something that I hope people understand is important to me and to my administration. The board will hold quarterly town halls with the public, and they'll have other time set aside to do their work. They'll also have the ability to schedule additional public meetings and outreach activities if they so choose.
 the police will be required to participate in the quarterly public meetings, unlike at the COAB where the police chose not to participate. The PSAP, in my opinion, is a key part of bringing us into compliance with the settlement agreement. Third and finally, the Independent Police Review Code changes.
 The final ordinance will improve the independent police review in the Police Bureau's internal affairs. If passed, these bodies will be able to provide recommended findings following an administrative investigation of alleged officer misconduct. This conforms with national best practices around police accountability.
 The complainants and involved officers will be informed of the recommended findings when notified of the police bureau's ultimate disposition of a complaint. So those are my 30,000-foot assessments of these three ordinances. At this point, we'll get into the invited testimony.
 first up we have the city attorney, Tracy Reeve, the senior policy advisor on the Portland Commission on Community Engaged Policing, Nicole Grant from my administration, and Constantine Sevier, who's the IPR director. They will come on up and discuss some of the issues in more detail. And, of course, my colleagues will have the opportunity, as always,
 to ask questions should they so choose. So, Tracy, I'll start off with you, if you don't mind. And thank you for being here, all three of you. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Tracy Reeve. I'm the Portland City Attorney. And I'm here to outline today the legal reasons for and the effects of... Are we losing the microphone? Is the green light on?
 Okay, thank you. And please do raise your hand if you cannot hear, or if we lose the captions, please let me know. Thank you. So I'm here to briefly outline the legal reasons for and effect of the two ordinances before you today. Mayor, the mic's not working. I have to agree. It sounds like it's not. Would you mind, Nicole, passing your mic over and see if that one works better? Does this work better? Okay.
 No. Carla's going to bring it up. Hello. Hold on just a second. Keep talking to Tracy. Okay. Is that good? That sounds good. Okay, good. Thank you. All right. So I'm going to briefly discuss, and not as briefly as I would like, but as briefly as possible, the legal bases for and effects of two of the ordinances before you today, in addition to item 873, which Director Sevier will cover. Okay.
 First, I want to take this opportunity to acknowledge my continuing appreciation for the partnership the city has enjoyed in its police reform efforts with the attorneys from the United States Attorney's Office and the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice. U.S. Attorney Bill Williams and his team are here today. They have been working with the city of Portland since the beginning.
 of the DOJ investigation to support the city's commitment to the principles of 21st century policing. Tracy, could you stop? Apparently we're having problems with the sound upstairs. We'll take a break until we get that sorted. Could you let me know, Carla, when it's sorted out? I don't know what's going on. Okay.
 Is it on? Could I please have one of my staff members go to the overflow room, and I want to know ASAP if either the video, the sound, or the captions are not working. It does not have to be you, Mustafa, but if you could make sure somebody goes. Thank you.
 So it's working now? Sorry, Tracy. Please continue. Okay, thank you. So to provide some context, I would like to briefly summarize how we got here. In 2010, Aaron Campbell, an African-American man who was experiencing a mental health crisis, was shot and killed by a Portland police officer. Okay.
 Commissioner Saltzman was the police commissioner at the time, and he and then-Mayor Sam Adams, together with a number of community advocates, including Dr. Bethel and Dr. Haynes, who are also with us today, requested that the United States Department of Justice conduct an investigation of the Portland Police Bureau. In 2011, the USDOJ agreed to do so.
 And in September of 2012, they completed their investigation and issued a findings letter acknowledging the openness and cooperation of the city and PPB and recognizing that PPB was committed to improving its processes. In fact, the findings letter acknowledged that PPB had already begun to take steps to address the concerns raised during the investigation.
 The DOJ investigation found that while most uses of force were constitutional, there was evidence that PPB had a pattern or practice of using unnecessary force in interactions with people experiencing mental illness or perceived to be mentally ill.
 The city and DOJ had already begun to work to develop a plan to address the findings and to improve PPB's provision of services. And in November of 2012, Mayor Adams brought a proposed settlement agreement to this council for its approval. Following some amendments, that agreement was approved by council on November 14, 2012, and was signed by the city and the United States December 17, 2012.
 Immediately thereafter, as the parties had agreed would occur, the Department of Justice filed a federal court lawsuit to ensure that, should it become necessary to do so, the court would have authority to enforce the settlement agreement. Although the settlement agreement was not finally approved by the court until 2014, the city began implementing the reforms right away. The settlement agreement had seven major categories of actions to be taken by the Portland Police Bureau and the City of Portland.
 Those seven categories are use of force, training, community-based mental health services, crisis intervention, employee information system, officer accountability, and community engagement in the creation of the Community Oversight Advisory Board, known as the COAB.
 The structure of the settlement agreement was set forth in Section 10, and it was unique. The oversight and implementation provisions, the parties sought to continue the collaborative relationship that they'd established, and to reflect the fact that the city had been a willing and active participant all along the way.
 It was determined that it was not necessary or desirable to have a traditional consent decree or a court-appointed monitor. The agreement instead placed direct responsibility for compliance with the city's elected officials, all of you, the city council.
 Also unique were the implementation and enforcement provisions of Section 10, which provided that the city would select a compliance officer and community liaison, now known as the COCL, who would collect, analyze, and synthesize compliance data, and who would oversee the COAB, which would engage the public in the process and which would be overseen by the COCL. The COCL has responsibility for preparing compliance assessments for the DOJ and the public.
 The DOJ is ultimately responsible for monitoring compliance with the agreement. And if the Department of Justice finds that the city has failed to comply with its obligations under the agreement after a reasonable opportunity to do so, there are certain steps outlined for the parties to attempt to resolve the issues. And if that does not work, the Department of Justice can go to court and ask to have the city held in breach, at which point the federal judge has the authority, has broadened,
 broad authority to order remedies to correct the city's breach. A fairness hearing on the settlement agreement was eventually held, and the agreement was approved as fair, adequate, and reasonable. The Portland Police Association was allowed to intervene as a party, and the Albina Ministerial Alliance Coalition was granted enhanced amicus status.
 Over the past five years, the city has made very substantial progress towards compliance in six of the seven key areas that I mentioned. And I'm just going to very briefly identify some of the key items that the city has undertaken. In the area of use of force, all reportable uses of force are now reviewed up through the chain of command.
 The Portland Police Bureau now has a force audit team with certified forced auditors, which permits the Bureau to analyze members' uses of force to assure conformity to directives, laws, and the settlement agreement on a quarterly basis, which is provided to command staff for review and feedback, as well as to the training division for identification of possible training implications. And new use of force policies have been adopted.
 And those force audit reports are also available to the COCL and the Department of Justice. Training. PPB now has a brand new one-stop training facility with a wide range of... Tracy, could I ask you to slow down just a little bit because we have some translation going on. Thank you.
 With a wide range of capabilities for various disciplines, more scenario-based trainings are conducted. The Bureau has an increased and continued focus on de-escalation and disengagement. Additional training has been developed and qualification required for the use of electronic control weapons, what we know as TASERs.
 Equity training has been provided to all sworn members at in-service. In 2018, all members will receive implicit bias training and command staff has already received that training.
 The training division developed and now utilizes a more formalized needs assessment to determine future training topics and the Bureau has purchased and is in the process of implementing a new learning management system for the tracking of all elements of the training program. In addition, all officers, all Portland Police Bureau officers have received 40 hours of core crisis intervention training.
 In terms of the section of the agreement that related to community-based mental health services, the agreement recognized that the city was not responsible for community-based mental health services. But nonetheless, the city agreed to try to advance the objective of improving the community-based mental health system.
 The city was, and PPB, were instrumental in organizing, in initially organizing various stakeholders to explore the creation of a psychiatric emergency center in Portland for persons who were in behavioral crisis in lieu of having to take those persons to general hospital emergency rooms, which were not designed or staffed to respond to their needs.
 This collaborative effort, and it was the work of many, many organizations, certainly not just the city, but many health providers, private donors, the hospitals in the area, and others came together, and this collaborative effort led to the opening of the Unity Center in February 2017, which is the first facility of its kind in the state of Oregon. Okay.
 The city also worked with the State Addictions and Mental Health Division and County Mental Health to amend state administrative rules so that AMR, the ambulance service, could transport persons on civil commitment holds to unity, which was important so that PPB no longer had to cuff and place persons experiencing a mental health crisis into a caged car to be transported for care and treatment.
 And PPB is now out of the business of transporting persons who are only on behavioral health holds or mental health holds, except in extraordinary circumstances, although the Bureau does continue to work with Unity as there have been some issues of concern.
 With regard to crisis intervention, the Bureau created the crisis intervention training and the enhanced crisis intervention training programs. As I mentioned, all officers receive 40 hours of core crisis intervention training, and 133 officers have volunteered to be trained as enhanced crisis intervention training officers, and have received 80 hours of enhanced crisis intervention training.
 The Bureau established the Behavioral Health Unit and expanded the number of behavioral health response teams, which pair a clinician and an officer so that PPB now has the ability to coordinate a response for those in behavioral health crisis.
 The Bureau created the Behavioral Health Unit Advisory Committee that includes peers and family members, along with representatives from local government, county, state, and social service organizations and advocacy groups. And that advisory committee is deeply involved in providing feedback to the Behavioral Health Unit
 on policies, procedures and trainings. And finally, as I mentioned, the Bureau developed the Enhanced Crisis Intervention Training Program and continues to conduct annual trainings for interested officers. So can I just interrupt you for a second there? It's my understanding that all of the things you just listed have been deemed by the Department of Justice to be approximately the same as the Memphis model that's mentioned in the settlement agreement. Is that correct?
 So the Memphis model was a slightly different model than what has been called the hybrid model that the city adopted. And there was some back and forth with the Department of Justice as to whether the city's crisis intervention model should be evaluated on its own merits or should be evaluated as more effective or less effective than the model actually implemented in the city of Memphis.
 and the city felt that there were many features of its program that were actually better than the Memphis model, but it was sort of an impossibility to take...
 something of apples and oranges and compare the cities and say it was better or worse than the Memphis model and the city in the course of the negotiations with the Department of Justice, we've now come to an agreement that they're going to evaluate the effectiveness of our model on its own merits and we don't need to interject Memphis into the analysis. Does that answer your question, Commissioner?
 The city has implemented, the PPB has implemented an early intervention or EIS system, which is intended to alert the Bureau early to problems with officers' use of force or other issues. It's created objective criteria for forwarding alerts to supervisors, increased the number of alerts sent to supervisors in the chain of command,
 for review rather than being reviewed by the EIS administrator to improve internal accountability. And one of the more technical amendments to the settlement agreement concerns
 how teams and supervisor groups' performance is going to be evaluated, and the early intervention system has not proven to be effective for that. So in discussions, we have come to at least a conceptual agreement that the audit data, the force audit data, will be used for that one function. So that's one minor technical amendment. Okay.
 On the accountability front, the Bureau has worked collaboratively with Independent Police Review and the Department of Justice, and Director Sevier will talk more about this, to establish a mirrored system of policies and procedures for PPB, particularly Internal Affairs Division and IPR, to handle all administrative investigations to ensure accountability through complete and thorough investigations in all cases.
 The Bureau is also, and the Council has approved prior to today, some code changes that allow for all...
 complaints of misconduct to be investigated. Previously, some complaints that didn't meet the standard for full-on internal affairs or IPR investigation were administratively dismissed. Now those will go through a supervisor investigation route so that all complaints will be investigated at some level.
 So, that's the good news, but despite all of this progress, there have been some significant and thorny issues which have arisen as the city has sought to comply with both the letter and the spirit of the settlement agreement. First, a very serious issue, as the mayor adverted to, has arisen with regard to the investigation of officer-involved shootings and other uses of deadly force. Second, the city has struggled to successfully achieve the meaningful community engagement contemplated by the settlement agreement.
 Item 871 relates to the first of these issues, how the city investigates uses of deadly force resulting in death. The council has previously been very clear that it wants all uses of deadly force resulting in death to be promptly and thoroughly investigated by the Internal Affairs Division. And I just want to briefly clarify, two types of investigations occur following use of deadly force resulting in death by an officer.
 A criminal investigation is conducted, and under Oregon law, that criminal investigation is under the direction of the district attorney, in our case, Multnomah County District Attorney Underhill, who is here today. In addition, PPB, as an employer, the city, through the Bureau and its Internal Affairs Division, conducts an administrative investigation to determine if the officer's use of deadly force was within city and PPB policy and training.
 Those investigations have different potential outcomes. The DA's investigation could, if the facts warranted it, result in criminal charges. The administrative investigation by the city as an employer could result in discipline up to and including termination.
 So to try to achieve the council's desire of prompt administrative investigations of officer-involved shootings in particular, including prompt statements from the involved officer, the city negotiated a new contract with the Portland Police Association in 2016 that eliminated the so-called 48-hour rule.
 That rule had previously provided that, in most circumstances, a statement would not be compelled from an officer within the first 48 hours after the deadly force incident. Unfortunately, and despite the fact that the city put substantial effort into achieving that contract amendment, it's become clear that additional steps are necessary to achieve council's objective of prompt administrative statements.
 We've known for many years, in fact, since 1967, when the Supreme Court decided the Garrity case, that police officers, like all people, have constitutional rights against self-incrimination.
 The Garrity Rule says that if a public employer compels a police officer under threat of discipline or termination to make a statement, that statement cannot be used against the officer in a criminal proceeding without violating the officer's Fifth Amendment rights.
 And so, as the city and the Department of Justice have been working for some time to develop procedures for administrative investigations of deadly force incidents that comply with so-called Garrity Rule and cases following it and with Oregon law. Like the city council, the Department of Justice has been consistent that it wants to see prompt reporting on uses of deadly force from involved officers. Okay.
 As I mentioned, District Attorney Underhill, as the District Attorney for Multnomah County, has the legal responsibility for criminal death investigations in this city. DA Underhill has expressed concerns that some of the policies the city and the Department of Justice have contemplated or wanted to implement could negatively affect his ability to carry out the criminal investigation and, if necessary, to criminally prosecute.
 While these discussions between the city and the- Could I interrupt you? Yes. So give me a scenario. I'm not a lawyer, and I don't prosecute. Give me a scenario where it could become problematic. Well, if, say, a shooting occurred, an individual was killed, and the city, within 24 hours, compelled a statement from that officer-
 The concern is that while federal law is clear that so long as that statement is essentially put in a lockbox and kept completely separate from the criminal investigation, that that will not provide what's called transactional immunity, which means full immunity from prosecution for the events involved in the transaction about which the statement was compelled. Full immunity. Okay.
 that you can segregate the administrative investigation from the criminal investigation.
 What the concern is, is that under Oregon law, there's a line of cases which, at least in some circumstances, says that's not good enough. Putting it in a lockbox isn't good enough. And if you compel the individual—in this case, it's important to note, did not occur in the context of a police officer. But the court did say if you compel someone in this grand jury context—
 you afford them transactional immunity, full immunity from prosecution around the subject of the statement. So hypothetically speaking, you know, God forbid that this happened, but hypothetically speaking, if we had a Portland police officer who engaged in a completely unjustified shooting and shot someone in the,
 and engaged a behavior that would constitute criminal homicide, and we compelled that officer to give us an employment statement within 24 hours, the district attorney's concern, and certainly his interpretation of the case law is not unreasonable, is that that person would very likely have full immunity from criminal prosecution. So the city...
 by implementing the 10-10-10 policy that it would like to implement, which is our force reporting policy, and doing that runs the risk of before a full criminal investigation can occur, before it can be determined whether or not the conduct was criminal, of immunizing that officer. The risk is admittedly small because not a lot of criminal prosecutions of officers occur, but you always...
 have to take the likelihood of the risk occurring and then the severity of the risk that you're facing. And the likelihood of it occurring may be relatively small, but the severity could be very extreme if somebody essentially commits criminal homicide as a Portland police officer and we take conduct that means that that person cannot be held criminally accountable. So let me paint you a scenario. Tell me whether, you know, is this plausible or just ridiculous? Either way, I'm fine. So...
 If I am the individual who is engaged in that shooting, and it is definitively a bad shooting, and I would obviously have a criminal defense attorney, what would my defense attorney do? They would tell you not to voluntarily offer a statement. But I already was compelled. So then he goes to the judge, my criminal defense attorney, and I assume he takes...
 the district attorney's well-reasoned argument and the Department of Justice, the Oregon Attorney General's letter, which supports that argument. And he'll show it to the judge and say, dismiss the case, won't he? Right. What would happen is— Isn't that the risk we're— It is exactly the risk that we're taking. The district attorney has a policy of taking all—
 in custody deaths to grand jury, assuming that a grand jury returned a true bill, meaning that they felt a criminal prosecution was warranted. The grand jury would then seek to prosecute that individual, and the individual would make a motion to the trial court judge and say, no, I'm entitled to immunity. I have a statement compelled over here. My constitutional rights against self-incrimination have been violated.
 And because this issue has been very prevalent and because the district attorney has explained his reasoning in a memo and the attorney general has agreed with that, you know, it's just the circumstances that that would be exhibit one on the motion to dismiss. And I don't think a trial court would say no.
 Gee, the district attorney agrees that this confers or likely confers transaction immunity, and the AG agrees, but I'm going to try them anyway. So the balance here is it's a long-shot risk, but that long-shot risk comes with significant consequences. The possibility here, the balance is we're losing the opportunity right now to compel in administrative employment investigations. Correct. But the...
 the risk is we could potentially lose the opportunity to prosecute an obvious crime. And that's the balancing act. That's a very highly likely outcome the way things currently stand. It's a long-shot risk, but it's a highlight. To put sort of a stupid frame on it, it's the same conversation we have around major earthquakes. It's a long-shot risk, but if it happens, it's significant. Correct.
 And so meanwhile, so the action here isn't to throw our hands up in the air and say, oh gosh, we quit. The action here is we're going to either, I don't know if it's an appellate court or a circuit court, but we're going to a state court.
 And we're asking, we believe we stand on strong legal ground based on what happens elsewhere, but we want that clarity from the courts. That's the basic argument. What's before council today is the policy that we would like to implement, which requires process.
 prompt, compelled statements from officers following a deadly force incident within 48 hours, with 48 hours being the outside edge. It's not that we're going to wait until almost 48 hours. That's the outside edge of when that could occur. Okay.
 And then, because there's a state law process for seeking where you have something like this, where counsel passes a policy, but there are questions as to the legal validity of that policy, state statutes provides for a process to go to court and say, court, please opine on whether this is legally valid or not.
 And so if you pass this ordinance, you will be adopting an alternative 10-10-10 policy that will compel employment statements of officers involved in uses of deadly force resulting in death in less than 48 hours from the incident. That policy will take effect after a court says, yes, this is a legal way to do it.
 And the 48 hours here, where does the 48 hours come from? I got an email from a friend of mine who said, well, why not 24 hours? Why did you pick 48 hours? What's the deal there? Okay.
 So, as I mentioned, the 48 hours, I think, reflects Council's intent to get the value of its bargain with the PPA and the policy that it feels is really critical, which is getting that prompt statement from the officer after one of these events. The 48-hour rule, of course, comes from the former provision in the contract. As I mentioned, this policy,
 the new 10-10-10, nothing in this policy would require the Bureau to wait 48 hours or anywhere. In fact, it would quite the opposite. It says that it's expected that the officer will be compelled no later than within 48 hours. But it does not in any way preclude
 internal affairs division from doing that 24 hours after the event. Very good. And before I get to Commissioner Fritz, I just want to state something for the record. Prior to this being an issue, we have had four officer-involved shootings in my short tenure. The first one, of course, was Qantas Hayes. And for the record, since that criminal proceeding is over, I, in fact, did compel testimony prior to 48 hours.
 Correct. And frankly, that is sort of where all of this came to a head because once that occurred, you know...
 the district attorney was very concerned that that had that been a criminal shooting, it went to a grand jury, the grand jury returned a not true bill. So it did not end up being that bad situation that we talked about, but that is sort of what brought this issue into clear focus for all the parties. And at that point, as we were working with DOJ to try to kind of accommodate these two things, United States attorney, Bill Williams, who again is here with us today said, I'm getting everybody together on this issue. I,
 the United States is not going to tell the elected district attorney of Multnomah County that we're going to override his interpretation of the law in an area that is entrusted by state law to him. So we all got in a room. We talked about it. We got a full understanding of the district attorney's position. He furnished us with a written analysis by his office. That analysis has been reviewed.
 uh, and in essence blessed by the Oregon attorney general's office. And we then, uh, put together and, uh,
 alternative, the 10-10-10 policy that recently went into effect which no one is happy with because it provides that the officer will not be compelled to give a statement until the district attorney either says I'm fine with you compelling a statement at this point or until the criminal investigation is concluded. Commissioner Fritz. So again, what's the significance of the 48 hours under the present policy?
 Is the officer compelled after 72 hours? Doesn't that not mess up the criminal investigation? No. The current policy that PPB just implemented, it does not –
 provides that an officer will not be compelled to give a statement in the employment administrative investigation until either the district attorney says, yes, I'm okay with compelling him or her, or until the...
 criminal investigation process is complete, which would normally, since the district attorney takes everything to the grand jury, it would normally be after the grand jury proceeding if there's no criminal prosecution. If there's a criminal prosecution, it would go longer. So even under the previous rules?
 They couldn't compel after 48 hours either. Is that what you're saying? Well, that issue is what became very clear after the Qantas Hayes shooting. And yes, that's when we all sat down in a room and...
 fully understood the import of the DA's analysis of Soriano, I think the city was focused, my office was focused on what's called the Garrity analysis, which is the federal Fifth Amendment analysis. And because the Soriano case did not involve any,
 administrative employment investigations, we were not viewing that as clearly applicable to this situation as the district attorney does. Again, I think the legal argument can be made either way, but it is certainly...
 The position that the district attorney is taking based on that case is certainly not an unreasonable legal interpretation, and the risk is real. So, Mayor, what we're doing here is we agree with the community, most people in the community. We do want to be able to compel. So we're having a policy that says we can, but we're going to stay until the court says whether we're right or not. Is that accurate? Correct.
 And I want to just put this on the record. There may be – we want the right to be able to do that without ramifications for a criminal –
 prosecution, there may also be logistical reasons or investigative reasons why even if we have that right, we do not do it. And I just want to be very clear with people, there could be circumstances where it is better for the investigators to do some lead work prior to that compelled statement. I just want people to be aware of that.
 Correct, and I know one of the requests that I saw, at least on some of the testimony or community input that was submitted, was that it should be within 24 hours instead of 48 hours. That could, on occasion, not provide the investigators the time they need to get their ducks in a row before they sit down and interview the officer. Make sure you do that. Wow, mind meld. Okay, thank you. I didn't – I think we're –
 Getting a little confused on the 48-hour rule, or I haven't heard it clearly stated. What we had previously was officers who used deadly force were entitled to 48 hours notice before being compelled. Is that correct? Correct, and the practice was...
 And the interpretation was that officers generally were not compelled within the first 48 hours after the event. Well, they couldn't be because we had to give them notice. There were certain circumstances under which the city could have, but yes. So now we're saying we can compel, well, I mean, given a ruling in our favor, we'll be able to compel with no notice? Yes.
 You know, I would have to look at the specifics of the contract. I doubt very much if it's no notice because in the 10-10-10- One hour, 12 hours. I'm just trying to, it's not, I feel like we were talking about this backwards as if the 48 hours comes from notice to the officer. So we're not now saying it has to happen within 48 hours. Right.
 The policy... We can give a shorter notice. The policy that you would be adopting if you pass this ordinance has the expectation, it is not just notice, it has the expectation that absent, I forget if the term is exigent or something like that, circumstances, the officer will be compelled within 48 hours. Okay. Okay. Okay, and I just wanted to, you know, as we've already identified, we...
 We believe that there are good arguments to be made that in this particular circumstance, where it's an administrative employment investigation and a criminal investigation, the Soriano line of cases should not be held to apply, and the city should be able, assuming it has appropriate procedures in place, to wall that statement off, get a statement promptly after the event, and that's what we would be asking the court to rule.
 And I will say that the district attorney has said in conversations with me and in public statements that he supports that effort to get a court interpretation and that he acknowledges that there is some gray area in the case law. Okay. The second item before you, were there any other questions right now about the first ordinance? Yes.
 The second item before you is item 872, which relates to the amendments to the settlement agreement. As previously touched upon, the cities made very significant progress toward compliance, and as of the last status conference last October, was there impartial or substantial compliance with all sections except section 9, which provided for the city to create the COAB.
 For a variety of reasons, and I won't belabor them, the mayor has already touched on them. It's clear with the benefit of hindsight that the city did not provide the training and vetting and other support to the members necessary before they began their work, that the charge to the COAB was very broad, and
 and that for a number of reasons, and despite, and I really want to emphasize this, despite the incredible efforts of many COAB volunteers who dedicated literally countless hours, well beyond what was expected when they agreed to serve, to work on this very important experiment in direct community participation in police reform, the COAB simply was not successful enough.
 and we've attached as an exhibit Kathleen Sadat who was the second chair of the COAB she's an incredibly well respected and talented leader in the community, deep ties to the
 civil rights community in Portland, the African American community in Portland, and the LGBTQ community in Portland. And she really put forth incredible effort to try to get the COAB back on track and did make significant improvements and was herself the target of terrible and abusive behavior. And she eventually resigned. And when she did so, she provided the city with an exit report, which is attached to
 the ordinance and details some of the issues that occurred, a lack of clarity regarding the co-op role, mission, process, and structure, and that all resulted in what eventually became insurmountable barriers to the success of the body. Okay.
 So, as the Mayor noted, we reached a point where many COAB members had resigned, others felt unsafe, it was difficult for the body to obtain a quorum, and several COAB members called for a temporary halt to COAB activity. And in late August of 2016, after consultation regarding these issues, the City and the United States agreed to a 60-day hiatus of COAB activities.
 During that time, the city took numerous steps to engage with the community on a way forward and reported on those efforts at the October 2016 Status Conference. The city circulated a survey.
 participated in a forum generously hosted by Maranatha Church. Representatives of the mayor's office and my office reached out to and spoke with mental health peer support specialists, advocates, and providers for those experiencing or with a history of mental illness.
 City representatives spent many hours in discussion with members of the steering committee of the Albina Ministerial Alliance Coalition, sought advice from other community and faith leaders, discussed the issues extensively with the COCL, with Ms. Sadat, and with Chief Justice Demuniz, who had been the first chair of the COAB.
 City staff also interviewed almost every former and current CoAB member to get their perspective. And as a result of those efforts, on October 12, 2016, the City shared its first proposed framework for conceptual amendments to the CoAB provisions.
 The city then in that same month, October, there were additional meetings with the AMAC, the United States, and the PPA to discuss how to move forward with improvements. Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz attended those and reassured the AMAC of the city's continuing commitment to meaningful community engagement there.
 Um, the city suggested a facilitator might be useful to further advance discussions. Uh, the Portland police association and the AMAC had some discussions, uh, among themselves. Um, and they proposed, uh, uh,
 two facilitators to the city. The city retained one of the two suggested in November and December of 2016. The AMAC and the PPA had additional meetings and provided a proposed document regarding their discussions to the city.
 Then in January, February, and March of 2017, the city, the AMAC, the Department of Justice, and the PPA held facilitated meetings to discuss how to move forward with the Community Engagement Board. Various proposals went back and forth.
 And at the last meeting in March, it was agreed that the city and the Department of Justice would meet without the other parties to prepare a more detailed proposal. Many of the meetings concerned the issue of whether the community engagement bodies should engage in oversight of the settlement agreement. And following many discussions, the parties agreed to accept Reverend Dr. Haynes' definition of oversight as the ability to review and make recommendations. Thank you.
 In the meantime, the city and the Department of Justice entered into a Ninth Circuit mediation process, originally to address issues raised by the city in a writ of review as to the appropriate scheduling and role of the court. But since that time, the parties also utilized the mediation process to have meaningful discussions on how to move forward on the few but key areas where progress had stalled. Principal among those issues was the COAB.
 The other key issues related to the accountability issue we've just discussed about compelled officer statements, how to harmonize the intended outcome of robust civilian involvement with the intended outcome of timely results in the administrative investigations and, in particular, the time for CRC appeals.
 An improvement to the accountability system, which Director Sevier is going to discuss, to give the investigating body the ability to make recommended findings based on its investigation. And the issue I already mentioned about the employee information system.
 So the parties recognized in these discussions, and had recognized for some period of time, that some amendments to the settlement agreement would be necessary after the five years of work under the settlement agreement. And the settlement agreement itself had always contemplated a process to make amendments should they become necessary. The parties knew that with a 180-page agreement, or 180-paragraph agreement, they were unlikely to get absolutely everything right in the first place.
 So as a result of the mediation discussions, the members of the Department of Justice team assigned to the case, city staff and the Portland Police Association reached conceptual agreement on a number of amendments and on a new framework to achieve the community engagement objectives intended for the original COAB. And Nicole Grant will speak to the policy considerations underlying that framework in just a few moments.
 The draft settlement agreement amendments and framework plan for the Portland Commission on Community Engaged Policing, or PSAP, were provided to the Albina Ministerial Alliance Coalition on July 7, 2017, and an all-day mediation session with the Ninth Circuit mediators attended by the city, the Department of Justice, the AMAC, and the Portland Police Association occurred on July 14, 2017.
 At that mediation, AMAC provided all of the parties with thoughtful comments and concerns, and the parties agreed to several revisions resulting from those comments and concerns at that time.
 We then circulated a revised draft PSET plan reflecting those revisions three days later, and the AMAC provided additional comments in a letter dated July 21, 2017, and we made further changes to both the draft amended settlement agreement and the draft PSET plan in response to those comments. Thank you.
 The proposed amendments that resulted from all of that process that I just outlined are set forth in Exhibit 4, and the PSAP amendments or the community engagement amendments are at Section 9. And one change to note is that because the new body, as the mayor mentioned, is intended to endure beyond the effective date of the settlement agreement, only the key components are set forth in the agreement itself,
 Most of the plan framework is attached to the agreement as an exhibit, and city council would be adopting that framework as binding on the city when it approves the amendments to the settlement agreement, should it do so. And during the lifetime of the settlement agreement, while the settlement agreement is in effect, amendments would have to, any amendments to the,
 community engagement plan for the PSAP would have to be approved by the Department of Justice. The city also, at the request of the AMAC, included in the settlement agreement amendments that during the term of the settlement agreement, the AMAC would be consulted about any amendments, as would the Portland Police Association.
 So the reason for putting it as an attachment in a plan was, again, that we're well on the road to and hopefully nearing a time when we will come into substantial compliance with the settlement agreement, and within a year after that occurs, the settlement agreement will no longer be in effect. And, frankly, it was Department of Justice staff who suggested that it would make sense to have the PSAP framework be a standalone document once that occurs. Yes.
 So just very, very briefly, we've already discussed the companion ordinance regarding the alternative 10-10-10 policy. As I mentioned, paragraph 117 of the draft amended settlement agreement enables the city to use force audit data rather than EIS data to conduct certain analyses at the supervisor and team levels.
 which have proven problematic to conduct using EIS data. This is something that DOJ thinks will work for their, at the staff level, DOJ thinks. So, Tracy, we have a lot of people signed up for public testimony, and this is all important. But could we, I mean, this has been important and helpful, but let's just focus on the main points, and then I'm going to ask Nicole to focus on the main points and Constantine to focus on, just so we can.
 The council has had the chance to go through these documents in detail, and we can direct specific questions. Great, yes, and I think the other amendments are of less interest to the public. I agree, but I didn't want to necessarily make that presumption. Great. Nicole? Nicole?
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I will keep my remarks brief. My name is Nicole Grant, and I'm a Senior Policy Advisor for Mayor Wheeler, and I'm here to talk to you about PSEP, the proposed Portland Commission on Community-Engaged Policing. I feel compelled, however, to first address one critical area of concern to all in this room, trust. There is a lot of mistrust in city government within Portland around community engagement, in part resulting from the COAB. I
 Multiple parties share the burden of the COAB's failure, and much of this burden falls on the City of Portland. The City failed to create a structure sound enough to withstand a poor selection process, lack of training, lack of buy-in, and the public disruptions that plague the COAB for a period of time. So, it's understandable that this new plan for community engagement, which is intended to reach beyond the settlement agreement, has stigma attached to it.
 For that reason, city staff, including myself, actively engaged the Portland community over the course of several months, ultimately asking, what should community engagement look like in Portland? Much of the PSET plan was developed in consultation with the DOJ, PPB, AMAC, and the wider Portland community.
 We interviewed community leaders, religious leaders, mental health advocates, and former COAB members on the failures around the COAB and what could be done better. Moreover, the community was invited to complete a survey, and the responses to that survey informed the plan you have before you. That survey was distributed online on the COAB and ONI websites and distributed at community forums and advisory council meetings.
 The City actively engaged AMAC during this time and has done so for the last several months through a series of facilitated meetings and the AMAC's involvement in mediation with the City and DOJ. Additionally, as Tracy mentioned, in developing this plan, the City has incorporated a number of AMAC's suggestions. The people of Portland need to know that this proposal was born out of thoughtful engagement with the community. We know what's at stake.
 If we do not move forward with the plan, we will be faced with continued and unyielding strife between the Bureau and the community it is bound to serve, creating a lose-lose situation for everyone in our city. PSEF was developed with the goal of increasing and strengthening the influence of the Portland community on systems of government and increasing the community's access to those systems.
 PCEP was developed with the intention of elevating those voices that have been consistently marginalized throughout Portland's history and that continue to be marginalized. One of the major lessons learned from COAB is the need for clarity around the Board of Commission's charge and responsibilities. The COAB was given very little direction, and so they themselves were forced to ascribe meaning to vague settlement agreement language, and this invariably became an area of contention.
 With the goal of achieving meaningful community engagement around key policy areas, PCEP's mission will be twofold. One, it will assess the Bureau's community engagement initiatives and recommend strategies focused on strengthening the Bureau's relationship with the community. Two, as it relates to this first piece, PCEP will function as a facilitator, soliciting and disseminating information between the Bureau and the community in order to improve transparency and accountability top to bottom.
 This empowers PSAP to facilitate the community's feedback to the Bureau on key policy areas of concern, uses of force, officer discipline, interactions with those experiencing mental illness, and racial justice. The Bureau in turn will be required to provide timely written responses to PSAP, and by extension, the community. The Bureau must hear about what it is doing and not doing from constituencies who have not been fully engaged in city processes.
 Equally important is the community's need to learn about what the Bureau is doing and what it could be doing better. PCEP is a tangible step toward the larger ideal of what we all want our city to be, a city that encourages and upholds accountability through informed and critical civic engagement. Thank you. Thank you, Nicole.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, members of council. My name is Constantine Sevier. I am the director of the city's independent police review. I have served as the director of IPR since June of 2013 and have been a staff member of IPR since October of 2008. So I am here to request that council approve all the ordinances in front of it.
 I'm going to, in the interest of brevity, kind of skip through my prepared remarks and kind of get to the essential points. So IPR was created in 2001 basically as a complaint intake point. Over the years, IPR's role has grown significantly to us conducting our own investigations, acting as a monitor and officer in involved shootings, and a lot of the growth of IPR really, you
 started with the settlement agreement with the Department of Justice and the ability for IPR to be fully staffed. IPR back in 2012 had two and a half investigators. Now we have seven investigators. From 2001 when we were created until 2012, IPR did not do a single independent investigation.
 In 2016, we started 30 investigations. We were able to conduct an investigation of a former police chief. I had the resource to be able to send my investigator across the state to Harney County to be able to talk to a number of witnesses. And we...
 That is the result of the settlement agreement where the city and the Department of Justice, and in particular the hardworking individuals in the Civil Rights Division and folks in the U.S. Attorney's Office of Oregon, without them, the city would not have –
 the accountability system that it has today. There needs to be more improvement, but I think it's really important, given the difficult times that we live in right now, that we recognize the hard work of the career civil servants in the Department of Justice. They work for us, not for a particular administration.
 So one of the main goals of the settlement agreement is, or one of the several goals of the settlement agreement, particularly Section 8, which is the accountability section, is that all administrative investigations are completed within 180 days, which is paragraph 121. Paragraph 122, administrative investigations are done concurrently with criminal investigations. Paragraph 123, that the city has to have a plan if it can't meet its
 targets. Paragraph 128 calls for the city to reduce redundancies and importantly for IPR, that IPR have the ability to conduct meaningful independent investigations. In May of 2015, the Department of Justice met with city representatives and asked the city to develop a framework that the city would be able to consistently meet the 180-day investigation framework, that all complaints should be investigated with administrative findings attached and
 The city reduced the redundancies, and that IPR would articulate which cases it would decide to do its own independent investigations. As a result of that, IPR moved forward in –
 investigating the following cases. Cases of captains or higher, cases where there is a crowd control or a demonstration, complaints alleging disparate treatment, and complaints involving vulnerable populations such as the juveniles, elderly, and those experiencing mental illness. Agenda item 873 includes an addition to the city code that provides
 IPR and Internal Affairs provide recommended findings after conducting administrative investigations. That is a national best practice for investigations, period. That it would lead us to have better administrative investigations. It would save time. And I think as important as all those other goals are, I think most importantly it would be responsive to something that this community has been asking for since prior to IPR's existence. Okay.
 The other significant change in agenda item 873 is that it would change what we now call dismissals to administrative closure. And the reason why we want to change that is to be more reflective of the process that we undertake at IPR. And Nicole brought up a really good point about trust. And as the IPR director, I want to own that our process,
 process is supposed to be a process that can lead to healing and holding officers accountable for their actions. But frankly, for a long period of IPR's history, we were not listening to community. We hurt the community.
 And we want to listen to everyone, even people that we disagree with. And there was a period of time where somebody could call IPR and an investigator on the phone with them would say, well, you know, you got a traffic ticket and, you know, officers can give traffic tickets. That doesn't seem like misconduct to me and hang up the phone.
 That is something that is unacceptable, and every complaint that IPR receives will receive at least a two-week preliminary investigation for us to determine what's the best path for that. Whether that's going to be investigated by IPR, investigated by Internal Affairs, or if it's really something of a quality of service. This officer I called about...
 A burglary and the officer didn't even get out of his car, you know, that probably should be dealt with at the sergeant level if it's not kind of a continuing behavior. So those two aspects of 873, I would urge you to approve because one, it'd make our process better, and this is, I was trying to count the other day, this is, I believe, the fifth code change to IPR since 2010.
 It has been a significant road, and there have been times where the changes in themselves did not seem to be very big or very monumental. But I think the city can rightfully look at the administrative investigation process that we have now and say with a straight face to the community that we have a much more robust administrative investigation process than we did prior to the Department of Justice intervention.
 I would also ask you to support agenda item 872, particularly the revisions to paragraph 121, which exclude appeals to the citizen review committee.
 from the 180-day timeline and extends the days that the CRC has to complete appeals of misconduct appointments. The community members who serve as CRC volunteers are extremely hardworking and the the language and agreement as it exists right now gives the CRC 21 days and that required the CRC to meet twice a month for
 over a year to try to deal with that and as a result we ended up losing some very good community members who volunteered to serve their city that they care and love but not at the expense of never seeing their family. So I think the amended language in the settlement agreement is much more reflective of having a shared goal of having a robust accountability system but also having true community input of a diverse group of community members.
 I would also ask you to support agenda item 871. I won't go into a lot of depth about this, but one of the things about IPR is that every officer involved shooting, an IPR representative,
 shows up at that shooting the night of the shooting within, I would hope, within an hour or so. And just luck of the draw for 2017, I have been at every officer-involved shooting.
 And we have been able to create over the years, I believe, an administrative investigation process for officer-involved shootings that has gone from where it would take literally years for the city to be able to investigate an officer-involved shooting to, in the situation with Juanis Hayes and his death, the city was able to investigate.
 conduct the as the mayor pointed out the interview of the involved officer was within um i believe 26 hours that was the fastest in my recollection of and that's really what we should hope um in the city uh you know i've met with the hayes family
 And I've seen the hurt of what occurred that day, and it's something that's affected me. And I think as a city, we owe it to the relatives of someone who was shot by the Portland Police Bureau to be able to say, we have done everything within our means to be able to look into what happened. And we also owe that obligation to Portland police officers. Thank you.
 We send them out there to do a very difficult job. And the concerns that I have about the current deadly force investigation process is that we now have a process where we can be weeks, months.
 possibly years before the city as the employer of the officer being able to interview that employee about what occurred. That is something that violates the public trust and I support the mayor's resolution in the hopes that we can get the Soriano issue clarified. I wrote a memo back in early June stating the position of the independent police review. Frankly, I believe
 State case law is clear. There is a case called State v. Bugley done by the Oregon Court of Appeals back in 1994. I'm not going to go into the weeds about that, but that was an administrative investigation case, and the Oregon Court of Appeals said quite clearly that Soriano did not apply in that particular context. There was no transactional immunity for, in that case, it was a state trooper.
 That said, the city's failure to look at all of these issues when it approved the collective bargaining agreement with the Portland Police Association, we have to own that. We made a promise to the community that the 48-hour rule is gone. We're sitting here six, seven months later looking at alternatives. And I'm going back to what Nicole said about trust because really, you know, I'm a police accountability professional myself.
 Basically, I'm in the trust business. When IPR was created, one of the stated goals in the ordinance, and it's something I go to a lot, is IPR was created to increase the public's faith and confidence in the delivery of police services.
 And unfortunately, I feel ever since that memo came out of the district attorney's office, there has been a significant tension between the community and the city and the Portland Police Bureau that didn't need to be there. I think all of us who work for different governments are adults, and we should have done our due diligence, and folks don't need invitations to participate in important community conversations about justice.
 these types of issues. That said, I'm going to really keep it really short. The last thing about the officer-involved shootings is that there has been a significant detrimental effect in the timeliness of the ability for the city to do administrative investigations of officer-involved shootings. In the Quanis Hayes case, the city was able to
 go from the incident date to the case going to the police review board in under five months. In the situation in the case involving Mr. Terrell Johnson, that officer was not interviewed for six weeks. That is something that, frankly, as a City of Portland employee, that is something I am ashamed of and I
 with all of my soul and being support the mayor's resolution. Thank you. Thank you, Director Sevier. And I want to acknowledge our independent auditor is here as well. Mary Holt Caballero has been listening patiently. We appreciate your presence. I have a question. Commissioner Saltzman. So is there anything in the changes to the settlement agreement that removes the council oversight of the settlement agreement and shifts that to the mayor's office only?
 No, the only change is the only area that is specific to the mayor's office is the PSAP. But otherwise, council remains responsible as the elected leaders of the city for the city's compliance with the settlement agreement. So I'd like, I'm sorry. I was just going to say that Commissioner Udali and I have some amendments that would further make that clear. Okay.
 I'd like, we have three more invited guests. I'd like to call up Dr. I have questions for them. Oh, I'm sorry, Commissioner Udeli, I apologize. I'm going to decide where to start. I am curious if there will be any difference in how we proceed with the ability to compel testimony in less than 48 hours. I mean, what...
 What happens after an officer is involved in a shooting, and how would this meaningfully change the way we proceed? What happens under the policy that just went into effect, and how would the policy that you'd be adopting change it? Am I understanding your question correctly, Commissioner? I guess I don't want you to have to outline the past policy, the current policy, and the new. So let's compare current to how this would change and what that means later.
 Moving forward into an investigation. So right now, under the policy that just went into effect at the Bureau, an officer will not be compelled until either the district attorney says, yes, it's okay to compel the officer. It won't negatively impact my criminal investigation. Or until the criminal investigation is complete.
 That does not mean that the Bureau doesn't start the administrative investigation. They do start the administrative investigation immediately. IAD is interviewing everybody else. They're just not getting the compelled statement from the officer. I'm sorry. I don't want you to have to rehash all that. I'm asking what is the difference as far as, you know, does the officer go on administrative leave either way? I want to know what the difference is.
 The only difference is compelling the officer's statement within no more than 48 hours. So it makes no difference to what happens after that? Correct. Okay. And, I mean, just to be clear, because I'm not sure that there's widespread public understanding...
 If a citizen commits a murder, they cannot be compelled, right? Correct. Okay. And so compelling is a higher standard, I guess, or a different standard that we apply to certain public employees. We are the government. And so by compelling, we are exercising governmental authority, even if it's our employee. If we are...
 taking that statement that was compelled from the officer under threat of termination or discipline, and we're giving, this is clear under federal law, and we give that statement to the detective's division that's investigating on behalf of the district attorney, and then that is used either to investigate or as actual testimony, you know, actual evidence in the trial, that violates that officer's Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination that anybody has.
 A normal citizen who's not employed by the city, we couldn't compel them to do any statement, nor could the district attorney. The issue arises because as the employer, we have a right to...
 to compel the employee or to discipline or terminate the employee for refusing to answer our questions as the employer. Because there's the government also wearing the hat of prosecuting, that's where the difference comes in. Does that answer your question? Yes, thank you. And the rest of my questions, I'm not sure who's the best person to direct them to, so I'm just going to...
 state them and whoever wants to answer can answer. So I received dozens of emails from people that don't support these amendments and I've kind of culled some of the most common concerns or the most compelling concerns to me. One question is, are we somehow eliminating tracking, analysis, and review of racial profiling data from,
 through any of these amendments? So the creation of PSEP directly involves the Office of Equity within the Portland Police Bureau. Specifically, it references PPB's racial equity plan, which addresses tracking STOPS data and also how we're going to implement policies around that.
 The reason why this was included, it replaces the CPRC's 2009 racial profiling report. The CPRC disbanded, I don't know how many years ago, but it's no longer in operation, and the racial profiling report is outdated at this point. No additional work was being done on that. And so in reviewing the settlement agreement and in also wanting to connect this work to equity, we thought the most appropriate kind of...
 avenue would be to engage PPB's Office of Equity and involve the racial equity plan because it's like a five-year plan and it addresses community engagement, it addresses racial profiling, specifically stops data, etc. And that's available on OEHR's website. So we're not eliminating tracking? We're not. We're adding it back. Okay. And that's in the framework for PSAP but not referenced specifically in the settlement agreement. Much of what was
 formerly in the settlement agreement regarding Section 9, has been placed in the PSAP framework. The obligation to track the data remains in the settlement agreement. Good. Okay. Another concern that is going to be addressed by one or more of the amendments that will be proposed later is that the entire –
 PCCEP, is that PCCEP? PCCEP. Task Force or Commission will be appointed by the mayor. Why not include any language around ensuring that the makeup of this commission would either or both reflect
 our actual community, as well as place emphasis on the groups that are most impacted, which are probably going to be people with mental health issues, people of color, perhaps people with disabilities. Why no language around that? I feel like it would— I believe there is language around that in the settlement agreement, if I'm not mistaken, and also in the document in the framework itself. But we are certainly open to specifying groups.
 I have no opposition to that. Okay. Another concern is that we're eliminating independent community oversight. It's my understanding that we do have that through IPR and through the Citizens Review Committee. Would you say part of the misunderstanding or confusion around COAB is that they were...
 also supposed to provide oversight or? That's accurate. Okay. So we're not eliminating it, but we are in effect taking away additional oversight that was supposed to have been provided by COAB?
 So one of the areas of consensus that we reached with the AMAC, PPA, and DOJ during our facilitated discussions was the definition of oversight, to review and make recommendations. That said, I think from the common understanding of oversight is to oversee something. COAB was never intended to be a monitoring body.
 And I think that's the rub. And so if the question is, will PSAP be an additional monitor? No, PSAP will not be a monitor. And just to be clear, in addition to IPR-CRC, during the life of the settlement agreement, you still have the DOJ and you still have the judge and the COCL. Sorry, I almost forgot the COCL. So in your opinion, whoever wants to answer this, what should have COAB been doing to satisfy the settlement?
 And what will PSAP be doing and how will that be functionally different from what COAP was intended to do, if at all? So I'll actually start with PSAP. In our conversations during the facilitated meetings and mediation, the focus really was community engagement.
 And this is in line with the 2015 Technical Assistance Letter from the DOJ, where they address what it meant, what it should have meant to independently assess the settlement agreement and also how COAB was to go about doing that. And that letter directs the reader to various paragraphs within the settlement agreement that specifically address community engagement.
 With PSAP, it really is just a focusing that did not occur with the settlement agreement language. We are trying to correct that vagueness by being very clear about what we need from this community engagement board and what the original intentions of the parties were in drafting that language.
 Okay, and just briefly from the legal perspective there was one thing that was a deliverable for the Coab and that was a community engagement plan and the city needs that community engagement Plan and needs ppb to work with the community engagement body to adopt one to be in compliance and that deliverable never occurred in
 perhaps because COAB was really focused more on monitoring type role. Are PSIP recommendations optional? No. PSIP will be making recommendations to the mayor, to PPB, to the DOJ. But is adopting them optional? Yes. And then my final question or concern is just I'm hearing from a lot of community members that they didn't feel that there was adequate...
 public engagement. I'm hearing from, I'm sorry, I've forgotten who detailed, it might have been you, Nicole, what our outreach was and what those opportunities were and if you could just detail that again. I'm a carryover from the Hales administration and myself along with former policy director Deanna Wesson-Mitchell and Judy Prosper are
 compiled a list of every possible person and organization that we could think of to engage on the issue of community engagement. We hired someone part-time. The mayor's office hired someone part-time to conduct the survey, help us conduct the survey, and synthesize information. So we went around.
 meeting with former Co-Op members, mental health advocates, and there's a spreadsheet that details all of this. I just have to pull it for you all. So I'm happy to provide you with that after this meeting. But we met with, who else? The categories of individuals and groups that I listed earlier over the course of maybe six to eight weeks, if I recall.
 perhaps an hour, hour and a half each, taking copious notes. We had the part-time employee there with us taking notes. We engaged additional staff to help us keep track of this information. And once it was all complete, it was compiled into several documents by the part-time employee. The survey was distributed at various meetings. It was also posted online, as I mentioned. I mean, to be frank, during that time,
 We just didn't have as much feedback from folks. There was a lot of outreach and not a lot of responses. And so there were people that I engaged who I said, you know, it would be great to speak with you on this issue. We'd love to hear your thoughts. You are very active in the Portland community. And we were met with silence on the issue. And so that is simply what happened. Twinkle fingers or thumbs down, people?
 So that is simply what happened. We really did our best to conduct the outreach and make sure. I don't think anyone can say that this board could be successful without actually engaging Portland on these issues. How many people responded to the survey? I'd have to pull that for you, but I can find out. Did we speak to Kathleen Sadat? Yes. Because we have a letter from her. We've engaged Kathleen heavily, but during that time we did sit down with her. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. So I'd like to, unless there's, are there any questions right at this particular juncture? I'd like to invite the next panel, which is Dr. Bethel and Dr. Haynes, to come up and speak. They've been waiting very patiently. And then I believe the district attorney would like to say a few words, then we'll get into public testimony. Okay.
 I want to correct the record on something I said earlier. I was incorrect. I stated that the police refused to show up at the co-op. That was not correct. That was very imprecise. Former Chief O'Day advised Portland Police Bureau members not to attend one CRC meeting, two separate issues. So I want to correct the record on that. I apologize. I'm sorry. Okay.
 The run of show here is we're going to hear from Dr. Bethel and Dr. Haynes, then the district attorney. Then I will ask my colleagues if they have any further issues right now or want to introduce any amendments. Then we're going right to public testimony. And I appreciate everybody's patience on this important issue. Gentlemen, thank you so much for being here. We appreciate it. And thank you for your patience. To Honorable Mayor Ted Wheeler and distinguished members of the Portland City Council.
 I'm the Reverend Dr. Leroy Haynes, Jr., chairperson of the Abilene Ministerial Alliance Coalition for Justice and Police Reform. AMAC has led the major effort in police reform in the city of Portland the last 13 years, beginning with the Kendra James shooting case to the James Chassie.
 and the Aaron Campbell case, as well as many others. These men and women were victims of police violence that led to the U.S. Department of Justice investigation of the Portland Police Bureau, and subsequently to a lawsuit in the federal court in the settlement agreement.
 that was filed in Federal Judge Michael Simon's court. On December 19, 2013, the City of Portland, the Portland Police Association, the U.S. Department of Justice, and AMAC Coalition for Justice and Police Reform, that was given enhanced amicus status.
 In the case, decided to move forward on the settlement agreement adopted by the council in November of 2012.
 I remind you that the settlement agreement was created to be a different kind of model from the traditional model of having an administrator selected by the judge to supervise the progress or non-progress of the agreement through the entities of COCO and COAP.
 All parties can agree that COCO and COAB, MOLA, had both strengths and weaknesses. The captioning, I think. I'm sorry. Could we wait just one moment to see if we can get the captioning back? They're probably taking a break right now. They're switching out. Captioners, are you there? Captioners, are you there? Captioners are taking a break. Does somebody need to be talking and captioning? I think so. One, two, three, four, five, six.
 seven, eight, nine, 10. I'll start again, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10. I'm sorry, Dr. Haynes. That's all right. So the captioning is unfortunately just for here, but it's for the people who are watching, so the access is really important. So let me just speak that into the microphone so that people can hear.
 everybody can hear it and that was that the captions are important not only for the people who are here but also for the people who are at home so we want to make sure that everybody is included so that's why we're waiting. I think possibly it might be something to do with turning five o'clock. Do you have any kind of phone contact with them? I think they're getting ready to come back. It's almost there. Okay great. Captioners are you ready?
 Philip says yes. We're good. Thank you. Okay, we're back on. Never mind. Thank you. We're good to go. Sorry. I remind you that the settlement agreement is created to be a different kind of model for need, traditional model, having an administrative model selected by the judge to supervise the progress or non-progress of the agreement through the entities of COCO and COAB.
 Our parties agreed that COCO and COAB model had both strengths and weaknesses that created inefficiencies in achieving the purposes and goals. Now following the second appeal by the City of Portland to remove major parts of the settlement agreement and to remove Judge Simon from the case,
 And 9th Circuit Court of Appeal for mediation was called for and granted.
 In this mediation process, although focus groups had previously been held in the community to receive feedback on the community engagement proposal, AMAC, the only grassroots voice with enhanced amicus status, was intentionally left out from having a seat.
 and the mediation table until everything was drafted and then called upon to approve and to make limited recommendations on the revised proposal. In light of the narrative, AMAC still continued to engage and make recommendations. I will not attempt to cover all of them, but a few critical ones
 of the new ordinance of the Settlement Agreement and Community Engagement. First, we want to say that community engagement is an essential component of police reform and settlement agreement, but it is only one of several major components of 21st century community policing.
 We appreciate the community engagement focus, but in addition to the replacement plan called the Portland Commission on Community Unity Engagement, PSAP,
 It does negate and dilute the language of important citizen oversight. When you compare the language that is in the settlement agreement and the language in PSAP, there is a dilution of the language as the ability in the settlement agreement to have an independent assessment in order to make a recommendation agreement.
 AMAC defines this recommendation overview as the ability to review and make recommendations separate and independent from the city. Removing this community oversight part of the agreement helped undermines the building of the trust between the community and the police.
 After all, there is, when it comes to, there's a difference between IPR and the difference with overview of making recommendations on the settlement agreement. Those are two distinct differences that exist. Secondly, AMAC has serious reservation by the city proposal for PSAP member selection.
 The smaller board members limit diversity expectation.
 and efficiency when there are excusable absentees. We went through a variety of things with COAB, with sickness, and delay in replacement of members that the board became dysfunctional because there were not enough members for a quorum. Furthermore, the selection should be diversified and larger.
 The responsibility we believe should be with the whole city, with the mayor as the chief administrator of PSAP. Thirdly, AMAC understands the need for limited meetings for efficiency and to prevent burnout that did take place in COAB. But if the board is only having two meetings a month, both closed to the public,
 and a quality public forum that limits the amount of engagement from the community and participation. One of the two meetings should be open to the public. And fourthly, in reference to the 48-hour rule, it is critically important that we don't go backwards on the 48-hour rule instead of forwards.
 We must push forward to interviewing officers engaged in the use of deadly force against citizens within a 24-hour limit while legally petitioning judicial clarification of the district attorney's legal opinion as well as seeking legislation for clarification by our state legislatures.
 One thing to remember in this 48-hour rule, when we first started pushing this some 13 years ago, it took two weeks to get an interview from a police officer in the Kendra James. Two weeks. Two weeks for an interview. Eventually, we went to 72 hours.
 and from 72 hours eventually to 48 hours. And so as you can see, the case was whenever the officer was ready. And let us keep in mind the historical context. One of the reasons why the community pushed this 48-hour rule is because the officers that killed Kendra James met over at the Lois Center in Appleby. Mm-hmm.
 and got their stories together, and then went to the DA. And so this is a critical moment to create trust and accountability within our community and the police. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. We appreciate it. Commissioner Fish. You piqued my curiosity on one thing you said at the end on the 48-hour rule, and I just wanted to ask you.
 We have been told repeatedly that one of the challenges that we face on the 48-hour rule has to do with a constitutional issue and how we balance a constitutional right on the one hand with our right as the employer to do a prompt investigation.
 And so you said there might be some recourse to the legislature to fix this problem. And my question is, if it is a constitutional issue, what is it that the legislature could do to facilitate the goal we all share of preserving the right to get a prompt interview? First of all, I think the strategy of going for a judicial clarification is the most rapid way. Okay.
 but there can be amendments, lobbying. I have our lobby group for the city to lobby the legislature for an amendment to put some clarification that would clearly define what is separating the administrative from the criminal part. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you for your patience. Thank you, Mayor, and to all the council members. My name is Dr. T. Allen Bethel. I serve as the president of the Albina Ministerial Alliance and co-chair of the AMAC. This is not a power play or a test of wills, but it is for the good and the betterment of the fabric of our community. COAB, number one as I refer to it, did have its issues. But also we've had a change in those who sit at the table.
 which means that it has brought us those who have very limited institutional memory as well as institutional history as to what has transpired over the years we have been working with the settlement agreement.
 For long, the AMAC and the broader community has called for the removal of the 48-hour rule and celebrated its removal in the last Portland Police Association contract, though it came at a high dollar cost of increased salaries and et cetera.
 to now discover the policy or held interpretation of Serrano that jeopardizes and presents a potential extension of up to 10 times the 48 hours and possibly no report or prosecution. Okay.
 But I am indeed thankful to know that this interpretation is not new to the District Attorney's office, and to know that the District Attorney will prosecute all cases.
 I urge the council then, though there is still tension about the interpretation of the statute for Oregon, to place the directive in place known as Exhibit B that's proposed by the mayor and not enact Exhibit C, nor wait until an opinion has been given by the judicial authority. But we do want to support that we need that directive.
 judicial authority for clearance, but we cannot afford to continue to risk not knowing or having certainty when another involved officer shooting occurs that results in death or an in-custody death. We will be playing Russian roulette, if I can use that term, and we will not have anything really in place that will bring us about a way of moving forward. Thank you.
 We support officers in the use of force cases to be compelled to provide statements within 24 hours and further that with proper walls in place between administrative and criminal investigations, proceed in a parallel track and not waiting until one is finished, then starting the next.
 For the Council's approval and wanting to go beyond the settlement agreement ending, it has been my full understanding and hope from the beginning of this that it was not going to end after the five-year period, that it was going to continue and not revert back to business as usual. I did not put all of my time into this thus to this day.
 to have an exercise in futility for five years and not see any permanent changes that would move the city farther towards reform and police accountability. Now, as it refers to the new plan, the PSAP, which attempts to create an entity to replace COAB 1, and I refer to COAB 1 because that was the first one, I agree that there were issues with COAB 1.
 but not beyond repair, and to this day is still out of compliance to city years in regards to having a co-op in place and operating. This removes the new plan, the responsibility of the co-op, and focuses on the community engagement piece only.
 However, it does remove one of the most critical pieces, that is community input with oversight, the right to review and make recommendations and transparency. It is proposed to have a mayoral appointed and controlled committee of five to nine people.
 This removes the responsibility from the rest of the council members for any responsibility for its success and accountability. We strongly believe that it should be between 11 and 15 to have a broader and more diverse group of people that will hold meetings publicly at neutral locations, not as proposed two times per month behind closed doors.
 I know with COAB, there were a lot of things that happened. Maybe driving the reasons to say we need to close the door. Closing the door is not fixing the problem. Fixing the problem is addressing what caused those issues and making sure we don't repeat the same issues again.
 Precept, if I said that right, the group should be charged with holding regular community forums at neutral locations. I say neutral locations because there are some individuals in our community who are thoroughly traumatized to walk into police facilities, and some have distrust of even walking into city-owned buildings at this time. Not just two meetings.
 but to present information and seek community input and give progress reports on the work being done. It must be said as well that there should be a collaboration with the COCL to hold forums for review of the reports. We're not letting the COCL off the hook that he, because it is a he, is to prepare reports and present them. We still need a mechanism included in this that says this will happen.
 This is lacking as well as community oversight of the first responsibilities in the original settlement agreement, which now has been taken away from community participation and or involvement. So I urge the council to give due diligence to these areas of concern before rushing to put in place this new plan in the hands of just what we think will address the issues.
 It is not believed that this will get us to what the community has been crying for for the decades, reform and accountability of the Portland Police Department.
 The Portland Police Department must work with the community, but the Bureau needs help. Because if it is to be maintained that the department and the city knows best and refuses to hear from the community, I submit to you that if that was totally true,
 DOJ is out of a job and a settlement agreement needed never to ever been signed. But DOJ came in because we had patterns and practices of what was happening. And a settlement agreement was signed, though the city did not admit any liability. They saw the need that we must do something about what's happening in our bureau. To this day, I think two officers have been indicted.
 None of them have been prosecuted but one. But continuously after continuously, individuals are losing their lives at the hands of officer-involved shootings that are always justified and no discipline is ever seen to be given to those persons for what they're doing. I submit that what we have in the new plan of
 giving this long period of time before things are done, will create another mentality within the Bureau of saying, not only must I say I feared for my life, therefore I used faith,
 legal force to defend myself, but oh, I've got to wait now. I've got a whole lot of time. And if it doesn't seem like I'm going to be charged with anything, I don't even have to say anything. I can just wait the time out. That is not acceptable to the community. The fix is not doing the same thing. It must become innovative. Thank you.
 But the innovation must also come with a strong determination for forward movement, identifying the underlying issues and correcting those issues before we move in the same direction and find out that we've got the same thing again. And you know the definition.
 of doing the same thing the same way all the time. Let's change the definition. Let's change our action. Let's take a new road so that we can solve the issues. I understand that 405 was built to help alleviate traffic around the city of Portland. Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy. What a mess it has given us. Let's not create another mess.
 Let's take the time to get this right so we don't have to go, oops, let's give it another try.
 Thank you for your commitment, for what you have been doing, and what you will continue to do. And know that as you are continuing to move in a way that creates a better fabric for our community, you will see a community who will rise up and give you all the support that you need. If not, you will find a community that will rise up and say, no way, not going to happen, try all you want, we're not going to support it. And need I not remind you, we know how to vote.
 Thank you very much. Thank you, Dr. Becker. Thank you, Dr. Hintz. I'm happy to answer any questions, but I don't want to prolong the time. Very good. Thank you for your patience and thank you for your testimony. And our last invited testimony before we get to public testimony.
 District Attorney Rod Underhill, he's probably very tired of me trying to interpret his legal interpretation, so we thought who better to do it than the District Attorney himself. Thank you for being here. Well, thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, members of the City of Portland's commissioners. My name is Rod Underhill. I am Multnomah County's District Attorney. Again, I want to thank you for inviting me to speak today.
 First, I do want to make it very clear that my office has, as a standing practice, taken every case in which an officer's use of physical force results in death to a Multnomah County grand jury to determine whether the officer's actions were criminal or not. My office will continue this practice without interruption even after today.
 If the grand jury returns an indictment, I believe that legally and ethically we can and we will continue to make our best efforts to argue the legal viability of that indictment if a motion to dismiss is filed. We will make every appropriate argument available. As your district attorney, a primary goal of mine has been for our citizens to have confidence in the public safety system. Now confidence in the public safety system includes, among other things,
 a fair faith in a fair and thorough criminal investigation, while at the same time providing individuals with the protections found in both the U.S. and the Oregon Constitution. Confidence in our system is enhanced when we have responsible transparency. This is a significant part of why I, not by law, but by policy,
 Refer all officer involved use of deadly physical force where a death occurs to a grand jury of citizens selected by the court. Not by law, but by policy. Further, I have obtained from the court permission to transcribe those proceedings and release the testimony of witnesses that came before the grand jury. This practice is among the most transparent in the country.
 I believe this has increased, it's helped to increase, the community's confidence in the public safety system. I do have a deep concern that if the grand jury returns, were to return a true bill, and an indictment is issued for homicide against an officer, the indictment will be at substantial risk of being challenged and quite possibly dismissed if involved officers are compelled to give statements against,
 on the administrative side hearing matter. I assert that if an indictment for homicide were to be dismissed by the court, the public confidence that we all strive to obtain in our criminal justice system would be seriously undermined. In its simplest terms, we need to get this right. Because one of my primary duties as your district attorney is to prosecute the perpetrator of criminal acts,
 I believe that I owe it to the community to let them know when a policy or a practice by one of our criminal justice system partners may impact or inhibit my performance of that duty. I have informed the city, the federal government, and others of the potential ramifications of some of the proposed changes to the Portland Police Bureau's use of force policies that have existed over the last handful of months and beyond.
 Notably, the belief of the need of a criminal investigation to precede the compelling of a statement of the involved officer. Let me be clear. That is not to say that the administrative investigation cannot occur concurrently with the criminal investigation. It can. What I'm saying is there are substantial legal risks to the investigative action of compelling the statement of an involved officer involved.
 understanding that this is just one, albeit significant, aspect of a thorough investigation. This is not a new position of the District Attorney's Office. My office's track record on this issue has been clear and it has been consistent for years. My concern regarding my office's ability to prosecute an indicted individual stems from a reading of a string of Oregon cases, the analysis of which is supported by the Oregon Department of Justice.
 The cases include, as you've heard today, federal and state, to include the 1984 adopted Supreme Court opinion in State of Oregon v. Soriano, where Soriano states that when a person is compelled by external factors to choose between making a statement that may place them in legal jeopardy and some other result, such as losing employment, three things may occur with regard to that statement.
 Number one, the statement may yet not be used as evidence in the criminal case, commonly referred to as use immunity. Number two, in addition to use immunity, any evidence that was obtained as a result of the receipt of that statement may not be used in the criminal case. We refer to that as use and derivative use immunity. Or number three, a potential ramification is a criminal case may not be brought against a person.
 That is commonly referred to as transactional immunity. In State of Oregon v. Soriano, the court settled on number three and says that the state may only legally compel a statement from a person asserting his or her right to remain silent when a promise of transactional immunity occurs. The court in Soriano further commented that it was not possible for the state to erect a wall between the compelled statement and the criminal investigation. Since the Soriano decision,
 The Oregon Appellate Courts have revisited the issue on a handful of cases. My office produced a memorandum explaining our analysis, several pages long, but included in that analysis we wrote, quote, the breadth of the consequences for not providing full transactional immunity is what remains unclear.
 Certainly, the consequence is use and derivative use immunity. However, it is also possible transactional immunity may be required in certain circumstances. I acknowledge today, as we did when we wrote our memorandum and asked the Oregon Department of Justice to review our legal analysis, that the case law since Soriano is not completely clear on this point.
 I am here to point out that I believe that there is a risk that the court may determine that transactional immunity would result from the compulsion of a statement from an involved officer and that that risk is substantial. In other words, a risk of dismissal of a grand jury's indictment is real.
 I understand that the reasonable legal analysis can result in a different opinion. That's what we point out as well, is there is tension in the law and a lack of complete clarity. It is critical that the legal analysis surrounding the issue of administrative side compelled statements of involved officers be accurate. As I said earlier, we need to get this right.
 This will result in either the continued support of the public confidence or the lack thereof if we develop a system that would result in the dismissal of an indictment for homicide against an officer, if appropriate. The counsel must have, this counsel, when you make these decisions, must have your best possible legal analysis available.
 And to that end, I continue to completely support the City of Portland's effort to attempt to seek guidance from Oregon's courts. Particularly, I support the City's efforts to have our courts review the constitutional implication of the City's administrative practices surrounding the issues of compelling statements from involved officers. The Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter 33 provides for a validation action.
 and I support the city continuing to explore that option. Everyone will benefit from the clarity that a reviewing court can and we hope will offer. I encourage you to act with a strong sense of urgency. The sooner the better. Thank you. Thank you. You said in your testimony that you believe there can be a parallel administrative investigation and criminal investigation?
 I do, with one point of clarification. It's the compulsion of testimony under the Administrator that has to wait until the criminal investigation is finished? Commissioner Saltzman, exactly. It's because of that...
 If I can summarize, investigations are often immense. There are numerous aspects of a crime scene that need to be looked at carefully and thoroughly. A very important aspect of a criminal investigation or an administrative investigation is a conversation with the involved participant.
 Of course that's important. We can, and I believe we should, have parallel investigations doing all the work that needs to be done, but I'm asking because of these concerns to not compel the involved officer until the criminal proceeding is complete for genuine concerns that we have a legal exposure relative to an indictment if returned. And complete means the action by the grand jury? Yes.
 Yes. Essentially, that's what I mean. In almost every circumstance upon the grand jury review, if they've returned a not true bill, then that criminal side investigation would be complete. Mr. DA, let me go back to this question, and thank you for walking us through your analysis. It was very clear. But I think someone who is not a lawyer and who is listening to this conversation might say that,
 The idea of use immunity makes sense. There's a basic fairness behind that. And the idea of use and derivative use immunity has a certain logic. But I look at transactional immunity or may look at this question of transactional immunity and say that there's a leap here.
 And they may think there's a leap because the premise of how you structure the administrative and the criminal investigation is that there be a strong firewall between the two. And that strong firewall ensures that the evidence gathered in the administrative side does not bleed into the criminal investigation. And we know...
 from our understanding of criminal law, whether we practice the law or watch law and order, that the court has the tools to keep evidence out of the proceeding that should not be there. That's why evidence is suppressed. That's why all kinds of things are kicked out. So let me go back to what I think for a lot of people is the sticking point here. Sure. Again, I'm not quibbling about use immunity or use and derivative immunity. That seems to have a logic.
 But if there is a sufficient firewall between the two investigations, how does the compelled statement on the administrative side ever bleed into the criminal investigation and therefore create a Fifth Amendment problem? So your – Commissioner Fish, thank you for the question. And your question is one that in most all states in the country –
 is a proper analysis of the status of those states and how they proceed relative to this critical question. We've had numerous talks with our partners from the U.S. Department of Justice, some of whom are here, both the chapter in Oregon and Maine Justice. And that is an accurate reflection of most of the country. None of the country, no state other than ours, has State of Oregon versus Soriano.
 And Soriano tells us in very clear language with respect to the wall aspect, Justice Gillette, who at the time was a court appeals judge but went on to a distinguished career on the Supreme Court bench, told us that it was impossible in Oregon to erect such a wall and had an analysis about why that was impractical in today's modern society.
 Whether or not you can actually show actual prejudice? They're just refusing legally to recognize the existence of the attempts to build a wall. Can a wall be built securely? There's a lot of – short answer is yes. I believe it can, but Justice Gillette found that it can't, in his opinion, and used that word impossible.
 And this is why I encourage the passage of, I think it's 871, in order to have reviewing courts determine whether can we build a wall as suggested in the ordinance. Because Soriano tells us in Oregon, they will not legally recognize your attempts, whether successful or not. Just use the word impossible to build a wall. Okay. That's helpful. Thank you.
 Great. Thank you very much. We appreciate your testimony. So I want to do a little bit of housecleaning here. First of all, I want to ask my colleagues, before we get into the public testimony, are there any questions you need answered now? Is there a desire to introduce any amendments at this point, or would you rather wait until after public testimony? Thank you.
 So, Mayor, it was my hope that the amendments that our colleagues have prepared would now be put on the table so that anyone testifying would have an opportunity to address the amendments as well as the ordinance before them. Okay. And how many – It's meaningful. Over two and a half hours.
 And how many people do we have signed up for public testimony? Thirty-three. Thirty-three. So that's a little over three hours of public testimony. So I need to ask my colleagues, are we going to – That's about an hour and a half, Mayor. If we give three – Three minutes. Yeah, that's correct. I can stay as long as the next – I wish I could add. Okay.
 I'll be here all night. Yeah. Okay, good. So we'll have a quorum so we can allow three minutes of public testimony. So let's go ahead and introduce amendments. I would propose we take a three-minute break after that since we've been convened for three hours and 40 minutes. I could certainly use it.
 and then we will come back and hit the public testimony. So at this point, colleagues, I will entertain any amendments that people would like to make. Mayor, I have five amendments I'd like to offer now. Commissioner, are you daily? I may have more by the end of this. Okay. Amendment number one, increased membership of the PSAP.
 From five to nine members to nine to 11 members. Second. So we have a motion from Commissioner Udaly. We have a second from Commissioner Fritz regarding the membership of PSAP. We will call that Udaly Amendment 1.
 Number two, change item number two in the selection process framework section from initial screening of applicants by mayoral staff to initial screening of applicants by mayoral staff and a representative from any council office who wishes to participate. Second. So we have a motion from Commissioner Udaly, a second from Commissioner Fritz. That will be Udaly amendment number two.
 Number three, change item number four in selection process framework section from candidate interviews with mayor to candidate interviews with mayor after soliciting feedback about final candidates from each council office. Second. Commissioner Udailey moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds. That will be Udailey Amendment 3. Number four. Second.
 Add under city's responsibilities, the mayor's office will publish on the city website an annual report commencing from the date PSAP begins meeting through the duration of its existence that will include updates on progress made by the city in key areas of concern and community engagement recommendations. Second. Commissioner Udaly moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds. That is Udaly Amendment 4.
 And finally, number five, add under member responsibilities that agendas and minutes from all PSAP meetings will be published on the city website within 30 days after the meeting date. Second. That is moved by Commissioner Udaly. It's second by Commissioner Fritz. That is Udaly amendment number five.
 And any further? That's all for now. All for now. Very good. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I have a lot of technical amendments. They're all related to engagement by the entire council and the community in this ongoing process.
 The first one, which is my amendment one, is a very technical one. There's a section about the responsibilities of the police members, along with the community members in the Citizens Review Committee. And so that's Exhibit 4, Paragraph 131, where the piece, subparagraph I, which is about the police members, is disconnected from the other sections with the police members. It's not changing the language at all. It's just reordering them.
 I'll second that. Okay, so... And I'll obviously put this up on my website so that it's clear. So there is a motion from Commissioner Fritz. There's a second from Commissioner Udaly. That will be Fritz Amendment Number 1.
 Amendment 2 is speaking to the concern that in the proposal, everything reports to the mayor and the mayor is also in charge of the police bureau. So my second amendment says amend exhibit 4, which is the proposed amended settlement agreement, paragraph 142, to add the following language, make the proposal.
 make recommendations to the Chief Police Commissioner and the Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights and the community and during this effective period of this agreement to the Department of Justice. I'll second that amendment. So that is moved by Commissioner Fritz. That is seconded by Commissioner Udaly. That will be Fritz Amendment No. 2. Thank you.
 And then, so those are both actually in the settlement agreement. And then I have a number that's amendments to the Exhibit 4.1, which is the plan for the Portland Commission on Community Engaged Policing. So on page two, again, at the office under the...
 Specific authorizations of the PSAP. Number two says gather and synthesize information from the community and make recommendations based on that information in key areas of concern to communicate to the mayor, PPB. Add the Office of Equity and Human Rights...
 and the DOJ and public at last. So again, bringing in the Office of Equity and Human Rights, which as many of you know, staffs the Human Rights Commission and the Portland Commission on Disability.
 Second that. I'll second that. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz moves. Commissioner Udaly seconds. That is Fritz Amendment No. 3. Commissioner Fritz, I have a question. We have the red line version with all of your changes. Yes. Are you planning to introduce every one of those as a separate technical? Are you going to offer this? These are all Amendment 3, which are, if that's all right with you, Mayor. I think it's cleaner because we have a red line version. Unless anybody objects to any of them. We can do that.
 Just to get them into the records that... I know, so I'm going to get them...
 to you as well. I'm sorry, for clarification, you do not want these three? No, Mayor, the third amendment on that sheet references a document we've been given that has red lines. Yes, so the entire red line document is offered as an amendment, correct? And this is what you have also in Exhibit 4.1. Correct. My guess is if we have a couple of hours of testimony, we might not get to vote on things tonight anyway, so I
 I apologise, I only just got back from England about 48 hours ago, so I was working until 5am this morning on these changes.
 And just to be clear, these are non-emergency ordinances, so they'll be moved to second reading? That's right. They'll go to next week anyway, so I'll be sure to get them up on my website as soon as possible. So under membership and reporting, it currently says the PSET will report directly to the mayor, who's the police commissioner, and that's it. I'm proposing to add and separately and at least quarterly to the director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 I'll second that. That is moved by Commissioner Fritz, seconded by Commissioner Udaly. That will be Fritz Amendment No. 4. And this, the next piece is actually complementary to what Commissioner Udaly proposed. We hadn't talked about it, but mine is the beginning. Commissioner Fritz, I'm sorry. You've just marked it as Exhibit 4, Fritz 4.
 Well, we were going to do three as an integrated document. That's what I thought. It is now apparently being marked as each one is a separate amendment. So I'll call it what the mayor has called it, which is Exhibit 4. I mean, I want to go back to this idea of reporting to the mayor and the director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I mean, the director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights reports to the mayor. So what is the additional –
 What's the additional value of having that report if that person ultimately is accountable to the mayor? Actually, the director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights is responsive to the entire council. If you remember how we set up the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I understand, but the mayor has taken the bureau in his portfolio. These are my amendments. We can certainly discuss them. I would like to get them on the table so that the community knows what they are. Okay, I will withhold my clarifying questions at this point. Thank you. But I think the council has a right to ask questions about amendments. Thank you.
 I'm certainly willing to wait all night so you can do that after the community testimony. The next amendment is under the selection in Exhibit 4.1. To add at the beginning, the Mayor, in consultation with the other council offices, shall develop selection criteria and public outreach strategies for the PSAP selection process. Currently, Exhibit 4.1 doesn't say how the selection criteria are going to be developed.
 Then on the next page, page 3, we're going to add the selection process has the application, screening, review by the panel of community members, the candidate interviews, the mayor's appointments, and then we're going to add council confirmation. So there will be a public hearing on the confirmation of the members of the commission.
 The next one is under removal. Again, it currently says the mayor, the PSAP manager and PSAP chair will have discretion to decide when PSAP members are no longer fit to serve. I'm proposing to insert the mayor after consultation with the council and those other entities will have sole discretion.
 I'm just going to keep going here. There's just a typo on page four of seven.
 That it refers to the Portland Police Bureau's Office of Equity. I want to make sure I'm keeping up. So is that last set that you just read, is that still part of FRITZ!4? Or are you waiting for a motion on a FRITZ!5? It's part of FRITZ!3, Mayor. Okay, very good. Thank you. Thank you. So there's references to the Portland Police Bureau's Office of Equity and Diversity. I believe they have a manager of equity and diversity. So I'm proposing to add that as a typographic or as a...
 stenographer's mistake. Sorry. And then on page 6 of 7 I'm concerned about the specifications for how soon the public hearings need to be held of where
 where the PSAP will consult with the community. One of the mistakes that I made with the co-op formation was that we had in the settlement agreement that the town halls had to happen by a certain date, and so the co-op was forced to have a town hall before they had even got to know each other. So I'm suggesting that we add... It currently says to be completed within 120 days of when the PSAP members are being seated. I would suggest we add, if practicable,
 so that we don't get into that same rush and not do it correctly. And number two, I'm suggesting that PSAP shall meet at least quarterly with the Director of the City's Office of Equity and Human Rights and Portland Police Bureau's Manager of Equity and Diversity, including a review of Portland Police Bureau's current racial equity plan and evaluating the ongoing efforts to implement it.
 I'm sorry, what page was that? That's on page six of seven, number two. Oh, I see. So again, adding in some, because it currently says that the PSAP's going to be responsible for evaluating PPB's racial equity plan. That's one of the functions of the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 Number five, the PSAP shall strive to submit its recommended strategies in writing within 180 days without having an absolute hard mandate there. And then for the chief's office, just consult with the PSAP.
 give its final review and comment within 45 days of receiving the PSEC's recommendations, rather than within two 10 days. I'm really sorry. I know this is a lot of stuff, and I didn't get the handouts prepared, but I will certainly correct that by next week, and I'm sorry.
 Great. Anybody else? When do we discuss these amendments? After testimony. After testimony. So let's take a three-minute break. We'll come back and we'll start the public testimony. Who are the first three people? All right. Joanne Hardesty, Dan Handelman, and A.J. Mendoza. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 So how much of the misinformation are you going to correct that they gave? Well, I'm going to do less of my written testimony and more of my correcting misinformation that they've been told since we've been sitting here. I acknowledge that. I admire you. Basically, I hope I can answer some questions and I can do some of that too. It's just a little bit of a problem.
 We're saying if... I don't understand. I just realized I didn't understand this sentence. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thanks, you guys, for your patience. I was losing patience, but... We've been here for four hours, so we needed a break. As have we. Very good. Thank you.
 All right, good evening. We are now back in session. Just a quick reminder, please be respectful of everybody's views. Everybody gets a chance to testify. If you want to testify, please sign up over here with the council clerk. Everybody gets three minutes to testify. Rather than interrupting, if you really like something, you hear a thumbs up is good. If you hate something, a thumbs down is fine. That's probably the most respectful way to be registered here. And without further ado, we'll jump in. Thank you all for your patience.
 Thank you. Good evening, Mayor, City Council members. For the record, my name is Joanne Hardesty, and I'm the president of the NAACP Portland branch. There may be some NAACP Portland members left from the four hours of being here, and if they are, I would appreciate them coming to stand behind me as I speak.
 I have given you written testimony, and so I will deviate from my written testimony because you have it, and I believe you all have the capability of reading it.
 And so I want to highlight a couple of things in my time with you today. Number one, it's really demoralizing as a community member who was part of a team that invited the Department of Justice Civil Rights Division to come from Washington, D.C. to address the inequitable policing that was taking place in the city of Portland. It is a...
 It is disheartening to be in a place... Joanne, could you hold on just a moment? The problem here apparently is the closed captioning has to call in and for whatever reason their system keeps going offline. Can Commissioner Wolf still see with the people standing? Can you go to the other side over there? Thank you. It's back.
 As I was saying, it's really demoralizing to be in a room when I know why we invited the Department of Justice to come to town. So here's what you're being asked to do. You're being asked to eliminate the community's voice and the oversight of reform for Portland police officers. You are being asked to make the mayor the arbitrator of determining what appropriate community oversight of the police department would be.
 Now, we might like the mayor that we have now. We may not. But having one person make that decision is not oversight, especially when that person also has the role of police commissioner. You are being asked to put a, for lack of a more polite word, a PR group together so they can go out and sell to the community what a great, wonderful job Portland Police Bureau is doing.
 What you have not acknowledged is every person killed by Portland police since the Department of Justice has been in town have been people with mental health issues. And if anybody on the city council believes that it's justified to shoot someone running away in the back and that our grand jury process works when that happens, then you are just like living in a fantasy world.
 I am pretty disappointed that the DA and the police union and the Department of Justice went behind closed doors with the DA since early January, February, and came up with this crappy proposal. And then it was published on your website on Friday. Now, believe it or not, we the community read every word of it because, after all, we invited the DOJ because we thought they would help.
 We read every word. So having the Department of Justice spend an hour and 15 minutes telling us what you were going to be voting on was extremely disrespectful to people who took off from work, took off from school, and took off from their families to come down and have their voice heard. As someone who has been following this process since its inception, and two of the five of you weren't even here when we did this,
 I have been at every meeting about police accountability since the Department of Justice has showed up.
 And I can tell you what you're being asked to support is a smack in the face to community members who want accountability, who want justice, and who don't believe that someone without a weapon, and even if they have a knife, quite frankly, deserves to be killed on the streets in the city of Portland. We have a long, long way to go before we have police accountability.
 And this PR group that's being proposed to you is a smack in the face to community members. It is unacceptable. And in fact, the reason that you're out of compliance with the settlement agreement is because of the city's inability to actually respond when the COAB was in crisis. Okay.
 And it became in crisis because people decided that a free speech zone, putting people in a corner little box, was the appropriate way to have community members be able to videotape what was taking place.
 When you are invited to a community meeting, and then you have to sit and listen to the police talk for an hour and 45 minutes, and people wonder why the community was upset, I am absolutely appalled that the way it's been presented to the city council is that the community was the problem, not the DOJ, not the overpaid co-publishers.
 Again, I'm going to have to ask people not to interrupt testimony, please. Thank you. And what I find really interesting is no one's talking about the overpaid Chicago consultant that continues to get his full salary, right? But yet the problem is the community members. But meanwhile, there would have never been a community report if the AMA Coalition for Justice and Police Reform had not organized two community forums so that the community could hear what this...
 overpaid consultant from Chicago had done.
 And so I'm just appalled that you're even contemplating removing the community's voice, not actually reporting annually on racial profiling numbers. Who's being stopped? I am wrapping up right now. I want to end with, I have a copy of your promises, Mayor Wheeler. When you ran for office, you made some commitments to the community. And I just want to read a couple because I know I am out of time. But one of them was that we were going to have community policing.
 We were going to have police officers walking the beat and adding foot patrols. We were going to actively demilitarize the police. We were going to eliminate the 48-hour rule. We were going to embrace crime prevention through education by deploying cutting-edge and effective crime prevention, which uses education and engagement to achieve results. This is what you promised us. This is not what we're getting. Thank you. Thank you.
 Again, I'm going to ask people, please, not to interrupt the testimony. Don't, please, let's just be respectful. Thumbs up, thumbs down. People can see it. Three minutes, please. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, or evening, Mayor Wheeler and members of council. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch, and Portland Cop Watch has numerous concerns about the three items on the agenda. We're equally disturbed about the content and the process that was used to propose changes to the deadly force policy, the settlement agreement, and the IPR.
 The City should not cheat the community out of time for a meaningful dialogue about these crucial policies to meet deadlines for training officers and reporting to Judge Simon. The City would drop its writ to the Ninth Circuit and concede the Judge can call extra conference hearings. He could rule on the changes being proposed in early 2018 rather than trying to rush things through for November.
 In item 871, it's good Mayor Wheeler is stepping up to challenge the DA's interpretation of the Supreme Court case about compelling officer testimony, but the politically brave thing to do would be to require compelling testimony right away and then let a legal challenge play out, not write a draft policy and ask the court to weigh in. Receiving an opinion could take years or it may not happen at all. Moreover, the draft says compelled interviews have to happen within 48 hours, and as you've heard, the communities call for it to happen within 24.
 There are other issues with the force and deadly force directives, which suggest council should not allow these policies to go into place. Also, the police association contract needs to be revised to allow IPR to conduct independent investigations of deadly force cases, including the ability to compel officer testimony. This would create the firewall between the criminal and administrative investigations that you're seeking.
 Item 872 about the agreement and the replacement of the COAB. The PCCEP reminds us of a mining python sketch where a pet shop owner tries to replace a man's parrot with a slug, and the man is told it doesn't talk, so he yells, well, it's hardly a replacement then, is it?
 The first order of business for COAB was to independently assess the implementation of the agreement. That clause is struck from the new agreement. Then PCCP is allowed to host forums by the compliance officer to take community input, but the guidelines do not suggest PCCEP can comment on implementation. Moreover, having PCCEP meet behind closed doors will generate the opposite result for what the city is seeking. Instead of building trust with the Bureau, it will create mistrust and contempt.
 The BHUAC already meets behind closed doors, as does the Police Review Board. If you want to build relationships, stop cutting the community out of important discussions. It's outrageous the city is putting its own interpretation of why COAB failed into the cover ordinance. The worst offending part is in paragraph 46 that says criminal behavior became a regular feature of COAB meetings. Really?
 By the City's admission, one key issue was the failure to give adequate training, but it was poor facilitation by the facilitators that helped lead to the devolvement of COAB, and that will not be fixed by the new structure. And as Joanne hinted, the main focus being on community engagement makes it seem like this is a civilian public relations arm of the police.
 We've made dozens of recommendations for amendments, and only two of them are being addressed today. And regarding the IPR change, our main concern is that we hope that IPR being able to propose findings will not create an argument that CRC should not be able to hear appeals anymore just because there's more eyes on it. Thank you. Perfect timing. Thank you.
 Good evening. Good evening Mayor Wheeler, members of the City Council. My name is AJ Mendoza, my pronouns are he, him, and his, and I'm the Racial Justice Organizer at Basic Rights Oregon, the state's largest LGBTQ policy and advocacy organization. The LGBTQ community knows well what it's like to be the target of police raids, violence, abuse, and profiling, which is why we continue to stand with this coalition on this issue of police accountability and transparency.
 The mistrust and fear our collective communities have about our criminal justice system is based on real experiences and a long history of misconduct from a system in desperate need to change. This mistrust will not disappear until we deliver an open and transparent process around police accountability. And we recognize that this process can be painful and uncomfortable, and that's democracy at work.
 The process of openness, transparency, and inclusion will go a long way toward building the trust the community needs in the criminal justice system. So on behalf of Basic Rights Oregon, we join our partners in asking the City Council to, one, open the membership to the Citizen Review Committee to members of the community. In order to increase transparency and community trust, we would also ask to see it expanded to a membership of 11...
 to 15 members to better reflect the diversity of the community. We also would like to see the proposed 48-hour rule shortened to 24 hours. It is vital that officer testimony is collected as soon as possible following the use of deadly force by police and it is a national best practice to conduct administrative and criminal investigations at the same time. We would like the Department of Justice to stick by the agreement that they made to the community.
 We appreciate the work that has been done towards progress, and those who call Portland home deserve better. Thank you for the opportunity to testify today. Thank you. The next three are Jan Friedman, Jason Renard, and Lindsay Burrows, and they'll be followed by Barbara Byszynski, Carol Landsman, and Peggy Zebrowski. Thank you.
 And just for the record, and there's no reason anybody would know this, but we will be announcing tomorrow there are actually six new foot patrols that will be deployed starting in August. The question was asked, whatever happened to community policing? We've actually been working aggressively on that, and you'll hear more about that tomorrow. Good evening. Good evening.
 Good evening, Mayor and members of the Commission. I'm Jan Friedman. I'm an attorney with Disability Rights Oregon. I've also been on the advisory board for the Portland Police Bureau's Crisis Intervention Team training since 1999. We're, as an organization, a member of the Albina Ministerial Alliance Coalition, and we agree with what the doctors said so eloquently here tonight.
 and I'm also a member of the Portland Police Bureau Behavioral Health Advisory Committee and have been on that since the inception. So what I'm asking you to do is to slow down.
 and to allow adequate community involvement. You can call it community involvement because, well, we sent out this many emails and we got this person who responded. That's not adequate. I mean, this is a big issue. We had the U.S. DOJ make a finding, and it's not just a finding. It's people's lives. People with mental health issues have been subject to
 a pattern or practice of unlawful use of force. These are people in our community. So you can't just handpick five to seven people and not have people involved and think that that's community involvement. I attended some of the COAB meetings, too, and I saw...
 incredibly dedicated people trying really hard to get their work done. I also saw them be submitting like 52 recommendations and wondering, why aren't we hearing anything?
 They just go out into the air and then nothing comes back. That's not oversight. That's not engagement. That's not getting the community on board. It has to be something different. As you've heard, I'm sure, over and over, in the mental health community, it's nothing about us without us. And you haven't done your work of including the people with mental health issues, people with disabilities, and people who are interested in this issue.
 I didn't really hear about it. It never crossed my desk. Nobody asked me, and I've been part of this organization for a long time, and I've been part of the police bureau for a long time. So let's see. Also, as you know, the Behavioral Health Unit Advisory Committee is not subject to public meeting laws, so people can't show up to that. I've asked for it to be. There's been a sort of...
 group of people who think that it should not be subject to public meeting laws. So then there's minutes and agendas. And from what I'm hearing about this new group, maybe also not subject to public meeting laws. Now, how is that including the community? It's not. I mean, it's just not. You can't pretend that that's including the community. Maybe it's messier. Maybe it's harder. Maybe it's more difficult. And it's been that way for years for people in our community. And so to
 require that sort of engagement that's more challenging is needed. I mean, we don't want compliance with the USDOJ. We don't want deliverables. We want change. We want something to happen for people that's positive with mental health issues, and we don't want a continuation of unconstitutional use of force. Let's see.
 Oh, is my time up? Yeah. Is that like this? Yeah. I thought someone has the weirdest phone ring. You know? Yeah, it's definitely designed to be annoying. OK. Thank you. So, yeah, I mean, that's basically it. I could go on and on. But thank you for having, hosting this meeting and taking it seriously and recognizing that our community is large. Very good. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. Good evening. Well, hi.
 I'm Jason Renaud with the Mental Health Association and the Oregon Law and Mental Health Conference. Mayor, Council, thanks for staying so late and listening to all of us. The proposal makes changes to the settlement agreement and reopens the agreement, but it doesn't include the community in those changed decisions. And it doesn't go far enough to fulfill the goal of the settlement, which is to rebuild trust between police and people with mental illness.
 My suggestion is to repair and not to repeal and replace. The COAB failed because of city-led management and not because of its inherent structure. There were problems with the structure, but those were not what caused the COAB to be criticized or to fail. Poor management led to mistrust within the COAB, which led to mistrust by the community members. Police brutality, it's a hot issue.
 Don't think people are going to be calm and reasonable. That wouldn't be a good management decision. So I think there's four distinct problems with the proposal. One, public meetings, doing public business. That's a non-starter. I can't endorse private meetings doing public business. Two, the proposed plan knocks off independent assessment to the agreement. That's no good. Others have spoken about this and will speak about it.
 Three, too few people are involved. It's fair to say that five to nine people are not representative of Portland, so there will be discontent because of representation. Review what you're asking volunteers to do. Even with new management, we're going to be back here in a year asking why items have been ignored. It's too much work and volunteers will end up relying on staff, and that's not community oversight. Four, exclusive mayoral control gets the council off the hook.
 The council needs to stay engaged, not as monitors but as legislators, and that's because the DOJ won't be here forever. We're going to have to take this on ourselves, and this is a continuing conversation really never-ending. Please understand, harm to people with mental illness is not really a Portland problem. Most people killed in the Portland metro area, that's Clark, Clackamas, Washington, Multnomah County, I think St.
 71 persons in total, 89% were in a mental health crisis of one sort or another in the past decade. So it's not just a Portland problem. It's not exclusively a police problem because those persons came in an acute crisis. It's a multi-governmental, multi-system problem where the state, counties, sheriffs, police chiefs, DA, parole and probation, community mental health, and addiction health providers, as well as community members, need to be part of the solution.
 And the sooner this council comes to understand that this is a systemic problem, the sooner your people will stop killing my people. Thank you. Good evening. Hi, my name is Lindsay Burrows. I'm here representing the Portland chapter of the National Lawyers Guild, pronounced she, her, hers.
 I have a brief prepared statement and I'm happy to answer questions. The NLG wishes to express serious concerns about the policy changes that are before you today. The policy changes are too numerous and have been public for too short a time for meaningful community input this afternoon. Evening. We ask the City to take time to reflect on the community feedback presented today and postpone the issues to a later date when they can be more thoughtfully considered.
 Speaking first to the proposed compelled testimony ordinance, the NLG has provided a detailed legal memo to you, and we strongly urge the city to immediately adopt a proposal requiring compelled testimony within 48 hours of a deadly force incident. Can I ask you a question about that? Yes, please. I would like your professional opinion on that. So I understand why you're asking for that. Yes. And I understand the effect of it. But...
 if it results in an indictment being dismissed, how would you and others react to that? Our position is that there's an extremely low chance that an indictment would be dismissed. So the problem with the DA's analysis of the issue is that the Court of Appeals has decided it. So the DA is saying, Commission, the Court of Appeals is wrong.
 I support the mayor's effort to get legal ruling on the issue, but in the interim, I think we can all agree that the Court of Appeals has decided it, and we should say that the Court of Appeals is right. And so what we are being told is, by you and others, that you want us to take that chance because you think it's a low risk. We've been taking that chance. Correct. But we're also being clear to the community that it is not without risk. I agree.
 I think that's absolutely right. I mean, how many indictments have been returned? Understand. Fair enough. That's the issue here. Fair enough. The administrative interview has to happen, because in some cases, it's the only oversight of the issue. And it's the risk.
 that the prosecution wouldn't go for it is such a low risk, especially because we have the Court of Appeals telling us that the remedy for an Article I, Section 12 violation is use and derivative use immunity, not transactional immunity. Soriano is in an entirely different circumstance where a statute granted and our full legal analysis goes through it. It's complicated. What I'm saying is, let's go with the Court of Appeals analysis.
 Justice, former Chief Justice Paul DeMuniz authored that opinion. The DOJ supported the ultimate decision in that they actually proposed the interpretation that we're advancing in that court case. That could not have been clearer, so thank you very much. Okay, thank you so much. It's 6.30, and that was extremely clear, and I appreciate it. And so...
 Specifically, you're asking us to take the draft policy that would otherwise be held in abeyance until a ruling and simply implement it? I'm saying let's compel officer testimony within 24 hours and seek a court ruling. But in the interim, let's not wait around for the criminal prosecution to be over to compel testimony. One of the items I believe before us is the draft policy, but it would not be in effect until a ruling. Are you satisfied with that draft policy? Yes.
 I'm not sure. My position is the testimony needs to be compelled as soon as possible. The problem with the draft, as I understand it, is it allows the DA to make the decision about whether the compelled testimony should happen, I think,
 As a matter, as a rule, the compelled testimony should happen as quickly as possible at the very latest within 24 hours. This will not be counted against your time, but I appreciate the fact that you... That's our main point. And I also want to note that the ACLU of Oregon has submitted written testimony supporting our legal analysis of the transactional immunity issue. With regard just to the other two ordinances, we would...
 With respect to the proposed ordinance seeking to modify the settlement agreement, the City's proposed changes remove two necessary components of successful police accountability, community oversight and public transparency. The NLG wholeheartedly defers to the expertise of the AMA coalition on this subject and supports their position.
 Regarding the proposed IPR modifications, the NLG would like to see a more significant change toward truly independent investigations by the IPR. I mean, the IPR maybe should be the entity conducting the administrative investigation, such as the power to compel testimony. Ultimately, no deadline or agenda should be important enough to rush forward with the policies in front of you today. These policies will greatly impact the lives and well-being of our community members, which means the proposals deserve careful review and complete analysis.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next three are Barbara Boschinski, Carol Landsman, and Peggy Zabrowski. And they'll be followed by, we're on number 10 now, Mr. W.G. Barnett, Brandy Dieterle-De La Haze, and Lightning. Good evening. Good evening. Good evening. Thanks for staying. Thank you for your patience. My name is Barbara Boschinski with Portland Cop Watch. Thank you.
 And we have process concerns. Portland Cop Watch is concerned that the city sought to fix COAB a year ago by suspending that board's activity for two months. Rather than come up with a plan, the city let COAB dwindle from 15 members to five.
 finally drowning in the bathtub in January. The cover ordinance indicates that the city, PPA, DOJ, and AMA coalition were involved in discussions from late 2016 to early 2017 on replacing COAB, but then the city used confidential mediation sessions in the Ninth Circuit to continue those discussions without...
 the coalition per paragraph 59. Paragraphs 58 and 62 show that the AMAC asked to be included but was denied to do so until January 14th, just two weeks before this plan was released. That is not enough time to digest and debate such an important matter, especially when the members of the AMA coalition allowed into those mediations weren't allowed to share information with the community, and that includes a member of Copwatch who couldn't ask for feedback from the rest of the group.
 It is not clear why the city believes that using a confidential legal process is a good way to create community-based panel charged with advising the Bureau on how to effectively engage the community. It's frustrating that these agenda items were put forward after PCW and our allies asked the Bureau in early July for more time to review the force and deadly force directives.
 since 40 substantial pages were released on a holiday weekend with a two-week deadline. Chief Marshman told us the Bureau and DOJ had spent nine months working out the details, including their discussion with the district attorney about compelled testimony. Yet the DA's memo from late March suggesting the city delay compelled interviews and the IPR director's June memo telling the city that was poor policy were not released until after we and the coalition uncovered the new 48-hour rule in the deadly force policy.
 There needs to be more transparency, more open dialogue, and more time given for people who aren't paid to review these documents.
 And as far as the oversight system, PCW does not have strong feelings about IPR being allowed to propose recommended findings when they conduct independent misconduct investigations. We repeat that this should not affect CRC's ability to review cases and make proposed findings under the current or future standard of review. For the agreement's requirement for meaningful independent investigations to take place,
 IPR has to be given the power to compel officer testimony rather than having police internal affairs order officers to answer IPR's questions. The new ordinance will allow officers' supervisor to return cases to IPR or IA for further investigation, which the PRB and CRC can already do. This could cause more delays, even though the goal is to streamline the complaint process.
 With all the ideas the auditor failed to put forward to counsel, IPR is sneaking in a new code change to rebrand dismissals as its administrative closures. Perhaps this is to indicate that sometimes IPR conducts preliminary investigations before dismissing cases, but it seems like PR. Wow. Perfect. Perfect timing. That is the standard to beat tonight. That was within half a second of three minutes. Well done. Well done.
 Let's hope I can be somewhere as close to that as she is. Hi, I'm Carol Lansman. I'm also with Portland Cop Watch, and I'm going to talk for a minute or two or three about the 48-hour rule, that gnarly 48-hour rule, which came into being because police authorities and police unions said that a police officer or anyone— Excuse me. We lost the captioning again. Sorry. Sorry.
 We'll give you the full three minutes. I'm not worried. I apologize for that. Restart the clock, please. We have a wheelchair round the seat. While we're waiting, if anybody's still in the overflow room, there's about a dozen chairs in the council chambers if you wanted to move over. Everybody's out? Thank you. If the black does that part on the back. There they are. Yes. So what do you do? I think he's gone now. Nobody's saying anything. No? Captioning, are you there?
 She's there. Caption, caption. They're there. Okay, thank you. Please go ahead. Don't admit it.
 Okay. As I was saying, the 48-hour rule came into being when police unions and police authorities decided that an officer needed 48 hours with which to remember what had happened to him or her. Now, we all know or believe in our heart of hearts that that 48 hours is used to consult with their fellow police officers to get their stories straight. Okay.
 Um, so the PPA has been strongly against giving up the 48 hour rule. Uh, they tried to squelch co-op recommendation that it be done away with. However, when the city rushed last October to get a contract done with the police, uh,
 For millions and millions of dollars, the police were willing to give up the 48-hour rule. However, now we hear that, in fact, it's legally constrained. One of my questions is I listened to the very knowledgeable city attorney and the very knowledgeable district attorney. They didn't tell you?
 I find that very strange that nobody mentioned this before the contract was entered into. Anyhow, it's been 48 years since, it may never have been, it's been 48 years since a person, a police officer, has been accused of any act of violence against a citizen. Indicted for it. Indicted, thank you. So...
 We at Portland Cop Watch say, and let me get this straight, compel offices to testify to internal affairs. If they admit wrongdoing or refuse to testify, fire them. We have a 48-year rule, not a 48-hour rule. It doesn't matter. And make the Police Review Board public. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening. I'm Peggy Zabrowski. I'm with Portland Cop Watch, among other nefarious groups. Thank you.
 And this is another addition to the changes we'd like to see in the settlement agreements.
 The proposed changes to the settlement agreement do include one good item. The Citizen Review Committee, CRC, will have 90 days to hold hearings, not 21 days, and their time will not be counted against the Bureau's efforts to close cases in 180 days. CRC, the community, and even the council members raised this concern in 2012.
 But there are also problems with the proposed changes. New paragraph 69C codifies deferring to the DA under Oregon law about compelling officer testimony. It changes the rules for writing reports, including officers' reports.
 and after action reports based on the new directive, we are concerned that if the city really wants to find an alternative to the DA's plan, cover ordinances, paragraphs 75, 76, the revised agreement is going to make that difficult. The changes also create and limit changes.
 PCCEP to replace the Community Oversight Board Oversight Advisory Board including creating the cumbersome new name about community engaged policing and removing the word oversight. Cutting out the existing agreement's description of a diverse membership.
 Assuming the new board will be selected, trained, and seated to meaningly advise a new community survey within four months of the agreement being amended. Removing the requirement that meetings are open to the public. Some of the major issues PCW asked the DOJ and city to address but are not contemplated here are defining de-escalation as calming down a situation using verbal and physical tactics.
 The Bureau incorporates that definition, but also seems to think that threatening someone with a taser is de-escalation. Or that moving from using a taser to using pepper spray. The first example is a threat, and the second is the abatement of a use of force.
 Explaining what a higher level of force means, since the force continuum has been dropped, as per old paragraphs 68 and 74. Closing the loopholes to use tasers in situations which do not present an immediate threat, as required by the Ninth Circuit. Loopholes exist for tasing handcuffed subjects, using multiple tasers on one person, and
 or using the stun gun without a warning. These are all reflected in the new force directive horrifyingly and apparently outside of constitutional law. So, not good. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. And if there are people, are there still people in the overflow room? No. Okay, because I was going to say there's some seats in here if people wanted to come in. Thank you, ladies, for your testimony. I appreciate it.
 The next three are Mr. W.G. Barnett, Brandy Dieterle de la Haas, and Lightning. And they'll be followed by Philip J. Wolf, Joe Rowe, and Reverend Bill Sinkford. Okay. Let's see. We'll go ahead and go with Philip. Yes. We'll go with Philip. Yes. Good evening, sir. Oh, good evening. My name is...
 Mr. Citizen, Mr. Barnett, and I want to thank the citizens on the board before me, Mayor and citizen council members, since we were all in this together, being a democracy. I think it bears no repeat necessarily, but to remember that democracy cannot exist without an informed citizenry.
 which really is a theme that seems to run through much of the testimony that you've heard this afternoon and into this evening. I am African-American, 40 years resident of northeast Portland, and I have seen a lot of the dynamics that play between the citizens, particularly African-American and Hispanic citizens,
 and, and, and citizen, uh, gay and, and, and lesbian citizens and the police and the city and it's, it's been a real disturbing experience for me. But, uh,
 I'm not speaking right now from my own personal experience, but this is some of the highlights of concern from the Portland cop watches, which I'm representing at the moment. PCP remains opposed to creating a body to replace the CWAB, which has no ability to review and make recommendations about the implementation of the agreement.
 The problem about appearing so late before you is many of the topics and issues that you're going to hear probably repeated has been addressed before. But these are some of the things that I was given to report on.
 I just have to agree with my colleague that spoke before me, which was that as compared to the COAB, the very name of this new body, PCCEP,
 Portland Commission on Community Engaged Policemen. It's a downer from the beginning, so that should suggest something to somebody. Okay. So one of the points was that the mayor would be picking all the members, meaning no community involvement, and the rest of the council will no longer have an investment in engaged police reform, and I think my buzzer just went off.
 No, sir. You have 30 more seconds. Okay. Furthermore, well, I'll go down to the stop data, which is very important. As previously shared with the now defunct Community Police Relations Committee, will be shared with the PCCEP. But they are not being asked to help develop enhanced data collection, as the COAB was. Just another one of the indications of some of the...
 Uh, you, you got me now? If you, if you have a couple more key points, go ahead. I'll give him some of my time. Okay. Uh, um, one of the things is that, um, the, uh,
 DECACO will move back from semi-annual compliance reports to quarterly reports, but they do not have to cover all aspects of the agreement. Even though the revised paragraph 159 doesn't say so, the cover ordinance, paragraph 80, indicates all aspects have to be reviewed.
 over the course of a year. Also, the COCL does not have to give its reports to the PCCEP as they did with the COAB. That's Agreement Paragraph 159. The COCL's town halls to present their quarterly reports will be created in consultation with PCCEP, but...
 The Commission is not expected to make comments on the reports, paragraphs 160 and 161. They are merely given as an option. They're merely given the option to host COCL quarterly meetings. Since the COCL has no connection to this community,
 It should not be incumbent on the AMAC Coalition for Justice and Police Reform to hold these forums. However, this duty should be required of someone.
 That pretty much sums most of what I had to do. Thank you, sir. We appreciate your patience tonight. Thank you very much. Good evening. Good afternoon. At least in Colombia, you can still say afternoon until it gets very dark. I think that's right. My name is Brandy Deiderly de los, representing the Human Rights Commission of Portland. On behalf of the Commission, we'd like to express our gratitude for the opportunity to participate in the invited testimony regarding the Inclusive City Resolution recently.
 Up until recently, the HRC has been concerned with a lack in communication regarding the HRC's role in the DOJ settlement, and especially in light of the disintegrating COAB. Our requests to the Mayor's Office have gone unanswered for more than a year, and effectively leaving the HRC, the Human Rights Commission, sidelined, unable to participate.
 The lack of transparency was recently punctuated on Friday when not through any memos or letters or meetings, but by reading it in the newspaper. The human rights commissioners and the department, the Oregon Office of Equity and Human Rights, OEHR, became aware of these changes and of the dissolvement of the COAB at the same time as the rest of the community –
 I would just say, as Joanne mentioned. Just a few comments we heard in our meeting last night brought from commissioners, heard from community members, community organizations. The mayor was elected on a police reform platform, and the sudden exclusion of the HRC from the proposed settlement agreement is jarring, resulting in an erosion of trust, confidence in police oversight, and confidence in the city's commitment to uphold the settlement agreement.
 The move to remove the HRC is perceived to be a move to control the conversation and attempt to control who is allowed to be at the table. These are perceptions that we're hearing from the constituents. In the current situation, we know that many communities are feeling abandoned, alienated by government at any level. So these sudden changes without sufficient public notice and involvement further victimize vulnerable community members.
 To reiterate, the HRC is formed to eliminate discrimination and bigotry, to strengthen intergroup relationships, and to foster greater understanding, inclusion, and justice. We urge you to consider how representation from an entity with such a purpose as the HRC fits into the PSEP and the amended settlement agreements provisions.
 And finally, please consider what the proposed amendments and the manner they were formed communicate to the constituency, especially those from vulnerable communities, about the city's priorities and allegiances. Thank you.
 Hello? There you go. Commissioner, thank you very much for representing the Human Rights Commission. And I just wanted to note that my amendments to have quarterly reports directly to the Office of Equity and Human Rights are intended to then, of course, the Director would report to you and to the Portland Commission on Disability. So that was the intent, because I share your concern that previously both the Human Rights Commission and the
 on Disability were mentioned in the settlement agreement, and I want you to continue to be involved. So thank you very much. Thank you. I did notice that. Thank you. I would just like to respond briefly. As you know, this was the process, first, of a facilitated process
 a conversation which then led to formal mediation in the construct of the settlement agreement. And I can tell you that process, there's nothing public about that process. And as the mayor, I obviously didn't get to design that process or shape that process. That is a process that was determined by people beyond the purview of the Portland City Council. So now the real question here is...
 input and inclusion, if I'm hearing you correctly as well, on the PSAP or whatever people want to call it. I'm always happy to have better branding advice. And I want you to know I'm hearing you, and I appreciate your coming today to express your opinion. I just wanted to say that
 I appreciate your comments, but those comments, I hope, are directed to every person in the Portland area because that's what they need to hear. Yeah, that's exactly right. I mean, again, there's sort of, you know, unfortunately or fortunately, and some people see it as a positive, I actually support the settlement agreement and I support what's in the settlement agreement.
 but the process is actually a very closed process, and there are prescribed players in that process. And ultimately what happens is we go before the judge, and the judge either says, yeah...
 and the DOJ, you're either in compliance or you're not in compliance. So that, unfortunately, in this case, is the construct in which we're dealing. And I don't know if legal counsel wants to later on clean that up. She probably will. But that is the gist of it, and I just want you to be aware of that. And I am aware. I'd just like to reiterate the last part, what your actions are doing are communicating things.
 to the community at large. That's, me as a commissioner, a human rights commissioner, I can understand that. But just hearing the perceptions that are going around, that's very important. What are people perceiving? Yeah, and I do agree. Yeah, and I do agree with that. Thank you. And I appreciate your being here to testify. Thank you. My name is Philip. I'm sorry. Okay. We'll see. Is it working? Why doesn't someone trade me any one of those? Yeah. This will sit.
 Would you like to sit here? I can't see him. I can sit next to him. I'll be happy to sit here. Okay.
 He said all right. Okay. All right. Hello, my name is Phillip Wolfe and I was the chair of the COAB. And I would like to add just a minute of my time. I would like to read a letter and then I'll sign it. So I'm asking if I could have a little bit more time because I have to look down and look at it and then make sure. So can I have one more minute of time to talk? Sure.
 Okay, so as far as transparency, the comment that I believe, I wanted to clarify that because of the Co-Ab, before I was the chair of that, and I stood strong with the Co-Ab organization because I valued that experience with the Co-Ab, and I volunteered full time with that
 missed one meeting of the whole two years while I had surgery. But anyway, so my heart was in the co-op. And my comment is...
 The co-op failed was not for a bunch of different reasons. It was because we refused to... They refused to replace the vacant seats. They didn't replace them for six months, and we said, we need someone to replace the vacant seats. And then as time got closer, the two years, they decided that they were going to be suspended for the additional amount of time, and then...
 people just, it got all messed up, which was not their fault. And I think the town, the city was to blame for that, that they did not follow what the compliance. And the DOJ found that the city was not in compliance. So,
 that's we already know that they did not follow that and remember that we did volunteer unpaid full-time work and that the city was paid full-time and they were not in compliance so who's the criminal here anyway anyway so I wanted to clarify those points from those comments made before so I wanted to let me check
 As a straight person that's taking up the gay platform, I will explain about that's not representative of the gay community. Another perspective is a person that would take up the police reformation table. And my concern is when you want to take up the police,
 I can only see your actions and I don't see the representation
 of what's happening so far. And having both of the investigations as a gay person and as a straight person taking up the gay platform, you cannot interchange those two. You cannot have a woman that would take up the men's table, and so that would not be comfortable. So, before...
 One thing I wanted to talk about is that I don't know if on the over 4,000 people were in the U.S. In 2013, as best as I can, with my understanding of the investigation, and I'm not exactly sure if it's right, but I did the best that I could to understand that 18 people were killed by the police here in Portland since 2010.
 And the US, there's 4,000 people that were killed by the police, and only 16 police officers were held responsible for that. 16 out of the 4,000 people that were killed, 16 policemen. And here, 18 people were killed by the police since 2010. And there has been no police being held responsible.
 Now, trying to wrap up, my concerns about your proposal. Your proposal, the concept is I know you mean well. And for I understand the motivation behind your proposal.
 With your proposal, the organization that set up maybe would remove our only community oversight for the community. And the organization would remove the committee which leaves our mayor as the one who chooses the body of the organization and the only person who gets the reports.
 It does not conclude a fair representation for a hearing. And it displays to community members that the actions in the criminal behavior, they're not responsible for that. And I want to impress that the organization probably would remove our outside review process and instead put in an organizational control for the PR department.
 And lastly, I would close, it would close the door of discussions and that has got to stop. We want to set up to make change and open the door and have community be involved. So I'm asking you to hold your proposal discussion until a later time that we have more information and that we can go ahead. So I'm going to ask if you could wait and to remove the 48-hour rule.
 Thank you so much. If you have any questions. Thank you. The next three are Joe Rowe, Reverend Bill Sinkford, and Isabel Sheridan. And they'll be followed by Jennifer Nicholas, Thomas Etienne, and Sarah Ayanna Rohn. Hello, my name is Joe Rowe. Hello, my name is Joe Rowe. Is the caption working? No. Now it's going. Okay.
 I want to thank you all for having this meeting. I don't thank you for the rushed timescale, and like most committee members, I urge you to listen to them and the cries that this, Dan, is too rushed, much too rushed, Chloe. So we want less talking about amending the DOJ agreement and more compliance with the 2014 agreement. Who knows best that you are talking too much? Terrell Johnson and Qantas Hayes.
 I'll say it again. Terrell Johnson and Qantas Hayes. Too much talking.
 As Dr. Bethel said earlier, we know, I keep cutting out, but as Dr. Bethel said, we know how to vote. Don't pull a Steve Novick and vote to remove the oversight. If you remove oversight, you will remove yourself from your office. The letter O stands for oversight in COAB, C-O-A-B. Travel back in time. The December 2014 contract did not predict that three years later we would,
 see you in this room waiting for a Trump DOJ and strip the agreement today. Travel in time, three years ago, did we think we would be here doing this? No. The DA is saying that the Court of Appeals is wrong. Nick Fish asked Ms. Burroughs, the National Lawyers Guild, a question. In essence, Nick asked the lawyer, how would they sleep at night? Well, how do you sleep at night if you follow the skies falling right under hill and ignore the National Lawyers Guild?
 Think about that. You have to weigh those two lawyers, the National Lawyers Guild or Rod Underhill. You ask me who I would trust? I trust the National Lawyers Guild.
 Coab or PSAP nominations should be stripped of the mayor monopoly, and the five council members each can appoint four members. How about that? I'm going to make a citizen amendment, keep the contract we've got, ditch Wheeler's amendments, all of them, and convert the new Coab to 20 members, five from each of you. I urge you to stop talking about escaping your duty.
 The city staff have lied that the IPR has an exclusive oversight rule. I urge you, like me, to read the DOJ. And on page 50, it says that the COAB has oversight. So please don't strip that out.
 You made an unconstitutional closing of Balcony today. I've only got 35 seconds left, so I'm going to go to... Every time I speak, whether it's in Salem or here, it's three minutes, next person, three minutes, next person, three minutes, next person, and you ignore the public input. I've got to go home, but I urge you not to vote on anything tonight other than finding four members each and getting a co-op back into compliance and working so we can let community...
 This is not acceptable to have a microphone that keeps coming out. It's fine. Okay. Yeah. Please get us a co-op working into compliance so we can get the community to bring police oversight. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Good evening.
 I'm Reverend Bill Sinkford of the First Unitarian Church. I want to thank the mayor and all of the commissioners for holding this opportunity for community input as late as it is and as short as the time we're offered is.
 The most important thing that I want to tell you is that I am here and First Unitarian is here strongly in support of the AMA coalition and their recommendations, which you heard so eloquently from Dr. Haynes and Dr. Bethel. It seems to us at this point that that group has been carrying the water for the community for such a long time that the priority becomes for them to be heard and involved in the solution to this problem.
 You've heard from many people that, and you've said yourselves, that trust is a central issue here. What I know about trust as a minister is that when it is broken, the only approach to restore it is to bring people into the conversation. And so I'm strongly affirmative of increasing the seats at the table on what I will continue to call the Oversight Committee,
 and searching out and reaching out to make sure that a diverse group of voices from the community is present from day one in that construct. The other thing that I am most mindful of is that the protections that have been built into our system for police who are involved in killings have worked extraordinarily well, not only here in Portland, but across the nation.
 And this community is not the only community which is struggling to understand what real police accountability needs to look like. What I do believe is that it is time for you, the decision makers, to look beyond the specifics.
 And I know that you have to look at the specifics, to look beyond the specifics, but to try to reach for solutions which will make all of us safer and all of us served better. Because I believe, in fact, that the police who serve us feel more at risk than they were before, just as the community that is being served feels more at risk than it felt before. And many parts of our community have been at risk for a long, long time.
 So try to look outside the box and begin with as much input from the community as you can manage. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good evening. Good evening. So I'm a member of First Church, and I'm proud to be.
 So you have my statement. I sent you an email, and the statement I gave to the clerk is similar. I'm just going to go off script here. Could you give us some notes? I'm sorry. Can you state your name for the record? Oh, I'm so sorry. Isabel Sheridan. Thank you. We appreciate it. So I'm going to go off script and just talk to you from my heart. I'm here because I've been a teacher. I've been a teacher.
 in New York City, a very young teacher in Philadelphia suburbs for most of my 30 years. And I taught an awful lot of black children that I came to love and Puerto Rican children in New York City. And I lived in New York City in the 60s. And, um,
 I lived in Philadelphia in the 70s through the 90s. I was there when Rizzo was the police chief in Philadelphia. It wasn't pretty, and we got to community involvement. It isn't that they've solved their problems, as Reverend Sinkford mentioned.
 It's pretty hard to shock me, and when I came here in 2008 as the place of choice to live out the rest of my life, I thought it was, you know, pretty wonderful. And then I started to be shocked by one young unarmed black youth or young man after another being shot by the police.
 And there was no response in terms of not even getting knuckles wrapped. It was a shock to me. It continues to be a shock to me. And I know, I think of Eric Randall. I think of Jahi Brown. I think of the other black young males that I taught. And I know they're having really good lives because they didn't get shot.
 I want to talk about risk. Every death of an unarmed black person in the last nine years that I've been living here has been a serious incident. It came up as a serious incident in the legal conversation that I listened to for over an hour. That person, his or her family, the larger black community, and I got to tell you,
 me in the larger community of white safe people. I'm really shocked. We have to do better and I'll know that it's happening beyond all the detail of all the rules and regulations when I don't hear that another young person of color has been shot dead.
 And I know people who a year or a little more ago were simply humiliated. It shouldn't be happening anymore. Just fix it. I'll be with you. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. You're welcome. Thank you, all three of you. And Carla, just to check, how many more people do we have signed up for this? I don't know.
 About 15 maybe Can I see a show of hands of people here Who have not testified who'd like to So we've got 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 So we have about 9 Okay if you just read through the list And if your name is called Next three are Jennifer Nicholas Thomas Atin And Sarah Ayanna Rohn And they'll be followed by Tara Parrish Lisa Wright And Adam Murray Millen Good evening Good evening
 My name is Jennifer Nicholas, and I'm really sorry I haven't eaten since 9.30 a.m., and I've changed my testimony like 700 times because everybody else has been so much more eloquent in what I said. So if I ramble, I apologize. To me, the overriding themes of this meeting and what you guys are trying to do are trust –
 and really ramming this down our throat. We've had very little time to digest what's going on. Mayor, you have promised over and over and over again transparency, you've promised us oversight, you've promised us a lot of things and you haven't followed through on those things and you're young in your tenure so,
 We can forgive you for that, but for trying to move so quickly and for us to just have to sit back and take what you guys are saying and at face value, you know, we don't have that trust with you yet. You haven't earned that trust yet from the citizens of this city. I'm sorry. You just haven't.
 So I don't trust you. I don't know you. I don't know what your intentions are. And to be honest, the promises that you've made, I feel like you haven't followed through with.
 You promised transparency and you promised an open process and you invited community members like the AMAC and then when they expressed doubts and when they said that they weren't comfortable with some of the things that you were trying to do, you did it anyway. And now you're telling us this is what's gonna happen and you guys are all gonna sit here tonight and vote about it.
 person after person is coming up here and saying, don't do this. Wait. Let us have a little bit more time to digest this. Let's work out the kinks before this happens. Ma'am, can I just clarify something? This is an ordinance. This is a first reading. We are not going to vote on the ordinance tonight. And it was published as an ordinance, non-emergency. So it's a first hearing. I apologize for my confusion. Okay.
 You know, I can't speak to what some of the other people have testified here to, but I can speak to what I have personally had happen to me at the hands of the Portland Police Bureau. I was in the kettle on June 4th. I was in the back of the May Day event with my 64-year-old mother. I got pepper sprayed both times. The Portland Police now have pictures of me and...
 my photo identification, and I don't feel safe. I'm a business owner. I am a taxpayer. I'm a concerned citizen. I've repeatedly tried to get a hold of your office, Mayor, and I've gotten the run around. I've myself have put in two requests to speak with you and meet with you. I have gotten no response. My husband has put in a request to speak with you, and we've gotten no response.
 To be honest, Michael Cox is the only person in your office that has been willing to spend any time answering my questions. And, you know, he's a spin doctor, and as much as I appreciate him doing that, I don't trust him. And that's the overriding theme of what I have to say tonight is earn our trust, don't just expect it. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening. I'm glad to see you, Mr. Mayor, and the council here. You're working late. Yes.
 My name is Thomas Etienne. I recently became a veteran. I came back to civilian life, took off the uniform. So I'm familiar with working late. It's part of service. I thank you for that. So I tried to think of over the past couple days what I might say that's either convincing or persuasive to reflect what others have said here, why it's not a good idea to not listen honestly to what the community is telling you because they're here and they're telling you.
 So I came back about a year ago, and I first came into the Army here at the Oregon Army National Guard. I was commissioned out of the University of Portland. So from 2006 to 2015, I trained and studied and fought in our wars on terror. And I just wanted to think or represent something from that that may reflect here. So...
 What have I seen in that environment that we went into areas where we were trying to establish security and gain trust, and it's a difficult thing to do, and we were doing it in an environment where violence was part of the equation. It was very hard to do, and we learned by paying the highest price for years what it takes in order to actually gain the trust of foreign nationals, indigenous communities, and
 And what we finally discovered is that we cannot disregard those populations. We cannot disregard stakeholders. We actually had to find ways to turn enemies into stakeholders. It's a hard thing to do, but it's not impossible. And actually accepting what they tell us on its face value, the way they're going to explain it to you, you really can't get the community to communicate or operate on your terms. They're going to do it on their own terms every time.
 And it's just been interesting after coming back here, seeing what's happened here. It's very impressive all the growth that's happened since I left. But then immediately seeing the homelessness here, knowing some of those people there are veterans as well. And then also seeing this environment that's related directly to this issue is actually fomenting the circumstances for extremism.
 and why that can't be resolved, why you can't find a way to actually meaningfully interact with the community in such a way that they are actually dictating, not dictating in terms, but setting the agenda for how they can actually protect themselves.
 So the main point that took us years to establish, General Darius finally, they gave him a shot when we were desperate, is that you have to protect your populace no matter what. We had to shift away from intervention and use of force and going after bad guys endlessly to actually protecting them. And it was a hard thing to do. Maybe we had more resources, infinite amount of defense spending, whatever, but it wouldn't work otherwise. And we did it in that environment. So you should be able to do it here. Thank you.
 So I don't think cutting out the community and redefining what your compliance standards are, moving the goalposts closer, is going to work. Could I just make a comment? Because several people in a row have raised this theme of cutting out the community, squashing the public voice, getting rid of oversight. I want – no, people have testified, and I'd like to respond. I think that's a reasonable statement.
 thing to do. You elected me, you need to hear from me as well. First of all, with regard to oversight, it is true that the COAB, the O is for oversight, the A, weirdly enough, was advisory. So it had a conflicted objective from the beginning. And as we interviewed people on the COAB, they made it very clear to us that there was confusion as to what their mission was. And so, you know, I think it's
 And, you know, it's great to call it an oversight body, but the reality is the mayor rarely attended. The police were not always able or, you know, at least in one case they were not to show up by the then police chief. Members who were well-meaning and were prepared to work hard felt threatened and did not show up and, in fact, resigned, including two chairs present.
 in a row. So while it looked great on paper as an oversight board, the reality is they sent recommendations to the city that were all summarily ignored. It became almost irrelevant, just a sec, Jenny, despite the best efforts of that board.
 With regard to shutting out public input, I just want to reiterate something here. We can quibble about it being a public body or not being a public body. I'm fine with that. I have no particular pride of authorship. But this is specifically done so that it will have public engagement in
 At least once a quarter. That is in the document. And the committee itself can choose, if they so choose, to have more input, to have more public engagement processes. So it's at least once a quarter, which, by the way, is consistent with many of other boards and commissions that we have. I've heard testimony tonight. It's a little less than a quarter.
 about, no, I'm answering a question. I'm not filibustering. I'm your elected mayor, and you need, we're having a conversation here. Can I ask you a question? You don't want to hear it. Can I just get a clarification? Certainly, Jenny, yes. Why aren't you just trying to fix it? Why aren't you trying to start over with the co-op? Why are you trying to completely scrap it and do something else? This resulted from conversations we had with co-op members about,
 And we did, in fact, this document addresses many of the issues raised by COAB. For example, and I'm just going to tick off the list that I remember off the top of my head, they asked for orientation. They'll get it. They asked for more training. They'll get it. They asked for more permanent staffing. So they're going to get a full-time administrator. They're going to get somebody who helps coordinate the meetings and whatnot. So why change it? I'm not even –
 done yet. No, I mean, I get that, but so why change it? They asked for a timely — Why not keep the CoAB and just fix the things that they asked you to do? Well, I believe in many regards this is exactly what we're doing. It requires a timely response from the city. The people here who were on the CoAB will tell you they got virtually no response from the city. That issue gets resolved. The police will be required.
 They will not be able to opt out. They will be required to participate in the public engagement process. So this does not item for item square with what Drs. Bethel and Haynes, by the way, people who I have a tremendous amount of respect for. So even knowing they disagree with me, that's why I wanted them here to testify and be heard because I value their role in this community and I value their opinion.
 I think we're doing our best to get most of the good advice. Now, my colleagues here, as I said, this isn't lined up, and they've introduced some amendments that address some of the concerns that people have had. So let's see what we get put together here. I respect that.
 the difference of opinion, but I just wanted to respond to that because that issue has come up several times and I felt like I needed to reflect back on your good comments. And I appreciate it. Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. The only thing I can say on that that I would just add is that I don't understand, like reflecting right here, why any of the
 the need to fix things requires removing that oversight component, which the community seems to think is extremely important. There's for several reasons. First of all, with regard to the DOJ settlement agreement, you still have the DOJ. They'll be playing their oversight role. You'll still have the COCL. They'll still play an oversight role, and you will still have the judge, who has a very important role in terms of determining our compliance or noncompliance.
 So you still have that. And by the way, don't forget, you still have me.
 Right. And you still have the city council. So I believe there is plenty of oversight worked into this, and we address a lot of the other issues. I hear you. And by the way, this committee or commission or whatever you want to call it, they will have the ability to chart their own agenda. And that is very different than what the COAB was offered. The COAB was very prescribed in terms of what issues they could address. Right.
 So it ain't perfect. We're not all going to agree, but I think this does, in fact, address most of the issues that have been raised. Well, I've seen where goal lines have been moved closer, and the consequences were devastating. Actually, I had a flashback when I looked at the COCL report, and I saw the little color bars of their assessments of whether the benchmarks had been met for the Portland police. And I had a flashback to assessments of the security forces in Iraq, Afghanistan, Afghanistan,
 And knowing that those bars could always simply be, every time when we were ready to transfer out to complete a rotation, somehow they all seemed to magically, well, need some improvement, but they met the standard and we were out of there. And then the next unit came in and boy, did they discover all the issues immediately again. And in the long run, when those things don't represent reality.
 Those forces, we said that they were wonderful, they could take over their own security. And years later, Iraq almost fell to an internal enemy. It's a different circumstance than what we're talking about here. Yeah, but it's a fair admonition, and I see your point. I take it. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Well, first of all, thank you very much for your testimony and for your service to our country. I really appreciate your perspective. I just wanted to give a point of information that the COCL is still going to have public meetings quarterly. And we're in...
 I'm sorry. Can I have a question? Where in the current settlement agreement it says that the COCO shall report to the COAB, it now says the COCO will report to the public and that the COAB and the new commission will jointly go to the quarterly meetings and arrange them together. So that actually is more public oversight because everybody's going to be encouraged to do that rather than there being a designated...
 Commissioner, I'm getting the stink eye from people who have been waiting, so we'll keep moving. And I'm sorry because I was the one who started this ball rolling, but I wanted to comment. I thank you. Thank you. Sarah, you're up. I got used to listening to you talk, so I'm good.
 There's not much I can say that hasn't been said already. I think Drs. Bethel and Haynes and also Singford were pretty succinct, and also Joanne was pretty clear with her thoughts. So maybe we should pull it out to the PR level, right? You guys know my job is repping Portland in the global marketplace as a livable city.
 That's what I do day in and day out. Hundreds of people come to see me from around the world because we're known as a model. And one of the things that they come to see is civic engagement. They want to know, how is it that you enable your citizenry to be so engaged to create such a livable place? Right? We talk about ONI. We talk about all the ways that our citizens are empowered. We talk about the commissions. We talk about equity. We talk about human rights. And then citizenship.
 They come out of their hotel in the morning, look at the cover of the Oregonian or the Tribune, and see another police shooting. They see all the homeless people on the street, and they wonder, why are the elected officials not listening to the people? Where's the actual governance on behalf of the people? Not just a bunch of public testimony, but where is the true oversight of our city, the governing of our city, according to the will of the people? I think the point here is,
 is along the lines of what Susan Anderson was talking about with the composting. It was very, very difficult when we tried to switch from weekly garbage pickup to every other week, and people had garbage cans overflowing. It smelled horrible. It was terrible. No one knew what was going on. But we persisted because we knew that there was a better alternative that we had not done before, and we needed to try it.
 We needed to persist, to move the needle forward on the innovations, the civic innovations, that were nothing we had ever done before. And in my business, we have a saying, the greenest building is the one that's already built. We're spending $200 million to fix up the Portland building, because from the outside it looks great, and on the inside it barely works. The COAB is the same. Why put all this energy and effort into selling the PPCEEP to the people going through the amendment, whatever, Prosper Portland's the same thing, I can't track, but...
 Putting these new wraparounds on everything, trying to sell them to the public, instead of actually fixing, like he's saying, not moving the goalposts, but really fixing and having an innovative model that says, we stuck with this. We invested. The failure of the COAB was not its members. It was a failure of investment right out of this building in training, in understanding what those people needed to succeed. It's exactly like when we send a minority student into politics.
 to be on par with a Caucasian student and expect them to win. They were not equipped to succeed. And so I would suggest to you and argue, please, do not take Dr. Bethel's advice. Think of it as Coab 1 and Coab 2 and fix the things that are wrong with it. Keep your model. Perfect it and make it better. But do not reinvent the wheel. Do not move the goalposts because I think it's antithetical to what we're trying to accomplish and I actually think it looks really bad for the city. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next three are Tara Parrish, Lisa Wright, and Adam Murray-Milan. And they'll be followed by Linda Desiree Heligros and Laura Moulton. Good evening. Is one of those people missing? You can start. Okay. Thank you for taking testimony today. My name is Lisa Wright. I am a... I am the...
 Co-chair of the Political Action Committee for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Portland branch. So we have submitted testimony via Joanne earlier, so I'm here to speak to you as a constituent. And I want to say I appreciate Commissioner Fritz for staying up late and reading all the documents. I've had several late nights reading all of the documents.
 And I appreciate Commissioner Udaile being very responsive to the feedback that has come in as we've been moving very quickly through this. But I want to say that as I have read every word of all of those documents and I've listened to all of this testimony, I come back to, I think, what Sarah was just saying, that
 I cannot find the reason why you want to not fix the COAB and deal with the problems that were not with the COAB but with the city and with the police department instead of...
 coming up with something new. This just does not make any sense. And I fully appreciate the amendments that you guys are putting in to make the structural problems and frankly the embarrassing lack of detail in the exhibit 4.1 better. But I think the real problem is that you're trying to remove the independent community oversight
 which was put in place for a reason. It was not put in place just for fun. The other thing I want to talk about is trust. We've heard a lot about trust today, and we have some reasons why this process is not being trusted and some reasons why individuals are not being trusted, and I'm going to enumerate some of them. You send police in riot gear to peaceful demonstrations by default
 including when there were white supremacists that counter-protesters were demonstrating against and the police were facing the counter-demonstrators, not the white supremacists. You shut down and shut out community members who expressed disagreement with your actions in this room. You have promised public and transparent proceedings for things like the police hiring process and then made those proceedings largely secret. Thank you.
 You changed the amount of money that could be approved without city council approval a couple of weeks after the NAACP objected to the over $300,000 RFP for a strategic plan for the police department that doesn't currently have a police chief or has an interim police chief.
 And I just have one more point, and that's that you remain silent in the face of police violence until, including here in City Hall, until elderly white women are affected. Those are all very real reasons why there is a lack of trust, and that doesn't get to all of them. And I acknowledge that there have been some very difficult situations that you all have had to deal with, and some very challenging individuals, but you're asking for transparency
 And, you know, for us to respect the process and at the same time there's consistently a reaction to shut things down instead of opening them up. And you are not going to win. It's just not going to, it doesn't work with people. If you want to create connection and make a better process with people, you have to open things up. I apologize for going over time. No worries. Thank you. Good evening. Hi. I'm Tara Parrish with Don't Shoot Portland. Hi.
 I've been sitting here for about four hours listening to a bunch of stuff that makes me really angry. And I'm really disturbed. You have heard your analogy, like any indictments for murders by police to earthquakes and earthquake preparedness. I can't wait to see the transcripts. It was actually the risk that I was talking about. Right, right. It's not the event itself. Okay. Okay.
 Anyway, again, I see that as police commissioner, your grasp of what's really going on at the Portland Police Bureau is poor. A lot has been said already by people far more qualified than I am. What I do know is that Portland Police have murdered two young people this year already. I know that yesterday would have been Kiwanis Hayes' 18th birthday. And again, all I hear, because I come to these a lot, all I hear is,
 Provisions for the comfort of the officer and the protection of city liability rather than the citizen affected. Portland police officers should be held to the same standards after murdering a human being as the average citizen is. It really makes me sick. I hear testimony that there's only been a certain amount of feedback, but how is a group of citizens repeatedly blocking TriMet demanding transparency in the police bureau, not feedback?
 After I leave here, I'm going to an art exhibit called Stolen Angels. The exhibit is about young people of color who have been killed through white supremacist violence, the majority murdered by Portland police. And I would like to invite everybody, if you can get down there by 8 p.m., the opening reception is at Williamson Night Gallery at 916 Northwest Flanders, and it goes until 8 p.m. It's pretty powerful if you can make it.
 Regarding the reorganization to attempt to comply with the settlement agreement, it only enforces the racist patriarchal system in place already. You're trying to make yourself king, just like the president. Today I'm here because I want to speak for Christopher Kalonji, Qantas Hayes, and Larnell Bruce. Say their names. Thank you. Was there an Adam Murray Milan? Then we'll go with Linda, Desiree Heligros, and Laura Moulton.
 Mayor Cousy is showing up hands. And who has not been called who's on the list? We have one gentleman over here. Who else? I've got Oscar Guerrero-Vera, Martha Balsham. Very good. So it looks like we have two more people after this panel here. Very good. Thank you. Thanks for your patience. Good evening.
 Starting over here. My name is Desiree Hilligers. I'm a longtime board member of Peace and Justice Works Portland Cop Watch, faculty with the Collective for Social and Environmental Justice at WSU Vancouver, though I live in Portland. And my comments reflect only my own perspective. So I was deeply disturbed to hear about the proposed changes to the settlement agreement.
 Quite clearly, the replacement of the COAB, whose primary charge is to provide community oversight of the implementation of the settlement agreement, represents an abandonment of the spirit of accountability and transparency at the heart of the settlement agreement.
 forged with the Department of Justice, the replacement of the 15-member COAB with its mechanism for ensuring broad and diverse community representation with a five-to-nine member whose primary function is to provide community engagement and which would be handpicked by the mayor, would further erode public trust in the office of the mayor, the city council, and the Portland Police Bureau.
 I ask you what kind of meaningful community engagement can be fostered by a board that is handpicked exclusively by the mayor and that out of some 24 to 28 meetings a year conducts all but four behind closed doors. For years, we've watched the Portland Police Bureau act with impunity, lethally shooting civilians like Qantas Hayes, unarmed civilians like Qantas Hayes, Kendra James, and Keaton Otis, whose loss at the hands of the Portland Police continues to haunt and traumatize the community.
 The community has spent years arguing, organizing, and agitating for transparency and public accountability from the PPP. Like so many others, I'm also deeply concerned at the prospect of police officers being given a wide window of time and the latitude to try to manufacture false testimony to cover their own tracks.
 We know that mechanisms exist to wall off administrative investigations by internal affairs from criminal investigations, and that it is important to promptly interview police officers involved in the lethal use of force as it is to interview civilians involved in incidents that result in loss of life. So I ask that you commit to ensuring that officers are interviewed within 24 hours of officer-involved shootings, including most notably fatal shootings.
 Finally, I ask that the mayor and every member of the city council ask yourselves whether you want your own actions as elected officials to be guided by the spirit and policies carved out under the Obama DOJ for all its limitations, or whether you want your own political legacy to be one of active collusion with the Trump and Sessions DOJ.
 The president whose DOJ would eagerly submit to the eliminating of the COAB in favor of a bit of PR and window dressing is the same president who just publicly encouraged police officers to assault people during the process of arresting them by slamming their heads up against squad car windows.
 So is this the DOJ you want to be aligning yourself with in undermining and weakening the settlement agreement? So the question really is which side are you on? Because I assure you that we, the public, will definitely remember where you stood on this issue and who you stood with. Thank you. Thank you. And just for the record...
 The U.S. attorney who we have been working with through this mediation process was appointed by Barack Obama. Nevertheless, we know he's in charge of the DOJ right now and what his standards are. He is very committed to the settlement agreement, and that's why we're moving forward with this. Good evening. Good evening, Mayor and Commissioners. It's getting awfully late, so I'm going to just say what other folks –
 I am here today as a reasonable community member. I also have participated in COCOA and COAB meetings. In particular, I'm aware of the 48-hour law. Some of my language was used in the amendments of that. It's not really a law. It was a protocol, I would say it was.
 more along the lines of that, and as well as, I'm a board member at Sisters of the Road. Today I speak in my own capacity. I'll use I statements as much as I can. My pronoun is queen or anything respectable. Having said all that, I do echo what the reverends have said.
 I think that's enough for you guys to digest right there. I feel that the amendment to the settlement agreement would engrave our community, which is charged to participate in the accountability process. Picking a few folks isn't what I think is engaging the community. I feel that when the community's voice are removed from the table,
 It is approaching and hindering the vital transparency that the settlement agreement was forged to encompass the community, so whose voice shall we hear? Accountability is imperative when we're working with public servants. The AMA, I pray that you heed what they are speaking to you and that you use the lenses that truly impact the community at large that you are charged to take care of.
 And that's all I have to say. Very well. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. Good evening. Good evening. Thank you for being here so late. I paid for plenty of parking, and I'm pretty sure I have a ticket, so I was wondering if the council would write a note. I'm pretty sure I might have a ticket. Thank you.
 Is that you? Dan is in charge of transportation. I'll forward that. I'll be quick. I want to thank you all for being here. Thanks to Mayor Wheeler and the council. I am Laura Moulton. I'm an adjunct professor, and I operate a nonprofit called Street Books, a bicycle-powered mobile library that serves people who live outside.
 In the last week or so, as was previously mentioned, our current president joked about police officers roughing up citizens that they police and kind of bumping them into paddy wagons. And I think this caused a number of...
 police departments across the nation to respond, pushing back against this sentiment, reinforcing a commitment to serve the communities. And it's easy to laugh about or just, you know, hold this at remove and talk about what an egregious...
 thing this is, decry the President's statements, but it does speak, I think, to a general tone that we see across the United States right now. In this climate, my hope would be that Portland would be a leader in stepping forward and being a beacon with police accountability, open and transparent in all its dealings. If the U.S. Department of Justice has declared that we're out of compliance, my hope is that
 As has been mentioned, there is broad community oversight and inclusion rather than something small that feels inaccessible to citizens. I've lived in Portland since 1998, and in that time, I've seen a number of Portland citizens die at the hands of police. James Chassie, Kendra James, James Jajer Perez, Keaton Otis, and Aaron Campbell are a few.
 In some cases we pay millions of dollars to their families because officers get it wrong. But if we don't have an open public discussion about what it means to get it wrong, how do we improve as a police department and a city?
 I knew Erin Campbell's grandmother. On the day she lost one grandson to a heart condition, Portland police shot another grandson, Erin, in the back. He wasn't mentally ill. He was grieving the death that morning of his brother. And after a hostage negotiator talked him outside, Officer Freshour shot him in the back. It's my understanding that Freshour was eventually reinstated to the police force.
 Maybe there's something updated, but my understanding is he's back. And if that's true, what have we learned seven years later? If this is the system, what does the idea of 48 hours even mean? What does it matter?
 And I'll finish. The writer Claudia Rankine has written, because white men can't police their imagination, black men are dying. She says, when white men are shooting black people, some of it is malice and some an out-of-control image of blackness in their minds. Darren Wilson told the jury that he shot Michael Brown because he looked like a, quote, demon. And I don't disbelieve it. Blackness in the white imagination has nothing to do with black people. End quote.
 My question for the council and for our city as we discuss the terms of these new ordinances is what will we do to prevent shootings in the first place? What do we need to do to police our own imaginations? Thank you. Well said. Thank you. We have two more folks who wanted to come up. Why don't the last two come on up? If you signed up to speak, come on up. You will be our final two voices tonight. Thank you.
 Hi. For the record, I'm a police counsel. My name is Ethan Harrison. I'm a working class queer person who uses they and them pronouns. It's important to not assume gender, though someone might look like something we should ask them.
 I was born and raised in Alabama. And I'm a working class queer, yeah. Live and work in Irvington, the historic district. They've got some great produce that you can liberate up there. Before my comments, I just wanted to note something that I read on Twitter. It's a screenshot from a conversation with Michael Cox, the mayor's communication director.
 He said that experience tells us when we have to plan for the possibility that disruptions could require council to move to another room. That room is on the third floor along with the balconies. It's necessary to keep the balconies closed for that reason.
 There are overflow rooms for viewing. Everyone will have an opportunity to testify further. He noted that in consultation with and at the recommendation of our facilities and security teams, they made that decision. So I just wanted to note that, so you met before and you made plans to exclude the community? And we can't pretend that that's openness, right? So, yeah. Yeah.
 I remember City Council where Commissioner Udailey talked about town halls and I was really inspired by that, right? Like you get to come up and like talk and meet your neighbors and things. So I was wondering like how many town halls were held before you put this on the council's agenda? I mean, I live in Irvington, right, as I said, and I thought it was kind of funny but kind of scary. My time hasn't started and stopped and I'll just go ahead and note that I have three minutes on the clock here. Okay.
 And Robert's rules are very dear to my heart. In July I received a notice on Portland City letterhead and as a tenant I thought that that was an eviction notice because as a tenant, as a renter, I live with that fear every day due to Portland's inadequate laws for the houseless population and the renter class, although we have made strides with relocation assistance which I'm really looking forward to talking to the commissioners about this fall.
 So it turns out it was a notice for a change to an apartment building in Irvington, right? Like it's a historic district and so the city has to, in compliance, send out these letters to like everyone in the neighborhood. And I was like, oh cool, let's read this. They were going to change some windows.
 in a building. And I got a notice from the city, and I was like, felt really cool. But if we're going to do the same thing for brick and mortar, then we have to do the same thing for people's lives, right? So I just want to know, we need to be sending out these similar notices. Like, hey, wouldn't you love to come and talk about...
 The Portland Police. Granted, it's civic engagement, and you find a lot of times that there are empty meetings, but we should at least try. We should be leveraging the opposite neighborhood involvement. Like, why wasn't my neighborhood association getting in contact with me? Although I do realize that some of those only meet, like, twice a year, which is interesting. Lastly, I guess...
 Breathing is good. As to the comment about the process with the Department of Justice being closed, I will just note that the public found out about this on a Friday, I think last week, and then it was moved to council's agenda the following week. So if I were the mayor, which I don't think that I would want to be, because it just doesn't drive with my politics, my question is just like,
 So you had that closed meeting that had to be secret. You had to follow, not secret, but you couldn't talk about it. Why then wasn't there a public comment period? Why didn't you go to Willamette Week and be like, got a cool story for you. Portland's mayor, much derided in the streets, wants to talk to you about this new cool thing and wants to involve you. To call these meetings sufficient is
 we know that's not right. We don't have technically the ability to back and forth talk. And when it happens, I'm the person over there talking about how you're filibustering. So that's not good. A little self jab. So I don't know. I'll close with, you have the capacity to be cordial and congenial as you've shown with joking with people earlier. Laughter is like a fear response and it's also something that we use to...
 I don't know, to be human. And I just wanted to quote Grace Lee Boggs, the person who passed away at 100 years old, a lifelong Detroiter, has some really great ideas. And we just need to work in service of being more human human beings and actually engage in community meaningfully before you develop the rules to develop community involvement bodies. That's where we need to be. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony.
 Good evening. Good evening. Thank you for your patience. It's a big responsibility to go last. My name is Martha Balsham, and I'm a retired sociology professor from Portland State, a proud member of the local NAACP and an intern facilitator, a new facilitator, for the Alternatives to Violence program, but I'm just speaking for myself. Okay.
 Everything I have to say I think has already been said, but I would offer my own insights into it. First of all, I'll say that speaking for myself means I'm speaking for an upper middle class white woman who lives in southwest Portland. And I feel a visceral anxiety about police that I've never in my life felt before.
 You know, I've had political anger about these issues, but feeling something visceral is completely different. And I think that it's associated with the stress that our society is under now, and that that's the context for everything. And that all of these issues about policing...
 for multiple reasons, are a real key issue in how our social fabric is going to evolve, fray, strengthen, change. Because these issues, once they are felt visceral, are consuming. Also, I think that the incidents...
 of people losing their lives are only the tip of the iceberg of the kinds of things that go on between police officers and residents of Portland, even southwest residents. I'm extremely close to a young man who is a social worker in training. And in his professional job,
 He saw a Portland police officer escalate a controlled situation into a crisis that involved my young friend.
 a licensed social worker, and a 10-year-old child who was having a freakout because of mental health issues. It was a situation that was controlled by the social work professionals there, but the incident ended up with the officer putting the licensed social worker and the child together in a double neck hold, if you can imagine that.
 We're not insulated from those stories and we're not insulated from the emotional impact of it in southwest Portland. So I think you have to remember that we're talking about not certain communities but all of Portland. Can I say a little bit more? Certainly.
 Two major things that I want to add to. First of all, I think that you really can't escape from the fact that this CPSEP is a step backward. It's not the step that we need to take. We desperately need to take, as others have said, that step forward in order to preserve our –
 social feeling of togetherness and what that means to the community, the whole city. And I think it's very important to realize that the body is described in very vague terms.
 And we certainly must all have had the experience and come to the insight that things that are vaguely described are very easy torpedo, to torpedo. And I think that I would predict that as written at this moment, even with very worthy amendments to it, that it'll be an ineffective body.
 The second and last thing I wanted to talk about is just the question about input. I understand completely how painful it can be to go through a lot of work
 with the best of meaning, and to come to the belief that, you know, in your mind, this is even going to be a stronger, you know, than the original body. But I think for whatever reason, that the input that was gotten is from a very narrow band. And when you have a narrow band of input, you have an incomplete output. And I think that's what you've got here. Okay.
 you know, narrow in, narrow out. There are obviously people that you need to hear from that you haven't heard from, and you even know who some of those people are. So I would say, I would urge you to remember that the city of Portland has not, because of some of these issues I've talked about,
 earn the trust of people who have consistently and historically been targeted by violent policing. So please don't act on this now. You have an incomplete proposal to look at. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you, everybody, for your testimony. Are we going to make any comments? We have the opportunity to bring staff back up if you'd like to ask follow-up questions. So, Mayor, I – We have the opportunity to make comments. Yes. We may be on the verge of losing a quorum. Can I make a suggestion? Yes, certainly. It's been a long day, and there's a lot to absorb, and we're not voting tonight.
 I suggest that we move, first of all, the proposed amendments that we now have, your staff has very kindly created an integrated document. Have you, Mayor, had a chance to review these amendments? Yes, and I want to make sure that the proposed, the proposers have also had a chance. So, Commissioner Fritz, I don't know if you've had a chance to read through those.
 Yours and Commissioner Udaly, I think yours are verbatim off of the sheet that you provided us earlier, so those shouldn't be problematic. And Nicole Grant has got all of these entirely right. So this document looks like a complete set of amendments we've been offered. Mayor, do you accept these amendments? I accept these amendments, and so if there is no objection, what I'd like to do is call the question on the amendments and move them forward.
 So I propose, Mayor, we do two votes, one on Udaly amendments as a package and second on Fritz amendments as a package. Any objections? We adopt those. Does not anybody hear public objections? I didn't think we were going to vote on the amendments tonight. Well, here's what we can do. We can carry the amendments forward as part of the package. I would rather carry them forward. Oh, wait.
 Sorry, I cut you off. Carry them forward. No, that's fine. Here's the one advantage. If we adopt the amendments now and there's consensus around the amendments, we still have all the flexibility about how we want to handle this matter going forward. But if there is no – if these amendments are acceptable to the council –
 I see no reason not to adopt them. This matter does not go to next week for a vote. The Mayor is going to give additional time for us to consider these and to hear from the public. But I have another amendment I may bring, but I'm not prepared to offer it tonight other than to foreshadow that I might bring it.
 I think we should adopt these as a matter of good process since they are on the table, but that does not preclude the council from offering additional amendments if that's their desire at a future hearing. All right. Good. So I would move Udallie Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 as a package. Second. We have a motion and a second to move Udallie Amendments 1 through 5.
 And could you make a similar motion, please, for Fritz? And I move Fritz amendments 1 through 12 as a package. I second that. We have a motion to move Fritz amendments 1 through 12 by Commissioner Fritz and a second by Commissioner Eudaly. Any further discussion on the amendments before we call the roll? As a point of information, did Commissioner Saltzman say he's left for the night or is he coming back? I think, well, he took his glasses, so he may have left.
 Okay, thank you. Please call the roll on Udailey Amendments 1 through 5. Udailey? Well, I guess I'm just going to take this opportunity to thank everyone who has made it through this hearing with us. It was a remarkably civil, productive, informative. He's making faces at me over there.
 meeting compared to many, many, many of the sessions that I have been sitting up here for. I've attempted to respond to concerns that were expressed by community members before this hearing through my five amendments. I may have a couple more to introduce and I have some serious concerns to mull over in the meantime.
 We're going to be looking at the 48-hour ceiling and whether or not we can lower that to 24. I also feel the need to express on the record that despite the fact that we've included the expert report from Kathleen Sadat,
 former chair of the COAB, she does not actually support these amendments. And she said that she submitted testimony by email to us, but unfortunately it didn't come through. And otherwise everyone up here would be aware of that. So I'm going to vote aye on my own amendments, but there may be lots more to come. Fritz?
 Thank you to everybody who's still here and to everybody who participated in this hearing. It has been a remarkably constructive and informative hearing. Thank you, Commissioner Daly, for these amendments. I want to state very clearly I am very committed to continuing to be extremely involved in the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement.
 whether the language says so or not the answer is try to keep me away and that is not happening as a retired registered nurse who worked for 22 years in psychiatry at Oregon Health and Sciences University I didn't expect that I was going to get to work on that crucial issue when I came to city government and I
 will continue to seize that opportunity. I want to particularly thank Christiana Nieves on my staff who attended almost every meeting of the Community Oversight Advisory Board, every meeting with the American, I mean, the Albina Ministerial Alliance Coalition for Justice and Police Reform, who unfortunately is on vacation this week. So thank you to Nicole Grant for pinch-hitting and getting my amendments into some semblance of order. Thank you.
 We are committed to making sure that this works. And I just wanted to explain that part of the urgency is that we don't know how much longer US Attorney Billy Williams will be in his position. And we know that he's committed to this. We doubt that somebody following him
 being appointed by the current administration in D.C., would be as thoughtful and as determined as he has been. So that's part of the urgency to get this agreed to soon. Whenever we get to it, it will go to a fairness hearing with Judge Simon. I know the mayor has many other things he wants to get on the record as well, so this is just an interim phase here.
 I particularly appreciated Ethan Harrison's comments and your honesty in telling us that we hadn't started the clock. I actually hadn't noticed because I thought your testimony was especially elegant. What we are trying to do, in fact, is to establish procedures for community engagement.
 So it's really going to be a community engagement oversight committee or commission. The question is how to get that done in a way that inspires trust and continues to respond to community concerns. And I think there's many things in the settlement agreement still that will require that. So thank you very much, everybody who's stayed with us tonight. Aye. Aye.
 Well, I want to join in my colleagues in thanking everyone who joined us today over the last six hours. Time's up. Carla's having fun. Best game in time. Carla's having fun. And actually, we're very grateful for – can we suspend the rules and thank Carla for the back-to-back days? Carla. We have the best council clerk in America, and we're grateful for her.
 I think these amendments strengthen the proposal that's been put forth. I also have no doubt that my colleagues are deeply committed to the difficult work, very difficult work of police reform and accountability. I thank both Commissioners Udaly and Fritz for offering amendments, which I think move us in the right direction. I'll vote aye on the Udaly package.
 I agree with all of these amendments that have been put forth. I'll give my speech on Commissioner Fritz's as well since it's coming up anyway. These are good. They're good amendments. They address many of the concerns, not all, but many of the concerns that were raised by the public tonight. I think they're all still within the spirit of what we're trying to accomplish. I think they're still within...
 I believe we still have a strong case that we can make that we're in compliance, we're in substantial compliance with the settlement agreement. My guess is that the DOJ would not have too much heartburn about any of these amendments. So I think it's great. I appreciate my colleagues taking the time to listen to what people were saying tonight and reflecting that in the document. It looks good to me. Aye.
 The Udaly amendments are adopted. And now if you could please call the roll on the Fritz amendments. I'm sorry, Commissioner Udaly. I do have just two small concerns. Sure. It's Fritz Amendment No. 9 and Fritz Amendment No. 11. Both of these amendments insert language that...
 I guess provides more flexibility than I'm comfortable with because there's no outside limit. Number nine is PCEP shall consult with community members and hold at least two public hearings to be completed if practicable within 120 days. I just ask that we have an outside number if we're going to give that kind of flexibility. Okay.
 I appreciate that suggestion. I had suggested at first to change it to 180 days maximum, but we certainly want to get it going as quickly as possible. Should we say just put down a 180-day limit then? And take out the if practicable more than...
 The city attorney's nodding on that one. We'll treat that as an amendment. As an amendment. I'm sorry, I'm not the presiding officer, but I think we have a consensus on that. You did just fine. It's so nice. Well, I originally... Good. Thank you very much. That is a substitute. We're deleting under First Amendment 9. We're deleting the clause if practical, and we're amending the 120 days to 180 days. That's teamwork, folks. And then... It's been first and seconded. Can we vote on that first, Mayor? Oh, yes.
 No, excuse me. Yes, sir. We're amending it. We're amending it first. Call the roll. Oh, to amend the amendment. Amend it. This is to change, drop, if practicable, and change the timeline to 180 days. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Thank you, Commissioner. Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment to the amendment has been adopted. Continue, please, Commissioner Udaly. All right.
 Fritz Amendment 11, PSAP shall strive to submit its recommended strategies for the community engagement plan to the chief in writing within 180 days of PSAP members being seated. Again, I just, if we're going to use language like strive, I want to outside limit. Could we invite the city attorney to come and comment on that? Because again, that wasn't what I originally proposed. In the microphone, please. Thank you.
 You have to identify yourself again. Tracy Reeves, city attorney. I think it would be fine to substitute, as you did with the other amendment to the amendment, a specified time period. If we deleted the term strive, can we realistically meet the goal of within 180 days? That was my original concern, and I was going to actually have it changed to like 270 days or something like that.
 Because I think six months to get seated, get trained, take all the input that you have to, and then be able to get back, that was one of the key mistakes we made with the co-op, was requiring things to come too fast so that there wasn't time to do all of the training. How about leaving it strive for 180 days, but in any event 270 days? Yeah, I like that. Thank you very much. Can I call the roll, please, on the amendment to the amendment?
 You daily. Aye. Fritz. Thank you, Tracy Reeve. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment to the amendment 11 has been adopted. So I move the Fritz amendments as amended.
 I second that. Commissioner Fish moves the Fritz amendments 1 through 12 as amended. Commissioner Udaly seconds. Any further discussion? Call the roll. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Well, we did hear some concern that the Office of Equity and Human Rights currently reports to the mayor, and I want to thank Director Dante James, who's been here all afternoon and who helped craft the language that I suggested. Just from the...
 Portland City Code Chapter 3.128, which is the creation and functioning of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, the director's powers and duty include B, implementing the policy directives of the city council and the city commissioner in charge, C,
 working with the Human Rights Commission, the Portland Commission on Disability and all other bureaus, etc. to increase equitable outcomes and reduce disparities. So that was what I mentioned to the Human Rights Commissioner that by including reporting to the Director of the Office it thereby brings back in Human Rights Commission and the Commission on Disability. And then finally it also recommends
 implementation strategies on other equity and human rights policies adopted by City Council which will be this revised settlement agreement and the director provides reports to council and the community annually and as requested so we can specify whether or not we want the director of the office to do that so for all these reasons I'm really grateful to the mayor who agreed to this change when I first suggested it.
 Wheeler. Aye. The Fritz amendments are adopted as amended. Commissioner Fish. Mayor, we have two other items of business before we conclude this hearing. Oh, that's right. Unless you want a break for breakfast. The two additional items are I have listened carefully to the testimony tonight about concerns raised relating to Ordinance 871. I'm not prepared to make...
 proposed amendments now because the way the ordinance is structured, you'd have to go through it almost line by line to conform it if we were to make a change in the result. I do want to have a follow-up conversation with the city attorney. I don't feel...
 that with as little gas in the tank as I have right now, that I'm prepared to resolve a legal dispute between the National Lawyers Guild, the district attorney, and the ACLU. I do think, though, there's a clear balance of interest here that I want to think through. So I want to just preview that I will be talking to the city attorney and my colleagues, and I may offer an amendment on this particular ordinance.
 And, again, I understand the public policy tradeoffs. My concern, however, is that history tells us that the likelihood of an officer being indicted and an officer-involved shooting is very limited, very minimal.
 But at the same time, we are pegging the enforcement of our policy to an exhaustion of an appellate process, which could take years. And I am concerned about the negative impact on the city's ability as an employer to discipline officers and to perform the functions the community expects of us, separate and apart from any criminal investigation. So...
 But I'd rather not make that call right now because I would like to have a further conversation with my colleagues in the city attorney. But, Mayor, I may very well bring forth an amendment on that issue. So let me suggest something. In fact, Tracy, if you could come up, I have a couple of questions about the path ahead. So in a minute, I'm going to move these three ordinances forward as amended.
 Tell us about time frame, because there were people in the community who said they wanted to have an opportunity to digest this. So that's thing number one. Thing number two is tell me the consequences of keeping the written record open until the second reading. So thing number one, we are...
 Working with the Department of Justice and a lot of this endeavor was to have a really meaningful conversation
 ideally in mid-November, which would also be the opportunity for the Court, should it choose to do so. Of course, the Court controls its own schedule, but would provide an opportunity as well for the Court to hold a fairness hearing on the amendments if Council passes the amendments. Once Council passes the amendments, the Court will have a fair hearing.
 amendments if in fact council does approve amendments. Those then, we have been working with obviously the local United States Attorney's Office here, the folks we've worked with all along. We also have the team of Civil Rights Division career lawyers that we've continued to work with. None of that team has changed and I can tell you the focus of that team has not changed in my experience in the work we've been doing.
 Any final, final approval has to get run completely up the chain to the top of the Civil Rights Division, which just had yet another leadership change as things continue changing in Washington. That will only occur once city council approves it, because the one thing that's been made clear to us is that the current administration will consider changes that have been approved by and that are,
 approved by the local government. They don't want to be dictating down. They want that to be something that the local government has already approved.
 So all of which is to say that will take some time. The United States doesn't move on a dime, and the goal was to have a fairness hearing in the middle of November. The parties have already asked for a status conference hearing at that time. So those things aren't immovable, but the other goal was to time the – to get –
 a couple of these things in place, not so much the PSAP, but some of the training provisions and things so that those are in place and the COCL can then evaluate them and the Department of Justice can then evaluate them so that by the time we have that status conference in November, they're being evaluated. So that's the deadlines we're looking at. So the intent then had, assuming, and it looks like we will, we're moving these to second reading as amended, right?
 When was the time certain that we had pegged for this? And maybe that's a question of... So second reading normally wouldn't be a time certain? Well, that's correct. I'm sorry. What date would we have... Next Wednesday. Okay. But we have the ability to extend that. Let's do that.
 Yes. And the question is, could we extend it two weeks? Could we extend it three weeks without disrupting that timeline that you've provided? And if the answer is no, I'm fine hearing that. I'm just curious. Probably two weeks without disrupting that timeline because we're right up against it. Okay. So, colleagues, and I'm putting this out as an open proposal. I don't have any particular pride of authorship. We could extend this.
 for an additional week and we could keep the written record open if that is useful. If it's not useful, I'm open to different ideas. Could I just offer one other alternative, which would be,
 This could continue until next week if there are further amendments or anything at that time. Those could be offered or a vote could be held either way. If there are further amendments or anything of that nature, it would then go forward. I think that gives us the maximum options. Although we might also, colleagues, want to lock in a time certain for the following week just so, because if it comes back, well actually the following week would probably be the vote.
 If we continue it until next week, can we continue it until Thursday afternoon? Or is there a time set open next week? You're talking about next Thursday? Yeah. It would be 4.30. That's not optimal, but I will miss part of Wednesday morning. So, Mayor, could we continue? What's on earlier on Thursday? Okay.
 That's the Press Blocks land use case and the growing transit communities plan is at 3.30 for an hour. Do we have Wednesday afternoon? We've got a returning Ankeny Apartments land use case and returning Hayhurst. Well, that means they're both 10 minutes. Yeah, that's not long. So can we lock in at 3 o'clock on Wednesday time certain? They're already going back.
 No, the 2 o'clock is asking for an hour and a half, and the 3.30 hasn't given me a time estimate. I'm returning land use matters. That's the 2 o'clock one? That's the Ankeny Apartments is asking for an hour and a half, and Hayhurst has not said how much time they needed yet. I don't know where they're at on this. And the next week, Commissioner Udaly is gone, and the week after that, Commissioner Fish, you're gone. Yeah, so we better lock on that. It's not optimal, but can we just grab Thursday at 4.30?
 Sure, I think. I mean, it is – my guess is that it may be – if it isn't the day that we cast a vote, I don't anticipate it's a long hearing. So what's the date of that? That would be the 10th, right? The 10th at 4.30? I've got 15 minutes in the morning. Oh, you're gone in the morning. Sorry. Who's gone in the morning? Well, I show you out from 10.30 to noon. Right, right.
 Well, you know what? Let me make a suggestion. Next Wednesday at 945, I don't want to get sideways with Phil Bussey, but we have a time certain at 945 for Phil to come in and show us videos. I mean, we are very jammed right now. Could we simply, and I hate to do this, but, Mayor, could we reschedule Mr. Bussey and the student videos for just put them over a week and take that 945 time certain?
 I would think it's possible, but sometimes the students... I'm getting a thumbs up. Well, sometimes the students are going back to their place of residence. Why don't you just bump it a week? Yeah.
 Sometimes it's students who've just been here for the summer and they've done their film and they're going to present. We're moving mountains. We're talking about the difference between settling the DOJ amendments and hearing student videos. And as much as I love those videos, I have a feeling we can move it around even if we had to move it until Thursday. Why don't we substitute this for the 945 time certain on Wednesday? How long was that for? They had 20 minutes. They only had 20 minutes. Well, we did it to have a control date.
 Affordable housing is the next one at 1005, and then the CRC appointments. I've got an idea, and I'll probably not endure myself with my colleagues, but we have precedent for this. Mayor, why don't we schedule this at a time certain on either Wednesday or Thursday at 1 o'clock? We have the power to do that, and rather than go late, we bump it up a little early.
 and take it as the first item on either Wednesday or Thursday. I'm fine with that. I really have nowhere more important to be. Yeah. So, Carla, which is your preference? The other option is to do it in the evening on either of those two days. I can't. You can't do that? Wednesday or Thursday at 1, what's your preference, Carla? I would say the...
 Wednesday at 1. So can we make that a time certain? If you say so right now, you can. Yeah, I'm getting a thumbs up. Carl, you're the best. Let's do it. Okay, 1 o'clock Thursday. In the interim, I'm going to review the 48-hour rule.
 that's before us with the city attorney and reserve the right to bring an amendment. Okay. And we're going to review that, too. Okay. Does anybody have any problems? By the way, just colleagues, the idea of shifting it to 24 hours, we're getting so lost in this thing right now. I agree. The idea is to eliminate the requirement that we give notice. If we don't have to give notice, it's...
 It doesn't add anything to say 24, 48, 36. That's exactly right. Because it is exclusively at the discretion of the police bureau when they give the interview. Okay. Does anybody have any problem keeping the written record open? Great. So get the word out, folks. The written record will still take e-mails, whatever. So we are continuing these three items, 871, 872, 873, to next Wednesday.
 August 9th? For a second reading. For a second reading at 1 p.m. here in Portland City Council Chambers. Thank you, everybody. It was excellent testimony tonight. We are adjourned.