I think we should. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the August 19th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Saltzman. Here. Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Hales. Hales.
 Good morning, everyone. I expect we'll be joined shortly by Commissioner Fish. And before we get to our formal council calendar, I have the pleasure of a proclamation this morning. It's summertime. There's a Portland Little League team in the national championships.
 and we have a local entrepreneur who's a big league guy with a successful business, and we're here to celebrate him this morning. So let me read this proclamation, and then we'll welcome Rob to say a few words. Whereas Rob Nelson, a resident of Portland, Oregon, since 1975, has been an exceptional figure, contributing his entrepreneurial spirit to the city of Portland's history, health, and culture. And whereas during his time as a pitcher for Portland's former local baseball team, the Portland Mavericks,
 Rob Nelson conceived the idea to create shredded bubble gum as an alternative to unhealthy smokeless tobacco. And whereas naming his creation Big League Chew, Rob Nelson's ingenuity would alter not only the confectionery industry, but also how the country enjoyed bubble gum.
 And whereas through his outreach, influence, and contributions to the sport of baseball, including the creation of the Little Mavericks Baseball School, the first ever baseball day camp for youth in Portland, Rob has continued to be a beacon to all on what it means to enjoy our country's pastime and a source of hope to all young innovators. And whereas Rob Nelson and Big League Chew celebrates its 35th anniversary, holding true to his vision to continue providing bubblegum fun for all ages...
 Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim August 19, 2015, to be Rob Nelson Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day, no doubt by chewing gum. So, Rob, welcome and come on up. We would like to thank you for being here this morning. Thank you.
 So we love being a city of entrepreneurs. You were one of those before we became so fashionable for seeing a city of entrepreneurs. Some advice for other young people who might want to start a business? Well, you know, I was part of the Portland Mavericks, and we like to think that we were the first team that started keeping Portland weird. It was a strange team. So I think that the whole idea of pursuing dreams and not being afraid to try things
 And fail is what made things work for me. I will say it was the city of Portland when I first came to the Mavericks. I didn't make the team, but the Parks and Rec Department, Bill Owens, helped me set up the little Mavericks school, and he and Paul Keenan helped.
 so many people in the city just made things work for me to allow me to stay in Portland. I had come from South Africa, where I was playing ball and teaching school back in 1975. I thought I'd be here for 10 weeks, and I've been here for 40 years. And I think it's the climate of Portland that...
 That encourages guys like myself to take some risks and see what's out there. And I never thought 35 years later kids would still be blowing big league bubbles, but I'm grateful, certainly, as are my 11-year-old twins and my 15-year-old daughter.
 Mayor, can I just ask a question? One of the Big League Two things you've given us has Charlie Hales' picture on it. And I was wondering, was Mr. Hales known more for his bat or his glove? Definitely a glove man. Definitely a glove man. Got to be flexible in this business. He had a good first step, you know, from what I remember, yeah. Well, Rob, thank you. We'd love to take a photo with the council. That would be great. Thank you so much. Big League Two. From there. Thanks. Have you? Do you want this? No. No.
 And I'll hope this. How's that? One, two, three. Very nice. Thank you so much. All right. Thank you, Bob. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. All right.
 All right, we don't normally say this at the beginning of council meetings, but play ball. Let's get started. So welcome, everyone. We have some communications items up front. Will our citizens sign up for time on our calendar to talk about subjects they're choosing? They'll be first. Then we have our consent calendar. We've had a couple of requests to pull items from the consent calendar, so if there are any others, let me know, please. Thank you.
 If you're here to testify on a council calendar item, we customarily allow people three minutes. It doesn't look like we'll be oversubscribed for people here this morning. So if you want to speak on a council item, let the council clerk know. You need to give us only your name, no need for an address. If you're a lobbyist representing an organization under city code, you need to disclose that.
 We follow the rules of decorum and common sense in this chamber, and that is if you're here to speak, we want to make sure you are heard. If you support someone else's opinion, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. And if you disagree with them, give them a thumbs down or some other polite hand gesture. But we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' opinions here so everybody does get heard. And so with that, let's begin, please, with item 829, the first of our communications items.
 Request of Susan West to address Council regarding downtown partnerships for public safety. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Okay, I am Susan West with Friends of River Place and an active member of Downtown Public Safety Committee, ONI, PDNA, and others.
 Some pictures of myself with the Friends of River Place last week. I'm calling upon you to subcontract with the county to open Wapato for our homeless, drug rehab and mental health needs. Moving our most vulnerable and their services outside the dangerous downtown area. There are 4,000 on the street now and they are desperate.
 This move opens a management center where services and folks in need can work safely together to reduce the strain on downtown. Let's lead the nation in our efforts to manage this problem before the population doubles again. We used to have one of the best downtowns in the world
 thanks to your vision, your hard work, and interbureaucooperation. But no more. There are big problems. We want to work with you to resolve homelessness, drug addiction, sex trafficking, drug trafficking, crime, and mental health issues.
 Local residents are afraid. We have had to call the police and park rangers more than 10 times in the last few weeks for drug overdoses, public masturbating, undressing, shooting up, aggressive dogs, campfires near dry grass, permanent camping, blocking public access on public beaches and docks, and other alarming behaviors. Local citizens are staying away from their own neighborhood. Daily, we pick up hypodermic needles...
 Drug prayer, finalia, broken beer bottles and pornography right where tourists and children walk barefoot. This is just the last week or so. Literally every hour we walk, we have to stop and report dangerous issues. Last Wednesday, we reported the McCall Waterfront Park area. Thursday, David Anderson saw a tourist and a child at the same place, and he ran down to warn them to leave the area. He accidentally got pricked by a needle.
 Beside needles and trash, Dave found the wallet and ID of the recently escaped inmate from Washington County.
 We clean this area as we do others day in, day out. It gets dirty and it's too much. A dance troupe practicing last week on Waterfront was threatened with a sledgehammer. Monday, my friend Donna Harris told me her 24-year-old son, Neil, moved downtown. Within six months, her high-achieving Mormon boy was on heroin and committed suicide. Neil said drugs are on every corner and he couldn't get off of them.
 In Kodiak, Alaska, a street alcoholic told my husband that it's common knowledge up and down the coast to go to Portland for free handouts, sex and drugs.
 Even though solutions are not perfect, we need to move today. Without your further help, it is meaningless and dangerous for us to volunteer. If rules and regulations are not made and enforced, and if we do not provide a safe place for the street people, respect for public officials will go downhill. We elected you to solve public safety problems. Let's make those decisions and work together. How can we help you move forward?
 We want to help. May I respond, ma'am? Thank you very much for coming and talking about these really crucial issues, and in particular your partnership. This lovely photograph that you have is the recognition from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement Crime Prevention Program of the partnership, and I'm glad to see that Galena Burley, the
 Portland Parks and Recreation Security. She is. It's part of that. So you are certainly doing your part to help us with these challenges. Behaviors you described fall into two categories in my mind. They are the criminal behaviors, which the mayor is responsible for with the police, and that certainly needs to be part of the solutions. And then there are, well, actually there are three. There are people with disabilities
 who are homeless, who don't have drug problems, who don't have mental problems. And certainly Commissioner Saltzman and the mayor are working together to see how we can provide more subsidized housing, how can we create more affordable housing in the city. And that obviously is a longer-term challenge. I know. And then the third issue is people experiencing mental illnesses and drug addictions and drug
 Drug use is illegal, so that's something that we need to address in all of our parks as well as in River Place where you are. The solution you suggested at the beginning as far as opening Wapato, I need to address that because it comes up many, many times. We're not allowed to do that. With the Reagan mandates to deinstitutionalize people experiencing mental illness, that's why we closed Damesh in the mid-'90s.
 And so we're not allowed to put people experiencing mental illness in major institutions. We're not allowed to create new ones. We have upgraded the Oregon State Hospital in Salem and built Junction City, which is going to help with helping people with mental illness. The other strategy that we're involved in with the city is the development of the Unity Center, which Legacy is supporting. That will only work if we have more community facilities, both preventative care,
 for people who want to get off drugs or feeling suicidal, just generally need psychiatric help, and also places for people to go after they've been in an acute emergency center. So it really is a community-based problem, and there needs to be community-based solutions, which is why I'm so grateful to you for stepping up and doing your part.
 So I just wanted to give you that kind of rounding out of, yes, we agree with you that there are significant challenges. That's why WAPA-TO doesn't work, so therefore we need to look at other solutions.
 Thank you. Thanks for your advocacy and for your volunteering. Don't give up. I appreciate the call to action and everything that you're doing to highlight this crisis that we have. Yeah, I didn't expect my retirement to be doing this every day all the time. Thank you. We'd like to help you work yourself out of that particular part of the job. Thank you all for your hard work. If I was younger, I'd be applying for jobs with some of your bureaus. I really appreciate the city working with me. You're young enough to do that. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay.
 Let's hear from Mr. Palmer, 830. Request of Roberta Palmer to address council regarding better tax system for the city. Sorry, Ms. Palmer. Come on up. Good morning, and congratulations on governing this great city. It appears to me, though, that Portland's revenue does not meet its needs, such as fixing our embarrassing roads, funding our schools, housing our homeless, and addressing climate change. Thank you.
 For example, I was disappointed to learn that the main source of funds for the Home for Everyone initiative is not a reliable local revenue source, but federal Section 8 funds. For too long, we have made do with add-ons to an already stressed system. Cities in the other advanced nations rely upon a goods and services tax, the lack of which, I believe, leaves a gaping hole in Portland's budget.
 But first, what's wrong with increasing the property tax? First, it increases the cost of housing and of doing business. It taxes a necessity and not disposable income, as does the sales tax. It is not a reliable source of revenue since voters can refuse an increase. It taxes on illiquid assets so that payment must often come from another source.
 While property owners understand the need to pay for police and fire protection for road maintenance, streetlights, water, sewer, they also understand the limits of this tax. As for the income tax, we have seen how a single rate or flat fee can be oppressive. Oregon's iconic income tax hurts the poor, and with a flat rate of 9% from a taxable income of $50,000 to $250,000,
 is only marginally progressive. Furthermore, any local or state income tax adds on to the federal income taxes. Oregon needs comprehensive tax reform, but Portland can start with a tax on served food and drink. A rate of only two or three percent would pay for road repair several times over. Let the tourists who pay in nearly every other state pay here in this foodies paradise.
 In the meantime, let Portland advocate for a statewide goods and services tax that comes with a rebate for the poor. When gasoline prices were distressingly high, a clamor was not heard for eliminating the sales tax on gasoline. As a French finance minister said long ago, the art of taxation is to pluck as much down from the goose as one can before it squawks. A tax that is not noticed...
 and that is spent well is as good as taxes get. Thanks for your indulgence. Thank you. Thanks for your thoughts. Appreciate it. Okay. Item 831. Request of Pastor Everett Kaufman to address council regarding a pilot program to address the garbage left in camps of the homeless. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. I'm Pastor Everett Kaufman. Our church, a place of worship, is a ministry to the homeless and addicts in southeast Portland.
 Many of these people camp along the Springwater Corridor. Our mission is to help those who are ready to get out of addiction and into housing. We have several success stories. One is a young lady who spent over 10 years on the street with a 24-year meth addiction. She's been clean for several years now, living in her own apartment with her 5-year-old son and just graduated from PCC with a two-year degree.
 I've worked with the homeless for eight years, and though that does not make me an expert, it has given me a much better understanding about the homeless and their frame of mind. Helping this community change their lives is very rewarding, but that does not resolve what the rest of the community faces. They see the garbage, the used needles, and the human waste left behind. As a member of the community, we want to be part of finding solutions for these problems.
 We've been discussing these issues with the Portland Parks and Recreation, Lentz Neighborhood Association, Clackamas Service Center, and other homeless organizations. What we are currently doing, once a week we're open for lunch, clothing, and hygiene items, providing garbage bags to return trash back to our location, and working to set up a needle exchange program so they won't be left in parks for the children to find. What we would like to add is to have a dumpster on site,
 and in various locations. We'd like to be doing laundry service to recycle the clothing and to be reused. Provide daily bathroom facilities. How we get there? Being a homeless ministry brings in little income to our offering box. We're all volunteers with no paid positions. Relying on donations from people in our community is our only means of financial support. Now my reason for coming here today is to ask for assistance from the city.
 Arranging another meeting with city officials to work on the specific issues is my main goal. The problems associated with homeless may never get resolved 100%. The task this city faces is bigger than any one organization can handle. Many of the homeless in our church are ready to help. What our ministry is doing today may not even be noticeable. But with the combined efforts of other organizations working together, it's a step in the right direction.
 And I hope you will be open to further discussions. Thank you for this opportunity to share. Thank you. Thank you very much for coming. Thank you. This is terrific. Thank you for your partnership. And I'm sure Commissioner Saltzman's office would be willing to talk to you. Are you involved with any of the other religious communities, the communities of faith within the city? There's a couple other homeless organizations. Anawim.
 organizations out in Gresham we've talked with Kalina from the Portland parks there's a collect miss service center that we also are part of and
 talking with them about some of the issues and working on the garbage issues and things. I'd be happy to work with you also and convene a meeting with maybe the Palau Association, who I know have been doing a lot of work also, and with others to see how we could better coordinate what you're doing. Because it sounds like you're ready to do it. You just need resources to be able to do it. Yes. And there may be other partners within the faith community who...
 who might be able to help too, plus then looking at next year's budget as to how we can partner with nonprofit organizations within the community to provide services that cost us less than actually providing them ourselves.
 So thank you very much. If you'd like to stop by my office, which is in the far corner on the left, and set up a meeting, talk to Christine or my staff. Happy to do that. Thank you very much. I think you'll be hearing from other offices here as well. We just really appreciate you coming in, introducing yourself, letting us know what a resource that you and your church are for us. So thank you. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. 8.32. Thank you.
 Request of Pat Wagner to address council regarding affordable rental housing units above industrial workshops. Good morning. Welcome. Hi, my name is Pat Wagner. I live at 12941 Northwest Newberry in Linton. And there's been a great injustice done to Linton. A couple of weeks ago, Steve Kuntz released his rewrite of the industrial district's portion of the comprehensive plan.
 It does not allow housing above anything in what's considered prime industrial zones. It puts on a lock on basically Linton for 30 years. We are hoping that this came out a few weeks ago. The deadline for Comet is the 28th of August. And we hope that you will ask your schedulers to meet with us to discuss some ideas we have.
 Thank you. Yes, we will. Thank you for calling it to our attention, Pat. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, 833, please. Request of Lightning to address council regarding our professional apartment management companies, the solution for decreasing chronic homelessness. Good morning. Good morning. If I go over by a half a minute, I hope you'll allow me, but I'll ask up front. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X.
 One of the things I'd like to see city council possibly do is create a committee comprised of professional apartment management company experts. I'd like to have some strategies created by the professionals in the housing industry on allowing people into properties, on basically how to take care of the most vulnerable people in this city, the chronic homeless, and help them into housing.
 Again, I'd like to understand from the property management companies, do you need more incentives to possibly motivate you to do that? I understand there's going to be many additional services that are required. And again, certain subsidies or incentives from the city, I think, would be advantageous. Again, I just want a committee by the experts put together.
 and to look outside on the sidewalks and the doorways and say, what can we do to provide strategies or ideas? Because we are the experts. We've been in the business many years. We've dealt with many different tenants, and I'd like to hear their strategies to have a clear understanding what they possibly can do. Issue number two, Commissioner Dan Saltzman, I think it's time in your legacy – this will be your legacy, in my opinion –
 to create a general obligation bond that is going to be used for affordable housing throughout this city. I am asking, in my opinion, I think we should look at anywhere from $50 million to $100 million. As you know, and the mayor knows this, Mayor Ed Lee is somewhere around a $300 million bond right now pertaining to housing. I think now is the time, we've heard a lot of speakers, to look at that.
 And you definitely have the ability to do this and the knowledge to do this and at least maybe do a have a study by maybe DHM on this to see what the public thinks on this issue.
 The individual talking about the Wapato Jail, I'm absolutely in agreement with you on that. I proposed this many, many times. Again, we're not asking to have this set up as an institution. We're asking to have this set up as a Wapato Care Center for the homeless, similar to a shelter.
 There is no reason why we are in a state of emergency. Even if the governor has to authorize this, this cannot be done. So I question the statements that Commissioner Fritz has stated on this at this time.
 This has been a large blunder to Multnomah County throughout the city. It was paid $60 million to build this. It's a 160,000 square foot building, 18 acres. They can house approximately 300 to 500 people, and they're currently in the building.
 We need to have Portland Business Alliance, who I commend you on running your ads to benefit the homeless. I want you to look at Wapato Jail, which will be a Wapato Care Center. Get involved and get community support from the business owners.
 And let's get this opened up and let's get the homeless in there. Again, I'm asking the Portland Business Alliance to step in, to focus on Wapato, because this will be one of the best things that will ever happen to the city of Portland, to Multnomah County. And they will never sell that property for the value they want because it's a single use type property and nobody's going to pay that kind of money for this property. Okay.
 And just real fast, we can expand on this facility, too. We can build buildings alongside this facility on the industrial land, possibly large manufactured buildings that can be used as temporary shelters, and also bring in the manufacturers to work with people, provide employment, provide ways that they can also utilize the space to build their products, to build.
 lift the homeless up and provide housing and shelter. It's a transitioning center to get people into permanent housing with the developers, and this bond will benefit at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, let's move on to the consent calendar. I have a couple of requests to pull things to the regular calendar, I believe, 841 and 860. Okay.
 Any others? So then let's take a vote on the balance of the consent calendar, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Item 834, which I'm certain. 834, accept the Portland Utility Review Board 2015 Annual Report. Mr. Fish? Thank you, Mayor. Mayor, we have four items today that are interrelated.
 The first is the final annual report of the PIRB and our chance to thank you for the dedicated citizen volunteers who have served on the PIRB. Later, we will take up the first nine nominees for a new body, the PUB, the Portland Utility Board.
 We'll also be voting on proposed findings in a land use proceeding involving Mount Tabor and the reservoirs. And then we'll be another item before council will involve the Mount Tabor Reservoir adjustments and a report from procurement. So today we're heavy on our utilities.
 by acknowledging the folks who are in front of us, Catherine, Gordon, and John. Today we are receiving your final report from the Portland Utility Review Board. I think it's essential on a day like this that we pause and say thank you to each of you and to all the Portlanders who have served on the PIRB. Founded in 1994,
 Just between 2003 and 2015, 31 different people, citizens, served on this body. And when someone signs up to provide oversight of our public utilities, they're clearly not doing it for the glamour or the excitement. It's incredibly hard work. These bureaus and their budgets are complex, the issues are controversial, and the oversight work is painstaking. Yet a special group of Portlanders have always risen to the challenge.
 Today, again, as I mentioned, we have three members of the PIRB here to offer final thoughts on their service and impart any words of wisdom they may have to the new body. I would also, Mayor, like to acknowledge that as we have worked through the process of the Blue Ribbon Commission, a set of recommendations, establishing the pub, culminating today in presenting a slate of candidates for council consideration.
 The three individuals in front of us and the PIRB have been extremely helpful in shaping this idea. And we went upstream to ask for their guidance and their help. They weren't shy about offering thoughts about what had worked in the past and what didn't. And I think we have a better proposal now, a better oversight body because of the guidance that we've received. So thank you all for being here. And, Catherine, who should I acknowledge first?
 I'll start. Thank you, Commissioner. I did want to contest one of your points just slightly. Only one? There's a lot of glamour involved here. I have to fight off throngs of fans to get out to my bicycle every time I leave. So we call that a cry for help in this building? Yeah, okay. We appreciate your cup-half-full approach. Thank you.
 Well, I wanted to first thank you for finding nine new members for the pub that I think are at least the ones who I know sound like they're going to do an excellent job. The ones who I don't know, I've looked over their CVs, and they look like they're going to be a great fit as well. So kudos on finding what looks like it's going to be an excellent board that's going to come in and be ready to work hard.
 I wanted to talk about the three recommendations that we brought up in our annual report as things that we would like the pub to consider as it moves forward. The first one of those is...
 making sure that they continue their participation in the Administrative Review Committee hearings. That is a dispute resolution process for ratepayers, and it has been very helpful to have a member of the PIRB serve on that because the only other two members of the committee are city staff. So having civilian citizens serving on that board provides a relatable presence to –
 the plaintiffs for lack of a better word and also provides their assurance that there's an objective voice that is Examining the case for them is going to rule fairly. Um second is making sure that solid waste rates rate review does not get abandoned or orphaned. I know that the the
 plan up to this point has been to shift it to the to BPS and Planning and Sustainability Council and There's a lot on their plate there I just want to make certain that the members on that board know that there is quite a bit of time and effort that goes into verifying and and issuing a an informed opinion on Solid rate weight of solid waste rates. Excuse me. So
 And third, our recommendation had to do with the comp plan. John is our resident expert on that, and I'm going to hand off to him to let him speak on it. Oh, I thought they'd get to me a little later. Sorry, John.
 The fact of the matter is that I've called myself Mr. Stormwater like Don Bach is Mr. Trails, and I want to be Mr. Stormwater. And the problem that I see in our comprehensive plan situation and with stormwater generally in the city is issues of uncertainty about what we've actually got there on the ground and how it works.
 In terms of in southwest Portland, we have large numbers of private pipes that go across land. We treat it as part of our stormwater system, but we really don't have knowledge of what's there and how much more capacity it has.
 and how well it's going to work. And then the other thing is, and I want to assure the commissioners, if you saw my memo to staff, I didn't have to go to court this morning. Actually, it was a couple of days ago. Because I was going to have to appear at a hearing about a homeowners association in southeast Portland that a recent former member of your body lived in for a number of years, where you have a homeowners association that
 basically did not get up and running ever. And they have 28 acres of undeveloped land, most of which is drainage ways and stormwater detention facilities running into Johnson Creek.
 and that homeowners association is not maintaining any of that property. So with our stormwater situation, we have a lot of problems with free riders, and that's got to be addressed immediately.
 as soon as we can hopefully as part of the comprehensive plan process will begin to understand what we do with these significant pieces of land that are not being managed lastly I'd say when I leave I'm glad this is over because when I leave here I can go up to the 1900 building and apply for
 on behalf of my own homeowners association to start working on the conflict issue we have with stormwater. I have 20 to 40 feet of paved trail in my own homeowners association in southwest Portland that's sliding down into one of your drainage ways. And I've got to figure out how now, when it's been designated EC, we can fix it.
 And so conflicts, uncertainty, and free riders from the stormwater point of view are things we need to address soon, or we are not going to be able to continue to maintain the stormwater system. Thank you. Thank you. Well, I sort of feel like I want to pat all the new members of the pub on the head and say, y'all have a good time, because –
 Even though they may know the city, their learning curve for public utilities is going to be very steep. So here's some of my recommendations. That they really learn how we got to where we are. The decisions we made in the past...
 have enabled us to have a very, very good water system and a very, very good, not so good stormwater, but we're getting there, but sewer system. So those decisions in the past actually inform the decisions moving forward. The other, I have a few more, but I'll start with this one. Understand regulations and understand resilience.
 that if you don't put the decisions in the context of regulations and the need for seismic resilience in this city, then you're missing the context that really needs to happen for all decision-making. And what we've seen as members of PERB is that the professionals in BES and the Water Bureau think about this all the time. So don't think they're not thinking about it.
 The other thing I would say is understand the public utilities are different than PUC-regulated private utilities. They have different legal constraints. They have a different funding mechanism. They have a city council to respond to. And I think understanding that difference, what I saw sitting on the City Club report is that people never got that there was a real difference there.
 There is a profound legal difference. There's also a very different budget process within the city of Portland that they need to understand, I would say, in depth. What are the constraints on the budget process? What can you promise in the future? What can't you promise in the future? The other thing I would say is to this new group, don't try and re-engineer.
 Listen to the people who are the experts in the system, and then maybe help tweak them in some decisions. But what we've seen is the engineers really know this system, and they weigh and consider different options. And it may not be a decision that someone else likes, but that's a decision that allows them to go forward. Engineers always disagree. Thank you.
 It's in their nature, sort of, to disagree. Politely. They always disagree politely. Almost always. Only in public. No, you're right. They're not exactly knock-down drag-outs of engineers. Yes. Much more subtle. So I think that the pub members really need to honor that you have extraordinary experts in this town, in our public utilities, and they should be trusted. Right.
 rather than second-guessed all the time. And the final thing, and this is probably the most challenging, because PERB even set up our own website trying to really communicate, is communicate what you're doing, have an active website for the pub that really sort of allows people to get information, know when the meetings are, reach out to the public more than we were able to.
 Now, you're asking for volunteers to spend a phenomenal amount of time on this. So recognize that they will be very, very dedicated volunteers, I hope. One last thing. I want to second what Gordon said.
 two last things. I want to second what Gordon said about the people I know that were picked for the new organization. I'm two people especially. I've worked with them. I'm impressed with them. I think they're good choices. I was also really glad to see that there was a lot of environmental background in the whole group, and I felt that was incredibly important.
 I want to compliment you on your choice for the new Water Bureau Director. I've worked with that individual for several years. I was extremely pleased to see that that decision was made related in-house.
 and that the candidates were in-house candidates. You had three good candidates in front of you, in my opinion, different perspectives but really strong individuals, and I was impressed with the choice you made. Can I just, Mayor, just to respond to two points. One is we did a national search.
 And it was a source of great pride to me that after a national search with two citizen panels that screened the candidates and the finalists, that the recommendations that came to me for action were three folks who work at the Bureau. And I think that's one of the reasons that a national search is extremely valuable. If there's a great person out there, we hope to find them.
 But if it ends up being someone who already is in your backyard, that's a heck of an endorsement that matched up against a national pool. They've been selected by an independent group of citizens as being the highest, most qualified person for the job. And, Catherine, one of the things that Mike Sturr has been involved with for a long time is resilience planning. And so one of the things that I liked about his background is the depth of that work. In fact, he's been working with the distinguished director of POMB
 on resilience planning and we have a couple of items that will be coming to council in the next uh couple of months that go directly to this question of resilience and i think our friends who live on the east side of the well excuse me the west side of the willamette will be pleased that we're talking about putting some funds into resilience so that their water system is not disrupted if there is a if there is an earthquake so thank you for both of those comments
 Other questions for these great volunteers while we still have them in this capacity? Well, I just want to thank you for your service, John, Catherine, Gordon, and the other members of the PIRB. And we've always valued your methodical approach to how we set rates and providing us with comments and providing comments to the bureaus as they do that. So thank you very much.
 I too want to thank you very, very much for all of your work and your crisp and clear and impassioned presentations over the years. So thank you, Gordon. Thank you, Catherine. And to you, John, I can't resist saying, to paraphrase Kurt Vonnegut, God bless you, Mr. Stormwater.
 Thank you much. And let me thank you for the support that the Transportation Bureau has been showing and dealing with some of the stormwater things in Southwest, especially the Tryon-Stevens Creek neighborhood street plan that we're just rolling out now, and you'll probably hear me talk about in the next few months. That's a real great partnership that's really important for the city, and transportation is –
 in there carrying some of our stormwater load too so thank you i too want to mayor thank our friends for their service and i also want to thank you for the insights that you shared with the mayor and me about how to get this oversight system stronger
 And for a long time, you have made it clear that we have to have people who are willing to show up so that we have quorums and we have work. So one of the things that we tested when we screened the 50 applicants for the new pub was, are you willing to make, are you all in? Are you willing to make this commitment? Because particularly, as Catherine noted, in the first couple years with a very steep learning curve,
 People really have to make that commitment. Second, you made it very clear to us that there has to be independent, dedicated staff. And thanks to my council colleagues and through our budget process, there will be two independent people housed in the budget office who exclusively serve this body. You also have noted in the past that our budget advisory committees, the way they're constituted and the cycle and the complexity of the work is they're often playing catch-up.
 And also there's, as some others have noted, that there wasn't a great handoff once recommendations came forward and sort of an ability to monitor what those recommendations were in the final budget process. We think that by having a pub that serves as the year-round back budget advisory committee, we think that they will develop the kind of long-term expertise in doing budget reviews where you'll have that consistency both at the front end and the back end.
 And then finally, because you've been very clear about making sure the voice is heard, we have built into the code specific requirements about consultation. And we'll take that very seriously. We'll be having work sessions. People will be testifying at budget time. The mayor will be meeting with representatives as he makes his budget. There's many points of contact, so we'll be hearing on a regular basis. And if there's a disagreement along the way,
 that will be ventilated and the full council will be able to engage those issues where there's a disagreement.
 A lot of the innovations that are incorporated in the new approach came out of very thoughtful recommendations you've made all along. So thank you. And also thank you for something that you don't get enough credit for, which is at budget time and when we do our public forums, you're always there. And that's above and beyond your other assignments. But you're there to testify, to share your views, and we have benefited from it. So thank you all for your service. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Anyone else want to comment on this report before we take a motion to accept it? She may have left. Roberta Palmer signed up. I think she was signed up for communications. Okay, is there a motion to accept the report then, please? So moved. Second. Roll call. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz.
 It's almost impossible to truly thank our citizen volunteers enough. You've heard some of it today, but I have been particularly grateful over the course of my service on the council. Patty Howard on my staff has been attending Portland Utility Review Board meetings for the six years that I've been on the council and have been very impressed month after month with the robust discussions that have happened at the PIRB and the diligence of the citizen volunteers. It's said,
 We say often good citizens are the riches of a city, but indeed they are. And these folks who've been serving so long and so hard have set the stage for the next iteration of this oversight body and advisory committee to the council. And I'm very grateful. I. Thank you.
 commissioner fritz i think speaks for all of us so i'll just associate myself with her remarks and commissioner saltzman whispered in my ear that i neglected to respond to the recommendation that a member of the pub also serve on the administrative review committee that that committee similar to a committee at the bureau of development services is designed to address problems before they become big legal fights
 and it's been very successful, and it is our intention to request that a member of the pub serve on that administrative oversight body. So thank you, Dan, for raising that. And again, thanks to our friends for their service.
 Well, these three individuals have done great work, and so have the other 28 people who have volunteered over the last couple of years in this role. So we want to thank them all. And we've already been warned by John among them that we haven't heard the last from these folks even though this particular volunteer job is sunsetting other opportunities and issues beckon. And I'm looking forward to hearing from each of these folks in other capacities again. Aye. Okay.
 Do you want to move on to 835? Create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Southeast 86 Court and Steel Street Local Improvement District. Did you want 836 read also? Please. Okay.
 836, authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Southeast 86th Court and Steel Street Local Improvement District project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. No, thank you.
 Colleagues, as you recall, this LID came to Council on July 1st. This ordinance would form a local improvement district to improve Southeast 86th Court and Steel Street in the Lentz neighborhood adjacent to the old Foster School site and the new Native American Youth and Family Center site. And this project would eliminate 375 feet of unpaved street in Lentz, which is the neighborhood with the sixth highest total centerline males on unpaved street in the city. And to update us on what's going on, I'll turn it over to Andrew Abbey.
 Thank you, Commissioner Novick. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. Joining me today is Marty Maloney from our PBOT Right-of-Way section, and we also have Bob Haley from Transportation Development Review. Just to give you a little bit of an update on this, you have two ordinances before you today. One ordinance would actually form the LID, and then the other ordinance would provide PBOT with the ability to acquire the property rights necessary to build the project. Okay.
 Council approved the resolution of intent for this LID on July 1st with 83.6% petition support. We received no remonstrances against LID formation, so Council retained jurisdiction to form this LID if it chooses. No single-family homes are proposed to be assessed by this LID in recognition of future requirements for right-of-way dedication and construction of sidewalks should current or future owners of these properties voluntarily choose to redevelop their properties in the future.
 Council approval of this ordinance today will significantly improve connectivity, access, and emergency response in this area of large superblocks. It is often mentioned, albeit inaccurately, that the city has 60 miles of unpaved streets and has made no progress on improving these streets. Council has consistently supported LIDs over the years that have whittled away at this backlog. A year ago, we had not 60 miles of unpaved streets, but 56.5 miles of unpaved streets.
 As of last month, we were down to 55.7 miles of unpaved streets, which is a 1.4% reduction from the previous year without any broad-based funding source for LIDs. Council approval of this ordinance today will further reduce our backlog of unpaved streets.
 One of our primary areas of focus since the resolution of intent hearing on July 1st has been on outreach. Exhibit I of this ordinance documents concerns and questions expressed by the community about the Generations Project and the planned street improvements. After receiving the July 26th email which is included in Exhibit I, PBOT participated in a neighborhood meeting hosted by Portland Public Schools four days later on July 30th to which all the neighbors were invited.
 The meeting was very productive, and we look forward to continuing this discussion in October with another jointly attended meeting where we can further engage with the community on both the planned street improvements and the private property work as well.
 In response to some of the questions that we've received, I've included a couple of exhibits to this ordinance, some of which have been passed out to the neighbors in attendance, to help better communicate the plans for this area. Exhibit B shows planned typical sections and street widths so that people can get a better sense of how the streets, both existing and new, will operate.
 We will take copies of this exhibit to our October meeting. Exhibit C is a colored map that shows how school buses will access the project site. I'll just show that to you briefly here in a minute, and we will have copies of this map at our October meeting as well. And finally, we did get a fair question asked to us, which is answered in Exhibit I, that if school buses will use Southeast 86th Avenue to use the new Steel Street, how important is the new Steel Street connection between 85th and 86th Avenues?
 PBOT recognizes that both 85th and 86th Avenues are narrower than standard. However, PBOT recommends that this ordinance be approved as proposed, including the 85th to 86th connection on Steele, because this sets us up at some point in the future for extending Steele, which will be the widest street in the neighborhood west to 82nd. After months of challenging negotiations, we are poised to have this new right-of-way, including the new 85th and Steele intersection on hand,
 shortly after council adoption of the ordinances before you today. And then I also checked with fire and they submitted a memo in favor of the new steel connection included in exhibit I as attachment to the full significantly improved emergency response not just for the planned new development but also for the garden villas, apartment complex and for existing residents of 85th and 86th avenues should these streets be blocked in the event of an emergency response.
 If the LID and the pending Type 3 procedure going before the hearings officer were not to be approved, then the Foster School site could simply be reopened as existing use, potentially adding more vehicle traffic than what is planned with the Generation NEO project without the improved connectivity of the new steel street and without improving the existing unpaved street.
 And just in conclusion, the traffic study has been done with the new plan development and shows that with the new Steel Street connection and 86th Avenue improvements, that the transportation facilities in the area will be adequate to serve the new development. So I'm happy to answer any questions you might have before we turn it over to property owner testimony. I do have a map here if you want to just show it briefly on the display. There it is.
 Yes, we have that in our package, too. The pink circle on the left is the new 85th and Steele intersection. That will be a three-way intersection going to 85th North and Steele East. We'll set up the future Steele West. It will not have a driveway on the south to Garden Villas. The blue circle is where the school buses will enter on 86th Avenue to access the redeveloped school site. So they'll come southbound on 86th. They'll go east on Steele.
 And then the green circle shows how they will exit off of 86 onto the existing steel east of 86. So that was one question that the community had that I thought was a very fair question. And we put this map together to try to better explain how school buses would operate in the area. And we have checked with our traffic engineers that all the turning movements will work per the typical sections identified in Exhibit B. Great. Thank you. Other questions for staff? Thank you very much. And we'll see who signed up to speak, please.
 We have two people signed up. Please come on up. Our Suzanne Peluso and Matt Brown. Good morning. Morning.
 Go ahead. Go ahead, Susan. Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, thank you so much for taking my testimony again. I was here July 1st. And I'm here on behalf of the neighbors of 85th Avenue. And I want to start my testimony the same way I started it July 1st by saying we wholeheartedly support the Generations Project. We want to see this go through. We don't want to block the project. If ever that has been a perception, I want to do away with that right now.
 And I just want to make three quick points. I don't want to reiterate everything in the letter that we attached, but I do want to make the point that that letter represented our entire block's feelings and not just the feelings of one resident. The ordinance kind of emphasized Diana's feelings,
 submission of the letter. But I just want to make really clear this was a consensus. We had multiple meetings and agreed together on those points. So I think it can be a little easier to dismiss it if it's perceived as one neighbor's complaints. But those are the opinions of all on that block. And another point I want to make that we
 we hadn't made before and I don't think we made it in our letter. We're starting to get increasingly concerned about the reference in the planned LID to a connection to 82nd Avenue. That's not part of this project and...
 We have major concerns about that. I understand the city has a policy for connectivity. However, given the specifics of this neighborhood with the junction of 82nd Avenue and Foster, we believe that that connection needs to be carefully, carefully thought through and that that really shouldn't be folded into this ordinance anymore.
 The way the ordinance is written, it's a given. It's going to happen. At least that's the implication in the ordinance. And on this map, it says future extension to 82nd Avenue. So our concern is that while that isn't on the table right now, the language in this could be cited in two years. You know, we'd already gone down this path. We're going to open up to 82nd Avenue without the full public process for that. So the ask here is just that that be considered separately. Okay.
 This not be written in a way to imply that that is necessarily going to happen without the full public process and considerations about the impacts of that extension. And then the third point I want to make is that we really appreciate all the efforts that Andrew Abbey and Justin Dollard and Portland Public Schools has made to keep us in the loop. I feel like.
 Things have really improved in terms of neighbor engagement. When we talked on July 1st, there was a real concern that this project had been in the works for years, and many of the neighbors most directly impacted were just finding out about it this spring. Despite the reference in the ordinance to previous attempts at outreach,
 It didn't it wasn't successful back then it is it is much improved now There's still some issues with coordination of outreach for example the land use hearing that's coming up for the actual development and design or design of the of the Generations project it hasn't been Broadcast equally to the neighbors some of our neighbors found out only by reading a sign on a post by the development So just another push to please um
 have a coordinated effort to let us know what's happening. We felt a little bit like we're scrambling to understand the various multiple confusing pieces of this complicated project. So that's all I have to say. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Hi, good morning. Matt Brown, 3443 Northeast Cooch, Portland, Oregon. I'm here as a representative of Garden Villas, and I think Andrew described the 86% support for the project. We're the other part of this project, and I'm here happily to support the project today.
 I wanted to thank Andrew and the staff at PBOT as well as the folks from PPS and NIA for working with us over the last several months to come up with what we think is a fair apportionment of the costs on the project. My clients are prepared to dedicate the right of way necessary for the project at no cost.
 And in return, the project's being reassessed. And we think that's a fairly fair end result. The land value's in the area about $20 to $30, so this represents somewhere around $26,000 to $39,000 in value in terms of the right-of-way that's being dedicated.
 We also appreciate Andrew's willingness to work with our property manager on site on the design of the project, including replacing some of the lost parking there on the corner of the property. So we'll be able to work with him over the next several months on the design of that project. So again, I want to thank the staff. Thank you for the ordinance in front of you today. I'm prepared to deliver the dedication documents on the passage of the ordinance today.
 And thank you. Thanks for your help. Thank you questions Most blue so that thanks for your testimony just to clarify your property is not being assessed to help pay for the LED Is that right? Right? Thank you, but that doesn't mean that your concerns are right anything and that isn't at all my concern. Yeah Appreciate that clarification to thank you both anyone else wants to speak on this item And it's time to take a roll call vote, please. I
 835 saltzman well i'm very pleased to support this and glad to see that it's come to fruition and that everybody seems very happy with the outcome so i just want to say to the woman who did testify about whether 82nd or the punch through to 82nd as part of this i i really don't think it is even though it indicates it's on the map and i think that will be certainly a major decision that you the neighbors would should have some input into before we move ahead on that
 So this is a great day for an important project, NAYA Generations, which will provide housing for intergenerational families committed to raising and adopting foster kids. And we couldn't be happier to support this. Aye. Novick. Really appreciate our partners, NAYA and Portland Public Schools, and appreciate the work of the neighbors and of Andrew and his team. Thank you. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 Thank you again for everybody and for the continued negotiations. I think we've got to a good product here. And thanks to Mr. Brown for testifying on behalf of Garden Villars. I live in an area of southwest Portland that had many unpaved streets when I first moved there and still has a lot.
 So I do relate to the neighbors' concerns about increased traffic with the improvements. The fact is it does improve property values around in the neighborhood area. It may bring more traffic, but that also brings more eyes on the street and a greater measure of safety, in my experience, in Deep Southwest.
 So it's certainly, that change is difficult. And we as a city need to have connectivity. We need to have paved streets. In this instance, there's a large entity that's paying the majority of the bill. And so that in itself is a great thing to get the improvements made.
 we do need to be able to complete the system. I just checked through both of the matters before us. There's no reference to 82nd Avenue in either of the now be it resolved. So in government speak, that means it's not part of this ordinance, but there's no semblance of
 pre-approving other projects. It's only talking about this in the now be it resolved. And so I understand that concern also and in my mind if I'm going to be looking at that question in the future, it's a whole new question. It's not part of this. Thank you everybody for your work. I. First, I want to thank Commissioner Salzman for being the long-time champion of the project that we're talking about, which is the NEA housing in Lens. Second, for those of you who are new to the LID process,
 More often than not, the ending of an LID process at Andrew Shepard's lacks drama because Andrew is very skilled at working with affected community members to get to a resolution.
 In fact, I think Andrew has one of the tougher jobs and does it superbly. So thank you, Andrew, once again for your good work. Thanks to all the governmental agencies, particularly PBOT, that weighed in on this. And most importantly, thanks to the neighbors for coming and sharing your concerns. And we hope that we're getting this right. Bye. Thank you.
 Well, I appreciate the good work that's been done and the involvement of the neighborhood. Let me talk about a couple things here that I'm pleased with. One, we do need to really reach out and engage neighbors when we make change, whether it's land use change or transportation change, and we always want to do a better job. So your constructive criticism of how this process worked and didn't work is helpful, and it's helpful to staff that are already doing a good job and to us that are trying to supervise all this work. So thank you.
 Secondly, there are a couple things that we have to do that are difficult. We're not going to back into them by just oblique references and documents. As Commissioner Fritz noted, we're going to hopefully walk straight towards them. And one is the issue that in the annexed parts of the city in particular, southwest, Cully, much of East Portland, we don't have a very good street grid.
 Didn't have one from the beginning. What works in the long run for a neighborhood is multiple connections and the spreading out of traffic rather than the concentrating of it in a few streets. But it's hard to make those changes because people are used to the street grid that we have. And we have to do that in a thoughtful way and, again, engage the community as we do it. But we're going to be actually talking a lot about that issue over the next six months to a year because we're working on the comprehensive plan. And that's where we get to take that big look at the larger issues.
 Map of the city and say where can we do better than what we have now over time? Again with the engagement of the people that actually live there and have a lot to say and a lot at stake when we make The change so that's going to be an uneasy conversation because again change is difficult and we're used to the street System that we have even if it's not a very good grid, but we over time I believe need to make it a better grid and
 Secondly, I love the fact that we're starting to make a little bit of progress with those miles of unpaved streets. I'm very proud of the fact that this council finally this year in this budget funded the first increment of funding for the Out of the Mud program that will help support this kind of street construction in those 55 or thereabouts miles that remain, because we have a lot of work to do to have the blessings of...
 urban life actually be in front of everyone's home. So that's heartening to see the progress. And then finally, this project is going to be an anchor for the neighborhood and an anchor for the community and an anchor for the Native American community in this city. And I'm very excited about it. And I think it's going to be a good neighbor. I think we all know that. And I think it'll be a good day when it opens and is the heart of the neighborhood. So thank you all for good work, good conversation, more of both to come. Thank you.
 Okay, let's move on to our regular calendar. Sorry. Don't we have to vote on 836? Yes, we do have to vote on 836. That is the implementing ordinance. 836, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. And then I skipped a time certain item. Can you make a suggestion, Mayor? Yeah, you want to take that later? Because that's 11 o'clock time certain, can I suggest that we take 841 and 860 first?
 Okay, good idea. Let's do that. Yes, please. Start with the regular. Okay, let's do that. If we're ready to take 841, I think we are. Let's do that. 841, waive Title 33, Planning and Zoning to Allow Temporary Manufacturing and Production of an Indoor Track and Field Facility at 2400 Northwest Front Avenue from October 1, 2015 through February 29, 2016.
 I understand there are some questions about this item. I pulled it, Mayor, and basically because I can't bring myself to vote on consent to waive Title 33. So I'd just like you to explain, folk, to the community what we're doing and why.
 Okay, so this is a temporary waiver of relevant regulations that would normally make sense to be applied, without exception, in an industrial area in order to allow a temporary use to construct a track
 that will then be installed in the oregon convention center for the world indoor track and field championships we don't believe that this that this particular waiver creates any sort of precedent that would embolden any other property owner to try to get the code waived that would be my explanation i hope that's enough
 Any other? Yes, please. If I could just add, Mayor. Commissioner Fritz, this is Terminal 1, which the council has declared surplus. We're in the process of selling the property. We have a broker. All the relevant bureaus and agencies got together to discuss this request. It turns out there really are very few places where this track could be assembled.
 And because there's a structure that is suitable for that, um, the Bureau's position has been agnostic. Uh, we're not obviously in the track business, but agnostic as long as, um, there is adequate consideration and, and the code issues are worked out. So, um, this does not in any way interfere with the current marketing and sale of the property. And we have, uh,
 an abundance of current offers on the site. So our broker says that this can go on. In fact, our broker said that activating the site temporarily might actually make it more attractive to future buyers. But again, we're not in the track business, so this is an arm's-length transaction, which we're happy to accommodate the track folks. We appreciate working with the mayor's office on the code issues.
 Right. And my understanding further from my staff talking with each of your staff is that we're not waiving absolutely everything. They still have to comply with the relevant parts. It's just things like Greenway and others that because it's a temporary nature, that's why we're waiving it in this particular instance. Yes. Correct. Okay. So we've got that all on the record. Appreciate that. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 If not, it's an emergency ordinance. We'll take a roll call vote, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thank you very much. Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Thank you. Aye. Okay. Let's move to the other polled item, which was 860.
 860, authorize a contract with Marsh USA, Inc. for insurance brokerage services for Phase 5 of the Owner-Controlled Insurance Program for an amount not to exceed $625,000. Mr. Fish? Mr. Fish?
 Turn it over to our experts. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Mike Reiner, and I'm the Risk Services Manager with Bureau of Environmental Services. And I'm here to just give you a little background on what an owner-controlled insurance program is. Basically, it's an insurance technique for large construction projects or a grouping of large construction projects.
 where owners provide the majority of the insurance to contractors performing work on our construction sites. By assuming risk of our contractors and purchasing the insurance, the city can use the economies of scale to approach contractors
 The insurance marketplace, we can get rates that are lower, we got broader coverage, and we can get higher limits of insurance. So by the city purchasing the insurance, the contractors and subs are required to deduct all their insurance costs from their bids prior to starting work on our construction projects. Okay.
 To give you a little history, we're in our 19th year of owner-controlled insurance. We started in 1996 with Phase 1, which was the Consolidated Conduit Project out on Columbia Boulevard, followed by Phase 2, which was the Westside CSO Tunnel and other CIP projects.
 Phase 3 was the Eastside CSO tunnel and CIP projects. Phase 4 was BES's CIP projects and Portland Water Bureau's Pal Butte and Kelly Butte reservoirs. And Phase 5 will be BES's CIP projects as well as Portland Water Bureau's Washington Park reservoir. To give you a little history on the financial side of things,
 The insurance and claims costs have been about 2% of construction value. Conventional insurance runs anywhere between 2.5% and 4%. The loss ratio on the projects, which is a ratio of premium and claims, on Phase 4 was 12%. Oregon average is 52%.
 and our broker estimates to date that we've saved approximately $20 million in insurance costs, and we've received over $2 million in dividends from SAFE. Risk management and safety is the driver of this program. We have what we call our general construction safety provisions that are part of the specifications that outlines the requirements that contractors have to do to perform the work safely in our projects.
 Contractors are required to do risk assessments and put together site-specific safety and health plans that become part of the contractual document.
 And one thing that we're very proud of is that with our MWESB contractors, we were able to mentor and educate them on how to assess risk and how to put together site-specific safety and health plans. And the feedback that we've gotten from those firms is they use the tools that they've gained on our projects, they've used on other projects, which in turn has lowered their insurance rate, which is good, I think, for not only Portland business but Oregon business.
 and it's also improved the safety culture within our bureau. As a side note, Phase 3 was in the top 1% of safe policyholders in Oregon. Thank you.
 The other benefit of this is the public safety and claims management. We're able to do outreach with our public involvement folks, as well as doing pre-construction videos of citizens prior to starting work. We have the ability to resolve claims in the field, so if we have a contractor that damages
 third party or a citizen we're able to rectify that problem immediately which benefits the customer service pieces of the program and then we also have what we call a chargeback system to the contractor that if they damage property that there's a bid deduct or a deductible that we charge back to the contractor that they're responsible for the first
 $5,000, let's say, of loss. And in closing, just to give you other OSIPs that are going on in Oregon, is the TriMet Bridge Project is currently under an owner-controlled insurance program, as well as Nike and Intel expansion projects.
 So, Mayor, we have a lot of balls in the air today, and I just want to be clear. I pulled this item. Okay. And the reason I did was threefold. One is it's a contract in excess of a half million, and we are consistently trying to make sure those are on the regular agenda. Two, it's an emergency item, and for clear and obvious purposes, but I thought that also argued in favor of having it come on the regular agenda. And third is when I got my briefing on this,
 I was so impressed by the documented savings, the idea that through this approach we've saved over $20 million, which means that the ultimate cost to the taxpayer of these projects comes down. It's such a win that I wanted Mike to be able to share that with us, and that's why I pulled it. So thank you, Mike. Thank you. Questions? That's excellent news. Appreciate that, Mike. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, a roll call vote to authorize the contract. Solzman?
 This is a very good program, and thanks, PES, for using this. Aye. Novick? Very impressive. Aye. Fritz? I'm glad you pulled it to talk about it, Commissioner Fish. Aye. Fish? Aye. Aye.
 Thank you very much. Okay, we're still a few minutes ahead of the time certain, so we could go to the regular calendar unless you've got something else you want to suggest. My preference is to either move up to 11 o'clock time certain, Mayor, or to just take a five-minute break and then we'll tee everything up because we've got it sequenced. Let's take a break. I think that's the consensus. Let's do that and come back at 11. We're recessed until 11 a.m. Thank you. Ten minutes.
 Okay, we'll return to business here with item 837, please.
 Appeal of Portland Water Bureau and Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association against Historic Landmarks Commission's decision to approve with conditions a proposal to disconnect the Mount Tabor reservoirs from the public drinking water system at Mount Tabor Park located at 6325 Southeast Division Street, LU14218444HREN.
 Okay, we have before us the proposed findings. Unless there are any questions or comments, I think it's just appropriate that I get a motion, please, to adopt the findings. Second. Further discussion? Roll call on adopting the findings. Novick? Aye. Ritz? Aye.
 I'm just so happy the way this worked out. And it was very difficult along the way from pretty much everybody's perspective. And the neighborhood and the Bureau working together, staff in the Bureau of Development Services, Hilary Adam and Tim Herron.
 and Tom Carter, some of the major stars in the Board of Bureau. And thanks to Commissioner Fish for sticking with it, for being open to doing things a little differently, and coming to this great resolution. Congratulations. Aye. Saltzman? Good job. Happy day. Aye. Fish? Mayor and colleagues, I want to just take a moment to celebrate this day because it's literally decades in the making.
 And we are, in adopting findings, bringing closure on a longstanding dispute that started with a set of federal regulations and culminated with, for us, what I think is almost a historic agreement between the Water Bureau and the neighborhood and the community. And in adopting these findings, we must, as a group, keep faith with the commitments that we're making.
 And I think there's a couple reasons we're at this point. I think the first reason is that early on in my tenure as the new commissioner in charge, I realized that I could not do this alone. And Commissioner Fritz graciously agreed to be my partner. And that brought the two bureaus with the most skin in the game, Parks and Water, together. And Commissioner Fritz...
 throughout the process was making sure that we were being very attentive to community process, transparency, engagement. And frankly, she was pretty insistent that we go the extra mile in the negotiation. So I thank Amanda for her partnership on this. We always...
 prefer when we have land use proceedings or issues like this, we always prefer having something that the community has embraced and then ratified. That's a better outcome because that's organic. That's the community voice being heard rather than us picking a winner. And so I'm very appreciative of that relationship. I'm extremely grateful to Teresa Elliott and to David and Mike and the whole Water Bureau team. You know, they sat down with
 with a group of people from Mount Tabor and negotiate over a long period of time. And they went with an open mind, an open heart. And I think what they achieved was a real breakthrough in terms of our approach to this issue. I want to thank our CRAC legal team and our team from the Bureau of Development Services who make this work look easy. I think the public needs to know this is really hard work and complicated. And we spent a couple of minutes just –
 ratifying findings, but a lot of hard work goes into preparing those findings and taking care of all the legal niceties. And then I want to thank all the folks in Mount Tabor and elsewhere who care passionately about their reservoirs, who've weighed in and been part of this debate, and I thank my colleagues for ultimately us coming to a point where we can move forward with
 our obligations under federal law while honoring the wishes and desires of our community. I think this is an important day, and I'm very proud to vote aye. Hayles. Well, I just want to second my colleague's comments and
 Thank Director Schaaf and Director-Designate Sturer and the staff at the Water Bureau and at the Bureau of Developmental Services for doing good work, because it has been good work, and the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association for doing what neighborhood associations should do, which is stand up for the legitimate interests of their part of the city and negotiate.
 I guess my feeling about this, in addition to the good comments we've already heard, is I think at a time when politics seems awfully polarized and where compromise seems elusive, it's great to see that people can negotiate, get to a responsible compromise in a climate of goodwill, and then make sure that that compromise and those agreements actually happen. And I like living in a city where those things are possible. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Aye. Okay. Let's move on to our regular agenda, please. Item 861. Appoint Alan Warman, Gwen Johnson, Julia Person, Kendra Smith, Lee Moore, Meredith Connolly, Michael Harrison, Robert Martineau, and Janet Hawkins to the Portland Utility Board for terms to expire September 1, 2018. Aye.
 So this is an important turning point. We thanked the members of the PIRB this morning, and now we open a new chapter with this set of appointments. Commissioner Fish, do you have some comments, please? Thank you, Mayor. And I want to just say, if it looks like the utilities have taken over our agenda today, actually the truth is we have, and we won't do it again, but there's some real milestone actions that we're taking today. We'll make that promise.
 Mayor, I'm very pleased to join with you in bringing to council our proposed nine inaugural members of the City's newly created Portland Utility Board. The City Council previously directed the creation of the new board based on the recommendations of the Utility Oversight Blue Ribbon Commission chaired by Dwight Holton.
 This new body will report to the City Council and will provide independent oversight of the Portland Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services. Both the quality and the number of applicants that we receive for these positions speaks highly for the importance Portlanders place on this new board. Starting with the list of names recommended by the community and by members of the Blue Ribbon Commission,
 We used the Office of Neighborhood Involvement distribution list to advertise the positions, and I'm told once it went out through Neighborhood List Serves, as many as 40,000 people could have seen the solicitation. We ultimately received 50 applications, which is a very strong number in light of the history that we've had and the difficulties we've had in recruiting people to the predecessor body, the PIRB,
 We took those 50 candidates and Jackie Dingfelder from your office and Jim Blackwood in my office served as a screening team. And I want to take this moment, Mayor, to really thank and applaud Jackie for all of her hard work. And she chose to hell of a day to call in sick.
 because this is a day I think we could really thank her for the good work and, frankly, the great partnership that we have experienced with her. And I know she and her husband have announced they're moving abroad for a while, and she will be greatly missed in this building. She has provided yeoman service on many issues, including moving the mayor's environmental agenda.
 The proposed board members represent a variety of technical and management disciplines, including, I'm pleased to say, representatives of public and private utilities, engineering, environmental advocacy, planning, finance, environmental science, water system management, and even neighborhood activism. As stated in the ordinance that created the pub, the terms will be staggered once the body can meet and appointees can state their personal preferences.
 I intend to return to council with an item that documents the final proposal for staggered terms. The first meeting of this body is scheduled for September 1st. Again, we are really delighted with the quality of the applicant pool, and we're even more delighted that nine of the very best people who applied for this position have agreed to serve if appointed. Mayor, we've been working on this for a long time.
 and I know there were some in the community that doubted our commitment to this exercise, and I think today is just another important milestone in the process, and I hope
 my colleagues, and we'll join with others we've heard from the community who have been really impressed with the quality of the people that have offered to step up. We're excited to make this a meaningful oversight body and to get to work. Today, though, we have the nominees before council seeking approval. Thank you. Questions? Yes.
 I have a friendly amendment to suggest. The ordinance that we approved, whenever it was, back in May,
 required that the terms would be staggered when appointed. I certainly concur with Commissioner Fish's recommendation that we appoint members and that they then figure out who wants to do the different terms. But I would suggest that instead of all of the terms ending September 1st,
 2018. We make them all end June 30th of 2016. My understanding of talking with Commissioner Fisher's staff is that it's intending that they would run fiscal year to fiscal year, and that way we're sure that we can get back into compliance with the authorizing ordinance sooner rather than later. Mayor, I support this as a friendly amendment for a couple reasons. It gives us a year to sort out the staggered terms, and it also gives us a year
 to work with Office of Equity, ONI, and others on any proposals that are developed concerning term limits for boards and commissions. So we would accept that as a friendly amendment, or if we are so directed, we would be pleased to put it for a vote. CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. Okay. Well, I'll just assume that that's an amendment before us, and we can just take a quick roll call vote to amend the report to have September 1, 2018, changed to June 30, 2016? MS. Correct.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thank you, Commissioner. Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Anyone want to speak before we adopt this report? If not, then a motion please to accept the report as amended. So moved. Second. Roll call. Saltzman? Well, thank you both Mayor and Commissioner Fish in particular for leading the charge to create this new committee, the Public Utility Board, or Portland Utility Board. There you go. Excuse me.
 the pub and it looks like an impressive roster of initial members and i look forward to them providing us uh guidance and to the uh bureaus they also help oversee uh as well i think it's a great uh great new committee and i appreciate all your work in bringing this together aye some might argue that portland doesn't really need a new pub but in this case i hope that even the naysayers to new pubs would make an exception aye
 Having just returned from England, you cannot have too many pubs. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your thoughtfulness working with the mayor on this. I'm a little disappointed I have been out of the country for the last three weeks because I'm somewhat concerned that the demographics don't quite reflect the city as a whole and that we don't have as much of a voice for environmental advocates as I might have
 preferred to see with having the amendment to come back again within nine months and then looking at term limits, which as everybody will remember when we discussed the authorizing ordinance, I expressed concern about not having term limits on a body which is going to be so important. It seems to me that we're not appointing the Supreme Court to serve ad infinitum and it's
 politically and also Portland polite to object to reappointments as well as appointments. And so I think having term limits as the Office of Equity and Human Rights is looking to implement for all boards and commissions is something that will help correct.
 make sure that that doesn't happen. This is definitely a very impressive slate of folks who are willing to serve, and as was previously mentioned, they're going to be working enormously hard, both to get up to speed and then diligently attending the meetings, and I look forward to being part of that process. Also need to...
 express my great satisfaction. As Commissioner Fish noticed in an earlier item, there are two utility experts in the City Budget Office that have been supported and funded. When Commissioner Fish and I worked on setting up the City Budget Office, that had been a hope that we were – a plan at that time, and it's good that there's now the political support to do it. Hi. Fish? Thank you very much. You know, we haven't –
 uh invited all the candidates to be here today mayor but i think it would be i think important to take a moment and just reflect on a number of the people that have agreed to serve
 And let's start with Meredith Connelly. And there's a number of these people I don't know, which makes it even more exciting to me because I know them through the screening process. I know of them. I've reviewed their CVs. But there's some new faces. And I think it's very good and healthy for our processes to bring new citizens into the mix to give us different perspectives. Meredith Connelly,
 works at the Natural Resources Defense Council, the NRDC, which is one of the leading environmental advocacy groups in America. And I particularly like the fact, Commissioner Fritz, that she volunteers with the Portland Parks Tree Inventory Program. She's got her priorities right. Michael Harrison is someone we're familiar with from OHSU, which means he has a perspective as a customer. He has also previously served on a Bureau Advisory Committee, and he's lived in neighborhoods ranging from Cully, Tennessee,
 and Homestead to Lentz and elsewhere. Janet Hawkins is employed by the county, DCHS Community Services Corporation,
 She's the current chair of the Hayhurst neighborhood association. One of the things that stood out in terms of her application is as we move forward, Commissioner Novick, and we think about equity and discounts and how we can better serve older adults and struggling families, we thought having someone like Janet on the panel would be enormously helpful to track those issues of concern to the council.
 Gwen Johnson teaches at a place called Portland State University, and her background is environmental engineering, which we think is enormously helpful. And she has a Ph.D. in soil, water, and environmental services.
 She's also served on the governor's Resilient Oregon Steering Committee Water and Wastewater Task Group. So, again, she brings a particular focus on resilience that I know is important to this council. Rob Martineau fills the position that the council directed be created for a labor representative. He is boots on the ground, rank and file representative.
 and has done a great job serving in a representative capacity through AFSCME, as well as being a valued employee of the Water Bureau. And I'm told he attended all meetings of the Utility Oversight Blue Ribbon Commission. So probably shares that honor with a couple of people. Shows, I think, his dedication. Lee Moore Sr. is one of the biggest catches for a number of reasons. We know Lee because of his community service, because he grew up in Vanport,
 because he's been active on so many issues i had the honor of serving with him on the home forward board but he is the general manager of the clackamas river water which means we're going to have someone on our oversight body that leads a peer organization that has particular expertise around water issues and we'll learn from from him how we might be able to do our business better or differently
 Julia Person is the sustainability manager at the Craft Brew Alliance, and she's affiliated with the Widmer Brothers Brewing. She has a master's degree from PSU in urban and regional planning, and she has a perspective of large water users and of the growing number of breweries in our community that have chosen to locate here because they think the Bull Run water is the secret to their success.
 Kendra Smith is the director of the Model Watershed Program in Oregon for the Bonneville Environmental Foundation. She has an extensive academic background in environmental and ecosystems. She was a member of the Blue Ribbon Commission, so she brings that continuity. And she serves on the Metro Green Spaces Capital Grant Selection Committee and, again, the Portland Urban Forestry Commission, so she's deeply grounded in community service. Alan Worman...
 who rounds out this distinguished group, works for Portland General Electric, where he focuses on customer service. Mayor, that's one of the issues that you have noted that you would like us to continue to make progress on, and you've particularly challenged us to expand our monthly billing program and our e-billing program. And we're actually getting, inching towards 20,000 people who've rolled, and we'll continue to press that case. Alan serves on a number of nonprofit boards,
 He's currently president of the Rocky Butte Homeowners Association, and he's been active in Oregon Mentors and the Institute for Youth Success. I'm incredibly impressed and proud of this group, the breadth of their experience. They're from all quarters of our community. They bring, I think, an unusually high level of professional expertise, academic achievement, demonstrated community service.
 At a time when historically we've had difficulty recruiting people to serve on these kinds of bodies, and this in some ways is among the most demanding assignments that we will be asking of someone. To have 50 people step up and say they want to serve, and ultimately to have nine people of this quality agree to serve, I think,
 bodes well. I'm grateful to everyone who participated in the screening process and who helped us get to this point. Appreciate the partnership with Jackie Dingfelder and the mayor's office. And we're ready to get to work and begin the process of bringing them up to speed so they can be full partners, Mayor, in our next budget process. Thanks to Jim Blackwood in my office and everyone who helped on this. Aye.
 well thank you commissioner fish for actually giving us that summary view of each of these people as individuals and their qualifications because i am impressed with the group and want to thank them and all 50 people who applied and and yes jackie and jim and others who have helped get us to this point we depend so much on volunteers i think the five of us are always conscious of that because we we see these different citizen boards and commissions come through here with whether it's a land use case
 landmarks case, a design review case, a major planning effort. There's so many places where we really depend on citizens to step up, and we, once again, are going to be blessed by having these folks with their qualifications doing that volunteer job that really makes government work effectively here in Portland. So I appreciate it. Just do need to clarify, though, however, that given the earlier discussion about the acronym,
 That although we always try to take good care of our volunteers this particular pub will only be serving pints of cool clear Bullrun water just in case anyone had the wrong impression So we look forward to them enjoying that water and this volunteer role and helping us do a good job of managing our public utilities I Thank you, let's move on to 862 I
 Accept bid of James W. Fowler Company for the Tabor Reservoir adjustments for $3,399,421. Mr. Bish or Hero, go ahead, please. Procurement. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to James W. Fowler in the amount of $3,399,421. Okay.
 This is 40% below the engineer's estimate of $4.8 million. The city identified six divisions of work for potential minority women and emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. MWESB subcontracting participation on this project is at 32%, with work being performed in the areas of hauling and traffic control. At this point, I'll turn it over to Teresa Elliott or David Schaff if you have any questions about the project. Thank you.
 I'm David Schaff. I'm the director of the Portland Water Bureau. With me is Teresa Elliott. She is the project manager. And we really didn't have a presentation. We were just here to answer any questions you might have. As you know, this is the final step in that LT2 compliance project involving Mount Tabor. And this is a project that we did redesign working with the neighbors. And we're very pleased to move forward today.
 thank you any other questions for either bureau thank you all very much anyone want to speak on this item then we'll take a vote please to uh accept the bid uh a motion to adopt a report sorry second roll call salesman uh very pleased to adopt this report and uh move ahead i also just wanted to uh once once again thank david chef for uh seeing this through to the end and appreciate all your service to the city so thank you very much all right
 Thank you, David. Is this the last, last time you'll be here? I think so. I just look to make sure we don't have something coming up next week. I believe so.
 Well, thank you very much, and it must feel very good to have this as the implementing ordinance. Before you leave, it's been a long haul, and you've done a great job of leadership. I appreciate that. Thank you. I also saw the procurement services got an award while I was gone, and that's terrific, too. And 32% subcontracting is terrific, too, on a bid of this size. And great to see it coming in under estimate also. So maybe the tide has turned a little bit on the whole construction pricing thing. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
 MR. Yeah, I want to just acknowledge that it is wonderful it came in under bid. In this instance, we didn't have a lot of unknown variables to deal with. This becomes less of a science when we have geotechnical and other issues, and we'll have a chance this fall to talk about those issues in the context of other reservoirs.
 But in this case, we're grateful that bids came in well below. We're pleased with the very aggressive numbers on MWESB, and that we know is very intentional. And I just want to acknowledge that what this contract includes is disconnecting three reservoirs from the drinking water distribution system, constructing a new pipe from Conduit 3 to the drinking water transmission system to bypass the reservoirs, making pipe connections –
 between conduits three and four and between conduits two and four and providing corrosion protection for an existing 48-inch pipe, among other things. Mayor, today we've honored the folks that served us through the PIRB and thanked them for their service. We've authorized the first inaugural class of the pub. We have...
 brought, we've closed a chapter in what has been a longstanding and I think in fairness somewhat contentious land use appeal where we have found common ground thanks to the efforts of all. And now we are poised to move forward with on-the-ground work at Mount Tabor. I want to thank in particular the team at the Water Bureau for all their hard work in getting to this point, Tom Carter, Teresa Elliott, Mike Sturr, and David Schaaf. Aye.
 Christine, congratulations on your Bureau's national recognition. And David, nicely done, going out in a blaze of goodwill. Thank you. Well done. Aye. Thank you very much. Okay, let's move on to 8.53, 63. Okay.
 authorize a contract for purchase of streetlight poles and associated circuits for Portland General Electric for an amount not to exceed $1,600,000. Okay, Ms. Moody, Mr. Novick, Mr. Kuntz. Actually, Peter's going to start. Hello, my name is Peter Kuntz. I'm the division manager of signals and street lighting for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I'm here to represent the Bureau of Transportation in the purchase of
 The street light poles associated with the conversion to LED street lights were about a year into our program and finishing with, of course, some negotiated negotiations related to street light poles and purchasing them from the utility that was a requirement of the project.
 The purchase is 4,257 light poles and 154,745 feet of associated circuits. I checked that myself. And the cost is not to exceed $1.6 million. The project is well on its way. We have good news that we're well on target to be under budget and within the timescale originally decided back in 2012.
 great commissioner uh peter just to add one thing that should be emphasized i think is that we're buying these polls from pge which will relieve us of the cost of renting the polls for the purpose of having street lights on them which will pay for itself in the pretty quick time frame right that's correct it's a three and a half year payback so the rental uh that we have been paying is something that we have been always uh
 looking for an opportunity like this to purchase these poles and to have that opportunity to reduce the costs ongoing.
 And I just wanted to clarify the procurement authority on this is a special procurement through City Code 5.33220, and it allows the city to enter into a direct contract without competitive solicitation for price-regulated goods and services when the goods and services can only be provided by a specific regulatory authority, such as PGE. Thank you.
 So the action you have before you is to recommend the purchase of the streetlight poles for not to exceed an amount of $1.6 million. So this was negotiated, not bid, then? Correct. And, Mayor and colleagues, peculiarly, it was negotiated not just with PGE but with the PUC because they weigh in on pretty much everything that PGE does. So partly because of that, they were somewhat protracted negotiations. Yes.
 Could you just go over the timing of this? I know we decided to do it back in the previous mayoral administration, and then we had the revenue bonds approved, and then we approved some last year.
 It looks like we have a $1.3 million purchase, and now we've got this $1.6 million. Is this it? Could you just walk us step by step with what we've done? Happy to do that. The lighting efficiency program is essentially, it's, as I've mentioned before, it's a, we started that negotiation as a part of the project. We knew that we were going to have to purchase those poles back in 2012 when we made that decision. We presented that to council.
 So this gives us an opportunity. The negotiations have taken several years now and we're at the OPUC. They approved the sale that was between PGE and the city.
 The schedule is before you there. So that initial installation of an LED was really a year out from that decision from council. We did some renegotiation with both the LED provider. The prices of the streetlights were coming down kind of like a price of a flat-screen TV. You can see that the technology has been improved.
 been getting better all the time so that and the costs are cheaper. So we waited a little bit to make sure that the prices that we would have as a part of the overall project could be done within the schedule within the budget and the contractor we work with Christiansen Electric they are they have accelerated their schedule through improved business practices that we have implemented as a bureau.
 We're well on our way to completing by 2016. We're really very confident about that, and that was within the scope that was agreed to back in December 2012.
 Currently, we are using credit instead of doing a bond because the bond prices are still very low. So we're really very confident that at the end of the day, the overall project will be bonded and we'll have all the costs and we'll have a project that we can wrap up and put a bow on and start the payback process. The payback process for the overall project is eight years. So when we approved the bond in December of 2012, we didn't actually pay?
 take the money out at that point? We had great discussions with OMF. They advised us on just doing a line of credit while we were doing the project, line of credit lower than the bond, so we didn't have to pay interest on that immediate amount of money. I see. So we're thinking that it may come in at less than $18.5 million altogether? It's looking like that currently. And you're thinking you'll be planning to come back to us with multiple iterations of $1.something
 We are. The second to the last bullet there, we are converting 45,000 of our LED streetlights, including 300 for parks. That's all the cobra heads that you see in the neighborhoods. The ornamental streetlights are something, the historic streetlights that you see in many parks and along the downtown and in different districts. We do not have a program for that just yet. We're working on that currently, trying to come up with a cost estimate so that we can then –
 have even more savings as a part of that. Those costs for those lights are a little bit more expensive, so we're factoring in the payback right now. So that's our next step. We will be coming back to you for additional requests for funds, but we only want to come back if and only if we need more money. If we can make savings on this project, we see those $11,000 that we can do in-house, we will do those as quickly as possible. I really appreciate how prudent you're being with
 the public money. My last question is about the brightness of LEDs. I have the only lamppost in my neighborhood. I mentioned earlier that I live in deep southwest where we don't have any city services. My house is like Narnia. It's the lamppost under which people can meet. And I love it because my house is higher so that brighter light doesn't shine into our rooms. Is there something that we can do in more traditional streetscapes to stop the lights from shining into people's bedrooms and such? Sure.
 Yeah, so the picture for you is the example of that. Now, the good news about the light is that it's more of a moonlight than the previous light, which was the yellow glow. So there is a difference. It's essentially, and we've gotten good feedback, both negative and positive. We actually, as a part of this program, come up with an online program that essentially
 If you go to the Portland online, you can click on those streetlights, and we get that feedback directly from citizens. So that's been a really nice way in which to tell the contractor to do different wattages for the different lights. And so if you have a problem, you can call our hotline. It's 865-LAMP. That's 503-865-LAMP, and we get that feedback, or you can do it online. Okay.
 We just call 823-4000, which is an easier number to remember, and they'll direct it to you. So neighbors can request a different wattage, which would then be less bright in their homes. That's right. And the LEDs are brighter at the start than they burn in and then take a little bit of time, and they'll get dimmer over time. So that's something that we have. We do field those complaints and work with the community to make sure that we're aiming them in the correct way.
 Well, this is a terrific program. What about the streets that currently don't have streetlights? So with some of the savings that we were able to look down the road and try to carve out some savings so that when we do get requests, and we do get requests constantly. Previously, we did not have a way in which to fulfill those requests. So what we're doing is we're collecting those requests, and we're going to review them on a six-month basis.
 And then decide which ones meet the requirements based on equity lens. So trying to look at, from a community standpoint, what is the highest priority, where might the most pedestrian and bicycle traffic be, and then make investments in the community with additional streetlights where we can.
 Certainly we know there are gaps out there and we're revising our guidelines right now to try to figure out how do we change from our old standards from the 1980s to current day standards. That they're more pedestrian and bike friendly than your standard design of the streetlight system. So a lot of those date back from 30 and 45 years ago. So we are looking to make improvements where we can.
 This is, as clear as terrific program and I very much appreciate all of your answers. I have also appreciated your commitment to equity and looking at doing the most dangerous areas in the outer areas first rather than starting where there are more people who might be noticing and such. So that's been great. I'd be happy to work with you through the Office of Neighborhood Involvement to perhaps do outreach to some of the neighborhood associations in underserved areas they might not know that they can ask.
 So perhaps your staff and mine could work together on that. We'd be very happy to be working with you. Thank you. Great. Thank you very much. Other questions or comments for staff? Thank you all very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 If not, sorry. Mayor, just as a point of clarification, so after the council approval of the agreement, we will be transmitting this back to PGE, who will be submitting it to the Oregon Public Utility Commission for final regulatory approval of the utility asset. That's where ‑‑
 we were previously, we negotiated a price, we submitted it to the commission and staff had some questions which caused us to have to go back into renegotiations and which is why we're back before you again with a revised agreement. So we're relatively confident that we've
 address the commission's concerns, at least on the staff level, but we do have that one final hurdle. Hopefully you will not be seeing this again, but just to raise that for you, we do have that one additional process checkoff before we're done with this. So council approves this contract at this amount. If it's approved by the PUC, it doesn't come back. If somehow this goes off the rails, then you do have to come back. And hopefully we will not be back again. Okay. Appreciate that clarification.
 Okay. Motion, please, to adopt the report. So moved. Second? Second. Roll call. Saltzman? This is great work. Thank you. Novic? This is a very nice piece of a lovely larger project where we are converting our streetlights to LEDs, saving a big hunk of money, saving a bunch of energy, and therefore reducing our carbon footprint.
 and by making this purchase, we're also going to be, you know, this is going to pay for itself within three and a half years because we're no longer going to be renting the poles from PGE. And I have to tell you, colleagues, that these discussions with PGE and the PUC were somewhat arduous and at times frustrating, and it's very nice to see them come to a successful conclusion, and thanks to the city attorney's office for their help with that as well. Hi. Chris.
 Commissioner Novick, you're taking transparency to a whole new level in many ways. I mean, this is an excellent report. Thank you for responding to my staff's questions and having the explanations teed up so the public can see them. It's remarkable how much safer the streets are, too. I think that's the other benefit in addition to the cost savings and the energy savings. It's so much safer. You can see on both sides of the street. I appreciated you had that particular pair of photographs.
 So thank you very much for all the work you're doing. Bye. Nice work. Thank you. Bye.
 Yeah, I appreciate the point about safety. As of, unfortunately, when you're the police commissioner, you get this number in your head. As of today, we've had 19 Portlanders lose their lives to violence, homicidal violence, and 22 to automotive violence. And not every accident or crash, rather, can be prevented by engineering. But some of them can't.
 certainly if people have the opportunity to see a pedestrian or a bicycle rider or another vehicle in time then those crashes can be avoided so the safety piece of this really is important but the climate pieces as well so I'm really proud of this work Thank You Commissioner Novick and he bought for moving this forward and and thanks to the rest of the city partners here that have gotten us to this point with PGE it's good work thank you aye okay
 Okay, 864. Amend on-call contracts for architecture and engineering services to support the Portland Bureau of Transportation as required for capital projects to add $1,025,000 in total contract authority funded by the fiscal year 2015-16 adopted budget. Well, Commissioner Novick, why are we building more things?
 Well, we have more money than we expected. So because we have more money to do more stuff, then we need more architecture and engineering services. Is that right? That's correct. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor Hales and City Commissioners, Andrew Karlstrom, Employee Services Division Manager for PBOT. And with me today is Supervising Engineer Lola Gailey. If you have specific questions about the capital projects related to this contract ordinance –
 First, PBOT would like to emphasize that the Bureau is requesting amendments to on-call A&E contracts because of the significant one-time General Fund Resources Council dedicated to transportation projects in this fiscal year's budget. And on behalf of PBOT, thank you for the support.
 PBOT requires additional on-call services capacity through these emergency amendments because the Bureau has tight timelines. As many of these capital projects were not identified until late in the budget process, and PBOT does not possess either the specific expertise or capacity in-house.
 Council passed Ordinance 186.964 in January 2015, providing $1.825 million in total contract authority over nine on-call A&E service areas. The total proposed additional contract authority of $1.025 million in this ordinance is within five of the nine service areas. Geotechnical services, structural engineering, traffic engineering, traffic signal design, and street design.
 Portland's capital projects and engineering staff determined that this is the amount of additional capacity needed now to ensure an adequate supply of services. But please note that even with the passage of this ordinance, PBOT will require additional on-call capacity beyond the Bureau's immediate need. However, for this purpose, PBOT will have sufficient time to complete a new RFP process, and this work will commence within the next few weeks.
 PBOT capital project staff worked closely with prime contractors to ensure that should council authorize this additional capacity, receiving the additional work was contingent on demonstrating specific commitment to MWESB subcontractors. At this time, PBOT's estimate is 30% MWESB utilization for the additional capacity,
 And to date in dollars, this is $259,000 of 864 in identified specific task orders. And you might be interested to know that of the subcontracted work, 90% is going to subcontractors that are minority-owned or woman-owned businesses. So thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Questions? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Then a roll call vote, please.
 Thank you very much. Hi. Terrific to see another supervising engineer who's a woman here and having done many decades of great service for the city. So thank you, Lola, for being here and this great presentation. And also for briefing me and my staff ahead of time on it. I was particularly happy to hear that 90 percent of the MWESB are minority and women and 33 percent is also non-MWESB. So I think that's a great way to start off.
 significance and I appreciate your additional attention to that in these contracts. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. Thank you. Okay, 865. Amend contract with Central Parking System of Washington, Inc. to migrate the parking garage network system to ensure payment card industry compliance for a not to exceed contractual total of $1,448,320. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, as Carla just said, this is a step that's necessary to achieve payment card industry compliance standards. And I'll turn it over to our team to elaborate. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Michael Jacobs. I am the Division Manager for Off-Street Parking and Regulatory Services in the Bureau of Transportation. With me today is Christopher Pedron, Information Security Manager for BTS.
 The ordinance before you addresses PCI compliance requirements for the Smart Park garages. We are requesting Council's approval to modify the existing contract with the garage management company in order to meet PCI compliance requirements. The contract amendment would upgrade and migrate the parking garage network system from city equipment to a dedicated private network owned and operated by the contractor.
 This action will transfer the burden of PCI security compliance from the City to the contractor, and as Commissioner Novick indicated, this transfer of risk is essential for the City's PCI remediation initiative. This amendment would increase the contract dollar amount by approximately $148,000 to cover the upgrade and migration project to be paid for by parking garage revenues.
 Once the project is complete, the contractor will issue an attestation of compliance to the city so that we have documentation that their system is compliant. And then annually thereafter, they will provide us with an attestation of compliance. At this point, Christopher and I would be happy to answer any questions. Questions, if any. A necessary and important step. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Then it's also an emergency ordinance. Roll call, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 Thank you, Michael and Christopher. Aye. Ritz. Thank you for getting this done. I understand that we're going to be having further discussions on parking meters versus garages and the whole incentive program coming up later this year. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Good work. Thank you. Aye. Thank you all. We're recessed until 2 p.m. Mayor? I know.
 Yes, I'd prefer if we had a quorum for the last four items. What did I do? Ah! Turn the page. We're able to turn the page. Okay. It's a signal. You're impatient with the agenda. Yes, summertime. Sorry, we are not recessed until 2 p.m. We're going to take up item number 866 in proper order.
 866 authorized an agreement with Portland General Electric Company to provide alternate electrical service for the Southwest 86th Avenue Pump Station and upper tenancies with a lump sum payment of $658,858, project number E09051. Commissioner Fish.
 Thank you. Bill Ryan is here to fill us in on the details, but the gist of this is because of the constraints of the location of our Southwest 86th Avenue pump station, it's not feasible, Mayor and colleagues, to install a diesel-powered generator to provide backup power for the power station and thus this agreement for alternate electrical services from PGE. Bill? Thank you very much.
 Commissioner Fish. Good morning. Mayor Hales and commissioners. As Commissioner Fish, oh, I got the wrong one, sorry. I'm guessing, are you on 867? Oh, this is Skidmore, sorry. Oh, that's the third one. That's all right. Number 860. There we go. There you go. Okay. Thanks.
 what I was expecting. This is as Commissioner Fish said this is to provide alternate electrical power service which is as required by the Department of Environmental Quality
 In case of a storm or some other activity that causes a power outage, we need to be able to continue to operate the pump stations. That's typically done in one of two ways. One is to have an engine generator on site that takes over the power needs. Or on occasion, you are close enough to two different substations that you can actually bring power in from a separate substation.
 It is so rare that power actually goes out in more than one substation that the DEQ considers that to be a suitable alternate. The Southwest 86 pump station is a critical pump station in our system. It's one of our four large pump stations, and we need a fairly large service, in fact a 2,000-amp electrical service to serve the pump station.
 As Commissioner Fish mentioned, we are very constrained on the site. We're in a floodplain. Well, actually, we're staying out of the floodplain, but the floodplain surrounds us and is very close. We're also tucked into a residential neighborhood very tight. Preliminary estimates for installation of an actual engine generator were on the order of $2 to $2.5 million, and that's just for the installation of the facility.
 Since there is insufficient space and we do still need to provide power, the alternate power feed from PGE was the best solution. You can see on this overview the actual location of the power feeds. On the left-hand side of that red box is the existing Fano pump station, and on the right-hand side is the construction site. You can see where we are building the Southwest 86 pump station.
 The two power feeds, the existing power feed from the north is shown. It comes from the Denny Road substation, and the proposed power feed from the south will come from the Garden Home McKay substation. This is a picture of the existing engine generator at the Fano pump station, and you can see it's a rather large building. It's about the size of a conventional home.
 And we anticipate that the similar facility that would be required on site would be about twice that size. So as we said, PGE, we've been working with them to provide this alternate service, and they've given us two opportunities. One is that we can pay a monthly charge of over $4,000 in perpetuity, or we can pay a one-time lump sum payment.
 The payoff for that lump sum payment is about 13 years, and given the fact that we consider these facilities to be 20 to 25-year lifespan, it was clear that the choice was to go with the lump sum payment. So that's what our recommendation is, that we select the lump sum payment option and authorize the execution of the proposed agreement with PGE.
 to provide power. And I neglected to mention that I've got Dan Hebert here who is our design manager who's responsible for all three of the projects that I'll be talking about. So if you've got deep technical questions, we've got the answers.
 Well, this isn't a deep technical question, but it's just sort of a calculation of risk, which you mentioned. I mean, I realize this almost seems absurd today, but maybe lately, but if we had a really big ice storm and we lost a lot of transmission lines, the odds are still that we would have more than one of these substations would still be in action.
 That's the thought, and we're actually in a very good situation for redundancy here in that we will continue to maintain the generator station on the Fano pump station, so we will still have electrical generating capacity. We just wouldn't be able to run the maximum capacity of the pump stations, correct? No, that's correct. Thank you.
 If there were an area-wide outage, we'd still be able to operate the existing Fano pump station up to about a 24 cubic foot per second capacity, which in most cases is going to be sufficient. So that generator building is not going away? No, it's going to stay as part of the system and be maintained. All right. I appreciate that. I understand that. Other questions for the team? Thank you both very much. Is there anyone who wants to speak on this item? No.
 If not, it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call vote. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, 867. Thank you.
 Okay, and the next one's even, oh, I'm sorry, read it. Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the sewer level remote telemetry monitoring demolition and installation for $512,700, project number E10516. Okay.
 So Bill Ryan is joining us again. This ordinance would authorize a contract to remove old sewer monitoring equipment and install updated equipment at five different locations. This project will improve our ability to monitor levels and flow in the sewer system and will improve combined sewer overflow control. Bill? Great. This one's even more fun because I can rarely say these six words in order without screwing one of them up.
 This is about sewer level remote telemetry system modifications. There you go. Right that time. The sewer level monitors are actual monitors that we have to measure flows that
 the height of flows in our sewer system across the city. We've actually got approximately 100 of these monitors just out in the sewer system, plus a lot more in our pump stations and treatment plants. But these are just out monitoring levels in the pipes. So...
 We are required by the DEQ to manage our system in a manner that we can minimize overflows to the Willamette River and the Columbia Slough. And we do that through a series of pump stations and valves, gate valves and different mechanisms where we can actually transfer sewage flows from one location to another. In order to do that, we have to know the level of sewer in the pipes. Okay.
 and that's what these sewer level remote transmitters are all about. There are five of them that have been made unnecessary as a result of the work that we've done on the CSO system. If you recall, there were many outfalls that are no longer active outfalls at all, so we're taking out five SLRT or SLRTs as we call them,
 There are three of them that have been in place and are necessary to keep in place that need to be reconstructed, just to bring them up to modern standards, and two brand new ones we need to better manage our system. These range all across the city, from Buckman Community to Concordia to Multnomah and the Northwest Industrial District. So they're all across the city now.
 On the right-hand side of this picture, you see some of the older installations, the type that will more than likely be replaced. And on the left-hand side, you see the newer facilities, which we're trying to obtain facilities that graffiti can easily be removed from.
 If you approve of this contract, our expectation is that we will receive construction bids in September, about a month away, and actually be completed with the construction in June of 2016 for a cost of approximately $513,000. Thank you, Bill. Okay. Thank you.
 In looking at that list of neighborhoods, I'm assuming that it's not the outer neighborhoods because they've already got the newer equipment that doesn't need replacing yet? It's actually primarily based on the fact that our combined sewer system is really the core third of our city area. It was the first part of our sewer system that was constructed. Thank you. Other questions? Yes.
 Are there further, is this the first of many or once we've done these we're good? There's a regular cycle that we go through. A lot of these are aging out. Some of them are as old as 15 or 20 years old and need to be replaced. We also...
 are learning a lot about our system since we put the CSO system in place and are taking advantage of parts of our sewer that were actually constructed many years ago and were constructed larger than necessary. So we're finding opportunities for storage and redundancy through the use of these systems and find purposes for adding systems.
 These are the only ones that need doing right now? These are the only ones that need it now, yes. No other questions? Anyone else want to speak? Thank you very much. This moves to second reading and 868. 868, authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Skidmore Pump Station upgrade for an estimated $731,000, project number E10291.
 This ordinance would authorize a contract to remodel the Skidmore Pump Station. The city built the pump station in 1988, and because of growth in the area, we need to increase pump station capacity. Bill Ryan is here with us this morning to answer any people. Make a presentation. Bill, welcome to council. Thank you.
 This pump station is on the other end of the spectrum from the Southwest 86 pump station that I described earlier and the Fano pump station. If you add Fano and Southwest 86 together, their capacity is approximately 42 CFS? 47 CFS. 47 CFS. The Skidmore pump station is about a third of one CFS, so it is one of our smaller stations.
 As Commissioner Fish mentioned, it's about 28 years old, and we consider 20 to 25 years to be the life of these kinds of stations. So the pump station is due for remodel, and as Commissioner Fish said, it is also a bit under capacity. And that's a squishy issue because...
 The DEQ actually requires us to have capacity that is enough to handle a five-year storm, which is a large event. And it also requires us to have redundant pumps hanging in the pump station. So generally you have enough capacity in a pump station to do a lot more pumping than is coming to you. And we are just upgrading this in order to comply with regulations.
 The Skidmore Pump Station is located just south of the intersection of Sandy Boulevard and I-205. It's actually in the parking lot of the grotto. The project objectives are to provide a reliable pump station with sufficient capacity. We want to minimize the amount of unscheduled call-outs that we've had to the existing station.
 We want to minimize the impacts to the neighborhood and disruption to the activities at the grotto. Should you approve this, we expect to be advertising at the end of this month and should be complete with construction in March of 2017. The estimated construction cost is $731,000. Okay. Questions? Thank you very much. I don't think there's anyone here to speak on this item, so it will also pass to second reading. Okay.
 Thank you both very much. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you. We have a second reading item remaining, 869.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Iverness 30-inch force main repair, project number E10629, for an estimated $582,000. Second reading and a roll call, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. And now we're recessed. Thank you.
 Good afternoon everyone. Welcome to the afternoon session of the City Council. Would you please call the roll? Saltzman? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hales? Here. Okay, we have a single item on the council calendar this afternoon. Item 870. Would you read that please, Carla? Mm-hmm.
 Amend contract with Rosenbaum and Watson LLP in the amount of $458,000 per year for a five-year total not to exceed amount of $2,243,834 for the independent compliance officer and community liaison for the Department of Justice settlement agreement. Thank you.
 Okay, we have three people here to present this item to us Deanna West Mitchell Judy prosper and Kathleen Sadat, please come up together Oh, I should probably be over there because I have a Musical chairs Got the computers over here. Oh
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Whoever's going to kick this off. I will. I'll do Deanna. Thank you. I'm Deanna Wesson-Mitchell. I work in Mayor Charlie Hills' office, and I'm the project manager for the city for the...
 citywide portion, I guess, of the DOJ implementing the DOJ settlement agreement. Mostly that covers the city's responsibilities with the COCL, which is the Compliance Officer Community Liaison Team, and the COAB. So I kind of coordinate from the city's perspective and coordinate with the other council offices. Can we bring the volume up a little bit? Oh, I'm sorry.
 Back in January of this year, we were before council to get the contract approved with the compliance officer community liaison team. And that was done. We hired Rosenbaum Watson, LLP, out of Chicago. The team has had some changes over the last seven months, eight months. And that's part of what we're here to talk to you about today. Judy will talk about the different amendments to the compliance.
 to the contract so far. Oh, wait, that's the wrong one. Sorry. It should say a folder on COCL changes. Sorry. Judy from the city attorney's office will discuss different amendments to the contract so far, and then Kathleen Sadat, who is the new community liaison portion of the COCL team, will actually talk about the work that the COCL team is doing.
 I just wanted to start off because it was requested when we did the January budget and $725,000 annually was put into the 2015-16 budget for the COCL work. Of that, $240,000 was originally for the COCL contract, $380,000 was for the
 for administrative costs and we were asked, I believe it was Commissioner Fish who asked, what is that going to cover specifically? And we honestly did not know at that point. And we said that we would come back and more fully explain what the administrative costs of the COCL and COAB are. So that's what we'll – thank you. So that's what we're going to do today. And what do I do to make it show up up there? Stand by. Sorry. There we go. So this was all in the public council documents that went out.
 The administrative costs so far for the COCL, for the overall kind of administrative things, we've got
 General areas here, which include the translation services, which are needed at each meeting, audiovisual recordings, which are also needed. It is each COAB monthly meeting, and the public hearings are all aired on PCI. And then the video link is at the website also, so people can see it. The community policing survey, which was a requirement for the
 the settlement agreement. That cost is estimated about $72,500. It's increased from what the original cost was with Portland State. We switched to DHM. I can't remember what DHM stands for. We switched to DHM. The COAB did a lot of work in trying to find a
 different company who would do the survey on community policing services. Davis Hibbets firm? Yes. Thank you. All right.
 Which item are you talking about right now? I'm just going down the list. The external materials and services, they fall into the big buckets of translation services which are about $21,000 a year budgeted. I didn't see the DHM reference but you're just referring to them. Yes, sorry. The community policing survey which is required in the contract to be able to measure if the community believes that services have improved.
 The additional professional services which include office supplies, repair and maintenance, minor equipment for the office, and then the lease which was estimated at $18,000. Right now it is $6,000 for the space that they have in the Office of Equity and Human Rights, $6,000 a year.
 DOJ is requiring a locked office, and so we are looking at making either a build-out in that space or moving to a new office location that will provide a locked office for the COCL team. That just came up a little bit ago. And then internal materials and services are about $11,500. Again, those are kind of standard costs for the computers, Internet access, phones, et cetera.
 The position that is agreed to in the settlement agreement is the assistant program specialist, who that person is actually housed out of the Office of Equity and Human Rights now. So that budget has been moved to their annual budget out of the mayor's office, including benefits. That was about $90,000. So the total administrative, including that position, is about $240,000.
 The council budgeted originally $380,000 for administrative costs. We did not know what that cost would be. We didn't know if there would be any new challenges or new costs, expenses that came up. And so we asked for more money to start with. The thing that has had the greatest increase is the work that is expected from the COCL team. And that's...
 I think Judy will be ready to talk about kind of how the contract has changed over the last seven months, a few months, unless you guys have some questions about the administrative budget. Okay. Questions so far? So the $90,000 for the assistant program specialist in the Office of Equity and Human Rights? Yes. Okay.
 Was it positioned previously in the mayor's office? No, it did not exist. In the settlement agreement, we agreed to provide them with administrative support when talking with the Bureau of Human Resources. Them being? The COCL team, sorry. Okay. So the city agreed to provide the COCL team with administrative support person and through conversations with BHR as to what that person would need to do.
 including the community engagement, the job description that BHR said most fit was an assistant program specialist. And so the city created an assistant program specialist position, and then it was housed in the Office of Equity and Human Rights because we didn't want it to be housed in the mayor's office. So I don't know, maybe I'm jumping ahead here, but I guess what you described to me sounds sort of like a position of program manager that Amy Ruiz is doing. So how is that different? And there's...
 Kathleen will, or Ms. Sadat will be able to explain more detail about how the project manager is different from the assistant program specialist who also does the administrative work with their billing, contracts, invoices, along with community engagement and outreach work. And we approve that in the budget, the 90,000 position in OEHR.
 And so with the remaining from that originally $380,000 that was budgeted, the unknown costs yet are going to be if there's an office build-out or if we have to move them to a different space to get that locking door private office, which is required by DOJ. And the focus groups, which the COAB has identified, to really hear from houseless communities, youth communities,
 the LGBTQ communities who might not necessarily be reached in the DOJ required mailing survey to home addresses.
 So those focus groups, that's part of the increase in the COAB budget, which isn't really part of the contract conversation, but we are increasing the COAB budget through the admin funds. Part of it is advertising, which had been in the administrative budget already. The COAB will be in control of advertising for the COAB, which makes sense. And then they want to do focus groups for specific underrepresented parties.
 They're estimating approximately $5,000 for that. I don't, we don't know if, it's probably going to cost more. So that hasn't been completely fleshed out. And I say all that to say I will probably be back for a fall bump request regarding specifically the focus groups and specifically the office build out if that's needed.
 There could be some cost savings. The $75,000 that you all approved for travel back in January, so far they've only requested $23,000 this year to date. So there will be some savings in that $75,000 not-to-exceed amount. So that may be able to be used for the office build-out. I'm doing all I can to keep it under that $725,000 that was originally budgeted by council. The question is for Deanna before we move on.
 So, agreement we have with the Department of Justice focuses on issues the police have with people with mental health problems. Yes. So, I guess, connect the dots for me how that relates to focus groups with, say, the LGBT community or a numerous variety of groups that we can all sit here and come up with and say, well, we've got to do focus groups. How does that tie into the central crux of what we're trying to accomplish with the Department of Justice?
 That is an excellent question, and I think Ms. Sadat will be happy to answer that, because really that was a request that came from the COAB. Okay. Let's proceed. Do you want me to answer it now? Let's go ahead and proceed through your presentation, and then let's circle back and answer anything that hasn't been addressed. So, Ms. Prosper, are you next, or is Kathleen next? I believe I am.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. I am Judy Prosper, a Deputy City Attorney for the City of Portland. Together with Deanna, we were before you in January to get the original COCL contract approved. As Deanna mentioned, it was for $240,000 per year, plus $75,000 not to exceed amount for travel expenses. I'll walk you through. So since that time...
 There have been some amendments. The one before you is proposed amendment number four, so I'll walk you through to let you know what happened between then and now. Amendment number one was necessary. It was just a wording issue because the COCL team began on the 15th of January. We wanted to be able to pay them for half a month rather than a full month. So we had a just...
 A quick contract amendment to allow for that because there was a fixed amount for an entire month. So that first amendment took place, I think, two weeks afterwards in order to pay the first invoice. Can I just make a standing objection that...
 This is a wonderful chart, but for some of us it's not readable. And the font's getting awfully small in order to cram a lot of information. So in the future, if it was possible to print it out in a bigger font and do a handout while you have it on the screen, I would appreciate it. Will do. Yeah. Now I messed it up. Apologies for that. Not very thoughtful on our part.
 So that was the First Amendment. The Second and Third Amendments were necessary because we needed an additional DOJ-required expert on police practices that was not envisioned in the original contract. In the original contract, there was Jeff Alpert, and he was slated at $5,000, and we added Heather Daniel, who was a different person.
 police expert at $10,000. An additional $30,000 was included in the Second Amendment for the services of Amy Ruiz,
 through 360 strategies. And she was to serve then, it was thought, for about six months to transition between the former community liaison, Justice Paul de Munez, and Kathleen Sadat, who came on as of June 1st because of his resignation.
 Increase the contract by $40,000. That amendment was approved by the Chief Procurement Officer, Christine Moody, back around June 1st to accommodate the expert and Amy Ruiz. Today, we're before you for you to consider an additional amendment to the contract to move over from the administrative budget that Deanna just spoke of, the $380,000.
 The original number of $380,000. She just spoke to you about using a portion of that, and we would like an additional portion moved over for the costs in the fourth column. And I apologize again for the legibility of it. And those costs would increase by the following. Kathleen Sadat's subcontract amount would increase from the original to Paul DeMuniz from $75,000 to $120,000.
 Amy Ruiz's position would be an ongoing permanent project manager's position. So the amount that you see there is for a full year. Thomas Kristof, who is the research associate on the team, his salary would increase, as you see there. Jeff Alpert, the original expert, would be doing twice as much work. So going from $5,000 to $10,000. And Heather Daniel. I was trying to make it bigger.
 Heather Daniel, the expert added in the June amendment would go up to $20,000. So from $240,000, the contract increased in June to $280,000, and we are requesting today that you approve it up to $383,000.
 If you do math well, which I don't, you'll notice a discrepancy. That would bring you over $725,000. Indiana didn't speak of this, but there was a one-time transfer from the police bureau to this budget for the survey. And that's $22,490, which brings us under a $725,000 total COCL budget at $717,827. Questions? Okay.
 I have a question. I understand all of those are for increased scope, except for Tom Kristof. His involvement was part of the original bid by Rosenbaum and Watson. Thank you. No problem. Past midnight on the time that I was on yesterday. But this, so I don't understand what's changed in the work that he's doing compared with what he was expected to do. Thanks for that question.
 I will tell you that I am not a data specialist and I'm not intricately involved in the actual day-to-day work that Tom Kristof does, but I will sort of read for you a summary of the changes in the job description that the COCL team, Rosenbaum and Watson, provided to us to justify this change.
 Mr. Tom Kristof is an integral part of the COCL team who must be retained in the second year of the compliance assessment. In the fall of 2015, Mr. Kristof will complete his Ph.D. in Criminology, Law and Justice, at which point his market value will increase significantly. In year two, the COCL team will move him into a leadership position as the manager of all fieldwork and survey work. He will plan field interviews and oversee new and ongoing surveys.
 He will also oversee the PPB auditing process. As a member of the COCL team, during the first year, Mr. Kristof evaluated the policies and practices of the Portland Police Bureau and documented efforts to comply with the settlement agreement. He has become very knowledgeable regarding PPB's record system, auditing procedures, employee information system, and ECIT-related services and has developed good working relationships with people in Portland.
 Beyond the scope of his original assignment, Mr. Kristof designed a new auditing system for the PPB to use in reviewing force cases and has been actively involved in assisting the data systems, use of force, and compliance subcommittees of the COAB.
 His salary is being adjusted to reflect his new doctoral level education and his new responsibilities as the manager of field work and surveys and his oversight of the auditing and records keeping systems at PPB. Ms. Westmitchell, can you remind me, was it envisioned that he would be staying on after he finished his doctorate? I think there was hope that he would.
 I mean, he was part of the team. I know he was part of the team. And so that's why I'm just struggling a little bit with this particular piece. Well, the data collection work that he leads, right, is ongoing, right?
 Right. Somebody has to do it, if not him, someone else. I had thought that it was envisioned that he would continue working, and so therefore I'm not... We knew he was going to be finishing his PhD, so I'm not quite sure why that piece gets changed. If I may, I think the PhD piece is probably secondary to the expanded scope of his assignment that they define here, designing the new auditing system and...
 continuing to be actively involved in assisting the data systems use of force and compliance subcommittee. My understanding is that it sort of would be akin to a promotion. His job responsibilities are enhanced, and his duties have more responsibility. Thank you. And I'd be interested to hear when Ms. Sadat gets her turn to see how you envision him working with your team.
 So can I just make sure I understand where we are so far? Because the amendment sheet that you've shown us, in proposed Amendment 4, the contracted services go up, but you stay with under the $725,000 budget because of the other things you've described to us. So I think I understand that, but then how does that relate to the ordinance seeking –
 Where's the $458,000 that's referred to in the ordinance? Is that above and beyond what we're talking about? No, that includes the $75,000 annual for travel. So the actual contract work will be $383,000, and then there's $75,000 in travel that was approved. So as I read the amendments, are we –
 are we still operating within the framework of a ceiling of $725,000? Yes. Yeah, that's why we're at 717 out of 725. So what you're really walking us through is kind of changing some of the subcomponents, but not –
 Not increasing the total amount? Yes. Mostly it's changing the contract. We need to come before you to amend the contract. Amend the contract. I think if you just read the ordinance and the introductory paragraph separate from the chart, you might assume that this is new money rather than what I guess you've explained to us is you're proposing to change how the money is allocated, but we're still operating within the...
 a $725,000 budget, general fund budget. Yes, I probably should have. We're not asking to change the budget yet. Yes, not asking a change in the budget yet. And I should have moved that up. Thank you for that also. That was the final paragraph of the ordinance and should have moved it up to the top part that it wasn't asking for additional budget money this year.
 It is still within the $725,000, and I'm going to work to try and keep it there with the office build-out and the focus groups. So what, since you've given us a preview that we may see you in that chair again at the fall bump, what is the likelihood that you'll come before us? What categories might you be seeking funding, and can you put kind of a guesstimate on that?
 The broad estimate for an office build out including furniture is about $35,000. Depending upon how much is still left in the travel budget for the year at the end, that may be covered in the travel budget and then the $8,000 kind of left wiggle room under the admin budget.
 And the other option issue will be the focus groups. I don't know how much that's going to actually cost. It was kind of a rough estimate that was given from the COAB. We haven't gotten a full estimate on how much focus groups may cost. Maybe oversimplify that a little bit. We're talking about tens of thousands of dollars, not hundreds of thousands. Yes. You're looking at potentially a 5% increase or something like that. So now at least I have the conceptual framework. Okay. Yeah.
 That's helpful. I appreciate that question, Commissioner Fish. So, Judy, are you finished with what you wanted to cover? I am, sir. Thank you. So, Ms. Sinat, welcome. Thank you. And good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. Thank you for allowing me to be here today. I started this position as community liaison for the COCO in June. I have been very busy ever since. I want to tell you a little bit about the work we're doing, the community liaison.
 oversight advisory board. I'm responsible for chairing that board. I want to first start by talking about a perception we have about the work that we're doing. I hear again and again that we are rebuilding trust between the police and communities. I would say that I want you to consider the possibility that for some communities, we're not rebuilding trust. The trust never was there. We're starting on the ground.
 And that does have an impact on how we approach the work, how we talk to people, listening to people, making sure that voices are heard. If we really want to repair or to establish trust with some communities, we have to work really hard at that. I think it's also important that we continuously and repeatedly remind ourselves how big a job this is, how important it is.
 And its importance in the fact that we are being focused on makes it very, very important for us to do things well. Doing things well with a board of 20 people takes a lot of time. We're being looked at as a potential model for other cities in our country, and we should be very proud of that.
 At the same time, it means we need to shine, we need to hold this up. And I think I've said this here before, we need to hold this up as important, recognize it as important, that it needs to be in the light. This big job started with the recruitment and selection of volunteers to form the COAB. 20 members, 15 volunteers, people who come and work 10, 15, 20 hours a week together.
 instead of the 10 a month that they thought they were coming to work for. And that has to do with the nature of the work, the complexity of it, and the fact that many of these people came on to this group not being informed about the magnitude of the task or the context in which they would be working. Members of the board have various varying levels of experience working on a public board.
 Some are subject matter experts in the area they've chosen, the subcommittee they've chosen to be on. Others are responsible for bringing the voices of the communities into the room so they can be translated into language that allows us to make recommendations to the COCL, to the police bureau, to the city, to the Department of Justice. All appear to be committed to success, but we encounter lots of frustrations.
 There's been ongoing work to provide our board with the information and tools they need to carry out their charge. In addition to informing them of public meeting law, their role as public officials, and orienting them to the work. A lot of what we've had to do is create structures that didn't exist before. Structures for communication, structures for process. We are, as Amy says all the time, we are building the plane as we fly it.
 It wasn't there before. So we didn't walk into an environment where there was a city bureau that we plugged into and all the policies were already there. And all the connections were already there. We're forming the connections, we're forming the relationships, we're building the structures that allow us to be clear in our communication. We get complaints about people not knowing things all the time. That means we do more work. Our job is to help
 the local COCL is what I call us, that's Amy and Mandy and myself, is to help the COAB do its job. We provide administrative support and the four subcommittees, there are now four, and the executive committee. That means minutes, getting them out, getting them posted, etc.,
 Website maintenance, facilitation of relationship building, information gathering, organizing, planning to ensure tasks are completed to meet timelines, coordination with DOJ, the city, the Portland Police Bureau, AMA Coalition, Chicago COCO, other stakeholders, and we respond to the public's inquiries and requests for information. That's a Monday. The work is...
 satisfying on some level because it does, we do have the opportunity to build the structures that allow people in this community to voice their concerns, their opinions, and their recommendations. So it's not just a series of events where people are complaining. They're also trying to solve some problems. And we know that we have to do this working with the police bureau.
 We have advisors on our committee. They are non-voting, and we've had to work to get them to speak up in the context of our meetings. We have a lot of tension that we're working to overcome between people because they don't trust each other. I mean, I could make a list of everybody involved, and there'd be, you know, 80% don't trust the other 80% or 20%. The potential for the impact of this is what attracted me, the wonderfulness of it.
 of having people feel that they have the power to shape their government and to shape the behavior of the people who police them is just incredibly invaluable. On the question of the subgroups mentioned for focus groups if you look at the mental health issue and you look at the people who populate that community you will find within it every one of the groups we named
 And as we're advising on the development of policy and or training, it is important to keep that in mind. So being mentally ill doesn't mean that you will be one or the other. You could be both. You could be three. You could be anything in those categories. And it's the belief, thought, and understanding.
 direction that we're taking that says our police officers in policing us need to be aware of that and be prepared to respond to the differences that arise out of those different categories. So how many subgroups are there? I don't know. We probably could think up some more. But right now we're looking at people who don't have houses because we can't mail them a survey.
 We're looking at members of, probably young members of the gay, lesbian, GLBT community who may be on the streets, who may be gathering at Q Center. We're looking at members of racial and ethnic groups to make sure, since a lot of what happens in terms of complaints about treatment come from the African American and Latino communities, we want to make sure that that voice is there.
 You got another one you want to add? Not off the top of my head, but I guess my concern remains, I guess, and I'll wait until you're done, and then I'll say it. Well, I would like to hear your concern. Well, I'm just afraid it becomes focus groups run amok, and that this budget begins, in fact, to look like a plane being built as it's flying with respect to its budget. Now, I have a lot of respect for you, Ms. Haddad, and I have a lot of respect for Ms. Ruiz, but, you know, I just feel that,
 You're working with a group that's a very important group, and we're obviously got a very important agreement with the Department of Justice we have to live up to. So who would you— My interest in being the role model, you know, I'm not interested in being the role model if it means just trying to satisfy every conceivable angle under the sun that relates to the crux of the agreement. The crux of the agreement is— How do the police better interact with people with mental health issues? Yeah, I could—you know, you could probably make an argument that police respond to somebody—
 who's a gay or lesbian or bisexual differently with a mental health crisis than somebody who is a nothing minority. But, you know, I'm not really sure about that. I'm just sort of saying there's probably an argument that could be put forward. And, you know, hey, if we've got the focus group budget, why not? What harm does it possibly do? Well, I guess let's hear from her some more about this. My sense about this, Commissioner, is that, one, that's a relatively minor part of our cost structure. And, two, focus.
 I guess looking at this work on behalf of the police bureau as commissioner in charge There are multiple doors into the problem it's I think it's good that we try to open each one of those and a Relatively modest expense in reaching out to those different communities by means other than committee meetings committee meetings have their value To me is worthwhile to your point is well made about cost drift
 in this or any other public involvement enterprise. I believe you're correct to highlight that, but to me, a modest investment in...
 careful outreach to different groups because, you know, we're, to put it a little poetically, we're sort of groping our way into this problem with professional help. I mean, we've got Dr. Rosenbaum and Dr. Watson and we've got Ms. Sadat and we've got other resource people that understand this work, but this is the first such venture that I've ever been involved in and that the city's ever been involved in. And so a little extra information from communities that we haven't served well
 to me is worth having. So, again, from sort of a macro view, that's my approach to it. Does the cost matter? Yes. I'm not going to argue about cost because you guys get to decide that. I'm going to say there is a piece of this that I hope we don't ignore. If an officer approaches a person that they think they have a mental health problem, it is important that...
 for us to notice that those people don't all look, behave, or respond alike, and that some of the behaviors, some of the responses are tied to ethnic background, age, etc. If we hear from these groups as part of the focus group process, maybe we learn something. Maybe we learn we don't really have much of a problem over here, or we've got a bigger problem than we thought over here.
 So those are my thoughts. I guess the other thing that you might reflect on a bit, Deanna, is so we're doing this work with the COAB and the COCL. It also feeds back into training, right? What we learn in the COCL-COAB process feeds back into training, and we're doing enhanced crisis intervention training for our officers. In fact, I think we've gotten the first of those reports about how that training is working out in the field.
 well, this is how it's working out in my opinion, 600 incidents 49 arrests one use of force and that use of force was an officer pointing their gun and directing someone to do something which they then did that seems to me positive in terms of
 the statistics, but what we learn in this process has to feed into training because that's one of the things that the agreement requires. So to me, again, that's part of why I got enthusiastic about here. We're learning some things. We're changing our training. Starting to see some of the positive effects of that different training in everyday life in terms of how our officers are interacting with people, that's not a one-time-around-the-merry-go-round experience.
 So I don't know who's going to explain the difference between the Assistant Program Director at the Office of Equity and Ms. Ruiz's position. Well, I can start on that, and then maybe if I need some help, one of them can help me. Looking at Amy as a program or project manager, does the planning, connects people, helps with meetings, etc.
 There's a whole list of, I'm not sure what's in here, but a whole list of things that Amy does, and they often look like this. We have a draft of the plan for, she'll be overseeing the implementation of the planning process between the COAB and the Portland Police Department on the development of the plan for the police department to engage in community engagement.
 That is one very, very large piece that needs a lot of attention and will take a lot of work to get done. If I talk about Mandy, Mandy is connecting with people, helping to connect people, but she's doing a lot of the administrative part, the part of posting on the web, the part of listening to people. The part of meeting with people I think will come very shortly, but she's only been there like a month.
 little over a month. And she's trying to learn all the systems that we have and the ones that we need. She's arranging the meetings. She's arranging for the setup and all the stuff that goes with setting up a public meeting and breaking it down. I think she's probably averaging some weeks well over her 40 hours just because there is so much. Minutes, minutes in, minutes out.
 So, Mr. Ruiz, and I'm not picking on you even though you're here in the audience, but you went from how did it happen that she goes, I guess this is a proper procurement, to be hired initially on a $10,000 contract, and we're being asked today or next week to approve going to a $60,000 full-time subcontract. Again, it's a contract. So, I mean, we're all pretty familiar.
 our ears perk when we hear contract amendments on any of our bureaus. And this sounds like a person that's becoming paid in perpetuity through a contract amendment. Was that cleared with the, was that signed off on by our procurement officer? No.
 She's actually a subcontractor of Rosenbaum and Watson. She assisted with, starting in December, we were working out with DOJ the schedule for getting the co-abs seated. And we were given a very tight timeline, which we didn't have city employees who could cover all of the outreach and work needed for that.
 So the city hired her as a short-term to assist with getting the co-abs seated. That was a large community. The difficult positions were the community-appointed positions, which had a large community selection committee, lots of meetings, lots of outreach, which Amy was hired to coordinate that portion of it. When the...
 COCL was actually hired, the COCL team was hired January. We still didn't have our admin position that the settlement agreement required the city to have, which became Mandy Hood's position. So Amy was filling in. She did a little extra work at the beginning of the year in getting the COAB going.
 And then later on, the COCL team decided that they wanted her to assist. They didn't realize how extensive the work was going to be to support the COAB. And they decided that they needed additional help keeping her.
 to support the COAB through training and meetings and building the processes and the structures that they needed. And they selected to have Amy Ruiz as their subcontractor to do that work.
 Rosenbaum and Watson. Rosenbaum and Watson did, yes. She is subcontracting to Rosenbaum and Watson? Yes. The only city, Mandy Hood is a full-time city employee. That's the only city employee that is directly tied with the COCL team. Brad Taylor, who is the city's mental health specialist, as part of his regular job,
 He does support different community neighborhood associations, community outreach, community boards, and he does support with assistance mental health or other
 accommodation assistance with the board. But that's not specific to the COAB. That is part of what he does for the city. So he's not even a part of this budget. So the increase from $10,000 to $60,000 from Ms. Ruiz comes out of the pie that was allocated to Rosenbaum and Watson.
 As you're saying before us, there's no new money today. So this is money that was budgeted for some other function in Rosenbaum and Watson, and they're saying, no, this is a priority for us that we're willing to pay her $60,000 a year? No, sir. We are asking for an increase to the COPL contract, which started at $240,000, and the request before you is for an increase to $383,000.
 The $10,000 that Deanna spoke of, which compensated Ms. Ruiz early on, was paid by the city to her. Rosenbaum and Watson decided to keep her on as a subcontractor. So that's part of the increase in the contract budget to accommodate that additional subcontractor. I'm not sure if that clears it up. How long is our contract in effect with Rosenbaum and Watson? Five years. Five years.
 Five years, okay. So when you earlier described Ms. Ruiz's position as being full-time ongoing, it's only full-time, well, I mean, it's full-time ongoing perhaps as long as contract with Rosenbaum and Watson. It's not a full-time. I'm sorry, not full-time, but it's a subcontract with Rosenbaum and Watson as long as Rosenbaum and Watson is employed by. That's the understanding. I would like to inject here. None of us are full-time. We're more than full-time.
 We're doing more than eight hours work a day and that includes Amy and that includes Mandy. We are communicating at 9 and 10 and 11 o'clock at night in order to make sure things are ready for the next day. While, you know, I know that you hear all the time we need more money, we need more staff. I know that's what part of your job is to figure out whether that's true or not. I will tell you we could use two more people right now.
 just to get on top of what was not done in the beginning, to put this board in place and to have it be secure in its ability to do the work and to have it trained and focused on being able to work together to bring forth the recommendations that we need. We're getting there. We're getting there. But at this point, the work is overwhelming. So...
 I'm not sure how we would do without anybody that we have right now. Thank you. Other questions? I just wanted to add just a clarification on the increase for Tom Kristof. I think his role was seen more as collecting data initially, and as the COCL team has been working with the police bureau and the audit process and developing auditing processes for the police bureau, he's –
 Tom's role is doing more guidance and kind of consulting with the police bureau as they develop their auditing system to meet the standards in the settlement agreement. So it's a little bit different than just kind of collecting the data from them for the COCL team. It's really helping them set up the structures of the auditing process. Okay.
 So one thing you might consider when you come back in the bump is to consider whether police bureau money might be more appropriate to pay that part of the increase that would then free up some of the money for the office rebuild and other things. Okay. Thank you. Good point. Good suggestion. Thank you. Other questions or points to raise or issues to raise before we thank this panel? Anything else that the three of you want to cover? I just want to say that I think...
 All of us, you know, when I got the call, somebody said something about five hours a week, and I knew that wasn't true. Because this is new and because of what we're doing and how we're doing it, it is taking so much more than any of us ever thought. I just want to point that out. And we appreciate you stepping up to that level of effort. I do, too. And particularly when you said you started in June, I was like, really? No, you've been here at least six months. Yeah.
 No, I started in June.
 And so I think, in my mind, this group is different from even some of the commissions that I've overseen over the past couple of years. The design commission has been doing three eight-hour meetings a month. I think we should consider whether we need to give stipends for things like child care and other expenses that the co-op volunteers are incurring above and beyond what they thought they were going to. So that's not for today. Okay.
 I just wanted to highlight that for my colleagues on the council, that this is a really different kind of committee. This is not an advisory committee. Well, it is an advisory committee, but it's also connected with oversight and establishing a new way of doing things with our police bureau. So that's...
 planting that seed of thought for us all to think about how are we going to support these volunteers because I certainly appreciate as you said 15 very different people we because the other thing that needs to be said is we did it so fast because the Department of Justice settlement says we have to do it so fast so
 So it wasn't that we all thought that we had set up the ideal process. It was very clear to all of us that we hadn't. However, we have a mandate that we're doing the best we can to follow. And so it's nobody's fault that we're building the plane as we're flying it. Bless you. Yeah.
 It's also an opportunity to do things differently and to explore together how are we going to make this work. And so I think that each one of us on the council also bears responsibility for that, as to thinking and challenging ourselves. What's the difference about a focus group? I appreciate your questions, Commissioner Saltzman.
 What I was thinking as you were asking your question is how could we do things differently in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement to make sure that we always are thinking about who might need to have a focus group, who is not going to respond to our survey, who is not going to come to our Neighborhood Association meeting, and yet who is integrally affected by about the topic that we're talking about. So I think it's...
 It's probably going to be really cost effective to test, to pilot this use of focus groups, which hasn't been the way that we've normally done things to reach out to communities beyond boundaries. Maybe it's a way that we could, in a relatively short order, find out a better way to do things so that we are actually helping people as we're trying to. Good point. Thank you. Anything else? Thank you all. Stand by in case we have other questions.
 later on here and we'll take public testing. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Do we have folks signed up to speak? Yes. On the ordinance? We have five people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Dan Handelman, David Davis, and Charles Johnson. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch and I'm very interested in having this discussion. It's been a while since the
 COAB and COCL have been brought up before council in any way, so this provides us a time to talk, as you've already been doing, both about the substance of what's been going on, as well as the money being shifted around today.
 And I think, you know, there's still a sting out in the community that the team that was chosen is from out of town, and that some of this money, the travel money and the hotel money, are coming at the expense of if you had hired somebody local. And we have 60% of our officers don't live in the City of Portland, and we have these people who are coming in to help us improve the police bureau who are coming from outside of Portland, and they don't have to live with the consequences.
 It's very good that we have Ms. Sadat on the team. I think that she was a very good person to replace Justice Demunas because we need local people to understand what's going on in the community. And I'm concerned about the idea of putting off the question about supporting the COAB members with some kind of stipend until later on this year because you've already lost five out of the original 15 members at this point.
 And I don't know if you're hearing from the people that each of you appointed, none of them have dropped off yet. I don't know if you have backup plan if one of them does drop off. But that's probably going to happen because there's a lot of pressure and those people are doing a lot of work. So I hope that you will figure out the policy for finding alternates as soon as possible, as well as consider the stipends.
 And I think it's, I was really appreciative of the comment that this is building trust from the ground up and there's communities that don't trust the police at all. But unfortunately tomorrow evening the community engagement and outreach subcommittee of the CYAB is meeting in North Precinct which to me speaks to, that's something that can be done when this problem is solved. Right now the people who are afraid of the police aren't going to go into a police precinct to have a discussion about engagement and outreach with the police.
 So I'm hoping that the COAB will consider moving those meetings away. And kind of related to that point, the thrust of the agreement is that the Portland Police are respective of the pattern and practice of using excessive force. It's particularly against people with mental illness, but the people with mental illness are just the people who are most visible in the statistics and the cases that were overused.
 If there is a reduction in use of force against people with mental illness and not against everybody else, then we're not succeeding. That's not the point of the whole agreement. So I think that the survey digging down into other communities that are vulnerable to police abuse is very important. I'm very glad to hear Mayor Hales being supportive of that idea.
 The office space for the COCL was approved at this body in January, being at a community center in East Portland where a lot of the diaspora from gentrification has moved. It got moved downtown with really no discussion after it was moved first to a building that houses a police precinct or traffic division.
 And a lot of the stuff like that is happening not transparently. So I'm really glad that we have this opportunity today. I'm sorry there's not more time to talk about some of these issues. But certainly having the office move again rather than build out an office downtown would probably be the better idea. Okay. Thank you. Thanks very much. Mr. Davis? So I'm David Davis with Multnomah County Cop Watch. I wanted to suggest that maybe you guys should invest in –
 giving cameras to members of the community to film the police. If you're going to offer up millions of dollars for simple citizen review boards and different accountability boards, then you might want to give cameras to
 a group of citizens or even sponsor some paid cop watch groups that go around and film the police and how they deal with the mentally ill people and homeless people and all kinds of different people in this community that are disproportionately affected by police abuse and corruption and misconduct and Dan Salzman
 I can't even believe that you asked that question about why there needs to be certain focus groups to deal with members of the different communities. That really shows that you don't get it and that you are obviously not qualified to hold any position of power in this town if you can't even...
 that different people are affected differently by the power structure and the police. I know it's easy for you to just be a rich white man in a place of power. Let's stick to the subject, Mr. Davis. Yeah, this is the subject. Don't try and interrupt me, Mayor. Okay, Mr. Davis, let's stick to the ordinance, please. Yes, all right.
 Exactly what she said, you know. You come from a place of white supremacy and a position of power, and you can't understand how the rest of us are treated. Well, you know, Charlie Hales, I remember when you were saying you're going to go sleep with the homeless, you know. I think you should still do that and do it for like a week or two with maybe not a G4S security guy to back you up. You could...
 probably find a couple of homeless people that would make sure you're safe or even more safe than your G4S security guys. But I suggest that Dan Salzman, that you go out and sleep in the streets too, and every one of you guys, and then you might have some perspective. Go do a week in the streets in the dead of winter. And maybe even change your appearance so you get harassed by the police. So you...
 I know they have people in Hollywood that could make you look like a completely different person. Then you might gain some perspective. Mr. Johnson, you're next. Good morning, Commissioner. Sorry, good afternoon. It's not my usual time. I think for the issue Commissioner Saltzman raised, we have Jewish community centers. We have the Q Center.
 Cascadia, the Mental Health Association of Portland, NAMI are something not the same as those. So within the black community, within the gay community, people need to be encouraged to develop connections with people who are experiencing mental illness and help those people then to have a sense of security where they can relate to the co-op, where they can get on this important process of making sure the Portland police don't shoot and kill them. So...
 Obviously, we could go down a rabbit hole of infinite focus groups, but I think that when we look at just some core things, the way that the people in the black community within the LGBTQ community can engage with their neighbors who may have mental health issues and let them know, hey, there's this experience that we're going through in Portland of building this COCL and COAB program.
 If you feel like you can engage and identify as a person having experience with mental illness, you can help save lives. So I think in addition to this, we should look at some better engagement with NAMI, Mental Health Association, Cascade Behavioral Health, to get direct involvement. But there's still a need to reach people in the communities that they identify with. At first, I was...
 very discouraged about this proposal. I think that lingered from a huge sentiment in our community that we should have adopted a contractor who was local. But instead of quibbling over this little bit of budget, I think it's really important to inject some words that really matter to the money here. Kafoury and McDougal, we're talking about pennies compared to the money that you pay out every time you kill and injure one of our citizens.
 So while we want to spend the money responsibly, let's look at this whole budget in the context of the expense of doing crappy policing and as an investment and bringing an end to problem policing. So the fact that we have.
 15 of 20 original co-op members still needing support from somebody who's going to go from a $10,000 job to a $60,000 job doesn't really reflect poorly on even Rosenbaum and Watson that I'm not that enthused about, but it just shows us the scope of how intractable this problem is, the fact that it's been going on in Portland for a long time now,
 and that this could be a very good investment. When we have 15 original co-op members who feel a little unsupported and frazzled, and they say they can do a better job, if we find $50,000 to have a better coordinating program person, it's probably a good investment. Put them in an office back at the community center out in the 160s. Rosewood, thanks. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, let's take the next folks. The last two signed up are Nancy Newell and Michelle Munt. Okay, come on up. How are you? Afternoon.
 Good afternoon. I'm Nancy Newell, a long-time activist in our community on many issues and very concerned about the quality of policing in this city and very much in the belief it can be corrected in many ways and much more open discussion and transparency will take place.
 The venues that I've worked in are free trade agreements, labor agreements, labor protests. I've been trained as a Portland Peace Team member. I'm very familiar with de-escalation of critical situations where people are trying to communicate and can't communicate because things escalate as they're talking. And since we've had Judge Demunis depart, I must give you a better characterization of how community members have felt since we have new leadership on the collaborator-facilitator role.
 And I have actually experienced bullying from Kathleen Sadat. And I don't think that's appropriate for an official in that position. And it was concerning a book Sam Walker wrote about police accountability. This team, you've got to be very proud of this community because they are working, studying, trying to figure out what other cities are doing, looking at Seattle's methods. We're not the first. Seattle has instituted a lot of these practices already.
 So this effort can learn a lot from other, and people want to. And the distribution of the book was stopped to co-op members, and they were called public officials. So it was over the value and was donated by very well-meaning citizens and hardworking citizens that make very, very considerable international efforts to have police brutality not part of a community.
 And so I was confronted over that issue. I have people that are on the COAB that have been confronted. I have had experiences where she comes in after Judge DeMunis has departed in her role, and a lot of people don't even know her, and here we're trying to build trust. And her manner of taking over a committee is pretty much...
 at times very forceful. So I don't know what can be done about that. I don't know how you handle a situation like that. But let me remind you that it's our money that's making all this possible. We want to be treated better. We've got wonderful people in this community. They have mental health issues, some of them. We can do a lot better than we're doing. This is not acceptable, and we've lost five people since Judge Immune has left. I think you should look into this before you make any budget agreement.
 and carefully analyze whether you're getting the results you want. If you really want trust in the community and you want to advance this, we are advancing, but I think a lot of people put in a lot of time, like has been mentioned, and I think we can do a lot better. And that book has now gotten circulated to 100 people in our community, and some of those are COAB members because a used book, as you circulate it, loses value. So it fits every agenda. The state is more value than the city for some reason, but we solved that problem.
 So I don't agree with some of Ms. Sadat's efforts to communicate because she really creates a wall. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, anyone else who wants to speak this afternoon? Any further questions or discussion? So I just had one question relating to where the meetings of the COAB are held and the –
 difference between meeting downtown versus the east side or generally the decision making process about where the co-op is. Could you illuminate that for me a bit? I will defer to Catherine. Most recently they've been held at PCC Cascade. The problem has been
 When I came on in June, we were meeting at a church, Montevideo Villa Church, where it was hot, dark, no air conditioning. We wanted to get out of there. To be able to acquire a space big enough for us has required a lot of work, a lot of research.
 And we have moved the meeting several times. We're hoping to find a place, and we hope it may be PCC Cascade, to be able to permanently have the co-op meetings. Now, the subcommittee meetings are different, and they are held based on what the subcommittee wants to do, what room they want to use.
 And the benefit of PCC Cascade is it's got parking, it's got public transportation. And is there a theater space there? There's a theater space. There's space for the club itself. There's ability to hook up the electronics that let us communicate with the public. It's air conditioned. It has a room out in the vestibule for people to come and have some semblance of dinner before the meeting starts. Okay.
 It's easy in and out. It's accessible, wheelchair accessible. Do you need any help from us to make that a permanent arrangement? Let me talk to Mandy and Amy, and I'll let you know. I think it would be great, but I do have some concerns about it being here and staying there forever and not getting somewhere else. At the same time, people seem to prefer knowing where the meeting is going to be and being able to get there.
 So we may come back to you for that. Well, thank you very much. Yeah, that's helpful. And following up on that question, what are you thinking in terms of office space? You mentioned the requirement for a lockable office, and I know there's been discussion regarding whether it should be a city building, should not be a city building. Could you tell us your thoughts on that, please? I don't care where the office is. If it's accessible, if it's clean and bright.
 if it's safe for the employees to work at night, because we do. I would like for it to be centrally located. It doesn't have to be in the Commonwealth Building. But where we are now, we have access to transportation. We have an arrangement for paid parking. We have access to printers, to copiers, to all the other things that you have as a bureaucracy, being able to do the work.
 If we need to move, then I would like to have all those things. I would like to have an available printer. I can't print yet because I'm working on a laptop and it's not hooked up yet. But glory be, when it is hooked up, I'll be able to print and do all the things that you can do when you work. How many square feet do you need, do you think?
 I have no idea, Nick. I don't. Commissioner. I'm not speaking for Dan, but I remember we took out a big space for the housing bureau, and then we were able to carve out a space for the Office of Equity. That's where they are. That's where they are. That's where we are. Yeah. And there's a part of that. I'm sorry, and that doesn't work because you don't have a door?
 We don't have a door where we are. There's another part of that floor that I'm looking at and recommending that we take a look at for a build-out. It's on the front side of the building. We get lots of light. It has a small conference room attached to it, which would allow for small meetings. We could still schedule meetings, larger meetings in the other rooms. There is still some question about whether or not the perception is that the city is running the COCL COAB slash COAB program.
 It is a perception I'd like to work on because I think, well, it doesn't do us much good if people feel negatively about that. At the same time, we need to get the work done. And the reason that when I first had this discussion, I said, no, we have to stop looking. We're putting all of our energy into looking for places. And none of our energy into getting the work organized and done. So, you know, find me a place with all those amenities and maybe...
 That would be wonderful, but I think we're never going to find the perfect place. Where's the Department of Justice on whether or not they would be – are they requiring us to move out of city space or no? No, they're requiring a locked door. Right. I wonder whether we could address that through just a modification to the build-out.
 Yeah, I mean, I think, Kathleen. Is your name on the record, please? Yes, sorry, Ellen Osnak from the City Attorney's Office. I'm the lead attorney on the DOJ settlement. So this issue of finding a space has kind of taken on a life of its own, and I think probably Ms. Sadat particularly appreciate all of you applying your big brains right now to helping to solve this problem. There's been a lot of staff time that has gone into attempting to balance and solve these issues.
 the settlement agreement requires that the COCL be independent of any city office. And so what the Department of Justice is struggling with is that to the extent that we house the COCL team in a city bureau's office, they see tension there. They have no wish to continue to drag out this process and –
 have, you know, we're at a fragile state, I suppose I've heard it described that way, and so stability is important. So they're trying to work with us, but I think that's
 there are a lot of factors that we're trying to balance. So I don't have a straight answer for you about whether or not the DOJ would, you know, approve or not approve. They're trying to work with us, but the language of the settlement agreement says that the COCL team should be independent of any city office, and they certainly are, but –
 We are also trying to provide them the support that they need in order to get, as Ms. Sadat described, their administrative needs met, such as copiers and computers, and to make sure that the city administrative person is plugged into the city networks and processes as they support the COCL. So those are some of the factors we're trying to balance. And I hope one of the things you're going to consider is whether you can do a little build-out,
 at your existing space because it is an affordable lease. It is an accessible building. And I personally like the connection with the Office of Equity there. But we also have all the hardware and all the equipment. There's conference rooms. There's a generic...
 I don't know. I understand why it needs to be separate, but I wonder whether someone coming to a space at the Housing Bureau and the Office of Equity would feel unwelcome or uncomfortable for you to make that judgment. If we take a careful look, what we need to do is just define ourselves by the space. I think I know how we could do that. Now, whether we can get some agreement from the Housing Bureau to give up that space is a whole other question.
 Mr. Dutt, you've been through this before with the Office of Human Relations and the discussions that we had with moving the Office of Equity and Human Rights downtown. I know from my own experience, trying to get to a remote location that's not downtown is quite difficult on evenings and weekends and such. So it does sound to me like that might be the best of options.
 a world where there's not a perfect option, I would also offer myself and the Office of Neighborhood Involvement to have some discussions with you to see if there's any other facilities that we could help make available to you. I'm willing. I just don't want this distraction to take over what we're doing. And as you said, as long as you have this support, you're okay. So perhaps that's something that Deanna and I and others could...
 present you with some options. And the other thought that occurs to me is that perhaps you could put that in the community survey and have it just as a minor question and a small topic for the focus groups to discuss.
 Are we and the DOJ actually inventing the concept that people would not come to the Office of Equity and Human Rights? I understand Mr. Handelman's concern about it not being in a police precinct. How far separate does it have to be? And that might be something to get a truth test with the survey. Antoinette's Peace Group meets in the police department. It's one of the most successful and one of the best attended meetings.
 community groups in the city. I understand the concern. My question, when presented with it again today, was how do we start to work with the police and understand and talk with the police if we keep being separate from them? And I think that's a community discussion that needs to happen. Also, let me just say, there might be a sublet in that building, in another space, as an interim, as you do the build-out, but
 every time you move, it's disruptive to you. You've got to change your mailing address. You may have to change your phone number and stuff like that. You can't operate under those circumstances. I would argue strongly in talking to the landlord about whether there's a build-out opportunity that meets the security needs or whether there's a sublet in the building that allows you to have access to the equipment at the Office of Equity but maybe be a floor away.
 And I'm not speaking for Dan, but I'm sure he agrees with me. I'd love to take a look. All right. That's great. Thank you. Thank you all very much.
 So unless there are any further direction or questions from counsel, this will pass to second reading next week. Before you go, I just also, I'd forgotten that it was going to move to second reading. I want to celebrate again the fact that we have reached a settlement with the judge in the case and to commend both Gail Superley, formerly of your office, and Dora Perry, formerly of mine, as well as Zosinak, Ms. Prosper, and the team for coming to that agreement.
 Otherwise, we would have had another discussion here at Council today about how we should withdraw the appeal. So I'm very glad that we have. You're here. Thank you very much. We're setting this over for second reading next week and we'll recess until tomorrow at 2 o'clock. Thank you.