you're in the chat yeah they loved portugal um gave it high marks all right we should probably get started good morning everyone and welcome to the august 17th meeting in the portland city council would you please call the roll
 Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Hales? Here. Good morning everyone and welcome. We have a relatively light agenda this morning. I think Commissioner Fish is absent or is he going to be here? He's absent. Okay. We have a consent calendar with only a few items on it. One item has been pulled which is 950. Pulled to the regular calendar.
 Is there any other requests to pull items to the regular calendar? No, 951 is on regular. Yeah. Okay, then let's take communications items, please, starting with number 944. Request of Barrett Wiggin to address council regarding spending on renovations while over 500 people do not have a safe place to sleep. Wiggin, are you here? All right, let's move on and see if he comes later. 945, please.
 Request of Kevin Grigsby to address council regarding the new move the city made with the homeless to close one shelter. Grigsby. Okay. 9-46. Request of Mary Eng to address council regarding post-traumatic stress disorder. Good morning.
 Hello, counsel. My name is Mary Eng. I wanted to start with I love you, Steve Novick. I love you, Amanda Fritz. I love you, Charlie Hales. And I love you, Dan Saltzman. And I love that guy, Nick Fish, who's not here. And I just want you to know that sometimes I seem a little harsh. That might be my Irish grandmother who is very harsh.
 Very feisty is the rumor. But I wanted to read you a poem my father wrote, and then I'm going to leave a copy because I believe you, sir, Mr. Hales, don't have a copy. But I did leave copies prior to your tenure here, back when Mr. Adams was involved, on page 49, I believe. Here it is, 47. It's called Golden Eagle. Golden Eagle.
 John Kennedy was not the wisest president we've known. He should have looked the other way and left this land alone. But dying is just another way of learning how to live, and living something you can't keep, it's something you must give. John Kennedy was just a man, and men are born to die. He wasn't like some eagle that was born to rule the sky. But even eagles touch the sun and sometimes burn their wings, and even eagles do get shot like presidents and kings."
 They shot a golden eagle from the sky. They shot a golden eagle from the sky. I think we lost a little more than Kennedy, you know. We lost a golden eagle born 200 years ago. And every witness either dies or else he disappears. But maybe we can learn the truth inside of 50 years. But money bought the bullets and some money bought the guns. And money keeps it quiet just who are the guilty ones. Money keeps it quiet.
 But how can money measure all the liberty we've lost? They shot a golden eagle, but you guess who pays the cost? They shot a golden eagle from the sky. They shot a golden eagle from the sky. And that's from 1973. So my dad was about 33 when he wrote that. But there's his picture. His name is Steven. So post-traumatic stress disorder affects the cortisol mechanism. So low basal cortisol is going to make you feel kind of apathetic and flat, right?
 And when a triggering or traumatic event happens, such as when David Keith Davis speaks about sexual trafficking of children, it's a very traumatizing subject. My cortisol might spike because I recognize I have symptoms of PTSD. So I'm going from – it's a very severe neurochemical reaction.
 And then one thing that might happen is my knees might begin to shake. And I might sit down back in handicapped seating because my post-traumatic stress disorder comes with me wherever I go. And I try to control it. I try to stay positive. But I think if we put our heads together, we can realize that all of us are dealing with trauma and all of us need to heal.
 I spoke to Officer Abrahamson just a moment ago about being misperceived. I think sometimes I'm misperceived as hostile or angry, and I just want you to know that I am a nice person at heart, and I really care a lot about the whole community on all the safety, including things like the Holocaust trauma that's induced when a neo-Nazi is placed in a meeting. I don't think that needs to happen. It's a national security concern. Thank you. Okay, 947, please. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioners. I am Charles Johnson. And when you look at the agenda at item number 947, where it says failed performer, is where Rosenbaum and Watson LLP has been edited because third-party persons don't get included in descriptions when we fill out that form. If I write Rosenbaum and Watson on that form, it gets edited out immediately.
 not to cover up their messy Chicago malfeasance or alleged misperformance just as policy. But we know that we have serious police oversight issues before us during these last few months of Mayor Hale's term, if he doesn't resign. And of the four of you sitting there, only one of you has your nominee to the Community Oversight Advisory Board still serving. Okay.
 So it's going to be a very interesting status conference before Judge Simon discussing the messy Chicago creating a messy Portland problem. There doesn't seem to be any eagerness on the part of our well-paid firm, Rosenbaum & Watson, out of Chicago, to work with you on a procedure to fill those vacancies. There are recently six of eight existing co-op members working
 published and submitted a letter of concern. So I don't know how much can be accomplished for a bureaucratic enterprise, short time between now and October 25th. But I hope that will be... It seems to me that this year we've had relatively good fortune with the police having professional conduct and not too many people injured when they were unarmed. So hopefully that will continue. But we do need to make sure that
 The community knows we're serious about quality policing by having fully staffed, non-dysfunctional police oversight mechanisms. I think it's important to go back and mention the unfortunate situation where Mr. Barrett Wiggin, who was going to speak at 944, was going to talk about spending on renovations while over 500 and actually thousands of people don't have a safe place to sleep. As a city...
 We've chosen to keep those people mostly unsheltered while we spend hundreds of millions of dollars to demolish and then rebuild the reservoirs, to demolish while standing and reconstruct the Portland building. So Barrett Wiggins might be more insightful and good-hearted than all of us.
 Mr. Grigby's concern, I think, is rather similar. I don't know about the closing of any shelter recently. Hopefully, I don't know whether Sears Shelters plan to reopen as fall comes along or whether the Menashe family can do something. But these are real press concerns, I think.
 We won't be judged well by the future when they see that we spent $300, $400 million on redoing the reservoirs in the Portland building while 2,000 people slept outside unsheltered. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Either Mr. Grigsby or Mr. Wiggin arrive? Okay. So let's move on to the consent calendar, please. We've had one item pulled. We'll take that to regular, and let's take a vote, please, on the two remaining items on the consent calendar.
 Mr. Holtzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, why don't we go ahead and take 950, which was pulled for testimony.
 Assuming that we have staff here, maybe we want to wait. I don't think we have staff here. All right, let's wait. Let's wait. Okay, go ahead. Then let's go ahead and read it, and I'll let Commissioner Salzman address any questions. 950, authorize intergovernmental agreement with the Portland Development Commission in support of the ongoing implementation of housing functions at the Portland Housing Bureau and economic opportunity functions at the Portland Development Commission.
 Okay, and Lightning, did you want to speak on this item? Come on up. I'll just say by way of introduction, this is an agreement between the Housing Bureau and the Portland Development Commission that sets forth relationships about how they share urban renewal dollars to do housing functions and also how the Housing Bureau provides federal funds under the Economic Opportunity Initiative to the PDC for economic development. Yes, one of the issues that I have is that
 I like the direction of how the Portland Housing Bureau is taking more responsibility toward the affordable housing issue, also by the affordable housing bond that is being proposed, the new riverfront shelter by Mr. Williams that has gone into the lease mode at this time. And I always hesitate what the last director for PDC did before,
 on trying to acquire the post office by paying an outrageous price for that property in trout dale from trammell crow and i questioned their judgment on that where in my opinion if commissioner saltzman was handling that transaction that outrageous price wouldn't have been at that number and we're starting to see a lot of other properties being purchased there was one over there that
 Mr. Nadeau and Mr. Winkler had an interest, came in with an offer. Some people came in from Arizona, quite a bit higher. So we're seeing the locals coming in at very low offers, out-of-staters coming in around the appraisal value. And again, I want to make sure that we get the highest, best possible price for these properties that go back to the bureaus. And again, I want to see the direction that the Portland Housing Bureau is going on the affordable housing bond.
 and understand that we have to have leadership in those areas to make sure things are done properly. And I believe that Commissioner Salsman is able to do that. And I've lost all confidence in PDC on what they did on Centennial Mills. And I've lost all confidence in their ability to do transactions in a fair, responsible manner and to get values at the appraisal values level.
 and make sure that it's handled properly. So I just want to make sure that the Portland Housing Bureau has that type of control and begins to limit the control of PDC on a lot of different issues, and that's my position. And I know that a new director has been brought in. They're going to have to prove themselves. They're going to have to step up and prove themselves because I think they should have less responsibility with these properties throughout the city. Thank you. Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Come on up.
 Good morning again, Commissioner. Charles Johnson. I want to thank Lightning for pulling this. I was earlier looking. There's actually a wonderful 51-page PDF attached to this item. And in the last few weeks, I've spoken to you about metrics. You know, that's a phrase, buzzword, that comes from General Electric and all that goodness in IBM of monitoring our performance. And way down in the page 50s are some great sheets that...
 adhere to that principle of trying to gauge how many people will be positively impacted by this IGA. So I want to thank Mr. Schaltzman, those people from the PDC who did work on this. I think many of you may recall I'm not the biggest fan of everything that happens at the Portland Development Commission, but I know they do have a new executive director just coming on board, and I hope that –
 her work will be able to give us solid numbers talking about jobs retained, jobs grown, people moving up from poverty, the real ideas behind urban renewal areas. And I know, even though we're highly critical of you at Times, I know that that's also your concern is that, you know,
 government should work to ensure justice, and justice includes maximizing economic opportunity for people at the bottom. People at the top can do so well that they can sometimes fund a 400-bed homeless shelter. And I hope this will go off without any nitwit lawsuits trying to –
 forces in some neoliberalism idiocy where we're going to sue the Bureau so that the environmental services can extort the maximum possible amount of money towards the
 towards rate payers when we try and help the homeless. I think that that's going to be another dismissed lawsuit like the poor judgment of the Portland Business Alliance when they tried to sue the city saying, the mayor's not doing enough to help us suppress homeless people. So I'm glad this came off consent and we get to put on the record that there are constructive things happening with the PDC,
 and the Housing Bureau to try and at least make a dent in the thousands of people that are sleeping outside, whether it's along the Springwater Corridor or elsewhere. Thank you all. Thank you. Good morning. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I must darkly say that I anticipate possibly that Donald Trump will be the next president and the Congress will go Republican. If that happens, you're not getting any federal money for anything. I'd be lucky if they don't cut food stamps.
 which is my fallback mechanism. People need to have food, and let's keep it that way. Housing, like I say, is going to completely stop. All the programs that people you're discussing came under Mayor Sam Adams and the current mayor, who actually receives federal money for these programs, but they may stop completely. And I'm not sure how the election is going to turn out. And I
 i in the past i was a great supporter of al gore for president he lost that these things happen thank you good morning good morning uh my name is uh joe walsh for the record i represent individuals for justice i would just like to point out in general that when an item is pulled we fully expect a staff member to come up and explain to us what that item is
 In the agenda, there's only about four or five lines that tell us what the item is, and normally you can't figure it out unless you look at the supporting documentation underneath that item. So we really need a staffer to come and tell us exactly what you're doing.
 And I kind of personally resent you not having a staffer here when you have four or five people that testify that there is some question about this item. So you do that on lots of items that have been pulled from the consent agenda. And it seems to me that automatically, if an item is pulled, we want more information.
 And you can pick up the phone and call a staffer and say, come and testify. And you do that from time to time. But you don't do it all the time. And that's what I'm suggesting, that if an item is pulled, then get a staffer down here to explain it to us. We don't expect you to know it all. We expect the staffer to come and explain it to us. And we think we have that right.
 so thank you very much for the times that you do that and my hope is that you'll look at that and say that's a good idea let's do that all the time thank you thank you thanks very much um hello city council my name is mary ang i wanted to speak a little bit on measure 950 regarding authorizing intergovernmental agreement with the portland development commission abbreviated pdc in support of the ongoing implementation of housing functions
 at Portland Housing Bureau and Economic Opportunity Functions at the Portland Development Commission. I just wanted to check in about what's going on with the lack of housing. You know I'm a proponent of the idea that housing is a human right and that I want...
 immediate functional housing for all human persons, much in accord with what they have to do in countries like Sweden where people would suffer hypothermia and all die if they didn't get into housing. So I could only praise you for working towards goals of housing for all humans. I think our city prosperity will be increased immensely by the safety and security and happiness that will come with housing. I'm very concerned about how the federal government is,
 allocates resources. I know, for instance, with Social Security, they don't keep it apace with inflation. So there's... I mean, I hate to say we don't have any money in our government because we have plenty for military, but it does seem that... I mean...
 that you guys are doing the best you can with limited resources. So I want to thank you for that, but then also encourage functions of opportunities for minorities as well as for women in prosperity initiatives or also possibly more coordinated...
 different kinds of governmental or business structures such as cooperatives. And I mean, one thing that has really vastly affected my generation that I'm not too sure you're very aware of is the whole demonetization of our generation. We've been suffering without jobs, with immense student loans, and with a
 you know, a million opportunities to volunteer. So things you can do to get people in my generation in paying jobs or with businesses and small businesses that they develop themselves, I think that will also add to the prosperity. But I'd like to thank you for listening to Joe Walsh. Thank you for respecting his rights as an elder and as a disabled person.
 American veteran as well. I believe all Americans should be respected regardless of whether or not they did military service, but I do believe that we should show a high level of honor to anyone who served in Vietnam. And then also I want to thank you so much for respecting Laura Vander Lynn today and not doing any immigration harassment regarding her roots and her familial
 origin like happened at the COAB meeting, which is really unfortunate that ICE would harass a woman who's lived in the United States and has American grandchildren and children and husband. And to me, like immigration harassment has no place at the COAB. So if we can get in line with the ADA and respect the citizens when we come to speak to you on these things, then we won't have as much to complain about to Judge Simon. So thank you for giving me my full three minutes. Goodbye. Thank you.
 Okay. Anyone else? Then let's take a vote, please, on this item. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Regular agenda, item 951. Amend contract with American Medical Response, Inc. in the amount of $150,000 to provide continued phlebotomy services to the police bureau. Good morning, Sergeant Abramson. Good morning, Mayor. Council? So, explain this to us, please. Yes.
 We'd like to amend our contract with American Medical Response and increase it to the amount of $150,000 between now and August 31st of 2020. This is for blood draws when we have criminal cases where we have probable cause to believe that a crime has been committed, particularly in relations to serious injury crashes and fatal crashes. Because of the overwhelming amount of the increase of blood draws that have occurred in the last couple of years, that's why we are continuing to extend this.
 So is this for both driving under the influence of intoxicants for multiple intoxicants, not just alcohol? Correct. Okay. It just occurred to me, don't fire trucks, can their paramedics not do blood draws? No, that hasn't happened, I think, for the last four or five years. That changed. Is it a law that they can't or they just don't have that skill? No.
 You know, I think that would be more of a question for Fire Bureau. I think that was a decision made because of duties and time constraints and the amount of calls they have to respond to. And it made more sense as far as location and feasibility. And this began in 2012, right?
 so this is separate from the county ambulance contract with amr this is just a contract we have they're in the field with amr correct yeah they're in the field and so we pay them for the extra work of coming and doing bloods blood draws at precincts or on scene or wherever right correct
 This is a renewal for another four years, but it might be worth something now. Yeah, it might be worth at least revisiting with now we have a new fire chief. And, Dan, you may want to look at that question. Yeah, we'll check into that. It's a good question. Because this is an on-call contract, right? I mean, we don't pay them this money whether we need their services or not, right? This is per service. So if they don't render the service, we don't pay the money. So if we did it another way, we'd save the money. Okay, got it. Thank you. Other questions?
 thank you very much anyone want to speak on this item come on up you've heard from me good morning uh my name is uh joe walsh for the record i represent individuals for justice no we take a strong position on this because we don't know what they're doing you're going to increase this 150 000 from the original contract that's a hundred thousand dollars to do what
 to come and take blood from people that have been in an accident, and then you're going to check their blood to see if they're over the limits. Where's the warrant? You're violating the Fourth Amendment here. You honestly think that the police and the ambulance that have a vested interest in taking this blood and turning it over to the police for testing—
 Where's the Fourth Amendment? If the patients ended up in a hospital, you couldn't get their blood without a warrant. So why are you going around the Fourth Amendment here? What is that? I'm not a lawyer. There is a lawyer on your group here. Aren't you concerned about that? You didn't ask one question. Where's the warrant? It's an invasion of privacy. And you all know that. Right?
 And why don't you ask that kind of question to the police? Do you say to the people, can we have your blood? And if they say no, do you back off? This is the Constitution that you're screwing with, and you want to pay another $150,000 to do it? What's the matter with you? We strongly say no. No!
 Thank you. Go ahead, please. Mr. Shedrick, I strongly say yes. The founding fathers didn't anticipate cars to go 60 miles an hour down the freeway. Also, warrants and cars. I was on a jury case one time. It was very controversial. When the founding fathers only meant it to be homes, somebody going in your home, not your car, and stuff like that. I've been through this before. Cars were not envisioned in the – they had horses, okay? Okay?
 Hello, get it. When I was at the VA hospital, I was almost unconscious. They drew my blood. It was the best thing they ever did because I don't like my blood drawn. But I was afraid to know that I was diabetic. I'm not. Sometimes you learn things when you draw people's blood. And by the way, when somebody crashes a car into somebody in their car, you draw their blood and find out how much drugs they have, how much marijuana, THA, and you find that and you give it to the prosecutor.
 I disagree with Joel completely. Thank you. Okay, next. There has to be a middle way. Hi, I'm Charles Johnson. I don't know Mr. Novick's reasons for being silent, but of course, search seizure, Fourth Amendment is a complicated legal minefield sometimes. I do think that whether or not you pass this now, as I said just a moment ago, you should think about metrics.
 Does this money we pay to AMR have any real connection with, I don't really care about convictions for drunk driving. I want drunk driving to stop. I want the injuries to stop. I want people not to do it, but I'm not sure that warehousing, the whole prosecution of substance-influenced drivers, we don't know how well it's working to get us the result of keeping people alive. But I think that when you're talking about appropriating drugs
 extra $150,000 over four years that the police department and the district attorney should be able to cooperate and provide you with a report that says, oh, apparently the police department thinks they're going to use all their money. So they're doing this a lot. But if those cases don't result in convictions by plea or by trial, then...
 then maybe this $100,000, $150,000 isn't really helping keep anybody safe. I'm leaning towards Mr. Walsh's concern about people's rights being violated, but I don't think that we can fully address that here. I'm sure it's been hammered out in some courtrooms about what's legal and not as far as violating a person's rights, taking their blood. But if we can't address that issue here, we can certainly look at the fact of, is this $150,000...
 provably, not just, oh, let's appropriate it so we can scare people into thinking we're going to draw their blood if they're charged with driving under the influence. But do we actually know what's trending in DUI cases? What are the conviction percentages? Are they going up and down? And does this investment of, I think it's general revenue dollars, and there should be our beloved federal government with their huge, massive military industrial budget, should have some United States Department of Transportation dollars to help us do this if we need to do it. Thanks very much. Okay, thank you. Thanks.
 Hi, City Council. My name is Mary Ng. I am
 Want to tell you a story about being the designated driver. I was driving some friends of mine who wanted a few drinks. I'm not much of a drinker. I should be, but I'm not. And I like being responsible. So I believe I had less than one glass of something hours and hours before, and they were stalling, and I was ready to go. And I was driving a car that was not quite roadworthy, and it had some...
 I would say, I forget what it's called, but where the steering wheel wants to go in one direction. Like, it completely needed to be serviced. Piece of junk. Should be taken off the road. But I'm driving it, and that is causing me to look a little bit like I'm not able to manage a straight line. And this was through poverty that I was driving this bad car. But I thought it was being a nice citizen to take care of.
 take these intoxicated fellows home. And I got pulled over for a DUI. I was taken into a hospital, pretty much, I guess, against my will. I tried to be nice, but had blood drawn invasively with a needle.
 And I was being accused of being on drugs or alcohol or something like that. But a lot of it had to do with profiling. I had teased my hair up to like a full Cyndi Lauper kind of a look and had a shredded airbrushed Betty Boop t-shirt that my friend made and...
 I was trying to do my best version of 1983, but this is like 2000 maybe that this happened. But I found it very invasive, and it ended up going to a point where I missed a court date. A warrant was issued for my arrest. Somebody finally told me, oh, there's a habeas for you. And I'm like, what are you talking about? I don't drink and drive, and I had forgotten about it. So I went and checked myself in, and the...
 I guess a public defender was able to subpoena the records and find that there was absolutely nothing wrong with my blood. And so to me, it was kind of an example of police overreaching and maybe judging someone by a false impression. And I wouldn't want – I actually really support road safety, or I wish we could all get out of our cars and be somewhat Amish or something, but –
 And I lost dear Andrea Broadbent when I was 17. It was just terrible. But I think that I really kind of, I'm a little bit with Shedrick in thinking like, yeah, I actually want to know what's in people's blood. And I'm even concerned about how marijuana affects driving. I think a lot of people feel safer to drive while they smoke it. But I don't feel safe riding in a car where people are using a lot of marijuana. And I think those are issues we're going to have to talk about.
 talk about with the legalization trends nationally for marijuana use for therapeutic reasons. But thank you very much for being here today, and I'm very thrilled to be in the presence of so many people, great citizens like Carla, who contribute, the city attorneys, Michael Cohen, my favorite G4S security guard, and all these lovely people like Joe Walsh, who has so much to add. I value everyone's opinion, and I hope we all can get along. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 good morning i'm uh artist laura vanderwin uh this morning um uh commissioner fish mentioned to me that
 He said boundaries, boundaries. Yeah, I think he's correct. We need to have boundaries. We do have warrants, and police need to know what their boundaries are. I'm not against it. However, do get a warrant. Do your due diligence to ensure that you are not doing anything to violate a citizen's rights. Uphold the Constitution, number one.
 uphold the Constitution. That is your duty. You have a duty to the United States, to the federal government of the United States, to uphold the Constitution and not violate anybody's rights. As a police commissioner, I hope that you will...
 tell your police department to uphold the Constitution. Always remember that. Don't do anything that violates people's rights. Always remember what that is. And do your due diligence.
 We do need safety officials. We don't need excessive force, but we do need safety officials to do their due diligence and uphold the Constitution of the United States, something that is not practiced in Portland, something that's not practiced by you. Thank you. Okay, I think Sergeant Amundsen wants to respond to a couple questions here, so come on up. So the question was raised about warrants. Absolutely. Thank you. Yes.
 Warrants don't necessarily... I thought without getting into a long narrative, it was best for me to keep it simple. However, these are relevant concerns, and I understand that. Nothing that we do skirts any warrant process. Just like anything else we do, from patrol operations to doing blood draws here. If we have probable cause, we can still take an exigent draw because of dissipation.
 That would have to be changed with case law at the state, at the Ninth Circuit. Do you understand what exigence means? Ninth Circuit. Well, no, go back a bit. Go back a bit. The exigence and the something. So exigency means that because of dissipation, because of dissipation in the blood. So if somebody's blood alcohol contact.
 in their blood for ethanol might be a 1, 2. And let's say average dissipation, that means it drops over amount of time, over a 60-minute period, it may drop 0.015 on the average per hour. It's the same thing with any kind of illicit control substance. There's a dissipation rate, whether it's with marijuana or even pharmaceuticals a lot of times. The effect a lot of times can be measured.
 And that's what we're looking at. Case law is based upon impairment. Other states, they do a per se limit. So if you're at this point in your system, this amount of blood, then more likely than not, they can prove that impairment was a factor. So if we have observations we can articulate, again, the police bureau isn't going around haphazardly saying, because you're involved in a crash, we're going to seize your blood. That does not happen. Again, this goes back to proloquos. If we believe impairment is a factor, again,
 We had nearly 1,000 DUIs last year. And if you look at Portland statistics compared to the nationwide stats for DUIs and for fatal crashes, nationwide they averaged 37% to 39% for all fatal crashes involving impairment. Here in Portland over the last four years, if you look, at least one party involved in our fatal crashes, 55% to 65% of all of our fatal crashes, at least one party was impaired.
 We have had an overwhelming amount since the legalization of marijuana, frankly. When statistics come out next year and those are released, I think the public is going to be alarmed at what we're seeing. So we have had a greater demand. Officers on the street, traffic division officers, we still go through a warrant process. We don't skirt anything of best practice or law. People still have their rights. Okay.
 Anything else you'd like to clarify? That's good. I appreciate the response. Thank you. Other questions? Thanks very much. Okay. Let's then take a vote on this item, then, please. Toltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thank you for your expertise and for acknowledging the concerns and explaining. Aye.
 I appreciate the discussion. Just kind of reiterate a couple of basic points that I always try to remember in talking about these issues. One, that driving a motor vehicle is not a right. It's a privilege. That's why we get a license. You don't have to have a license for your rights, but you do have to have a license for a privilege. And it's a privilege to drive a motor vehicle on the publicly owned right-of-way, and you should lose that privilege when you drive impaired.
 So I'm pretty hardline on that subject, particularly in a year in which so far we have lost twice as many Portlanders to traffic violence as we have to homicidal violence.
 And that's appalling. And the rate of traffic violence in our city, as the sergeant just iterated, is appalling. So I want us to be resolute about making sure that we have prosecutable cases for people that drink and drive or smoke too much marijuana and drive.
 because we're killing each other that way, and that's why we do this. But I do appreciate the discussion and the care and thoughtfulness that the Police Bureau is applying in exercising the power they have in this situation, but the power needs to be exercised. Aye. Thank you. 9-52. 9-52.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University in the amount of $34,020 to conduct a study of mental health workers' perspectives on police interactions and their lives.
 and provide training program evaluation, review, and consulting. Good morning, Ms. Covelli. You're here to explain this item for us. Thank you. Yes, good morning. Thank you for letting me present today. And I'm Emma Covelli, a research analyst for the Portland Police Bureau. And as a part of our ECIT training evaluation as well as...
 Thank you. I apologize. Enhanced crisis intervention training evaluation, as well as our measuring outcomes pertain to the behavioral health unit. The Portland Police Bureau is proposing a contract with Dr. Eve Labiziere to conduct research pertained to calls involving a mental health component. This particular study will focus on collecting information from Project Respond workers, as well as local mental health professionals,
 pertaining to their observations of police interactions with persons with mental illness, as well as interactions and coordination with mental health workers themselves. This feedback is important as a part of assessing the application of crisis intervention skills on the job. It is also important for gauging the quality of interactions with the facilities and mental health workers and identifying areas for improvement.
 This information will be used for the trained division's training evaluation and needs assessment work, which helps determine how well the training objectives are being applied on the street, barriers to practical application, and where additional training would be beneficial. It is also probable that this study will yield additional information to the behavioral health unit, which will be utilized in their outreach to mental health facilities related to creating stronger working relationships.
 This research will involve a combination of interview and survey methodology in order to gain the depth of information needed for utilizing the information for the intended purposes, as well as getting a sense of the generalizability of the findings. Dr. Yves LeBizier is a social psychologist in the Community Health Department of Portland State University. He has experience working on research and equity trains pertaining to law enforcement, and in general, his areas of specialty are in equity and health.
 He received his bachelor's degree in psychology from Yale University and his Ph.D. in social psychology from University of California in 1995.
 So he has many years of experience. And the purpose of utilizing Dr. LeBizier is to enhance the quality of the evaluation processes, the measurements, and to help ensure the mental health providers will feel comfortable providing honest and thorough feedback. He is involved in a youth outreach event today. Otherwise, he would be here to join us. So he sends his apologies for that. This work is in line with the...
 of outcome research that is being requested by the COCL team. They have expressed a lot of support for this particular proposal. The Behavioral Health Unit's External Community Advisory Committee is also looking forward to this portion of the evaluation process and has actually been requesting that the Police Bureau do this type of evaluation and gaining feedback from mental health providers for many years. Thank you.
 Both of these groups will have the opportunity to weigh in on the final survey instrument prior to distribution, and we are just requesting the support from City Council to move forward. Thank you. Thank you. One question I had, which I didn't know beforehand, I would have asked before, but when do we get the results of this work, roughly? It's timeline for the beginning of March. Okay.
 So the Unity Center will open in October. Will that mean that some of the folks that will be getting surveyed will be people that are working in the Unity Center as well as in the other mental health facilities that we've been dealing with? Obviously, we'll have this new facility staffed with mental health professionals where our officers are taking people in mental health crisis in some cases. Obviously, it would be nice if we could...
 tune that new instrument with the results of this survey. Absolutely. Okay, good. Good. That's great. Other questions? Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up. Good morning. My name is Charles Johnson. This might be my favorite $34,000 out of the whole police budget. I'd love to do it. Glad to have Sarah Hobbs with me. I'll introduce yourself shortly. I think many, many people in the community
 would like to have more data like what this is hopefully going to proceed to. Hopefully this will go well. We'll have some nice results in March. There is a 12-page legalese PDF attached to this about joint ownership of the data set between PPB and PSU. You've had testifiers here about open government. So I think this data will be
 relatively accessible and reviewable. Academics are interested in peer review. So I hope we don't get it. Regardless of whether we feel the results are positive or negative, we need to work with the real data we have to build the best police and safety department in the country. So I look forward to the Unity Center opening this work going forward and us having a nice conversation in March or April of next year about how we can
 show ways that we're gaining ground to make the Portland Police Bureau the best community-serving police department in the country with the lowest level of violence against citizens and the greatest level of comfort among citizens of all backgrounds that the police are going to treat them fairly well.
 On my left, Ms. Hobbs has more familiarity with the work of the Enhanced Crisis Intervention Team and some stuff like that. So let's go on to further public testimony. Thank you. Good morning. For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs, and I have to tell you I have had a lot of
 discussions over the past year with Officer Bruner-Deynard, who is the Crisis Intervention Team Coordinator for the Behavioral Health Unit. And one of the things we have talked about is the lack of information that this report is aiming to find. You know, what's happening? What is the need for room for improvement? She and I have discussed this at length.
 It's a new unit. And another thing, too, is the BHU was formed under the DOJ's settlement. So I would like to see the information pursuant to seeing that the requirements of the settlement that resulted in the forming of the BHU are being met. I am excited at
 The progress so far with the enhanced crisis intervention team, there's work that needs to be done. So I am in full support of this funding, pursuant to seeing where the improvements need to be made. But I can tell you, I've talked to somebody at the BHU who wants this knowledge just as much as I do. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning.
 Hi, City Council. My name is Mary Eng. One thing, I'd like to reach out to the person who presented for the police researcher and let her know my name is Mary Eng. My email is maryeng1 at gmail.com. And I created a blog, Justice for Benjamin Pickering, and that's spelled B-E-N-J-A-M-E-N, pickeringnormal.blogspot.com. And that detailed a lot of my...
 role as a friend and advocate where I had many numerous interactions with behavioral health unit, as well as issues with whether or not Project Respond would be dispatched. But on a positive note, I want to say that Dinah Brooks, she's just amazing. I think we need like 100 of her maybe. She seems like she has a lot on her shoulders right now. But I offered to do some kind of...
 kind of like a lived experience testimony about what it's like to live with someone who has both vision impairment and traumatic brain injury and talk about all the challenges that we faced. And I would hope that something along those lines could help as a training mechanism. But one thing I have to really point out to the public is that if,
 Anybody sits in disabled seating, it's not a license to abuse them. And we have to admit that there is a perverse part of human nature which is intrinsically evil. And that when you display weakness, such as my neck brace from my assault from Ben Pickering, I wear. It's not an invitation to cover my arms with bruises. Yes.
 Because the last thing a person like me needs, who's been working pro bono 24 hours a day for three solid years, grinding myself, just running myself to death, is a little police brutality, the icing on the cake.
 of these incredible momentous experiences that are really going to propel us to a better future because we do believe that the Americans with Disabilities Act is worth defending and we do believe that people deserve a chance whether their disabilities are visible or invisible. And so that, that handicap seating needs to be respected.
 And that violation against disabled people who are willing to say, I have a disability, we should not be then punitized, punished, arrested, brutalized, assaulted. The district attorney is starting to catch on what's going on, that not only are we violating the technicalities with Tom Steenson, you know, with the COAB mechanism, we are violating the settlement agreement regulations.
 in the chambers, down below at the colonnade, we are violating the settlement agreement for disabled activists who maybe have post-traumatic stress
 or other issues. And so those violations of their medical rights, and just for me, it's more of a human kindness thing. Forget about the ADA. Let's demonstrate human kindness. And I want to applaud this and urge you to get as much money as you can towards studying mental health workers. Because when I needed Project Respond, the police wouldn't send it. We also need a gender analysis and how women are not taken seriously until we have gender balance in policing when it comes to needing these resources.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm artist Laura Vanderwin. I just wanted to speak about the crisis, enhanced crisis intervention team. I'm just so, so, so, so, so, so confused about that because every encounter that a police goes to is a crisis. Yes.
 And the more and more and more I hear about it, it's all over the nation. And here in Portland, it's everywhere. Speaking about a crisis intervention team, it's just another way for a company to make money. I just think we need better training for police. A crisis intervention team?
 All police should be trained to deal with the crisis because that is their job. I don't understand. It's very confusing to me to... But then it does kind of make sense that the police are not trained to deal with the crisis because they're only trained for three months. And so within those three months, I think the only thing that they're able to train and do well is to be trained to use excessive force and...
 and stop a person. They're trained to come in formations of three and jump on one person and detain them, but they're not really trained to deal with a crisis, which is their actual job, a crisis. Every encounter that a police goes to is a crisis.
 Whether you are under the influence of alcohol, you are not in your regular mental state. Whether you're having a domestic violence issue, like Michael...
 Marshman did the day that he choked his son, he was having a mental health crisis. Every encounter is a mental health crisis. We are not training our police officers correctly. We are only training them to use excessive force. And they're doing that well. They're doing that very, very, very, very well.
 In Sweden, they train their police officers for three years. I think it's two and a half years to three years before they can ever, ever police any person. We here in the United States, it's three months. It is just not good enough.
 Every encounter that a police officer goes to is a crisis. Every police officer must be a crisis intervention survivor.
 a crisis intervention team, part of a crisis intervention team, because they are police officers. Police officers are a crisis intervention team. So to say that we should have a crisis intervention team and crisis intervention teams are only one out of four officers is lacking confidence.
 extremely lacking in our city and in the United States. Thank you very much. Thank you. And the dead bodies of Kendra James and Sandra Bland tell us that any police interaction is or can become a super crisis. I do hope we take those words seriously. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. We've had meetings with the COAB, COCL, some of the people out of Chicago,
 Again, what I've noticed about them is that they distance themselves from the community. And they're almost afraid of people that come in and testify and exercise their rights to freedom of speech. And they even wanted to have themselves at the other side of computer and not even be at some of these meetings on video. And to me, that's almost appalling because...
 To really deal with people with mental illness, you have to learn to communicate with them in a reasonable manner. You have to learn how to de-escalate situations. You have to learn to, if they don't have weapons on them, but maybe their behavior might be a little erratic at the time, back up a little bit. Remain calm. De-escalate the situation. Don't run in fast. Tackle them. Don't use your tasers. Don't pull your guns out.
 De-escalate the situation. Calm it down. That's what your job is to do is protect the public. They are the public. If you recognize they may have mental illness, de-escalate the situation. Learn to back up a little bit. What was the call about? They may have taken a piece of candy from somebody. They may have said something inappropriate. Their voice might have raised. That person on the other side might feel threatened.
 Back up a little bit. De-escalate the situation. Do not make fast moves. Do not trigger certain responses intentionally. Learn to de-escalate. Back up.
 And don't be aggressive, over-aggressive. Every police officer should know that. If there's no weapons on these individuals, don't get in their face. Don't escalate it. Don't tackle them. And don't push the issue forward. Back up a little bit. Back up a little bit. Give them some room.
 And the idea that we have to be overly aggressive with people in this city for speaking their mind on certain issues...
 especially in some of these meetings with these people out of Chicago, is appalling to me. Learn to talk to the people in this city. If you don't want to, go back to Chicago, where you think you've done such a great job on the streets of Chicago, which is an embarrassment, and you want to come to Portland and tell us how we need to do things around here? Go back to Chicago or learn how to speak with the people out in the communities. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. Again, for the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. About 10 years ago, I was arrested by the Portland police. We were doing a demonstration in front of Congressman Blumenauer's office trying to get him to sign on for the impeachment of Bush. That's 10 years ago. I was put through the whole process, taken down to the Justice Department, fingerprinted, photographed,
 Recently, about a month ago, I was arrested again here in city council. And, of course, you know by now they dropped all the charges because it was a false arrest. Nothing's changed in 10 years. Nothing. Normally, we wouldn't even bother with $34,000, except we noticed it's a really odd amount. $34,020? What is that? What is that?
 When I say 30,000, 35,000, what is that number? Just weird. It's just weird on the same level of everything we've been doing for the last 10 years, folks. Nothing has changed. We've spent millions of dollars and nothing has changed. When I was arrested a few weeks ago, it was the same as 10 years ago. The police were jerks.
 They did not de-escalate. They took control. They arrested us for trespassing outside of the building. It was a terrible arrest. And the...
 DA, in his wisdom, said, are you crazy? We're not going to prosecute these people for trespassing when you arrested them outside and they left on their own. Nothing has changed. You can keep spending money like this and nothing will change. You need to fire cops that are jerks. They don't belong in the police department. Make them a...
 Make him a clerk someplace where he can't hurt anybody. That's what you need to do. You don't need a study to tell you that the Portland police are jerks. All of them. The entire police department are jerks. And you want to say a few bad apples, you're wrong. It's a few good apples. It's the reverse of what you think.
 This study will give you data that will go on a shelf and collect dust, like we've done every other time. And that's the criminal part of this. It's a waste of money. $34,000? Ah, what the hell? Okay, anyone else? Then let's take a vote, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales?
 We started enhanced crisis intervention training in 2013 because it's required by the Department of Justice, and it's the right thing to do. And it is making a difference. You can see it in numbers because use of force is way down, as we have a ways to go, but use of force is way down. Secondly, you can hear about it anecdotally, and I do, whether it was an armed man in a mental health crisis this week that was taken into custody without gunfire.
 and an incident a couple of weeks ago where two of our officers spent eight hours on the Fremont Bridge getting someone not to jump for the second time this year, same person. So we have a dysfunctional mental health system in this country, in this state, and therefore in this city. Our officers are the front lines in mental health crises. They're doing great work, and what we need to do is see how we're doing. Are we doing the right things the right way? What can we do differently? How do we get better at this?
 But I appreciate the work. I appreciate the fact, Emma, that you brought this forward this morning because it is good to get outside review of how we're doing, and PSU will do that for us. I'm particularly glad that we'll be able to literally scroll in the new ingredient here of the Unity Center while this study is going on because I have great hopes for that joint effort of local government and the health care community to do a better job for people after we've completed
 hopefully de-escalated a situation like the ones I described and gotten somebody into care. Whether they ride in a fire bureau vehicle or an AMR ambulance or the back of a police car or however they get there, how are our officers responding in those situations? So I really look forward to seeing the results of this work, and I appreciate the fact that it's being done. Thank you. Aye. Okay, 953. Aye.
 Authorize a five-year price agreement for purchase of Waterworks supplies from Ferguson Waterworks for an amount not to exceed $11 million. Good morning. How are you, Ms. Moody? Procurement services. Before you is a procurement report recommending an award of a price agreement for a variety of Waterworks components and supplies necessary to maintain the city's Waterworks infrastructure. Okay.
 In April of 2016, the city conducted a request for proposals process, and two responses were received. Ferguson Water Works was the highest scoring proposal. The city is recommending and awarding a price agreement for a not-to-exceed amount of $11 million for a five-year contract term. I will turn this back over to council if you have any questions, and Ty Kovach is here to answer any technical questions.
 Okay. My technical question is, what are we purchasing? I mean, these are materials. These are treatment plant materials. What are they? Good morning, Tyco, Vagabond Water Bureau. You may remember in April we came forward to talk about going forward with the RFP on this. This is for...
 All of the nuts and bolts of the Portland water system. Oh, right. This is pipes and valves. It's repair clamps. It's fittings, the whole nine yards. It's over 500 or 600 different components that are sorted out. I was just confused by the term waterworks. I was thinking of the headworks. It's like, wait a minute, we just put chlorine in it, right? So it can't take $11 million to do that. I get it. Thank you. Other questions that are actually more on point than mine? All right. Thank you both. Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 if not then a motion please to accept a report roll call please no fake hi hi okay 954 christine moody procurement services oh sorry go ahead
 954, authorize a contract with Passport Parking, Inc. for the purchase of a mobile parking payment system for a contractual total not to exceed $1,515,174. Okay, Ms. Moody.
 Now I will go. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. The City of Portland Bureau of Transportation is responsible for the operation and maintenance of paid parking that uses multi-space pay stations and single space meters.
 In order to expand parking payment options, PBOT requires a mobile payment system for paid parking, which will allow the public to pay for the parking by using mobile devices such as smartphones. The availability of an additional payment method will offer greater convenience and flexibility to the public and eliminate the need for parking customers to visit the meter or pay station.
 In September of 2015, the city issued a request for proposals for mobile parking payment system. On November 2, 2015, five proposals were received. The proposals were reviewed, evaluated, and scored by a six-person evaluation committee that included representatives from PBOT, BTS, and the Minority Evaluator Program. The proposal from Passport Parking was deemed the highest scoring proposal and is recommended for awarding the contract.
 Passport parking has proposed the use of a certified women-owned business for temporary staffing services. The City issued a notice of intent to award on March 10, 2016, and no protests were received. You have before you a procurement report recommending the authorization of a contract to passport parking
 incorporated for not to exceed the value of 1 million five hundred fifteen thousand one hundred seventy four dollars I'll turn this back over to council if you had to have any questions I have a question for Commissioner Novick I if you're parked in a three-hour meter you have to move your car rather than just top it up with your phone is that correct you're not allowed to stay there for three more than three hours even if you pay more that's right
 And being able to pay by phone is not inconsistent with that. You can still limit the amount of time you pay in one space. But if you park for one hour and say, oh, wait, I'm going to be here longer, you can refill your account by phone. But how will the Misha readers know that that car has been in the same spot if it's a one-hour spot and if they just top it up and have another hour? I mean, that will be information will be available to them on their handhelds.
 So you don't have to have the ticket in your window won't be the only thing that governs the transaction. They'll know on their handhelds that, oh, this person has bought another hour, right? Yeah. The experts are not in their heads. Okay. That's how it works. Stands to reason. Okay. Other questions? Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? Motion to accept the report? So moved. Second? Second. Roll call, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 i'm very happy this contract is coming before council we'll provide portlanders another convenient option of paying for their meters right i nails this means that if you lose your phone it's one more way that you're totally out of luck aye thank you um 955 and 961 together please
 955, approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize a competitive solicitation for the use of the alternative contracting method of construction manager, general contractor, and authorized payment for construction of the Southwest 10th and Yamhill Smart Park Garage facility.
 renovation project for an estimated amount of $14 million in 956. Amend on-call contracts in support of the... I think it's 961. 961, not the next one.
 961 authorize a contract with FFA Architecture and Interiors Inc. to provide architecture and design services for the 10th and Yamhill Smart Park Garage renovation project not to exceed $1,275,197 Mr. Novick do you have some comments here at the outset uh
 Yes, we're back to council with the next step in the 10th and Yamhill Smart Park Garage renovation project. As you know, the Smart Park Garages are vital to the downtown core, and the 10th and Yamhill Garage requires a number of improvements. 961 authorizes a contract with FFA Architecture to begin the design process, and 955 asks council for an exemption to use the CMGC process so the city will benefit from early communication and collaboration between the contractors and the city, which should result in better cost estimates and better design.
 And I'll now turn it over to Chris Arms. Good morning. I have a question. My name is Chris Arms, and I'm with the Bureau of Transportation. And we're here to ask Council's approval for the CMGC exception ordinance and the approval of the design contract for the 10th and Amhill Garage project.
 As you know, the garage is located at the west end of downtown and serves that area of downtown. It has 799 parking spaces. Our goal is to renovate the building itself so that we can preserve the parking, but also renovate the first floor retail and improve the pedestrian environment.
 So we were here at Council in June where you approved the amendments with our IGA with PDC to provide funding for the project and then also approved the contract with our owner's representative. We anticipate having the design work complete and we'll be back to Council for approval of the guaranteed maximum price at this time next year. Then construction will start in the fall and will take approximately one year.
 So these are the two items, item 955 and item 961, they're asking for council approval on. We're here to answer any questions that you may have. Okay. Questions for Chris. I just saw on one of your previous slides something about a ParkSmart certification. What is that? It's a green garage certification, so it looks at how to use – it would be the equivalent of a lead for a garage, an existing garage system. Okay. Okay.
 thank you both thank you very much anyone want to speak on these items if not then let's take a vote please on um 955. saltman all right novick thank you aye fritz aye hails aye 961 saltman hi novick aye fritz aye hails aye thank you both thanks very much okay uh 956.
 amend on-call contracts in support of the Bureau of Technology Services Data Center Move, Portland Building Reconstruction, and radio replacement projects to add $2,350,000 in total contract authority. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Christine Moody, Procurement Services. In 2012, the Bureau of Technology Services and Procurement Services solicited and awarded 58 contracts in 17 categories for on-call services. These contracts have been used to varying degrees by BTS and the city bureaus to address temporary or unanticipated information technology service needs.
 With the data center move, Portland building reconstruction, and the stabilization of the radio replacement projects, procurement and BTS conducted a needs and spending analysis and is recommending the amending of nine of the on-call contracts as follows. Compass Computing Group, which is an ESB, adding $250,000 for a total of $500,000.
 Ellian International, a minority and women-owned business, adding $250,000 for a total of $500,000. Online Business Systems, adding $250,000 for a total of $500,000.
 I-10 Associates, a minority business enterprise, adding $250,000 for a total of $500,000. Adcom Engineering, adding $250,000 for a total of $500,000.
 Federal Engineering, adding $250,000 for a total of $500,000. Gillespie, Proton, and Associates, adding $250,000 for a total of $642,500.
 Galexix, which is a minority and women-owned business, adding $300,000 for a total of $550,000. And the Adam Group, a minority business enterprise, adding $300,000 for a total of $550,000. So you have before you an ordinance recommending the authorization of these contract dollar increases for a total of $2,350,000. Okay.
 These contracts will specifically be used to support the mentioned projects, and in the meantime, BTS and procurement plan to solicit through the RFP process new on-call contracts to support other technology projects taking place within the city.
 I'll turn this back over to Council, and there are people from BTS. Thank you, Mayor Hills, members of City Council. I'm Jeff Barron, the Director of Bureau of Technology Services. I also want to introduce Elise Rosenberg, who is our Customer Relations Manager in BTS, and just to provide a little bit of context for these meetings.
 Elise has been working really closely with Christine and her team to look at where are some specific needs that we have over the period of time, recognizing that the data center move and the Portland Building Reconstruction Project is really going to consume a lot of our time over the next year.
 a year or so, and looking for areas where we can add to existing contracts to allow for some capacity to use those as needed over this interim period of time. And this is reflective of that work that Lisa and Christine's team has been doing. Questions? Thank you all very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then let's take a vote, please. Solve this one. Aye. Aye.
 Novi. Aye. Rittles. Thank you. Aye. Hales. Well, from that list that Christine read, it's obvious you were very successful in getting activation of women and minority-owned businesses in this particular package of on-call contracts. So that's great work. Appreciate it very much. Aye. Thank you. Okay. Let's move on, please, to 957. Okay.
 Authorize application to Metro for an equitable housing planning and development grant in the amount of $100,000 to assist the Portland Housing Bureau in conducting pre-development work on the Terminal 1 site to determine feasibility of the Oregon Trail to Hope project. Second meeting. Roll call vote, please. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz.
 I believe this is a waste of taxpayers' money. I believe that the Terminal 1 as a mass shelter, if it was going to be developed that way, should be developed or looked into with private money, as we were promised last week. And presumably we were planning to apply to Metro for something else before the Terminal 1 discussion started, I think barely two or three weeks ago. So I can't in good conscience support this application, no. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. Aye. Okay, 958. Declare support for referral of the six cents per gallon motor vehicle fuel tax by the Board of Clackamas County Commissioners to voters for the November 2016 general election. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues are...
 Colleagues in Clackamas County have asked us to express support for their six cents a gallon fuel tax. Of course, a tiny slice of...
 Clackamas County is in Portland. That's a reason they're asking us to endorse this proposal. And there'll be, with this division they've come up with, between money that goes to counties and money that goes to cities. And since we all have an interest in having a strong regional transportation system, I'm pleased to ask you to call for an endorsement of Clackamas County's proposal and hope that they pass it. Great. Okay, thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? No?
 it's a resolution that wants to take a vote please saltzman hi no thank you no clackamas county hi
 I was kind of surprised to hear that Clackamas County wanted us to stress support. It seems like sometimes they do the opposite of what they don't really trust Fort Lauderdale that much, but I take your word for it that they would, in fact, like us to endorse it. I know that they're going to be keeping 60% of the projects for county in unincorporated Clackamas and distribute 40% to cities, so we would get a little bit in Portland for transportation projects.
 purposes and there are no gas stations in the city of portland areas that are in clackamas county so there's no issue of double taxes from both portland and clackamas county thank you for bringing this forward commissioner it's my understanding that they undertook a searching evaluation to determine if this would constitute portland creep and that value and decided that we're not feels well if it turns out that portland creep means taxing yourself and paying for fixing your streets maybe it's not such a bad thing after all hi
 958. That's 959. Authorize application to the Metro Regional Government for grants up to $30 million for eight active transportation infrastructure or project development projects and two regional freight investment projects. Mr. Novick.
 Colleagues, these projects represent PBOT's grant applications for transportation funding in Metro, funding made available from the federal government. Regional flexible funds represent some of the most flexible sources of transportation funding available in the region. And, of course, we prioritize applications of projects that will have a strong positive impact on the safety and reliability of our transportation network.
 As a member of JPEG, I've been in conversations about the policy background for these RFF fund grant requests and feel very confident we've developed a strong list of projects for regional consideration. The grants that result in extensive public conversations and analysis, the list of projects that we're submitting is a clear indication of our continued prioritization of equity and Vision Zero.
 Before I turn it over to the panel that will describe the process and projects in more detail, I'd like to thank our modal committees and the Transportation Justice Alliance for their help in developing this list. Also pass on some good news of our most recent transportation grant requests. We have tentatively received two enhanced STIP grants, $2 million for the 70s Greenway, $1.6 million for an I-205 undercrossing near Gateway.
 We were successful as a region in securing TIGER grant funding to have a rail overgrass in Rivergate and address a rail bottleneck. We hope this Friday to get final approval of $2.9 million for the Flanders Active Transportation Bridge over 405 in Northwest. This success is the result of outstanding grant proposals developed by our PBOT resources team, as well as strong letters of support by business, health, and equity champions in our community.
 And now for a more thorough overview of our proposed RFF grant request, I'd like to call on Mark Lear, Shoshana Cohen, and Brett Horner. Who's first?
 I'm Shoshana Cohen, part of the resources and legislative team at PBOT. As the Commissioner said, we're here to talk to you about our grant application package for the regional flexible funds. I'm going to take just a couple minutes to talk about how we selected this package of projects and then turn it over to Mark and Brett to talk more about the actual projects. We've been developing a long-term project identification process.
 to get projects ready for a variety of grants and funding opportunities, including the ones that the Commissioner just mentioned. Flanders and I-205 have all been using sort of a similar project identification process, so we have a pipeline of projects when there are funding opportunities.
 To start that process, what we do is we've been looking to the recently updated project list on the transportation system plan that was just updated. All projects that land on the transportation system plan project list have been identified with the following criteria. We look to how they do on safety criteria, climate, neighborhood access, health, and
 health, their economic benefits, cost-effectiveness, equity, and how they fare with community support. So that's where we turn to first when we look to start a process
 potentially funding projects. And so we're looking to the projects that score well, the generally high-scoring projects, which is a pretty big list. We have a lot of good ideas and needs in transportation. So depending on the particular funding opportunity, we have what we're sort of referring to as our more funding grant-specific readiness criteria. The first thing that we look to, obviously, is the particular grant criteria for any particular pot of funds.
 Flanders, which the Commissioner mentioned we're hoping to get final approval for on Friday, has very different – or the Connect Oregon pot has very different criteria than the regional flexible funds. Okay.
 We're looking if these projects will be ready within the particular timeframe of the grant pots. We're looking for match. We're looking again to how they fare with community members and if they help us with our equity goals. We've been working a lot with the modal committees, the pedestrian, bicycle, and freight modal committees. We've been going back to those committees multiple times throughout this process to get their feedback.
 We are pleased to say that all three of the ped, bike, and freight committees will be submitting letters of support to help us with this package of applications. And then in this particular round, we've also reached out to the Transportation Justice Alliance group working sort of on the intersection of transportation and equity issues. And we've asked them for feedback as we were developing this candidate project list as well and received some very helpful feedback from them.
 Two more things is just, Brett, this year we've been working closely with other bureaus. Brett will talk a little bit more about one collaborative project with Parks. And then we're looking to sort of continually emerging needs and plans. A couple of the projects are coming directly out of some ongoing planning processes.
 So that's how the list of 10 projects before you today has been created. And those, what we're competing for right now is from the regional flexible funds. Those are dollars, federal transportation dollars allocated every two years.
 By Metro, there's approximately $130 million being allocated between 2019 and 2021, although the majority of that is going to bonding for transit projects, bonding for other sort of large regional bottleneck projects, as well as some smaller safe routes to school, education, regional transportation options, things like that. So Mark and Brett are going to talk to you in a minute about projects specifically for about $26 million in active transportation projects
 funds available for the region, as well as about $7 million available for freight projects. Great. Mark Lear, Portland Bureau of Transportation. One of the things that's been nice in the recent update of the regional flexible funds policy is they have new criteria, especially in the active transportation front. And I just wanted to highlight three of those criteria, the three of the main criteria that they'll be evaluating projects, because I think you'll see it in all of the projects that we'll be showing in just a second, how they meet those goals. But I think
 The first one is being much clearer about benefits to underserved communities that rely on active transportation as being one of the criteria. The next one, again, following the Vision Zero goal, just really looking at, you know, what are we doing to reduce fatals and serious injuries and where those are concentrated. And then the last one, improving access to schools and parks. As probably a lot of you have heard,
 In this last metro process, the For Every Kid campaign and the organizations that came around behind that was sort of a once-in-a-decade sort of phenomenon. I think there's a real interest in seeing how that energy can really be used to get the best projects and continue strong funding for those important services.
 So just jumping into the projects, these are just alphabetical. They're not prioritized in any order. But the first one is a set of improvements, safety improvements in the Brentwood-Darlington neighborhood really focused on safe routes to schools. We're really focusing on two busier streets, Duke and Flavelle, and making sure that we fix all the sidewalk gaps between 52nd and 82nd. Right now, it's depending on where developments occur, there's some pretty big gaps.
 In addition to that, there's a neighborhood greenway project on Knapp and Ogden. Just yesterday or the day before, it's worth noting that we got a petition from the neighborhood that had 1,000 signatures. There's just a lot of community interest in addressing some of the lack of connectivity in this neighborhood.
 The next project on the list builds off of our first phase of investments in the connected Coley plans, phase two of connected Coley. It builds sidewalks and a multi-use path, depending on where you are on that section of Coley. Sorry, that section of 72nd. And, again, is the second highest priority, really, of the investments now to complete in that area.
 Coley is one of those examples of an area that's not in East Portland, but has very similar characteristics as far as lack of sidewalk and basic infrastructure.
 I think one of the strongest projects that we have is this David Douglas Safe Routes to School project. We've known for a long time the need for additional sidewalks on 130th from Stark to Division. There's also some work on a neighborhood greenway that we think would also benefit from sidewalks as well on Mill. This is a project that, you know, serves our most diverse high school in the state and thinks it's very important from an equity perspective. Thank you.
 This one was a new project for us as we've looked at the crash data. This is the Hillsdale Town Center pedestrian connections. As we've looked more at crash data and lack of infrastructure, it's really clear as you're heading out of town through Hillsdale and onto Beaverton Hillsdale Highway, there's some really big sidewalk gaps that connect a number of apartments and lower income properties that right now really don't have access to the town center.
 especially as we build the red electric project and the new bridge that's going to be associated with there. It's really important that we have a safe way for people to be connecting to that facility. They're so close right now, but just there's no sidewalk.
 Another project which I think has a lot of community support is safety improvements in the Jade and Montevilla Centers. Obviously, that's an area that's had booming economic development as far as just community development, and there's been just a lot of work between ODOT, PBOT, and TriMed and BPS to figure out safety improvements that would be necessary to really make that area function. This gives us a $7 million total project.
 with $3.5 million in the grant request. I probably should have mentioned earlier that almost all of the matching funds for these projects that I've talked about come from SDCs. There's one in a second that Brett will talk about that has some parks SDC, but most of it's transportation system involved with charge revenue. One of the other projects that...
 I think is a really strong project is this Northeast Halsey street safety access to transit right now, that connection between the, the, uh, Mac station, uh, Jones more out to gateway is really limited. And so our ability now to build on, uh,
 to make these improvements on Halsey from 65th to 92nd really allows us to make that connection so that we don't, which is one of the scarier connections right now, especially for a bike in East Portland. This really allows us to build on that and also allows us to connect to the investment the PDC is making in Gateway as well. And with that, I'll turn it over just for Brett to just talk for a second about the North Portland Greenway Trail Project.
 thank you mark i'm brett horner with portland parks and recreation i'm happy to be here and happy to be part of this suite of very important projects this project is a segment of the north portland greenway it's the willamette greenway and you may recall a study came to you about a year and a half ago
 with an alignment for that trail. And it's one segment of five, and it is basically the segment between Pier Park and Cathedral Park. So you'll see there's a number of street improvements that will happen along with it. It's a very, very important piece of the Willamette Greenway project.
 very much project ready. There is not acquisition or easements to acquire. Much of it is in right-of-way and very much highly touted by the advocacy groups in that area, including friends of Baltimore Woods and friends of NP Greenway. So we've been working very closely with them. We're meeting with them tonight, actually, to go through the details of the proposal. And we're happy to answer any questions about this project.
 Great stuff. Thank you. Questions? I have a question. You noted that they're not listed in any kind of order. Yeah. But I noticed that we've asked for $30 million in grants, and they only have $26 million. And then we've asked for $3.6 million at the freight, which is about half of the freight amount. So are we just throwing the noodles at the wall to see what sticks? I think in the last cycle,
 Metro had what they called a jurisdictional sub-allocation, where they would say, City of Portland, we think you have about this much money. Tell us how you want us to spend that much money.
 They got a little bit of criticism that that process was not as robust as it needed to be from sort of a public involvement perspective. They wanted it to be more competitive, and they're going to be running a public involvement process in October where they'll be hearing from lots of community members, probably why there's some that aren't here today, because that's really where the public involvement part of it is going to be taking place. So I think our sense right now is –
 You're right that we have about a 200% list of what we think we probably will get funding for But I think we feel really good that the criteria that Metro has put together is solid and that the public process that we should Trust the public process to help us make that decision. It may turn out as the conversations are happening that council wants to weigh in in those conversations but at this point, I think we feel pretty comfortable with the process and
 Thank you. That's really good to hear. And if you could pass on to Metro to consider alternative ways of testifying other than being in a council chamber on a Wednesday morning. I think one of my concerns would be that some of the underserved communities may not have a lot of capacity to turn out the troops. Exactly. So I very much appreciate this process and all of your work. Thank you. Thanks. And I just had just a couple more projects, just three more to highlight. Thank you.
 The first one is the Outer Star Calls the Complete Street Project Development. In our growing transit community grants, we've identified that these two street segments, one, are high-crash locations, but also really need some additional investment to meet our transit goals and our pedestrian bike safety goals. So this is project development money. Metro sets aside a little bit of project development money, and so we think this is a pretty competitive project, even though we're only asking for $300,000. Thank you.
 If you remember, in the regional flexible fund, 75% gets allocated to active transportation and 25% gets allocated to freight or green economy. The fact
 Factors they're looking at here, the three top factors are leveraging other resources, reducing freight delay, and increasing freight access. Rivergate would have been the project that we had on the list, but as the commissioner mentioned, we got it funded through a TIGER grant. So that project came off the list, and we now have two projects. The first one is Central East Side Circulation and Safety Enhancement Project. This is actually one of those sort of projects.
 Win-wins between freight and bicycle and pedestrian interests. I think there was a lot of good work that happened in the southeast region.
 quadrant plan about some additional signals that could be added, as well as some changes to how some of the signals were working. It would not only benefit trucks, but would also provide some more certainty of where bikes are crossing, pedestrians are crossing in this heavily, an area with a lot of demands. So this has been a nice one that, as our freight advisory committee, strongly supports the project and has a lot of benefits across the modes. Thank you.
 The last project is an intelligent transportation system project, so coordination of signals, understanding where trucks are, keeping trucks out of dilemma zones. We had a grant a few years ago to do some of this work, but it's turned out that there's a lot more value that we can add with additional ITS investments.
 So that's the presentation. The applications are due August 26th. Again, like I had mentioned to Commissioner Fritz, the public comment period is going to be in October, so we'll be involved in that conversation and do what we can to help make sure that voices that maybe sometimes aren't heard are heard in that process. And then funding decisions January 2017, and then the money will be here in 19 to 21. Thank you all. Further questions for our team? Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up.
 Terry Parker, fourth generation Portlander, and I've lived in the same house since I was four years old. If you follow the media, if you hear what drivers in the freight community are saying, Portland is getting more congested. As noted by Bruce Starr on KATU's Your Voice, Your Vote, more motor vehicle road capacity is needed to reduce congestion creep. Yet at the same time, PBOT is proposing road diets that lessen motor vehicle capacity, create even more congestion, and therefore more emissions.
 My comments today are directed to the description of the Northeast Halsey Safety and Access Transit Project. That's in Exhibit A. And that's what's online. And I apologize I didn't make a copy because my scanner happens to be down right now. When this section of Halsey at the end of my block was repaved and learning that the street would be reconfigured into a two-lane street from a four-lane street with parking on the curb lane during the non-peak hours,
 I went door to door and spoke with neighbors. The primary and majority concern was to retain parking on Halsey so that overflow from the Providence Home Service's 215-space parking lot that could only be accessed from Halsey would not take place on the cross streets. Now with a road diet in place between 60th and 66th, pedestrian safety conflicts have increased at 60th Avenue Signal, and westbound traffic on Halsey often backs up to a crawl six blocks or more from 60th.
 Because of safety concerns on weekdays, I will no longer make a left-hand turn onto Halsey off of my street using extra gas to take the longer route around. Top priorities for the Rose City Park neighborhood include a left-turn signal from westbound Halsey to southbound 60th.
 Re-establishing an additional peak period Halsey travel lanes where the road diet is today, wider sidewalks on Northeast 60th, and establishing various marked crosswalks. There's already a bike route on Tillamook and Hancock streets that parallel Halsey. We were told that our, as a neighborhood, that our
 thoughts would be incorporated, but it seems like they're not listening to us when prioritizing the special interests, be it bicycle developers or whomever. I'm a little bit confused here because what I saw on the screen was a bicycle lane to 65th, and somewhere in the stuff online, I got it was to 55th. It should only go to 67th.
 cross the freeway and then down, cross the highway and then down 67th to Tillamook, which is already a bikeway. Halsey is too narrow.
 to have bike lanes and parkings, and there is a need for the jog, for four lanes for the jog between 60 and 52nd. Finally, to finish up here, over the next 20 years, car trips in the Portland metro area are expected to increase by 49% regardless of how much mass transit service is added. Nearly 10% of the jobs in the U.S. are related to the auto industry. Instead of profiling and targeting motorists as the enemy, when are you going to wake up
 to reality and properly accommodate these primary taxpaying financial stakeholders that currently supply the majority of funding for citywide transportation system projects? And when are you going to – when is the freeloading bicycle community
 going to equitably pay their own way and be weaned off from using gas tax dollars and other motorist fees to pay for their huge I want list that doesn't give a rip about the negative impacts to other street users. I apologize for not sticking with my testimony, but I'm a little bit confused about the 55th versus 65th when our neighborhood said 67th so that the bicycles could get across the
 the freeway because there's plenty of room on the freeway overpass between 67th and 68th but we don't want them down halls and we'd like what what has been called the skip striping putting the the pro tem parking back on and the lanes back in between 60th and 65th uh left turn pocket at 60th to make it so that traffic doesn't back up and that there has been a letter sent from
 to PBOT from the Neighborhood Association. Again, I apologize I don't have a copy because I didn't have a copy on my computer, but I know that one was sent. All right. Well, obviously more discussion between the neighborhood and PBOT is appropriate. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, I'll be brief on this. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Just the question I have is that you're saying these funds will be available from 2019 to 2021. Yes.
 Is there not funding available for these projects at this time, and why would they be pushed out that many years through the metro regional government? And also real fast, if I might finalize this, you mentioned a bridge. I believe you said Flanders. Yes. Could you maybe speak a little bit more on that? Are you also planning on applying for a grant through this toward that bridge and maybe elaborate a little bit more on that? Thank you.
 Actually, Mark, do you want to respond to that? Mark Clear, Portland Bureau of Transportation. We submitted a grant to Connect Oregon for Flanders Active Transportation Bridge. I think as we mentioned to Council, it's also something that will be a lifeline route in case of an earthquake. It connects between 15th and 16th on Flanders over I-405.
 And the 2019-21, that's just a function of the federal money comes in sort of three-year crunches. Exactly, and we're always planning a frustrating period ahead, but that's just the way the process works. Okay, thank you. I appreciate the clarification. Okay, any other questions? Then let's take a vote, please. Saltzman? These look like good projects. Good luck. Aye. No, thank you.
 Really appreciate all the work community members and PBOT staff have done identifying these projects and gathering support for them, and I'm very hopeful that we'll do very well in the process.
 I very much appreciate the heavy emphasis on sidewalks in this list and looking forward to the wide public process encouraging everyone to participate and thanks to Leah treat and all the people at staff as well as Commissioner Novick. If folks can turn out to the Metro hearings like they have at our budget hearings about the importance of these projects and neighborhoods I have no confidence I have no lack of confidence that will be victorious aye
 Okay, let's move on to 960. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland Public Schools and TriMet for $966,666 to continue the student transit pass project to offer public transportation for high school students at Portland Public Schools. Commissioner Novick.
 I think this is a familiar item, and I don't know if much elaboration is required, but I will ask Alyssa Mahar and Dan Gibbs to come up to answer any questions people may have. Hey. Good morning. Hi. So Alyssa Mahar, Executive Director of Finance and Business Operations for PBOT, and Dan Gibbs, Equity and Inclusion Manager for PBOT.
 So as Commissioner Novick said, this is a recurring item. There's general fund one time in the budget this year for the Youth Pass. It's a three-way partnership. This is an IGA between Portland Public Schools, TriMet, and PBOT to continue the program for one more year. And we do have a handout that you have now before you. And if you have any questions, we're happy to address them. When do the discussions start about next year? Okay.
 question we're happy to have the conversation whenever it's the right time I I would very much like the school boards of all the districts in Portland and try met and the council and the county indeed to have a plan for how is Portland public going to start paying for its own transportation which it gets money from the state or alternatively how are the students in East Portland going to get
 bus passes and why the heck is the city responsible for providing them anyway it should be between tri-med and the school districts and maybe we could get the governor involved because it just seems like every year we're going to be the bad guys if we don't continue to fund it and it's really not our job
 I know you know that, and it's not equitable. So I really hope, and budget time is starting almost before we know it. So if we could set up something maybe with Mayor Elect Wheeler for September or October so that we can not spring it on anybody but just say we are no longer going to do this because it's not our job and we can't in good conscience give it to Portland Public and not to Park Rose and David Douglas and other students.
 My other concern is how do the student... It's just for the school year. So if a student has to make up credits during the summer, certainly for that, Portland Public will be providing them with bus passes. And we heard from...
 students in East Portland that they did a study at Parkhurst High School, and a phenomenal number of kids have been late to school because they missed the school bus and they can't afford to get the regular bus. So let's bring all these things and get some resolution to this challenge. Yeah, that's a lofty and worthy goal. It is crazy that we have to keep having this debate, and it's something of a game of chicken.
 over something that to me has become more obvious that we ought to be having free and ubiquitous access to both transportation and recreation for all the kids in the city. It's a bargain at twice the price. We just have to figure out how to have it funded by the appropriate parties for the long run. Well, when we first started doing it, it was to help the schools during the recessions and we had more money. Wasn't it because they stopped being able to use Betsy money to do it? Yes. Yes.
 And it still isn't our responsibility, and it needs to stop. Yes, yes. I'm absolutely going to support this, but it's not right.
 we will make sure that the continuing conversation happens and the right people get in the room for that and whoever you feel like need to be involved will definitely circle back with you and make sure we have the right people well when we first started doing it that the number was predicated on they're going to be adding more buses because of all the students and they don't so it actually costs try met nothing except for some kids might otherwise buy bus passes so it's not they didn't put on any more buses
 Commissioner, actually it appears to me that the mayor's office has wound up gnarled in these discussions more than I have over the past few years. So it is something I'll definitely bring up with Mayor Leck Wheeler to get him thinking about how to negotiate this. And the reason I mention the governor is that the TriMet board should be stepping up. We want our kids to get – It's a legislative issue for next session. So as we develop the package, obviously with his engagement in that as well, come on state, step up.
 make this make this actually it should be regional it shouldn't just be portland yeah regional transit agency we got kids that need to get to work and internships and all kinds of things other than school itself
 Maybe there'll be more partnerships with community colleges like we have with Jefferson and PCC. Come on, let's get our kids in circulation instead of having them stuck either at home or at school, or worse, having parents driving them places. So it seems to me it ought to be a regional mandate or a regional birthright for young people to have access to the transit system. And you're right. We're not saying add service. We're just saying let the kids ride the bus for free.
 it's been a frustrating conversation to say the least but I'm glad we've cobbled together a solution but we shouldn't be satisfied with that. This is a dangerous thing to note but it's conceivable the state might have a few billion dollars more to play with next year. It is conceivable. They might be able to do the right thing in more ways. Thank you both very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up.
 I'm Mr. Shedrick. I agree with Commissioner Fritz that this is not a city thing. This should be a state program. I support Kate Brown, Governor Kate Brown. I will go talk to her about it. I don't like the fact that in the future, if there is a declining school budget, students in the public schools will come here and beg for money. I don't like it.
 And it makes you look bad if you don't help the kids. Going to a public school doesn't mean you can fly around the surrounding Portland area in a bus. It's good, I agree, too, that I told you I want to be interested in Mount Hood Community College. It's a beautiful campus, and maybe high school students should go right out there and see it during the school year and plan to go to school there. But you should not pay for it.
 Thank you. Okay, let's take action, please, on this. Roll call. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Thank you very much. Liz and Dan, aye. Great. Thank you to Portland's taxpayers, all of them, for subsidizing this, and let's make some changes. Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, 962. Thank you.
 authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsive and responsible bidder for construction of the Washington Park International Rose Test Garden ADA Improvements Project. Chris. Thank you. I am excited to bring another project to you, and Lauren McGuire is going to explain it to us.
 My name is Lori Weir. I'm the Parks Development Program Manager for Portland Parks. And with me is Robin Lawson, who is the project manager for this particular project. We're here today to request council authorization of the competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible and responsive bidder for the construction of the Washington Park Rose Test Garden ADA Improvement Project.
 The bond repair project for Washington Park is made possible through the support of the Portland community, as it is funded by the 2014 replacement bond. We're grateful that Portlanders have historically helped the city to repair and maintain our much-loved parks through a series of investments, including the first historical levy of record in 1901 to the bond we're talking about today. Oops.
 In November of 2014, the voters passed the $68 million bond measure to address critical needs without increasing taxes because the 2014 bond was replacing the expiring bond. This bond funding goes towards parks' most urgent needs, like replacing failing playgrounds, pools, facilities, other safety and accessibility improvements.
 Seven repair priorities were identified in our early work on the bond. So we have playgrounds, trails and bridges, pools, facilities to protect workers, Piner Courthouse square repairs, accessibility repairs, and restroom and other urgent repairs that we'll be doing through this bond program.
 This particular project, the Washington Park International Rose Test Garden ADA Improvement Project, its purpose is to increase accessibility at the garden. We have great parks, but unfortunately not everyone has equal access to these parks. And so a citywide assessment, as you know, has identified more than 20,000 access barriers in our parks.
 such as missing handrails, inaccessible pathways, outdated wheelchair lifts, that kind of thing, steep slopes. So while significantly more funding is needed, the parks replacement bond will be spending up to $5 million to address many of these barriers in our parks and playgrounds. And in this particular project, the Washington Park Project will make pathway improvements from the barrier-free parking area near the tennis courts
 to the garden entry ramp and then provide entry ramp improvements as well. It'll remove identified barriers from the main north-south promenade in the garden. It'll replace stairs with ramps and handrails. It'll add handrails to different areas, replace our drinking fountain, which is not accessible, with one that is, and it'll be adding accessibility platforms at the amphitheater and replacing deteriorating pavement.
 This is an example of one of the areas that we'll be removing the stairs and putting in the ramp. The timeline for Washington Park ADA Improvement Project is as follows. The design and construction work is done.
 for the drawings, and we've involved the public with a design charrette and an open house. Permit drawings have been submitted. We're here today requesting that council approve and authorize us to bid. With your approval, then the bids will be advertised in September of 2016. The project construction will begin in late fall, early winter of 2015, and then we anticipate completion of that project by 2017. Thank you.
 Look for more projects to come. Also, Grant Pool was just recently opened with our grand opening yesterday, in fact, which was pretty exciting. Other bond projects that will begin construction in the near future include the Wilkes and Park Lane Loo installations, Dishman Pool Repairs, Selwood Bathhouse Pool Repairs, and we'll also be back talking to you about bids for St. John's Community Center and the Lentz Park Playground Barriers. Thank you.
 So that's the end of the presentation. We'll take any questions at this time. I have one. This may be my error. Is there a reason this isn't an emergency ordinance? We have done that where we need to. In other areas where we know we have the 30 days, we could do that, but we didn't do that in this case because we planned ahead for the timeline. So in our future projects, we're trying to back up and plan that 30 days into it.
 I appreciate that. Would you mind if we had an emergency ordinance so we can get started sooner? No, that's great. That's okay with everybody? That's perfect. Commissioner Fritz moves the emergency clause. Is there a second? And that's to expedite these necessary repairs for disability to correct challenges for people with disabilities. Thank you. Second to that motion? Second. Further discussion? Let's take action on the amendment, and then we'll see if we have any testimony. Aye. No, thank you. Aye.
 Thank you. Aye. Nails. Aye. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. No time like the present. Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay. Yes. All right. Great. We'll stand by and be ready in a minute for testimony, so come on up. Mr. Wilkins, go ahead while he's getting ready, please. One thing about the Rose Test Garden, it's very important to people who are interested in growing plants –
 Find out they have a knack for that. I tried to grow stuff, and all I could grow was radishes. It's in the backyard of my dad's house. But anyway, plants are important, even things like roses, because my daughter had cancer. And the story goes that she was cured by chemotherapy. Chemotherapy is based on a vinchristine plant, which is based on hemlock.
 of all things, something that can kill you, kills small cells, cancer cells, and also small hair cells. That's why your hair falls out. And it's very delicate to do these things. Also, if you grow things indoors...
 right? You have things that are temperature controlled, but you can't make as much stuff as you can if you grow it outdoors. So like roses do inspire our next generation of people who know how to grow plants on a large scale. And even plants that are bad for you are good for you, you know, and so far as cancer. And you're talking to somebody, actually, I have an electrical engineering degree. My daughter was given x-ray therapy and it didn't do anything. She was cured by a plant. Good morning. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales, City Commissioners. My name is David Bouchard, and I just happened to be in the audience and heard about this particular item. And I just wanted to stress the importance of, as you move forward with the –
 accessibility improvements to make sure that signs are also made accessible non-visually and to make sure that people who are blind or have low vision have the same access to the same information, whether it's rules and regulations for the area, any information on plants. I know I've been to Washington Park, and I know there are some areas that have little
 blurbs on all the different beautiful plants and other things that are around. So just to put that out there and stress that point to make sure that as we move forward to have to consider braille signage and other ways of conveying written information that is in the park. Thanks. Thank you. That's a really good point.
 Okay. Then now that this is an emergency ordinance, we can take action today. Let's do that. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Very exciting. Aye.
 Thanks to Robin Laughlin, Laura McGuire, and the recently retired Mary Ann Kasson. She was at the grand opening of the grant pool yesterday and looking very relaxed. The rest of us were all hyped up and ready to go because we're so grateful to the taxpayers for approving this bond measure to make sure that we can do needed repairs and also increase accessibility.
 So, Washington Park Rose Gardens get over 500,000 visitors annually and this is a much needed improvement for accessibility and we will indeed make sure that we add some features for sight impaired folks.
 And this project's community involvement and public outreach process included a technical advisory committee, a three-day design charrette and a public open house meeting. The project is scheduled for completion prior to the garden's centennial anniversary of spring of 2017. And the work will be coordinated with ongoing Water Bureau reservoir work
 To minimize impacts on either project and the surrounding community, neighbors will be notified of construction progress and activities that may affect park use. Thanks very much to everybody for their ongoing support. Aye. Mills? The first park in the city, and it's very appropriate that it gets properly made available to everyone. Aye. Okay, we're adjourned. Really? Short work of this week, this week.