All right, we ready, Carla? Yes. All right. Good morning, everyone. This is the August 22nd AM session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman, Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Wheeler. Here. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm going to read a few announcements about conduct during city council meetings. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The city council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. All right. Good morning. Carla, communications, please. First individual. Thank you.
 Item 874, request of Breanna Bard to address council regarding opposing the development of offshore oil and gas in Oregon. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. Good morning. Counselors. My name's Brianna Bard. I'm a Portland resident. I moved here not too long ago, and I started going to Portland Community College and volunteering with the Surfrider Foundation, the Portland chapter. Immediately after moving here, I started exploring Oregon's just beauty, the city, the vast forest, and the breathtaking coasts.
 As I'm sure you know, earlier this year the Trump administration proposed the National OSC Oil and Gas Leasing Draft proposed program. This would open Oregon's coast to offshore oil and gas drilling, putting our coast in danger. And that, to be clear, is three miles out where the federal waters begin. If...
 This would, oh. I wanted to request your support in passing a resolution to oppose the development of oil and gas off of the Oregon coast. And although we're not a coastal town, Portland is a large port to the Pacific. And I think that having Portland support would further solidify this movement.
 Many of the cities and ports along the coast are already starting to take action, and having Portland as an ally would only strengthen the movement. I've been tracking the opposition as well, and I've also provided some draft resolutions and fact sheets for your reference and review. Thank you, number one. Number two, you have my complete personal support.
 Number three, I will work with my colleagues on a resolution, and I'd be interested in seeing your draft resolution. And number four, we have been working with the Surfrider Foundation on a completely different, but I guess somewhat related issue of plastic straws and other materials that end up non-recyclable, non-compostable materials that end up in the ocean.
 And so while we are 90 miles away, we certainly see the importance of the bigger picture. So I appreciate your coming in. And if you could just give your contact information to Mustafa, I'd be happy to take it to the next step. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for coming. Where did you move from? Maryland. Nice. I'm glad you're here. And thank you to the Zipfrider Foundation for you coming in to represent rather than sending me 300 emails, which has been in the past quite challenging to respond to. I'm the...
 The council's delegates are the Oregon League of Cities Board, and so what I'd like to do is to take it to them so that the cities around the state, over 200 of them, can also comment and let us know if there's other things that we should be considering. So I'll give you my contact information, if I may, and if you could email me the documents that you've given us...
 in writing, that would be very helpful. Absolutely. So her idea is better than mine because it has more leverage. And if we can get the League of Cities on board, I think that's exactly the right way to go. Okay. We will certainly be a backstop, or at least you can consider me as such, and I have conversations with my colleagues. But Commissioner Fritz is right. If we can get the League of Cities on board, that's a much more powerful statement. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Next individual, please, Carla. Thank you.
 Item 875, request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding trust and local government. Good morning, sir. Good morning, council. My name is Craig Rogers. I live in Portland where everything's okay and nobody's responsible.
 The cornerstone of a functioning democracy is transparency and accountability. Craig, I'm sorry. Could you move the mic just maybe about six inches is better. Back or forward? A little away from you. Okay. Thank you. Good. Thank you. I apologize for blowing everybody's ears. So I've had an experience a lot of other people have had. I requested some information earlier this year with regards to
 PBOT and basically the amount of employees fiscal 2013 and then mid-2018. And I left all my contact information. And a month passed, and I was assured I'd be contacted, but I wasn't. So then I did call up and say I was disappointed that I wasn't contacted. And then I just made up the numbers. Yes.
 And I actually shared those made-up numbers with somebody who was in a prominent position. They attended a meeting. They said those numbers. And then within two days, I got this big PDF with more information than I ever requested. And it just shows you if the city's not going to respond, just make it up. And maybe they're going to respond. Maybe they won't. But just make it up.
 I got a cousin that's a vice president of Ford, and he said, that's genius. And I said, I didn't plan it that way. It just happened. So I live next to a hillside with three property owners. And about a year ago...
 It was a tent city, and right about the time you were holding your news conference, it said Portland's not a tent city. I could go outside and see it. And there's somebody very close to you, and you know who that is, who I requested to meet at the East Portland Community Center, and we'd walk across the field so you could have a better view of what's really going on. One of the biggest things that I was a witness to were a lot of assaults.
 That the police wouldn't respond to. And you know I've been down here and told you the face of homelessness is a woman with a black eye and a bloody nose. And I'd see it up front. And I wanted you to see it too. But you never did. So you don't know what you're talking about when it comes to homeless. Thank you. This survey isn't any better.
 And here you are right here. This is where the rubber meets the road. My response, Wheeler took a wrong turn. This is the Oregonian. The front page of the Oregonian on January 1, 2017, showed a photo of Mayor Ted Wheeler with a quote, this is where the rubber meets the road. Seems to me the only road this city has been on since Wheeler took office is the highway to hell. That's all I have to say. It's good seeing you again. Next individual, please.
 Item 876, request of Stan Herman to address council regarding a request to meet with a council member. Good morning, Mr. Herman. The paperwork that you're about to receive, Amanda, and you were not here at the last meeting, so there were my notes from the previous communication. Mr. Mayor, hey, we had a good meeting on June 11th. I enjoyed it. Thank you for coming. But nothing resulted from your recommendation to go to the police. It never happened. Thank you.
 So last week when I was here, I went to the city attorney and said, hey, this is what I want to get some answers on. Because I told Rochelle, I said, you know what, maybe we should talk to the city attorney instead of the police department. And I guess there is an attorney for the police department. So I don't know where that paperwork went. I gave it to the attorney last week to see if we could maybe get a resolution to that one answer. So I'm asking if that works.
 ever came about? I spoke to Michelle this morning, and I know she tried to reach you. We have not yet been able to schedule that meeting. It's just because people are traveling. It's summer, but we will get that meeting scheduled. So I apologize for the delay on that. Okay. We're on the right track. We told you we would do that, and you have my word we will. But, you know, the answer I'm trying to get, you know, you guys are paid to make decisions and give opinions. I've been working on this since November 2016. Okay.
 And like I said on my last meeting, I said I'm changing this from a business communication to a political agenda. You know, explain to me if I'm doing something wrong. But we'll go ahead and set aside and wait for this meeting in November.
 There is more to it. I'm sure you know I've got other agendas, and it's not negative. I think you know me a little bit more by now, but it's not negative. But I think we've just got to clear up this one thing, and then we'll go down the road this way, or we'll do something more positive this way. Perfect. So I'll wait for a call. I look forward to it. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Herman. Thanks for coming in. Next individual, please. Thank you.
 Item 877, a request of David Nelson to address counsel regarding why Portland Police Bureau has not done an investigation in covering up corruption. Good morning, sir. How are you doing? Good, thank you. It's been a long time. Glad to be here. I'll get right to the point. What's in this bag right here, there's nobody in this room that can reproduce what I have in my possession. I have a microscope with probably about 20 pieces of damaged property, and this complements the federal government.
 Number one is for the last year, it seems like the Portland police have taken a perspective point with police pursuit syndrome and trying to quiet me on what I've got in this bag right here. Anybody can take, feel free to look. I've gotten to the opportunity where I feel like I should go in downtown Portland at Pioneer Square and say, I'll give you $20 and I'll kiss your behind anywhere you want. If you can reproduce what's on these bolts at any time in your life, anybody you know.
 I have a lot of damaged property. On October 27th of last year, a Melissa B., which is known to be a prostitute, knocks on my door. I believe she was a paid informant by the Portland police. I believe she was sent there to put a pipe bomb on my table. And it would have put me in prison for the rest of my life.
 That girl, within three days I knew her last name. I've got her address and she's never been questioned by the Portland Police and that's part of the cover up. At this time next door to me, out at my house, come to find out for the last year I've been being harassed upstairs in my attic access. I've seen my neighbor down at the store. I said hi, he says hi. Go back home about an hour later, I've heard somebody in my attic access. I took a pole, whatever, put it through my ceiling and actually hit him.
 of voyeurism out there. I've called the police. They wouldn't take a report. On July 25th, I filled out the communication request to come down here and express what's going on out there. Five days later, I'm assaulted by a Portland police officer with a garbage can and a Bodor. Hits me in the back with it and chases me out of my shoes, which is a Measure 11 crime. He's still walking the streets today, living in his apartment. And then you're going to ask, well, why didn't you have a restraining order out on him? They wouldn't do their job the first time because it's a cover-up.
 And one other question here about what this is all about, what it all entails, is that an executive order was passed by Barack Obama while he was in office. And I'm a United States veteran. I put my life on the line for this piece of real estate. Honorably discharged. I had a secret clearance. Long story short is this policy, this executive order, Barack Obama was sworn in on the Koran. He is a Muslim. I will respect his diversity if he respects my history. I don't have a problem with anybody's religion.
 But the thing about it is this policy says exactly this, policy on pre- and post-strike conditions involving the use of force on civilians in the United States. I have two empty chairs at my table, and I'd like to know what those numbers are and what ethnicity is being cheated out of due process of law and habeas corpus, the right to know what you're being tried and convicted of. And that's all I have to say. I've got the evidence right here that nobody in this room could ever possibly produce.
 Feel free to take a look at it. There's a microscope and about 15 pieces. I trust you. I know you don't have to respond. Thank you, sir. It got to the point that when I was assaulted, I knew that it was going to be tried to swept under the rug, that I went over and filed a $10,000 small claims lawsuit on him.
 I've got the district attorney over there telling me that we're not going to file criminal charges because it will be taken care of in small claims court. How does that work that if you can win in small claims court, but you can't be tried and convicted in criminal court of Measure 11? Yeah, it's perplexing. Thank you for coming in. We appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Anybody feel free to take over. The evidence is right here with you.
 Item 878, request of Charles Bridgecrane Johnson to address counsel regarding courage of the houseless, homeless community and hashtag abolish ICE, demonstrator protesters and hashtag Black Lives Matter solidarity. Let's see. Bridgecrane here today.
 Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda, Carla? Yes. We've had a request for 886. 886. Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. And we will go to the first time certain item, please. Item number 879. Proclaim August 30th to be Portland Gay Men's Chorus Day. Okay.
 Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to invite Rick Young, the Executive Director of the Portland Gay Men's Chorus, to join us at the dais. Here's the run of show. I have a few remarks. We're going to invite Rick to say a few words. The Mayor will then read a proclamation. The Portland Gay Men's Chorus will sing a beautiful song, Never Again, and then we'll take some pictures. Never ever. Excuse me, never ever. Never ever.
 That's more definitive. So, Rick, as you know, our community is very proud to be home of the Portland Gay Men's Chorus. In the spring, I had the honor of joining Governor Kate Brown and hundreds of others at your Pacific Voices Spring Concert at Reed College. And you performed with the Beijing Queer Chorus, and it was an unforgettable evening.
 One of the things we learned that night is that many of the singers from the Beijing Queer Chorus wear masks while performing in China to protect their identities. It's very sobering. It was a great reminder of the immense challenges faced by the LGBTQ communities around the world and the importance of groups like the Portland Gay Men's Chorus. Now, the chorus is about to embark on a tour of the People's Republic of China. They are the first LGBTQ chorus to ever do so.
 And we are so excited for you and proud of you. Thank you for being leaders in our community for equality and dignity, both here and abroad. And I'd like to ask the mayor if he would take a moment. Excuse me. Rick, I'd like to invite you to say a few remarks. And then I'll ask the mayor if he would please do us the honor of reading the proclamation. Welcome, Rick. Thank you. So you gave my speech. You know that.
 So to the Honorable Mayor Wheeler and the esteemed commissioners of the City of Portland, good morning. I am Richard Young, the Executive Director of the Portland Gay Men's Chorus. May I state for the record that the Portland Gay Men's Chorus is proud to be here in City Hall this morning. Thank you for allowing us this opportunity to offer both in word and in song a couple of thoughts. Thank you.
 For over 38 years now, PGMC has been an important part of the fabric that makes this city such a remarkable place to live. PGMC has grown and prospered just as this city has. We are who we are today because of the support and the acceptance that we have received here in this city, and we thank you for that. Before every concert, our Artistic Director of 25 years, Bob Minsell, likes to point out this is going to be the best concert ever.
 And after every concert, audiences and singers always seem to agree. Well, this season, our 38th, will go down for many of us as the best season ever.
 What Unites Us, our fall concert, saw this chorus partner with ten amazing nonprofit organizations in a first-time collaboration that was highlighted by the West Coast premiere of Seven Last Words of the Unarmed, considered to be one of the most important new choral pieces written this decade. Specific Voices, our spring concert, showcased the chorus's multilingual side, as well as the stunning talent of our guest artist, the Beijing Queer Chorus.
 Broadway was a focus of pride, an amazing concert filled with song and choralography as only PGMC can do it. And we end this amazing season by becoming the first gay chorus to tour and perform in China. Four cities, Beijing, Xi'an, Shanghai, and Portland's own sister city, Suzhou. Four concerts, four showcases for music and message that is uniquely the Portland Gay Men's Chorus.
 This landmark tour could not have been accomplished without the generosity and support of this community we call home. This morning, the Corps would like to express our profound thanks and appreciation to this community for all it has done in helping this Corps fulfill the dream to honor and uplift our community and to affirm the worth of all people.
 So we end this best season ever with the understanding that just like our concert, our next season, the 39th, will be our best season ever. PGMC will continue to strive towards that goal because we have a story to tell, a song to sing, and an audience that continues to be a part of our past, our present, and our future. So again, on behalf of the Portland Gay Men's Chorus,
 We want to thank you for your 38 years of support, and we promise to make the next 38 years just as fabulous. Mayor, can we suspend the rules? We can suspend the rules. So we're going to turn to the mayor, who will issue a proclamation, and then we'll ask the singers to come forward and regale us. Whereas the Portland Gay Men's Chorus was founded in 1980.
 and has been an outstanding part of the city's performing arts and LGBTQ communities for the past 38 years. And whereas the Portland Gay Men's Chorus aspires to expand, redefine, and perfect the choral art through eclectic performances that honor and uplift our entire community,
 And whereas the members of the Portland Gay Men's Chorus, through their performances and dedication to excellence in music, reflect a positive image of the LGBTQ community and promote understanding and acceptance. And whereas the members of the Portland Gay Men's Chorus serve as arts and culture ambassadors for the city of Portland by traveling around the nation and the world.
 and affirming the power of inclusion, diversity, and the worth of all people. And whereas this fall, the Portland Gay Men's Chorus will become the first gay chorus to tour and perform in the People's Republic of China with concerts in Beijing, Xi'an, Shanghai, and of course, our own sister city, Suzhou.
 And whereas the City of Portland is proud to support and celebrate the Portland Gay Men's Chorus and to extend our best wishes for a successful tour in 39th season.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, the Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim Thursday, August 30, 2018, to be Portland Gay Men's Chorus Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council. As Rick noted, our performances often are inimitable because of their theater and dancing, but today we have no jazz hands. It will just be singing. So thank you. It's an honor to be here, and thank you for your service to our shared beloved city. We'll be back. Sure. Never will there be
 We all will be together Never such a moment Never we'll be alone And see these faces All these faces Never
 hear these voices never ever hear this sound never will we have that first time or this last time or just this time never get to live our lives all over forever
 Ever Oh life will take us where it will New beginnings, ends Take each moment as a gift Take each moment as a gift
 Take each moment as a gift. Give it back, give it back again.
 So let's, if you can stay up here, we'll bring the chorus forward and we'll get a photograph with the council. Tall people in the back. Shrubs and bushes. Thank you. Thank you. Next up is item 880, Carla. Thank you.
 update the City of Portland's sustainable procurement policy. Colleagues, the city spends a lot of money, over $350 million in contracted services just over the last fiscal year. That spending obviously has significant impacts, not just to our budgets and not just locally.
 Whether we're talking about global warming or conflict minerals in our supply chain, sustainable procurement is about understanding and taking responsibility for the impacts of our consumption of goods and services. What kind of market signal are we sending? What kind of market signal we are sending reflects the city's values? Integrity, equality, environmental stewardship, diversity, innovation, and quality.
 Sustainable procurement is about using our purchasing power to transform markets for the better. The Sustainable Procurement Program has historically focused on integrating sustainability-related requirements into citywide price agreements such as furniture, cleaning products, apparel, lumber, office supplies, and other items.
 The program went through a strategic planning process in 2017-18, and as a result is implementing new programming, starting with the update to the Sustainable Procurement Policy as the foundation. Here to present on the policy is Sustainable Procurement Coordinator Stacey Foreman. Stacey, come on up. Good morning.
 Thank you for that introduction. Good morning. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, I'm Lester Spittler, the chief procurement officer. I'm here to introduce our sustainable procurement coordinator, which you just did. And I apologize I didn't have you on my notes. No worries. So I apologize for overlooking that. Yes, it's okay. Thank you. So I just want to remind everyone this is an OMF procurement policy because we are a centralized procurement shop in the city. So we support all of the bureaus and all of their procurement contracting activity.
 The city is really fortunate to have an asset like Stacey. She's dedicated her professional career to advancing this work for the city of Portland, and she's responsible for the city being recognized and acknowledged nationally and internationally by organizations such as the World Bank, the Urban Sustainability Directors Network, and the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council. So with that, I'll turn it over to Stacey to present on the new policy. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. Good morning. Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz just stepped out. But thank you for your time today. As mentioned already, my name is Stacey Foreman. I serve as the Sustainable Procurement Coordinator in OMF Procurement Services, and I'm here today to provide a brief overview of this update to the city's sustainable procurement policy. Do I just hit next?
 So as Mayor Wheeler already mentioned, the city does spend a lot of money. In this slide, you'll see that there is an official definition for sustainable procurement established by the International Standards Organization just last year in their publication of 2400, the Sustainable Procurement Guidance. However, how I like to think about it is very similar to what Mayor Wheeler said earlier, is that
 That spend has definite impacts, whether we're looking upstream or downstream. And those impacts are quite complex. They cover many different issue areas, whether we're talking about resource extraction or the rights of workers throughout our supply chain. And so what sustainable procurement is about is really trying to understand those impacts and see those opportunities, see those opportunities for using our purchasing power to transform markets for the better.
 So just a quick history lesson here. The sustainable procurement work at the city really began in 2002. However, the sustainable procurement policy as we know it today was established in 2008. There were a few minor updates done in 2010. However, this is really the first big revision of that 2008 policy.
 As mentioned by Lister earlier, it has historically been viewed as a leadership policy by our peers, both nationally and internationally. And we've had a number of successes with this policy so far. Many of our citywide price agreements are...
 featuring energy efficient products, less toxic products, products that are disclosing where they're made in factories overseas. All sorts of different features. One of which I would like to call out in particular is our recent furniture solicitation
 where we worked with OMF Facility Services to ensure that the furniture on this solicitation would have many low toxic qualities to it. So, for example, it has to meet certifications around indoor air quality so that it's not polluted.
 detrimental to our employees' health when they're in there using that furniture. It also required that certain chemicals were not in the furniture such as formaldehyde which is a known carcinogen and certain flame retardants which are known neurotoxins and this not only benefits our employees but also everyone who in that supply chain because those harmful chemicals aren't there so either in the supply chain or downstream when we're done with those products.
 We also use that solicitation to evaluate what the suppliers are doing in terms of corporate responsibility. The manufacturer that is the primary manufacturer on the resulting contract is Steelcase and they are signatory to the UN Global Compact.
 which is a commitment by signatories to align strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal goals. And so I just want to highlight how one solicitation is trying to cover many different issues and using that purchasing power to transform things for the better.
 So why are we updating now? Obviously it's been 10 years. The 2008 policy got us a long ways. A lot has actually changed in the last four years. I mentioned already that the international community came together and defined sustainable procurement through ISO 2400.
 But there's also an uptake in terms of a network of community through Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council and others. There's also advances in expectations around sustainable procurement, and I think you'll hear from some folks testifying today around those expectations. And so there is a need to reflect those expectations and incorporate them into an updated policy.
 We also heard from our internal stakeholders, the bureaus that we serve as a central procurement office, to consolidate the proliferation of procurement-related sustainability policies. We have several topic-specific, very single-issue-specific, sustainable procurement-related policies on the books, and this policy attempts to fold those into one policy.
 So that it's easy for employees to identify where to look for those mandates and those action items and those expectations. So even though we are consolidating these policies, we are not losing sight of those mandates that were contained in those policies. We are putting them under a section in the policy called best practices, something that we consider how we do business here at the city.
 We are also establishing in this new update, as I referred to earlier, action items around more complex issues. These are issues that we believe will take a little more time for us to kind of figure out. And pilot tests, and these are ones that are particularly housed in our supply chain where it's a little more complex to dive deep down into there and figure out how we can do a better job and use that purchasing influence.
 I believe this also reestablishes our policy as a leadership policy. I know that it received hundreds of views as a draft form from peers around the nation. And I think it provides clear guidance to employees through those best practices sections. It sets better expectations around procurement metrics and reporting and allows for continuing maintenance as this field is rapidly evolving.
 So what's next? As Mayor Wheeler mentioned earlier, the Sustainable Procurement Program is undergoing strategic planning, the start of which is this policy update. After this update,
 update hopefully gets approved today. We will be launching a revamp of our online employee resources, so employees have some tools on hand to help them implement the various best practices and action items in the policy. We are also launching a program communications plan, and we are currently working with a consultant to do a review of available tools that are on the marketplace to help us understand things such as cost-benefit analyses of various action items
 or some tools also look at corporate responsibility performance of suppliers. And so right now we're doing that evaluation of various tools to try to figure out, okay, where should we invest first and what tools would be most effective for our stakeholders. Thank you.
 Starting tomorrow, we are also participating in the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council's benchmark program, and that's pretty much what it sounds like. It's taking a deep dive and looking at our program and benchmarking it against known best practices and how we could become a more strategic and proactive program. And then also, we are looking forward to reengaging bureaus with targeted high-impact, high-value pilot projects. Many of those are tied to those emerging best practices listed in the policy.
 So with that, I'm wrapping it up, and we'll take any sort of questions. Good. Thank you.
 Is there a public testimony on this item, Carla? Mayor, I have a couple. Commissioner Daly. Yeah. Did you have questions of the staff? I don't have questions, but thank you very much. And thanks for your hard work on this policy. So I have a couple amendments to introduce that were drafted in collaboration with Commissioner Fish and just really seek to expand a little on the area of labor practices. So.
 Amendment number one would add language after the last whereas that states, whereas part of taking responsibility for the full life cycle of impacts and costs of goods and services should include the labor practices of companies that require subcontracting of employees to provide a service the city procures.
 And Amendment Number 2 would add language after the first, now therefore be it resolved, that states, be it further resolved that the Office of Management and Finance is directed to work with stakeholder groups, including but not limited to union labor representatives, community member organization representatives, and contracting trade associations to provide recommendations to this policy for contracted services that address corporate responsibility disclosures
 scoring for equity and economic sustainability, best practices in labor relations, and accountability, compliance, and monitoring. These policy recommendations will come back to City Council no later than 90 days from the passage of this resolution. Mayor, I'll second both for purposes of discussion. We have motions from Commissioner Udaly. We'll call it Udaly 1 and Udaly 2. We have seconds on both Udaly 1 and 2 from Commissioner Fisher. Mayor, do you have an amendment? I do not have an amendment. So...
 Does anyone have any questions about my – I just have a comment. No, no, he has this one. But I was just curious, does the mayor have an amendment? And the answer is no. No, I have no proposed amendments. Do you want me to give a justification? No, I think they're self-explanatory. I just wanted to, number one, say I support these. I think they're good amendments and appropriate amendments, but
 I just had a clarifying question, which is, as you know, the staff, procurement staff and others, have been working on this policy for the better part of a year. And some of these questions are particularly important and thorny questions. Number one, is 90 days sufficient? And number two, I'm curious to know, is there –
 is it the intention that your office and or Commissioner Fish's office will work with this group to ensure that the conversation moves forward so that there are recommendations that come back to the council? I'm certainly very open to that. I'm also open to expanding the time frame. Do we want to bring staff back up to discuss that briefly? Sure. Sure.
 Yeah, I think it actually makes sense, Mayor and Commissioner Daly, to think about extending the 90-day clock a little bit. And one of the reasons is as soon as we come back right after Labor Day, we start going into the budget season, and we have a lot of things that are on our agenda.
 And we want to get this right, and the mayor is correct that this is pretty complicated stuff, and there's a lot of consultation that needs to be done. So I'd certainly be open to extending that clock. And to be clear, we're just asking the office to consider these recommendations and give us their feedback on them. There's no requirement to come with them. But personally, I do feel very strongly that when we talk about sustainability, we have to talk about labor practices and subcontracting.
 I should have asked staff before I asked if 90 days was sufficient. Is there a specific timeline that we're up against? Is there a reason why you picked 90 days? Well, originally it was 60, so we gave ourselves an extra 30 days. So you've already given, so you believe 90 days is sufficient. If you're willing to give us more, I think we were just responding to the 60 and saying 90 would be nice, but...
 Well, we can always extend it, I suppose, later if that's necessary. So maybe, and I hate to think on the fly, and I apologize for doing it, but maybe we should just stick to the 90 days and see how we are at approximately day 70. And if we need to extend it, the council can always do it.
 Yeah, and let me just note that the way it's currently written, it comes back to council within 90 days. So that requires not only that the work product be complete, but something be filed. So, Commissioner Daly, perhaps we could just add a qualifier in there that allows this to be extended up to a reasonable period of time in order to complete the work. Sure. And just have that as the understanding of the council. Sure.
 In fact, I might suggest it might be better to just say till the end of the year. I mean, I think deadlines are helpful, other than watching them go whooshing by, as was written by a famous person. I do think that it encourages people to try to get to something, rather than if you say it could be extended, that doesn't...
 hold anybody to... I'll stick with the original resolution as drafted. You guys, you came in here with something in mind, and I've mucked it up by thinking aloud. I should never do that. So we'll just stick with it. So we have two motions, two seconds. Why don't we go ahead and open it up for public testimony, and people should also comment on the amendments if they feel so inclined, and then we'll wrap it up at the end.
 We have six people signed up. The first three are Amanda Ulrich, Paul Vanderford, and Felisa Hagen. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. I'm Amanda Ulrich, and I am speaking specifically to the conflict mineral piece, which was Resolution 37150. And I've been working with the city on this since 2012, and then it was passed in 2015. Commissioner Fritz was the first commissioner we reached out to. Myself and the group of folks I work with have been meeting with all of your offices over the past couple of months, not only about the new sustainable policy, but also –
 looking forward to the city's 2019 legislative agenda and looking at a statewide procurement policy and We're very excited about the new procurement policy Not only is it more robust for all of the considerations that the city makes with all of their purchases but in terms of our piece
 when you look on page four of the new resolution, the compliance piece has shifted from relying on federal legislation to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is an international organization that sets standards
 that companies are already following. And so it makes the city's sustainable practices more robust insofar as they're relying on international standards for compliance and not just federal legislation, which at any time can be removed.
 And it also couples nicely with the overall state procurement policy, which has bipartisan sponsorship and a bill is being drafted right now. So I am here just to speak to our support for the entire policy and specifically this piece.
 Very good. Thank you for coming. Commissioner Fritz? Ms. Ulrich, I didn't know about this issue before you brought it to me in my second term. Since you're on television being watched by tens of thousands of people, would you like to do one minute on what are conflict minerals and why do we care? Sure. And then Eugene, who is here, is going to be speaking at the end, and he is from the region, from eastern Congo. So conflict minerals, there's three minerals.
 tin, tungsten, and tantalum, and gold that are, a majority of them are sourced from eastern Congo, which is the size of the Mississippi River to the eastern seaboard.
 And for nearly 20 years, it has been a source of conflict fighting for control of these minerals. It has led to a death toll higher than that of World War II. So on our end, we are consumers that benefit directly from these minerals, and we have a connection to those that live on the ground there that have been living in circumstances that are horrible. One in ten people in the world that are displaced are from eastern Congo.
 So the City of Portland is a leader on this issue, and even though the City of Portland at the time it passed was the fourth or fifth city to pass such a resolution, the City of Portland was the first city to pass a resolution that was actually implementing the procurement policy. So since all of this type of work has started in this country in 2010, we have seen that 79% of the three T-mines are now conflict-free.
 careful. And my understanding is that these minerals are used in computers in particular and you went on to get Intel to
 Yeah. Avoid using them, is that correct? I'm sorry, what? You got Intel to agree to not use conflict minerals? Well, Intel, there was grassroots pressure put on Intel to offer a supply chain that was conflict-free, and then their CEO at the time embraced that and totally took off, and Intel's entire product line is now conflict mineral-free. And now we're trying to pass it at the state level, right? Yeah, exactly. Thank you so much for your work. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thanks for the opportunity to be here to speak. My name is Paul Vanderford. I'm the Green Markets Program Director at Sustainable Northwest. We're a small nonprofit based here in Oregon. We generally identify and build solutions for economic, environmental, and kind of social middle ground. And we're a small nonprofit based here in Oregon.
 I personally spend my days providing technical assistance to small wood products businesses across the state who have sold $75 million in certified wood, responsibly sourced wood, and employ 1,200 people in this region. I'm here to support the sustainable procurement policy as well. I feel like it puts the city in a strong leadership position on these issues as we advance carbon equity and worker safety. Thank you.
 Given that 48% of the land in Oregon is forested, we just talked about conflict minerals. That's critical. We have to get that right. We're talking about forests in our own state, and when we are buying materials that are coming from forests that are in our state, we're impacting the communities in those locations. For example, we're experiencing fire right now, and one of the things that...
 procuring responsibly source wood can do is help remove in a responsible way fuel loads and reduce reduced fire risk which will help with air quality and in multiple ways get at get at social impacts as well as environmental impacts ecotrust just came up with a study that shows that wood source from fsc certified sources and other ecologically responsible forests
 deliver 20 to 40 percent more carbon value. So if we have carbon goals, this procurement policy helps us in very direct ways drive at that. We also see many communities in Oregon outside of Portland. We have the Bull Run, and we see that as sacred. A lot of communities source drinking water from forests that are actively being managed. Rockaway on the coast and many other coastal communities are going as far as trying to buy their own water.
 forests to protect their drinking water. Until that happens, our procurement strategy can help deliver value to them in terms of fewer toxic aerial sprays of herbicides and in other ways dealing with safety of their water systems. Last, I'll touch on that the EPA just recently came out with a study showing that forest age
 which is beneficially impacted by ecological forestry, is going to deliver twice as much in-stream flow in many instances, which directly impact salmon and other critical species at kind of water-critical months in the summertime, like we're experiencing now. So we have this particular procurement under our carbon goals, but in many ways wood procurement is going to actually touch on our goals as we deal with equity in communities, drinking water safety, and so forth.
 So this sets a very good foundation. I would like to say that we need to deal with impact and monitoring and ensuring that the bureaus are going to be measuring and setting goals for themselves, and Sustainable Northwest would certainly love to be part of that process as we move forward. So thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. The next three are Felisa Hagen, Tammy Kadaby, and Mark Jeffries. Good morning. Thank you for being here. Thank you for having us.
 There are commissioners for the record. My name is Felisa Higgins. I'm the political director at SEIU Local 49. I'd like to talk a little bit in detail about the sustainability policy and the amendment that was offered by Commissioner Udaly and seconded by Commissioner Fish. But first, I'd actually want to start always with the workers that we represent. And surprise, surprise, we're here to talk about workers' wages, benefits, and working conditions. So maybe we could start with Tammy.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Tammy Cadaby, and I'm a member of the SEIU of 49. I have worked for Aramark for over 26 years, and I am proud to be a part of the team of workers that provide the city of Portland with its laundry service.
 I have served on the bargaining team of my contract, and I am a current shop steward at my work site on Airport Way. I am here today to ask that the city make sure its policies are strong enough to protect working families. The city gets a lot of benefits from using a union laundry service. My coworkers and I have good training and knowledge.
 The protection from our union could contribute the lower turnovers. Over the years, I have seen many benefits from fighting alongside my coworkers for our rights. Our wages go up every year, and we have affordable benefits. Thanks for our union contract, my coworkers and I earn at least $14.70 an hour, much more than the current minimum wage of $12 an hour. But even with our union wages and benefits, it's getting harder and harder for my coworkers and I to make ends meet.
 We worry about what happens to us and to our families if we didn't have our jobs or our union. We need a city that is fair for everyone, not just for the rich. My coworkers and I fought hard to raise standards in the laundry industries, and we look to the city council to use the power to help us build a city where good jobs that provide adequate wages and benefits are supported and protected.
 The city could use its own policies to make a better place for all of us by insisting that even the city contracted and subcontracted workers have good jobs. Portland should not just be for rich people. I am asking on behalf of working families throughout Portland that the city of Portland make its policy stronger to make sure that you are protecting working families. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your being here.
 Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Mark Jeffries and I'm an Executive Board Member of the Service Employees International Union Local 49. I am proud to be a part of a team of janitors that work here at Portland City Hall.
 I am here today on behalf of my fellow union janitors and the over 14,000 members of SEIU Local 49 to talk to you about supporting a sustainable procurement policy that takes into account people like us. As union janitors, we get annual wage increases, have access to affordable quality health care, and have a voice on the job.
 I hear you have conversations about procurement of services and how much the contracts cost, but what you are really deciding is what our wages and our benefits will be. I take a lot of pride in my work and being an active member of my union, and I believe that we can work together to create a city that is not just for rich people, and I believe in your leadership to help do that for working families.
 In conclusion, I am asking that the City of Portland make its procurement policy stronger to make sure that you are protecting our working families. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Appreciate your testimony, all three of you. Thank you. So thank you. I think it's really important that we, when we're talking about procurement and the changes that we'd like to see to the policy and the changes that Commissioner Udalli is introducing in her amendment, that we really are talking about working families.
 The city has been a key leader when it comes to one part of sustainability, which is the sustainability of our environment, and that's a critical issue for working families.
 But right now, we all know that working families in the city of Portland are struggling to have affordable housing, to make ends meet. Their health care benefits are under attack, and they're being attacked at the national level when it comes to their rights to collectively bargain and form a union at their job. We're seeing those things erode.
 I think what we're asking and what we're hoping that folks will support Commissioner Udailey's amendment to move forward is to work with the Procurement Office and continue that work with the Procurement Office in a timely manner to address these issues.
 The discussion about the 90 or 60 days, we've been involved for a year and a half in working to update this policy. So you can understand our sense of urgency when you're updating contracts roughly every three months that impact these workers. And that doesn't include the other contracts that are going out to bid right now, where the city will be deciding whether they're going to choose a union contractor who has health care benefits that the workers can afford. Right.
 a contractor that allows those workers to have collective bargaining rights, that doesn't fight the union, and allows workers to decide for themselves if they're going to be union or not. At the same time, we're waiting to update a policy.
 So our hope is that we can work forward and procurement can get the resources that they need to move forward in a really timely manner. Stacey has been incredible at taking feedback and moving this policy forward and leading in a very productive way and listening to stakeholders. I think she understands the full scope of what sustainability really means and is ready to help move that forward.
 I think for the procurement office, there is this tension around more time
 and resources versus, and I know my button's up, but more time and resources, but also the decisions that are coming forward. So we encourage you to move more swiftly with Commissioner Udavis's amendment that address labor issues. Good. Well, I went through the whole circle of time frames and landed right back where she started, which I should have stuck with in the beginning. Thank you, all three of you, for your testimony. We appreciate you. And thank you for your service to our city. Thanks for joining us today. You're welcome.
 Carla, is that the... We have one more person. One more person. Very good. Eugene Sardoki, I believe, is the last name. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Honorable Mayor and Commissioner. My name is Eugene Sardoki, leader of the Congolese community here in the state of Oregon. Thank you for this opportunity to be among you, policymakers and leaders of this city. Many thanks to your willingness to stand as pioneer...
 looking to take action in fighting for transparent supply chain with regard to conflict minerals in the world, especially for the three TGs, tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. Many thanks to the organizations like Amnesty International, Enough Project, Never Again Coalition and Oregon Coalition for Humanity,
 which have been advocating for our people by pushing legislators, leaders, and other key stakeholders to work on procurement bills at the local, state, federal, and even international level.
 The Democratic Republic of the Congo, the DRC, my country of origin, has been the battlefield of negative armed forces funded by corporations spoiling minerals resources for more than two decades now. This is the richest country in the world in terms of natural resources, but never be in peace and people are crippled in extreme poverty.
 The DRC itself produces more than 60% of the coltan in the world. This coltan is one of the minerals that make up the treaties used in our computers, TVs, cell phones, tablets, and chips making sounds in our buses and trains. I am here before you as a victim and witness for war of all its masses.
 They all broke out in my hometown and killers invaded the rest of the country, killing innocent people with no mercy. My self was shot in the chest, and a few years later, by God's grace, I escaped again the death twice. For instance, I was to choose between my life and my $12,000 cash in investment when two knives were held on my neck,
 by a foreign soldier and vendor. Another time in a small city, my 500 kg of cotton were taken by force with no reason. People in DRC are being killed, raped, tortured, mutilated every day, especially in the villages where minerals are extracted. You heard about two UN workers killed.
 Since September 22, 1996, the estimated death toll is more than 6 million. I beg you as government consumers to listen to the organization above and join the effort to fight the conflict-free mineral in order to bring peace in DRC and elsewhere by passing this enablement procurement policy before you today. Thank you.
 I want to thank you for your testimony, and it's your leadership that's put this front and center, and others who have the lived experience that you do who have brought this important attention to us. And so we're proud to work with you and lead with you on this important issue. Your story is a very moving one, and it's an important one, and I'm glad that you were here to share it with the people of this city because they need to hear it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 So are we now going to vote on the amendments? Let's take a vote on Udailey. Is there anything else before we go? And, Carla, that was the last testimony? Correct. So first up is Udailey, number one. Is there any further discussion? Please call the roll. Udailey. Udailey.
 So I'd just like to quickly give credit where credit's due, which is to SEIU for bringing these concerns with us around the language and the policy update, not giving explicit direction to staff on how to evaluate contract awards for services that require subcontracting of employees. I obviously vote aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted.
 Udailey number two, any further discussion? Please call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Great. I especially like the 90-day time frame. I vote aye. The amendment's adopted. To the main motion, any further discussion on the main motion as amended? Please call the roll.
 You, Daly. Well, thank you to Stacey and the Procurement Office, again, for all your hard work on this. Thank you to SEIU and Commissioner Fish and staff for helping draft the amendments. I definitely share the sense of urgency that SEIU members expressed today, and I hope that we can stick with that 90-day time frame or even do it sooner. I'm looking forward to working with the stakeholder groups and seeing the recommendations and improving our efforts
 expectations and requirements of services we purchase with our public dollars. I vote aye. Fritz? Well, thank you very much to staff. Thanks to former Chief Procurement Officer Christine Moody, who really grasped the conflict minerals challenge and has pushed that forward. It's important that we spend the public's money in ways that benefit the public and that make a real difference.
 both in the supply end as well as in what we actually do with that money and those services. So thank you very much. I want to thank Commissioner Daly for taking the lead on the amendments. Mayor, I want to thank you and Procurement for all the work that's gone on behind the scenes. This is a relatively drama-free council session, but a lot of work has gone into bringing us to this point.
 And I look forward to being part of the conversations to get it right around subcontracting and making sure that we maintain decent standards for people who are performing services indirectly on behalf of the city. Hi. Wheeler. I think this is a great step in the road. The city took a leadership role, particularly around environmental procurement practices. I'm very glad that the conflict minerals aspect worked.
 is being worked into this, and I'm hopeful that the ideas brought forth by SEIU and Commissioner Udailey will also take hold. This is a policy that will continue to evolve over a period of many, many years. But whatever we do, I'm glad that the City of Portland finds itself at the forefront of sustainable procurement practices. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Next item, 8.1.
 appoint Linda McGeady and Alejandro Carral to the Regional Arts and Culture Council Board of Directors. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Before I begin, I'd like to welcome our honored guests to the dais, Regional Arts and Culture Council Interim Executive Director Jeff Hawthorne, Linda McGeady, and Alejandro Carral.
 By today's action, colleagues, we are appointing Linda to a new term on the RAC board where she serves as chair and Alejandro, who is being reappointed through 2023. Linda and Alejandro, I know your leadership and your passion for the arts will continue to serve all Portlanders well. Thank you.
 I'd also like to acknowledge and thank Mike Golub, who is not here today, for his service as chair of the board, the six years that he has spent on the board, and he will now be serving as chair emeritus for the next year. Thank you.
 I also will take this opportunity just to note that the mayor has, in his recent executive order, reassigned the liaison role for the Regional Arts and Culture Council to Commissioner Udailey, which I think was a splendid decision. That will start in early September. It has been an absolute honor over these past number of years to work with our partners at RAC, who I think do a great job.
 And I look forward in the years ahead to build on their good work, strengthening the foundation in the community and making the case for more robust public support for the arts.
 So with that, Jeff, am I introducing you first? Let me turn it over to Jeff Hawthorne. Wonderful. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. My name is Jeff Hawthorne, Interim Executive Director of the Regional Arts and Culture Council, and we thank you for the opportunity to bring to you today two community members who are eager to represent the City of Portland on the RAC Board of Directors, and they are committed to supporting a stronger, healthier, and more equitable community through arts and culture. Thank you.
 So with your approval today, Linda and Alejandro will fill two out of the six positions that are currently earmarked as city representatives on the RAC board. Though, as you know from the auditor's report, we are in the process of reevaluating the composition of our board with the intention of providing more representation for the city of Portland, which is RAC's largest funder.
 The other citizens who represent you on the RACC Board are Eve Connell, Ozzie Gonzalez, Eduardo Puelma, and Leslie Heilbrunn. RACC Board members are expected to help us be good stewards of public and private investments in the arts, to advocate for RACC and the entire arts community,
 to help set a strategic vision for the organization, to connect us to new communities, and to hire and evaluate our executive director. And a side note on that point, and as Linda and Alejandro know very well because they are both on our search committee, we are entering the final phase of our search and preparing to bring two or three finalists to town in mid-September. So hopefully we'll have a new director to announce soon.
 I also want you to know that we remain committed to our city contract performance measure that says RAC's board will reflect the diversity of our community. And I am happy to report that the board continues to expand its skill set and its community relationships by recruiting board members very strategically. Today, 43% of our board members identify as people of color. Thank you.
 This will be our last official presentation to City Council before the arts portfolio moves to Commissioner Udaly, and we very much look forward to working with you, Commissioner. We are also extremely grateful to you, Commissioner Fish, for all of the passion, counsel, and leadership you have provided to RAC over the last several years, and I am personally grateful for your support in my role as Interim Executive Director, so thank you for that.
 We look forward to seeing you at our State of the Arts report on October 11th. But for now, it is my pleasure to introduce you to Linda McGeady and Alejandro Queral. Linda? Thank you, Jeff. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to say a few words. My name is Linda McGeady.
 I emigrated here 21 years ago and I became a citizen 18 years ago. And being involved in the arts has been an important part of building my life here. It's an honour to serve on the board of the Regional Arts and Culture Council and to be designated a city representative this morning.
 I consider RAC to be, among many other things, an engine of civic engagement, with a volunteer board that currently stands at 21 community members who give their time and expertise, with public panels to shape grant giving and public art, and with teacher training in the arts from our Right Brain initiative, RAC supporters are an ever-growing cohort and
 and your allies in keeping Portland a place where the arts not only thrive, but help every sector be more creative and more successful. With exciting and important new artwork coming to the Portland building,
 With a new ED soon to be appointed and a contract manager search in full swing, RAC has a lot going on. And as the new chair of the board, I echo Jeff Hawthorne's thanks to Commissioner Fish for everything that he does and I'm sure will continue to do for the arts. I look forward to working with Commissioner Udaly and her staff.
 and to reporting to you all during RAC's annual State of the Arts Report on October 11th. Thank you very much. Thank you for being here, and thank you for being willing to step up and serve. We appreciate it. My pleasure.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. It's an honor to be here. My name is Alejandro Queral, and I've been on the RAC board since earlier in this year. And I'm humbled to be named city representative. I very much think that this is a critical opportunity for RAC as we move with new leadership.
 And as we know, art is a key strand on the fabric of our community. For me, art really is an expression of our fears, hopes, dreams, passions, and as such, is the basis for understanding each other and seeing into each other's hearts.
 I think we need that more than ever. And so art can be a vehicle for exploring our shared stories together, our shared passions, and our shared vision for the future, which is, I think, critical for our city in this time of division. Art is an opportunity for unity.
 Art is a common platform in which people from different backgrounds, beliefs, stories can come together and fight for a more equitable and just society. So I thank you for your continued support of the arts and for the work that council does, that DRAC does on behalf of the city and our region.
 We look forward to working with Commissioner Udalli and continuing this partnership to ensure that Portland and Portlanders continue to engage deeply with the arts, and in doing so, help make this great city really a wonderful place to live. Thank you. Thank you, Alejandro. We're very pleased with your service. We're excited for you, so thank you so much for stepping forward. So, Mayor, I move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion? No.
 Please call the roll, Carla. Udeli. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank the mayor for entrusting me with an arts portfolio. I spent 20 years, over 20 years prior to my service here, working with Portland's arts and culture community, including RAC, and I've largely had to leave that behind. So it's really exciting for me to get to work directly with,
 with you moving forward. I want to thank Commissioner Fish for his stewardship of the portfolio and for tolerating us digging around in there and getting involved and being really welcoming to me and my staff. And you really get a two-for-one with us because we are excited to work together moving forward on arts and culture issues.
 Thank you both for your continued service to RAC and to the city. And I think I'll just wrap it up. Thank you. Thank you very much for being willing to serve. I was glad to hear you refer to the audit. And it's a time of great opportunity and significant challenges. So we get an enormous amount of support.
 value from and good heartedness from our community volunteers and this is a very important commission as you know. So thank you for the amount of time that you would dedicate to it. I. Fish. Mayor and colleagues, over the last four or five years I got to follow in the footsteps of people like Mike Lindbergh and Sam Adams and others who have served as council liaison to the arts and it is an extremely important role.
 is not clearly defined, but it's an extremely important role. And I think an example of how important it is is just look to the last year and probably the busiest year in RAC's history with a series of events which have increased their workload and have potentially positioned the organization for even better days ahead. And, of course, I'm referring...
 to both the audit and there was the work with the auditor in the preparation of the audit and then the set of recommendations which had been embraced by both RAC and by the city. The search for a new executive director after a long-time leader decided to retire was
 the punctuation mark on a legal fight that has been going on for some time around the arts tax with the Oregon Supreme Court finally delivering the final ruling that it is in fact constitutional.
 A bold equity agenda undertaken by the board, which I don't think has gotten enough attention in our community because when you begin to propose reallocating scarce resources, some people can see that as producing winners and losers. At the end of the day, what you're trying to do is align your grantmaking with your values. It has not been without controversy, and that's been a major part of your work.
 Next up, of course, is about the city working to align its priorities with RAC and RAC undertaking a strategic plan with the new leader to update our conversations with the community about what the expectations are. And, frankly, a piece of that is figuring out how to make RAC a regional agency in more than name only.
 and bringing at least two of the three other counties fully into the fold. It's been an incredibly busy time, and I know that, Linda, you and leadership and Alejandro as a board member and Jeff as the interim, you've had to spend an enormous amount of your personal time guiding RAC during these challenging moments, and we're just grateful for the leadership that you've given us and that you will give us in the future.
 Commissioner Udaly and I are going to be a great team. In fact, it is my hope that over time we become one of the strongest councils that collectively supports the arts. I think it's terribly important. It is core to our brand. It's core to our economic development strategy. It's the reason lots of young people are moving here. And we have to be willing to leverage and capitalize on this moment, and we can never take it for granted. Thank you.
 And I'm pleased, Mayor, that you've agreed to carve out a specific liaison role that I'll be performing for film and TV, which is a huge opportunity for our community. And I want to just preview that two areas where I'll be working closely with Commissioner Udaly going forward. One is building the support on council to protect funding for the arts and to, over time, expand funding for the arts. And second, as the...
 Our incoming commissioner in charge of the Parks Bureau will be looking to find ways to use the incredible resources of the Parks Bureau to showcase the incredible arts and culture community of our city and using our resources to maximize that. And that includes implementing strategically a number of the core recommendations of the Arts Affordability Study.
 which I look forward to doing with my colleagues. So thank you for the work that you do on behalf of our community, and I'm very pleased today to vote to support the report. And by the way, I want to just acknowledge one last thing that I think today is the first day.
 in my 10 years of service where we've actually been roughly on time with our time certans. So, Mayor, congratulations. We have a lot of time certans. Normally by this time we're usually an hour behind, and we're actually right on time. So I congratulate the Mayor for his – Don't jinx us. We're not done yet, Commissioner Fisher.
 That's the only laugh line that I think we're all laughing at. So I want to just start out by stating the obvious. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. You've been an outstanding steward of the RAC portfolio, and I have benefited tremendously from...
 not only your vision, but your specific knowledge of the portfolio and the emerging trends that we need to be aware of. The audit that we undertook would not have happened without your active leadership, and I think it was a very, very important audit and a great opportunity for us to take a deep breath and look at where we are with the portfolio and what challenges we're experiencing and what opportunities exist in the years ahead. And so this is a great opportunity
 opportunity to do that and obviously with new leadership coming in that was the right inflection point for us to have the conversation. Commissioner Udaly will excel in this role and part of my consideration was the nature of the partnership and I'm confident that this council will support and work with Commissioner Udaly to help her be as successful with this portfolio as Commissioner Fish was over a period of many years.
 And I don't want to lose sight of the fact that in order for any of this to be successful, we need a fantastic board. And the two folks in front of us today are outstanding candidates. And I'm very appreciative that there are people willing to step forward and be appointed and do the hard work. All for lousy pay.
 And I'm sorry about that, but you guys are going to have a fantastic time going forward, and we look forward to working with you and supporting you and helping you in any way we can to help your organization to be successful. I vote aye. Report's accepted. Thank you both. Thanks again. Next item, 882. I'm sorry. Go ahead, Carla. I apologize. Accept update from Portland Community College on Future Connect.
 Colleagues, Portland Community College Future Connect is a scholarship and support program for students who identify as first-generation Portlanders or low-income. By providing scholarship money, ongoing career guidance, and personalized advising, Future Connect eliminates barriers to college and builds pathways to their students' futures. The City of Portland is proud to support PCC Future Connect. Thank you.
 Here to present the latest on Future Connect is PCC Government Relations Director Emma Calloway and team. And I just want to be clear, although the agenda says report, this is actually just a presentation. So I just wanted to clarify that small technical point. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor.
 Good morning, Mayor. My name is Kelly Love and I am the manager of the program. Emma Callaway is our government relations director, but I'm here to talk to you a little bit about the program and I'll introduce my coach and student that are with us today as well. I live here in the city of Portland and I have worked for Future Connect for over five years. First, I was a coach with the program, then I was the program coordinator, and now I'm honored to serve as...
 as the manager of the program. And today I'm just going to give you a brief snapshot of what we have been doing over the last year and where we plan to go in 2019 and beyond. Thank you. So as you all may or may not know, the program in its simplest form consists of the following components. We have a high school connection where we work with students in high school before they even graduate. And then we do summer bridge work with students
 as groups both individually. And then we have cohorted classes that are built specifically for our students once they start on campus. And each student is connected to a single coach who works with them throughout their entire time at PCC. And then we support students in transitioning to the next step after PCC, whether that's going into the workforce or transferring to a college or university.
 And quite honestly, each one of these components could stand alone as a program unto itself, but what we're really trying to do is create a continuum of care for students to support them as first-generation low-income students from high school to college, which is a very difficult transition.
 Today I'm going to talk to you very briefly about two things. One, the impact we're having on the diverse communities we serve and how access to education is translating into positive change. And two, the work we're doing beyond the numbers. It's a program that is building bridges to other partners out in the community. So you will have a one-pager in front of you, and that tells a bit of a story about the students that we serve.
 So access to the scholarship is not merit-based. We aren't looking at GPA. We're not looking at high school rank. We don't even look at if you went to all your classes. What we're really looking at is who has the need and who has faced overwhelming obstacles to get to where they are today. And we prioritize students who are connected to community support programs, such as SummerWorks, who have done community service, and who have been served by other agencies in the Portland metro area.
 So you can see on this first page some statistics about who we serve. 88% of our students report that they received free or reduced lunch in high school. And one in four report that they're currently experiencing food insecurity. And one in six report that they're currently experiencing housing insecurity. And so with this population, we're excelling.
 Compared to students who don't participate in our program, Future Connect increases GPA by 0.6 points. We increase the credits earned in the first year of college by 12 credits. We increase fall-to-fall persistence by 14 percentage points. And we increase completion or transfer within three years by 11 percentage points. And so to serve our students, we've created some new approaches that are changing the way our large institution connects with our students. Some quick numbers. First.
 Outreach, so this year in Portland alone, we reached 2,332 seniors in schools within Portland. We visited 170 schools and community partners throughout the school year in Portland. And we received 592 applicants from Portland schools and awarded 233 students who are already registered for fall classes.
 And we also coach our students on the process of transferring to universities and to date. We've helped our graduates receive over $2.5 million in scholarships at other institutions beyond PCC. And so while this scholarship and serving our students admitted to the program is very important, it is not our sole focus, and we are working to support broader groups of students because we know the need is so great. So one of our focuses now is connecting high school students and staff to more career technical education opportunities at PCC.
 We also have continued to grow our supports for foster care students, and we're now part of a consortium of programs serving foster care students within our larger department. And more broadly, we're now working with every student who applies to Future Connect. We're connecting them to on-campus summer activities and support, and we've created and we're delivering on-campus programming. It's a program called Summer Connect for anyone who applied to the Future Connect scholarship, and we had over 100 additional students attend this year.
 And finally, we're piloting virtual coaching by texting with the intent of growing coach capacity to reach more students throughout the college in 2019. And so we are so grateful for your support. You are always welcome to come to our classes. I know some of you have before, and you're welcome to come anytime. It's very meaningful to our students. We also have a gala each year. We'd love to have you there. And really the core of what we're doing is the college success coach. That's the rock for the students.
 And Suzanne Hesse is here today. She's going to speak about her experience as a coach here in Portland at the Southeast Campus and the work that she does. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and city councilors. As Kelly said, my name is Suzanne Hesse and I am one of the college success coaches at the Southeast Campus. Thank you so much for giving me the opportunity to come here today and share a little bit about my experience and my role in the Future Connect program.
 I've been with Future Connect for just about two years, and I came from the faculty side prior to this, having taught and tutored in writing and literature at various institutions around the Portland area for the last 15 years. And as much as I love teaching, as much as I love the work that I did prior to coming to Future Connect, I've never had a job that has been more meaningful or that I felt has had more impact on the students that I serve. And I am honored to be a part of it.
 As Kelly mentioned, our program strives to serve students who face incredible barriers to college success. And while we do provide them the financial support in terms of the scholarship, the personal support carries more weight and ultimately is the key factor in our students' persistence and success. As a coach, I begin working with students before they complete high school or their GED, and I continue to work with them until they complete their goals at PCC.
 From the moment I meet my students, most often out at their high school campuses in the spring, we begin forming a relationship and a bond so that students know that they can rely on me and trust me, not only to support them with their academic goals, but with any other factors that could impact those goals, positive or negative.
 Students come to me for financial aid support, advice on courses, strategies and connections to find work, including resume building, and also for other needs like housing, food insecurity, relationships, confidence building, cheerleading, and at least at my desk, a lot of candy.
 My hope is that my students will feel comfortable coming to me for anything, whether it's something small like needing a bus ticket or a question about an assignment or something huge and life-changing like facing eviction or a loss in their family. To give you some context on some of the situations that present challenges to our students' success, I'd like to highlight one student in particular. Adan is going to tell his story in just a minute, but he is one of many and they all are very unique.
 I met Taylor in the spring of 2017 as she was graduating from one of the alternative programs in the Portland area. And from the beginning, she was extremely nervous about attending college. Taylor had not had a great experience in school. Basically since middle school, she didn't have many people in her life who were supportive of her continuing her education. And for most of her life, Taylor has believed and been told that she was not student material. And because of that, the thought of starting college was daunting.
 At the time of spring 2017, Taylor was working two jobs, basically full-time, as she had supported herself on and off since she was 15. Even completing the FAFSA, the Federal Application for Student Aid, was incredibly difficult because her mother was not willing to provide any of her information, even after we explained that would be the only way that Taylor could afford to pay for college.
 Beyond this, Taylor lacked confidence in her academic abilities. Her housing was and still is insecure. And there are times throughout the year where she would not eat without our PCC Panther Pantry and the snacks we provide through our office. Through some hard work and creative discussions, Taylor began her classes last fall, taking three classes to start to ease her way into her education.
 There were definite growing pains that term, as she began to understand the rigor and demands of a college education. But every time she was concerned, overwhelmed, or just needed to talk, she'd come to my office or she'd text me. The more she came to my office, the more she interacted with me and with other students, especially those in her cohort, and also with students in their second and third years like Adan, she became more confident and more comfortable and began to recognize PCC as her place.
 A major breakthrough for her came with a community-based learning project required for her reading class. Taylor was nervous about reaching out and finding a project because she didn't think she'd be able to make an impact. She put it off and was nearing crunch time when I suggested she work with one of my contacts at Transition Projects here downtown. I connected Taylor with him, and he asked if she could create some Christmas gifts for the residents in his shelter, Doreen's Place.
 When Taylor thought about these men experiencing this holiday without family or friend support, she became extremely motivated. With some help to craft a donation letter for me, she was off and running and was able to put together goodie bags with chocolates, decks of cards, and other items that would feel like a gift and not simply a donation. This project was a catalyst that pushed her forward. By winter, Taylor felt at home at Southeast, and she spent more and more time on campus doing her homework in our office and just saying hi. Hi.
 Winter quarter was massively successful for her and she passed her writing course, which she was very nervous about, with flying colors. By spring of this year, when we were beginning to award the new students starting this upcoming fall in the next month, Taylor asked if she could go with me to her old high school to help meet the new students and tell them about her experiences over the last year. Watching Taylor stride into her former school, confident, poised, now a Future Connect expert, was one of the highlights of my career in education and something I will never forget.
 She then volunteered at all of our new student orientations and is even hoping to work as a teacher's assistant with me in our college success class this upcoming fall. She hasn't even been awarded work study yet, but she asked if she could just volunteer her time to support our new students. She's also now pursuing a degree in criminal justice and hopes to work with juvenile offenders as a parole officer. This is the impact of our program. Not only do our students have their coach who they build relationships with, they become mentors and coach themselves.
 They belong at PCC and they truly belong with Future Connect. Thank you so much for your continued support and for allowing us to serve these amazing and incredible students. It means so much to them to know that their city is behind them.
 Before I introduce you to another fantastic student, I'd like to briefly highlight something new our program is doing this coming year. As part of Future Connect, we have Future Connect Plus, which serves students who place lower in reading and writing. They take their first quarter not only as a cohort with their college success class, which all Future Connect students do, but these students also take their reading and writing courses together as a cohort.
 I work with the reading and writing instructor as a team, and we meet weekly to discuss student concerns, strategies to better support them, and to ensure that those skills in reading and writing are solid before they move into their winter quarter. These students are also all coming from alternative programs in the greater Portland area, including Rosemary Anderson, Mount Scott Learning Center, et cetera,
 as well as students who have been in foster care, have experienced housing insecurity, or have been adjudicated. These students have additional barriers, and I'm very excited to continue supporting them as they begin this incredible college experience. Now I'd like to introduce you to Adan Uribe, a Future Connect and PCC graduate who is about to begin his studies at Portland State in the School of Social Work. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, sir. It's a pleasure to be here.
 So I got introduced to Future Connect by my high school counselor, Shawna Myers, and she recommended that I go to college and apply for Future Connect at PCC. So I initially attended an information session and at the time I wasn't planning on going to college because in high school I struggled a lot and I didn't see myself as college material.
 I ended up graduating with a 2.4 GPA, but I just decided I'm going to go for it and I'm going to apply to the program. And so I met at the Future Connect orientation. I met with Josh, Lori, Jose Esparza, Tobias Sherwood, and Mike Gachet. And they talked about what Future Connect is. And after meeting with them, I just decided that I'm going to apply to the program because I was given the opportunity to go to college and be a part of the program and be a successful college student.
 So after I got accepted to Future Connect, Tobias Sherwood became my college success coach. And after I attended my first Future Connect orientation in the summer of 2015 and met with my fellow Future Connect students, I was excited to start my first term in college. My first term in college...
 I was a full-time student, and even though it was challenging because I was working part-time, it was great because I passed all my classes and I finished my first year in college with a 4.0 GPA. And so that was a great accomplishment for me because I had never had a 4.0 GPA in my life. And like I said, I earned a 2.4 GPA, so I mean that was just amazing for me. And yeah, after my first year in college was completed, I met Suzanne Hesse.
 at a Future Connect orientation in the summer of 2016, and she became my college success coach for my second and third year at BCC. My second year in college, again, got off to a great start because I continued to pass all of my classes, and I did well fall and winter term. Spring of 2017 was arguably my hardest term because I was working two jobs and going to school full-time.
 Even though I was able to pass three classes, I ended up failing one, which was my math class. And that had an effect on me mentally because I began to feel burnt out, and I was on the verge of quitting and walking away. However, my college success coach, Suzanne, played an important role in helping me during this difficult time. I was dealing with a lot of stress and anxiety because I was unsure of my future and where I was going. I had originally thought that journalism was what I wanted to pursue as a major, but
 but I decided that that's not what I wanted to major in, and so as a result I felt lost. Suzanne helped me manage my stress and anxiety by recommending that I take breaks throughout the day, and by also being able to recognize when something is out of my control, or as she would say, let it be. She also recommended that I speak with a counselor on campus, and that also helped me a lot because I learned effective strategies to help deal with my stress.
 I took time off during the summer of 2017 to rest and spend time with my family in California. And that also helped me because I was able to reflect on where I wanted to go next in my life. I decided to come back for my third year at PCC with Future Connect. And while I didn't know what I wanted to major in at first, I was determined to pass all my classes my third year. And that included the math class that I didn't pass in spring term.
 I decided that I wanted to pursue social work as a major because I became inspired by the work that my college success coach Suzanne does and as well as Future Connect. My third year at PCC was arguably my best year because I was able to pass the math class and all of my classes, fall, winter and spring term. I began working with Margarita who is the transfer specialist for Future Connect and working with her was an amazing experience because she helped me with the process of applying to Portland State University.
 She helped me apply for scholarships, and both Margarita and Suzanne did a great job in helping me with the process of meeting PSU's financial aid requirements. Both Margarita and Suzanne helped me with the application process to the School of Social Work, and I got accepted into the School of Social Work as well. While at the School of Social Work, I plan to work towards my bachelor's degree, followed by my master's degree, and hopefully one day my Ph.D.,
 This year I also had the great opportunity to work with the PDX Bridge program at PCC as a teacher's assistant for foster care students. I also graduated with my fellow Future Connect students with an Associate of Science Oregon Transfer degree. I developed many great leadership skills by welcoming the new Future Connect students into the program at Future Connect Orientations. And overall, these three years that I was a part of Future Connect,
 were great for me because I grew up as a person and as a student. I accomplished many great things that I never thought were possible. And reflecting back on these three years, I can honestly say that they were the best three years of my life. And as I continue on with my academic journey, I feel confident because I know where I'm going, and I hope to one day become a college success coach for the Future Connect program. Thank you. Thank you. That is amazing. Thank you.
 I'm so appreciative of you being here, and congratulations on the 4.0. Thank you. That's pretty incredible. There's probably some folks watching this on TV or listening in, and I hear this a lot from younger people, and they just say what you said right up front. I'm not college material. Thank you.
 What convinced you that you could do this? And what advice would you give to young people listening in on this in terms of their path? What convinced me? I think it was my senior year because that was honestly like my best. That was just like the year where I just decided, you know, I want to graduate on time and I want to earn my high school diploma. And when I was able to do that, that really just showed me that if I could make it through my senior year and graduate on time, then I can do well and succeed in college. Yeah.
 And an advice is just really to take it, I mean work hard, but enjoy the ride also. Enjoy your college career. That's something that I've been working on at the same time and it's been a challenge. But yeah, really just enjoy it. Work hard and enjoy your time in college really. And take advantage of the opportunities and all the resources that are available on campus. Well, I wish you the very best and congratulations to you. Thank you so much.
 Commissioner Fritz Does the City of Beaverton now support Future Connect? Yes it does
 Beaverton and Hillsborough both do. My son is a high school teacher at Westview, so I will have a chat with him about connecting more. This is one of the best things that Commissioner Fish and I did with Mayor Adams in starting this program under the leadership of Kelly Thornlad, who's now a board president, I believe, at PCC. It's fabulous the way not only the city and other communities' dollars are,
 was the starter, but there's other businesses and other contributors and as you mentioned, the annual gala that helps pay for the program for really very little money, considering the success for you and what you're going to be doing for our community or for any community, but I hope you stay here. Yeah.
 as you continue to get all of your qualifications. It's an investment in the future, and the taxpayers of Portland, thank you for your work in the program, and the taxpayers of Portland, we're proud to have invested in your success, and we know you'll make us proud. Thank you.
 Commissioner Daly. I'd also like to congratulate you. We have a few things in common. I also left high school not feeling like I was college material. I also earned my first 4.0 at PCC. However, I was 40 years old when I went back. And I was also somewhat sidetracked by struggles in higher math. So I can really sympathize, and I'm really happy to hear that you –
 You made it through that, and I know the social work program is a competitive program, so good job. Thank you. I'm excited to see what you do in the future. Thank you. Very good. Thank you so much for this presentation. Thank you so much. We look forward to seeing you next time. Thank you very much. Best to you. Thank you. Next time we see you, be on your way. Yeah. PhD. Great. Next item, 883, please.
 ratify a successor collective bargaining agreement between the city and Laborers Local 483 relating to the terms and conditions of employment of seasonal maintenance workers for 2018-2022. Great. We have Bureau Director, BHR Director, Cirilda Summers-McGee. And, Jamal, good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Cirilda Summers-McGee, and I am the Bureau Director for Human Resources.
 And joining me here is Jamal Anthony, who is a labor relations coordinator who helped negotiate the seasonal maintenance workers contract, which represents approximately 115 seasonal maintenance workers in the bureaus of parks. They're predominantly located in parks, but they're also in Water and PBOT, and they are represented by Local Laborers 483.
 This bargaining process for this contract was collaborative and we were able to reach an attentive agreement by the expiration date of the previous bargaining agreement, which is something that doesn't happen all that often. So we're very excited for that. The employees will now receive insurance on the first of the month after the date of hire, which is now 60 days sooner than they previously were able to receive insurance.
 All bargaining unit members will earn more than $15 an hour by the end of the contract. The union and human resources are going to, in the future, work together on pathways to permanent employment at the city of Portland. And this is a four-year agreement. Those are the highlights of the contract. Very good. We're here for any questions. Commissioner Fish, did you have a question? No. Sorry. Very good. Looks good. Okay. I'll wait for Carla's.
 Seeing if there's sign-up on this. Maybe we should invite a local 4D3. Would 4D3 like to come up? Thank you so much for being here. Please. Thanks, Jamal. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Barry Macielo. I am a seasonal maintenance worker working out of Washington Park.
 Pleasure to be talking with you today. This process has been really an education to me and working with the people that we had across the table was really very pleasant. They're really helpful in helping us put this together. Seasonal maintenance workers take care of all of the sanitation and garbage hauling for the city parks. We assist permanent
 workers and their duties as horticulturalists, utility workers, and park techs. We work as landscape maintenance workers, which means that we spread – we plant and spread much mulch on the beds, hull, and remove debris, and mitigate storm damage. Our parks would not be able to run without a workforce of experienced maintenance workers.
 We work side by side with our more permanent counterparts. A lot of the times our work crosses lines because they just need a capable set of hands, and that's what we provide. People often ask me in the parks what the names of plants are, and I tell them I'm the guy that digs the hole. They're the guys that know what they're talking about. But you need the guys to dig the hole.
 And along with this, one of the things I'd really like to say is that I'm really very happy that people have taken the time to consider writing all of our stuff in Spanish. A lot of the folks, particularly the long-term maintenance workers that we have, are Hispanic workers. And those guys could run the job. They could run the job if they were able to.
 communicate in their own language and have written instructions in their own language. They remind me so very much of my own family when they ran the Navy Yard out of Dayone, New Jersey during the Second World War and sent record numbers of ships over to help my father fight the Nazis. These guys come here. We need them. We're going to be an old workforce. These folks come up here. They bring skills. They bring hard work.
 And they're really great workers to work with. So I had a written speech here, but that's really pretty much what I wanted to say. Thank you. We're glad you're here. Thank you.
 Good morning. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, I'm Tom Collette, representative with Labor's Local 483. We appreciate the opportunity to speak about this contract today. Yesterday, our members of the seasonal maintenance workers contract voted by a strong majority to ratify this contract. And as their representative, I urge you guys to do the same. This contract is a big step forward in the right direction for some of the lowest paid workers in the city.
 This contract provides better health care, shortening the amount of time workers and their families must wait to receive health care from months to weeks and days. It also provides a safeguard against workers losing their health care due to short-term illness, preventing the situation in which workers lose their health care at the time when it's most needed. This also offers our workers the opportunity to participate in a better dental plan, which is no small thing, and it
 It ensures that folks previously accrued sick time can be carried over and used, so we'll have less workers working sick in the future. It also provides a strong wage increase that by July of 2019, we project will have everybody in this contract above $15 an hour, and that is a really important mark for us.
 I do want to say, however, that no single contract erases the struggles that our workers face. Portland's skyrocketing cost of living means that even with significant wage increases, seasonal maintenance workers are going to struggle to afford housing, transportation, food, and then find that money over to be able to save for retirement.
 Many people still think that the seasonal maintenance workforce is composed of college students or employees on their way to another job. The reality in this new economy is that workers are relying on seasonal work as their primary income source. We have members who have worked for 5, 10, even 15 plus years for the city doing seasonal maintenance work. Members who are actively trying to move up into permanent city jobs.
 We believe there needs to be a more direct pathway to regular work with the City and would like to highlight this issue for continued attention. As a diverse workforce with years of direct City experience, we believe finding a pathway to permanent employment for seasonal maintenance workers represents a significant opportunity for the City to enact its core values.
 I want to thank Human Resources Director Sorolla Summers-McGee and the City's Labor Relations staff, Jarell Gaddis, Morell Wallace, and Jamal Anthony, for their collaborative approach to developing this contract with us. Throughout the process, we were able to work together to develop solutions to the problems our members face.
 Because of this approach, we were able to reach a contract much more quickly and collaboratively, and I look forward to working with the labor relations team on future contracts and really appreciate this new approach. It means a lot to us. Thanks for the time. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any further questions? I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz? Tom, how many members are in this bargaining unit?
 It depends because people come on. So at any one time, I mean, I think over the duration of the year, it's like 100 plus members. Right now we're at 103. Thank you. Very good. Public testimony, Carla. Yes, we have two more people signed up. Very good. Barry Mazzolo. Was that you? I'm sorry. Okay. And then so we just have Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Very good. Thank you. Someone needs to give up a seat. Thank you, gentlemen. Appreciate it.
 You might as well just stay there, Cyril, in case we have questions. I don't even have a great question to put her in the hot seat. Good morning. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And I'm sorry that I was having a little conversation with the Honorable Judge Eric Block. We did get a chance to talk about some fair elections issues also, though that wasn't the focus. Obviously...
 This is a negotiation that's been done in good faith, has some positive results, and you should vote for. But we need to look at the context of the agenda. We have another contract that's been negotiated coming up. And at various times, as Amanda and Commissioner Fish will remember, we've talked about the Office of Equity and Human Rights trying to report back on diversity and inclusion among our bureaus. And so...
 Although I don't have the personal, although I was able to change what y'all do with portlandoregon.gov slash smart, I can't get you yet to append these contract negotiation reports with the diversity and inclusion report. Because somehow, after looking at pictures in the news, my guess is that parks workers are a much more diverse and inclusive bunch than the people that deployed riot control munitions and shot somebody in the back of the head.
 When we look at pictures of all white police officers, but we see that we're able to get a diverse and inclusive Parks Department, you have some serious hard work ahead of you. There's a lot of things that need to be resisted. Some of them are stronger in different bureaus than others, and those things do include white supremacy and Trumpism. I think that really, whether you make it official on paper or not, you all need to have an internal goal so that if you can't just get rid of the riot cops in general...
 At least they could look as diverse and inclusive and be as well-behaved and public-minded as the people working for parks. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions of Director Summers-McGree? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Udaly.
 Well, thank you, Director Summers-McGee. And to Labor's local 483, I'm really pleased we're going to get these workers up over $15 an hour, which, as we know, is not really a living wage in Portland, but I think should certainly be our minimum. I vote aye.
 Thank you, Commissioner, especially for your support of that and for the health care benefits when we had the discussions amongst the council. Thank you, Director Summers-McGee. Thanks particularly to Tom Collette and the Labourers for 83. It's been an absolute honour to work with you over the last five and a half years. Most of these workers are in parks.
 And you're right, not only do they barely make $15 an hour in 2019, which, yay, everybody on contract with the city gets that now. And so we as the council have more to do. I would have liked to have done more as parks commissioner to bring more of these seasonal workers into permanent employment. The fact of the matter is when the parks budget is so constrained and the public wants their work done,
 And that's how we make ends meet. And that's the way it's been going progressively since Measure 5. And so the council as a whole needs to grapple with that challenge. This is a good step in the right direction. Thank you very much for your work. I. Fish. I want to thank both the parties, our city's HR Bureau, and our labor partners for reaching an agreement. I'm very excited about assuming the reins from Commissioner Fritz at Parks. And we will continue to make progress.
 on these critically important issues. Hi. Wheeler. I want to thank Labor Relations, and I want to in particular thank you, Director Summers-McGee, Jamal, and others on the collective bargaining team. The issues raised by Bridge Crane are very significant ones, and they're important to me, and that's one of the reasons that we have new leadership in our HR department and why we have new
 what I believe is a greatly enhanced labor relations team. And all of us understand that our city is becoming more diverse at a rapid clip. Historically, government institutions do not keep pace with the demographic changes in the community. And one of the great challenges I've put on our collective shoulders, but perhaps more on yours than most, is the challenge of making sure that all,
 of our bureaus are more reflective of the community as it is and as it will be. And it is important for the legitimacy of our government, as well as, frankly, being able to interact with and reach the community that we serve, as it is and as it will be. This is a great turnaround, because when I first met with members of 483 some time ago,
 If I may, they had expressed some frustration with the collective bargaining process. And what I'm hearing now is a much better, healthier communicative dynamic, and it's one that I believe you and your team has helped create. And I also want to reflect on the fact that 483, the representatives and the leaders that we work with, they are also elected effectively.
 officials and they are elected by their peers to represent their interests at the labor negotiations table and this to me is a classic win-win. This is a success story and I'm really proud of the work that all of you have done as part of the Portland family here to make this work for everybody. So thanks for your hard work and your blood, sweat and tears. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Next item, 884.
 I still need it. Ratify a successor collective bargaining agreement between the City and Portland Police Commanding Officers Association relating to the terms and conditions of employment of police lieutenants for 2018-2020. Director Summers-McGee. Go ahead.
 It's me again. For the record, my name is Cyrilda Summers-McGee, and I am the Bureau Director for Human Resources. Joining me is Marquise Fudge, who is the Senior Labor Relations Analyst who helped negotiate the Portland Police Commanding Officer Association contract, which represents the Lieutenant Command staff within the PPB. Currently, there are 29 members within PPCOA.
 This bargaining agreement, the process was also very collaborative and conversation oriented, where we took into consideration the needs of PPCOA as well as the needs of the city. Their contract now aligns with the PPA, the timing of the PPA contract, which will allow the city to have a more comprehensive approach to police contracts for all of the policing staff that are represented.
 It also aligns with the citywide healthcare preventative care initiative. This contract now makes sure that the PPCOA members are wrapped into the healthcare preventative care initiative that we adopted years ago. And this particular contract
 allowed us to use underutilized resources that were contained in previous contracts to pay for the cost of this contract. So we felt very good about being able to strike that agreement with PPCOA. Director Summers-McGee, what is the cost of the contract? $127,000 over the course of the life of the contract. $127,000 over the life of the contract. That is correct. Thank you.
 That concludes our presentation. Did you want to add anything? You worked hard on this. No, I was, this. Is this on? It's on. Oh, okay.
 I've been on quite a few bargaining teams during my course of time with the city, and this was definitely a refreshing process just because of how effective and how efficient it was. And living into this new relationship-based way of doing business definitely allows us space to explore different ideas and come to creative solutions that meet both parties' needs. I want to thank you for your hard work.
 Appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz? How many people are in this bargaining unit? 29. Thank you. Public testimony, Carly? Yes. We have, I believe, eight people signed up. Very good. The first three, please come on up, are Dan Handelman, Christopher Cabnigi, and we have Danielle James. Good morning. Good morning. My paperwork for flying around.
 Good morning, Mayor and other City Council members who are still here. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. The only things that we noticed changing in this contract for the PPCOA have to do with wages and benefits, and there's nothing about policy issues that have been raised repeatedly with City Council over the years. It's almost as if the City Council missed the significance of the protests around the PPA contract from 2016-2014.
 At that time, or prior to the revelation that that contract was being approved, Portland Copwatch co-signed a letter with the AMA Coalition and others in August 2016 asking for some of those changes to be made and for those negotiations to be done in public, which didn't happen then and didn't happen with this contract, which apparently was negotiated over two weeks in June.
 There's language in this contract that's similar to the PPA contract that in theory precludes the independent police review from compelling officers to testify. Because it says the lieutenants will be told the name, rank and command of the member in charge of the investigation, the interviewing member, and all other persons present during the interview. So that implies the interview is done by
 a police officer even though the IPR is supposed to be doing high-ranking officer investigations. The contract still allows for grievances about discipline to be resolved through arbitration rather than perhaps going to the Civil Service Board or another body without a track record of putting cops back on the street when they breach community trust. And there's also an attached agreement that drug testing is to be done randomly rather than based on reasonable suspicion including a deadly force incidence which is another thing the community has been asking for.
 One lieutenant who was involved in a 2005 deadly shooting and multiple other force incidents, which have cost the city over a million dollars in settled lawsuits, came before the Citizen Review Committee in two different cases, one just this last month, this month, for inappropriately putting his hands on community members who were trying to observe police behavior and to force them to move. In 2006, another lieutenant shot and killed somebody when he left his post to go to his sister's house and was fired, then reinstated.
 He served without any known violations from 2007 until he retired in 2016. But, you know, the point is that the lieutenants are still actively interacting with people on the street, unlike some of the higher command staff, perhaps. And these policy issues need to be addressed.
 i do also also want to add that last time i came before this body that was a couple weeks ago we're up in the rose room and i got cut off in my testimony i had a talk with the mayor and he apologized i thank you and appreciate you taking the time to talk um i still want to express that it's very into even 25 years i've been coming in front of this body for portland cop watch and still intimidating for me and so you have to consider that people who aren't used to coming in
 might be intimidated and have fear that they're going to get cut off or ejected by being slightly off topic. And I just want to make sure that you are aware that it's not an easy thing for us to come before you. That's a fair admonition, and I appreciate it. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. If I may make a quick, unrelated, direct comment to Commissioner Udali, may I? Sure.
 We're here to talk about this contract and whether it should be ratified. Okay. Well, and real quick. Very specifically whether this contract should be ratified. This contract shouldn't be ratified. Today we sat here and we listened to working class people say they're not making enough money. They're struggling day by day. I myself and this individual here had to dig underneath our car seats this morning for change for the meter out there, the meter to park on the roads that we pay for.
 We listened to a man talk about conflict minerals and the suffering and the massacres that he experienced in his home country, a consequence of Western imperialism and capitalism. Now, sitting here, so privileged white people can have their iPhones, which I got one too. So now we're sitting here discussing whether or not, because I saw something in there, correct me if I'm wrong, a 3.6% increase for police lieutenants and their salaries, correct? Full. Full. Thank you. Four. Even better.
 So now we're going to sit here and we're going to discuss whether or not the Portland Police Bureau, as I've said before, a violent and oppressive organization, paramilitary if you will, should be given more money. Now let's take a look at the situations that have occurred over the last couple of years. These individuals cannot even maintain their weapons properly. They cannot deploy them in a proper manner.
 They use CS gas, which I believe even the United Nations says is a chemical weapon in abandoned warfare. They fire air distraction devices, and that is a fancy term for a flashbang grenade, at head level at people. And I will tell you right now, I was there. I watched it happen. I have no reason to lie to you. Did not initiate hostilities against anyone. Those cops out there simply paved the way for their white supremacist buddies, the defenders of the status quo.
 They are defenders of a white empire. They are defenders of this system that you so benefit from. These people do not represent my interests. They don't represent... Oh, right, yeah, they only started firing after they realized they left two squad cars behind the lines. The training that they have, basically, where I'm coming to here, it's poor. It's terrible. I actually watch them myself all the time with a little bit of education on what is properly trained. Take my word for it, I ask. They are sloppy. They are lazy.
 They're brutish. They're just scum. They simply are. I watch it happen. I watch it happen with my own eyes, the violence that they sow. Okay? So we're going to sit here and talk about whether these poorly trained, violent individuals who simply don't understand that, for example, you're going to fire a 40-millimeter grenade, a flashbang grenade at head level? No. You should be trained to fire that above the crowd. But they didn't. Why? Well, they simply hate the people that would oppose their position of privilege.
 The fact of the matter is, before you start giving raises to your pigs, why don't you spend a little more money on training them a little more properly? Or a little sensitivity training, as it's called. Understanding that they're simply there to not pave the way for white supremacists to march through our streets and enact violence, but to protect people and not attack them. And simple as this, as far as these white supremacists go...
 I saw a commissioner one time say, just give me a second, say that they won't be attending the protests at the waterfront. They'll be going to City Hall. They'll be going to City Hall to engage in a peaceful protest. Well, straight from the horse's mouth, and I quote or paraphrase Adolf Hitler, who simply said the only way they could have stopped us is if they came into our meeting places, our beer halls, and they attacked us, smashed us, used violence to destroy us. The only way to cut fascism, the cancer of fascism out of our society, is to literally and forcefully cut it out. Thank you.
 While your pigs support them. Thank you. Good morning. Could you give us your name for the record, please? James Chassie, Jr. Good morning. Thank you.
 Wheeler, what is your position in the police, Portland Police Bureau? I'm the mayor of the city of Portland. So you'd be able to answer some questions. No, I won't. You won't? This is public testimony time. Okay. This is your turn to speak. I have a lot of questions. I'm not sure how I'm going to get those answered. This is not a game show. Okay. Wow. He could have fooled me. So...
 Again, giving Portland police raises right now in this situation. The Portland police have quite a few lawsuits against them, correct? I mean, this is making news in England, which I'm sure you know. So with that happening, you're going to somehow prove a 4% raise when we have people dying on the streets in this city? How does that even make sense? How and why does that make sense? How? Is there any...
 Can you give any indication of why the Portland Police Bureau, with again, like James Chaston Jr. here was saying,
 is absolutely not trained. Them themselves will say they haven't had training. What standard does Portland have for any kind of de-escalation tactics? There's a national standard. There's state standards. What does Portland have for it? Belching through an LRAD. So I don't want to take your time, but I will tell you there are use of force standards, directives. They are put out for the public.
 We get public commentary, and those are actually what we use. It's about 6% of their training is de-escalation. They have de-escalation training. 6%. The rest of it is basically the rest of it is tactics of basically. Do you know who Christopher Colangi is?
 Any of you? Listen, we're getting way off field here. No, it's really not because point is a tactic, a life could have been saved. Granted, it was Clackamas police, but same fucking thing with Portland police. A life could have been saved if there was a de-escalation tactics used. But there was a gunshot wound to the chest of a 19-year-old boy having a mental crisis. Yes.
 I have seen my friends and myself get abused multiple times. Why the hell does Portland, Oregon have a militarized police force? That is freaking pathetic. That is absolutely fucking ridiculous. It's sick. My family is from different countries. We don't want to lose our license. I'm sorry? This is broadcast. We don't want to lose our FCC license. Please don't use that language. I apologize for my colorful language. Thank you.
 This stings. It stings because I don't see how you're going to reward, except you're all part and parcel of the same thing, shaking hands with each other, reward a bunch of fucking thugs. I'm sorry. I can't control myself right now at this point. Seriously, you cannot stop. I'm going to ask you to stop. I am sorry, but that's what's happening right now. You're going to give a 4% increase to a bunch of freaking thugs when you haven't even – none of you all had made right with Kwata Tate's family. Right.
 Where's the money for that family, for the loss of another child? Completely, completely out of control use of force. Murder by Portland police.
 And you're saying that that's okay after what just happened with the protest. Again, making national news. Portland Police Bureau is looked upon as a pretty freaking shady police bureau. And you're ahead of that. Thank you, all three of you. Do you have any police for training? Next three, please. Do you know how to run a police force? Do you know anything about police? The next three, I believe, are...
 Was there a Christopher Capnici? Excuse me. Excuse me. You're interrupting and you're robbing other people of the opportunity to speak. Please leave. The answer is no. Christopher Capnici, Kendra James, Keaton Otis, Larnell Bruce. Good morning. I have my right hand line over. Is your mic on? I'm not sure that it is. Okay, thanks. Yeah. So about the police, you guys want to pay them more money.
 My concern is why, again, addressing other people's concerns. They're very abusive. This morning, first of all, I'll point out the fact that we have the right to peacefully protest. Am I right? I feel like across the street at Chapman Square, and now where we're moved at, right across the street, we've been following park rules, abiding by the rules of the police. This morning, you're...
 Police drove up to address a matter. There was a TriMet vehicle with its lights on. It was about 6, 6.30 this morning. Sat there and shined it in our face. Then called police. And when I told them my issue with that, someone could have pulled to the side. There was no, no one was at the courthouse yet. They could have pulled to the side. The police...
 upon leaving, shined the brightest lights on top of their cars on us for a few seconds on purpose and drove off laughing at us. These are the kinds of people that you guys want to give more money to. Granted, protests here don't have the best relationship with police, but we're human.
 And I feel like when we're treated like that, there's going to be plenty of opposition towards these pay raises and things like that. But specifically when it comes to the houses, I have a home. I'm out here because I choose to be out here, not because I have to be. So when I'm treated less than, and I've experienced this, I've been out here two weeks here at this location. I'm sure you know how long we were at the other location. When?
 It breaks my heart because I have the choice to go home and sleep in my bed in the warmth or in the cool air if I want to. I worry for the people who don't have that option. And when they come through and I'm witnessing these things happen, it breaks my heart because there's so many people out there on the streets that don't have that option. And I feel like something needs to change when it comes to these cops and it's not their pay rate.
 People are being harassed. The Clean and Safe Crew is a freaking joke. Come by harassing people, throwing things away. Like I said, I have the option to be out here, but when you take someone's sleeping bag or you take their sleeping pad, that creates uncomfortable conditions. It's unhealthy for people to not get the proper amount of sleep. I'm pointing these things out on the record so you can hear me. I'm talking to you with some sense, so I hope you hear me with some sense and aren't blinding me out.
 Portland police don't need more money. They need better training. They need to understand that people with mental illness out here on the streets, they're people too. And to come up and antagonize our camp out there who are peacefully protesting. We're not tearing things up. We're not tagging things. We're not harassing passersby. Any of that. And so for them to blatantly disrespect us like that is ridiculous. These are the people who are supposed to protect and serve us. And they're antagonizing and harming the houseless.
 These people don't have a voice, and it's not fair for that to continue happening. It's beyond scooting someone's sleeping bag to the side. They're blatantly being disrespectful and harmful to the people out there. Clean and Safe comes and blatantly harasses people and don't care. These people are saying, we're not going to get in trouble. Call our bosses.
 I'm begging you to do something about this. Thank you, and I do appreciate it. Thank you for your testimony. Good morning. To my understanding, officers have the right to actually – Can you repeat that? Kendra James. Officers – I was told specifically by an officer that they have the right to pick and choose who can sleep and when –
 to not sleep. I would like something in writing stating that when we are aware and when we can protest peacefully instead of every day receiving documents saying that we are not allowed to protest here because of erect tents. There has nothing been erect. We sleep openly.
 with no tents or anything, and I really want to peacefully protest. It's what we've been doing. We've been cleaning up after ourselves. But now, just this morning, we received another written whatever it is, because we cannot get anything in writing from Castle or anyone. And I would really love that in writing, so we know our rights. Yes.
 because they're picking and choosing when to harass us because they do harass us nightly every night they don't have anything else better to do than circle us and put their lights on us and just pick and choose when they want to say oh you guys got to get up and move so if I don't know who I need to speak to but I would definitely want that in writing today would be great because I'm tired of them harassing us aren't there sleep zones do we have sleep zones here
 Like where people... Not specifically, no. So everybody gets slept. There's nowhere for anybody to just sleep peacefully? No, there are protocols, and I can get those to Ms. James. If you can leave your contact information. So there's no legal places for people to sleep, like the houseless? No.
 Why do you have a security guard that's asking... Excuse me, you're interrupting testimony. No, excuse me, you are interrupting testimony. Please do not do that. You're robbed. Excuse me, you are not testifying. You are not testifying. You are interrupting. Next three, please. Ms. James, could you leave your contact information with Ms. Dafa? Ms. Dafa, can you wait?
 Not called sleep zones. Now, if you leave your contact information with Mustafa, I'm happy to have a follow-up conversation. We're getting pretty far afield. I am happy to have... Leave some contact information. I would be happy to call you. I'm sorry? Soon. Next couple of days. You have my word. Leave some follow-up information. I will call you. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Nico Haney. I'm sorry. Can we take a two-minute recess and get that cleared up? Because I want to hear what you have to say. We'll take a two-minute recess. Yeah, they're going to speak. I just can't hear them because there's somebody else yelling. He's interrupting their testimony. I want to hear their testimony. I guess what I have to say is...
 Are we in process of being fined for it? Just for a couple minutes. You guys will listen to this, but you won't listen to me. I'll leave. I'll leave. You could have signed up to testify that you did not. I could sign up to testify and be heard about police brutality, or I could work for a petition, circulate a petition for you, call you daily, I can go out and get the vote out for you. Do I? Please leave. I'll sign up first. I'll sign up first. Sorry. All right, we're back in session. I apologize.
 Hi, my name is Nico Haney. I've lived in the Portland metro area for 10 years, and I do not believe in giving the police more money as what have I experienced in the city of Portland. On July 6th, I was sexually assaulted, left inside of a house for 48 hours, and drugged with methamphetamines. And I had to call an ambulance where they had alerted the police.
 And when I started to explain to the police what had happened to me, they started to experience, I started to experience severe homophobia from the police where they were telling me that what had happened to me was my fault and that they had told me that if I wasn't gay that this wouldn't have happened to me. And then when I went to the hospital to Emanuel, another police officer there, I had asked to speak to them because they thought I was delirious because of me being drugged.
 They would not allow me to leave the hospital even though I was completely coherent and was just asking to have a rape kit performed on me. And they were being absolutely disrespectful to me and had been really brutalized to me and homophobic and as someone who's been partaking in the queer community
 In Portland, since I was 11 years old, I am completely, just completely at an awe that the Portland Police Department was being homophobic to a queer 19-year-old after a sexual assault was performed. And there wasn't even a police report done after I'd asked them to report this.
 I do not believe that the police deserved to have a pay raise when I had gone to them as a person who is an Oregon resident and a Portland City resident. I don't understand why they're trying to pay them more when they can't even deal with a person who had been drugged for two days straight. I really don't understand why you're trying to give them more money when they didn't help me, and I wasn't even delirious.
 I had just been through one of the most traumatizing experiences in my entire life, and the police were just rude to me, and I wasn't rude to them. I was not being aggressive. I was trying to explain to them as best as I could because I was drugged about what had happened. I do not believe that they deserve to be paid more money when they wouldn't help me. Thank you. I'm sorry for your experience. Thank you for being here. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Commissioners. We have about five or six minutes to noon.
 If my name was Lars Larson, Chief Outlaw would schmooze me and stab the mayor in the back. But I'm the bridge crane. And since we're only talking about police lieutenants, the hysterical performance of Chief Outlaw on the Lars Larson show will have to wait until I make it on time for the right comments. I appreciate the mayor and those of you who took note of my concern about racial disparities and inequities in different bureaus. Sorry.
 Unfortunately, as we've talked about before, that's not attached here. There's nothing. Unfortunately, we deal with specific legal issues. So this contract, which is much less worthy of approval than the one that Labor's 483 brought forth, is not the place for us to see the charts that tell us how far behind the lieutenant's ranks are in meeting the diversity and inclusion expectations we have for this city.
 As other testifiers have brought forth, it's in the national news. It's on the international news, not just lieutenants. But if you look at the faces of the Portland police and all the international news coverage from August 4th and whatnot, you'll have a hard time finding a woman. You'll have a hard time finding anyone that isn't a man that's white. I don't have the proof that the riot squad is a white racist cult. But if the standard is preponderance of evidence, it's already been proven.
 So why, in her testimony to little white bro Lars Larson, Chief Outlaw dances around these issues and instead thinks she's some sort of superheroine for autonomously smashing ice. We knew it was hard to fire Fraschauer. We know that Kruger can put Nazi paraphernalia in a tree and be exalted beyond lieutenant.
 to become the captain of the vice. I'm sure there's no racial enforcement in vice just because the captain, Captain Kruger of the vice department, is out there persecuting communities of color and turning a black... The European kindred and other white gangs are running drugs. We just had one talk about being dosed with methamphetamine for rape. We're not having any real progress about stopping the European kindred and other white groups that are trafficking drugs. Because...
 We have a very dubious person at the head of the vice department. Somehow leapfrogged through the lieutenant. I mean, you know, lieutenant's rank. So personally, I don't think just firing chief outlaw is a solution. We could talk about the turnover of chiefs of police since Rosie Sizer. But you all need to step up your game. Otherwise, we should just elect nobody because there seems to be no accountability. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, both of you. Anybody else? That's all who signed up.
 Very good. Any further? No, the list is closed. Richard, come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Okay, the list is closed. Come on up, Richard. You're welcome. How are you doing, Richard? Thanks for being here. Hello, Mr. Wheeler. Hello. And City Council. City Council, in my travels in New Mexico and California,
 and I have a partial family there. And here's the thing, Mr. Mayor, you know, in the society, you know, we obviously know, you know, there's, you know, the haves that have money and the have-nots. And folks, you know, you know, unfortunately, you know, I have some, I have a little bit of money and I have a house and there are folks that don't have a house, right?
 And this society that we are in, we've been into, and I have a little bit of respect for police to a certain degree. And there's things that really disturb me, you know, what I've...
 And my memory was that, you know, immigrant families are being separated and people laugh and white people don't understand. And yet we have Nazis, you know, you know, parading around in our street. And Mayor, you remember what happened last May Day when people broke stuff up in in in.
 Maybe I don't want to see this, but people are going to feel the urge to smash windows and break stuff.
 at will because they think City Hall and they think what's going on when they see white supremacists freely roaming about and they see the police protecting them, protecting these white supremacists going around and
 And there's never been a time where I've wanted to hop and punch one of these young white supremacists. And, Mr. Mayor, you should, you know, my friend the lone anarchist, I don't know his face, but he has given, you know, a warning, you know, what the next uprising is going to be if shit continues to go down, you know.
 And I hope, you know, people rally around the wagons. They don't need Joey Gibson and his little Nazi gang. His little Nazi gang, he's just a little monkey show for everybody to see. If the police had any respect for people, they would let us get in there and crack some heads, you know, because if these white nationalists...
 or we're let loose, they would crack our skulls without any question. And unfortunately, that's the only method they know, is bust their heads before they bust our heads. Thank you. Thank you. So this is a first. No, we're done now. This is a first. Is there any further discussion before I move this? This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, Director McGee. Thank you.
 Next item is 894, please.
 authorize a contract with Standard Insurance Company for group life, supplemental life, and long-term disability insurance through June 30, 2019 in the amount of $2.2 million. Colleagues, this is an annual occurrence here at Portland City Hall. This ordinance authorizes a one-year contract with Standard Insurance Company to maintain in
 employee life, supplemental life, and long-term disability benefits for city employees through June 30th of 2019. This one-year extension allows the City Benefits Office the appropriate time for a thorough competitive request for proposal process and implementation of a new contract. We have Health and Financial Benefits Manager Kathy Bless with us here to answer any questions about this extension. Thank you.
 Good morning. Anything you wanted to say, first of all, before we...
 Good morning, Mayor. Yes. Kathy Bless, Health and Financial Benefits Office Manager. The only thing I would add to that is the $2.2 million is a combination of employee contributions and city contributions. Thank you. The city pays for the basic life insurance and 40% of the LTD, and then employee contributions make up the difference with supplemental life insurance and a 20% buy-up on the LTD.
 Yeah, good clarification. I appreciate that. Commissioner Fish? So, Kathy, you and I have had a series of conversations about this issue because one of the things that happened in my life when I was diagnosed with cancer is, number one, of course, I had a preexisting condition, so I began to look at the health care debate differently. Number two, there are limitations on my ability to get life insurance because of my condition, right?
 And number three, I became interested in the portability of certain benefits that we offer to our employees. So can you succinctly for the council remind us, with respect to supplemental life insurance, because that's where the real dollars are and you can buy up to $300,000, to what extent is that portable when someone leaves city employment? Sure. Okay.
 So the portability certainly has changed over the last couple of years, and part of that had to do with the experience of the coverage itself. So there was a lot of claims that were paid. There was an attempt by Standard to increase the rates and separate the ported coverage rates from what employees pay for supplemental coverage. So...
 We have rates established as active employees. Those rates remain the same when someone retires or terminates from the city and wants to take that supplemental coverage with them. We think that that's an incredibly important part of the plan. An employee is paid into that plan throughout their employment, and we want to keep those premiums competitive and affordable as they transition into retirement.
 So at the point where Standard was requesting that we separate those rates and charge retirees more for their coverage, we didn't agree with that. We took then on the risk for that coverage, but in order to do that, we had to lower the limit.
 If we took the rate increase, we would have made the coverage unaffordable, and then individuals would have been hampered and had to lower their coverage anyway. So what happens right now is that employees can take up to $150,000 imported coverage.
 They can opt to convert the coverage, the additional coverage, up to the $300,000 limit. They can convert that into an individual policy and then pay the premiums directly to standard insurance. Those premiums would be much higher.
 As part of this RFP process, we're hoping to get more competitive pricing, higher portability amounts back into the plan, and then also to add short-term disability options within the benefit plans.
 So we're hoping that by doing this really comprehensive benefit, asking a lot more questions than we would have been able to before, we hope to be able to provide that. And by...
 Going through an RFP process and offering a new policy, we oftentimes are able to offer a guarantee issue, so anybody that had missed an option in the current plan can then fold in and seek coverage in a new contract. So just to make sure I understand what you just said, and you said it very clearly, but I want to make sure I understood it. Up to $150,000.
 is protected and portable subject to the rates that have been negotiated with standard? Correct. So in the chart that is attached to our council action item, if you fall between 55 and 59, it's 21.5%.
 per $1,000. Correct. Multiplied by $150. So that becomes portable indefinitely? It becomes portable. The portability coverage or supplemental life insurance coverage is term life insurance, so it ends at the age of 75. Okay. So just to be clear, because the standard insurance is capped at $50,000...
 For group life insurance. For group life insurance. And given that the maximum amount of supplemental life is $300,000, what I am concerned about is that gap. And what I'm concerned about is people that have acute health issues that are leaving city service, that as a consequence of leaving city service may be leaving behind substantial amounts of
 of life insurance that's otherwise affordable. And I don't think we should be putting employees in that position, particularly because then the option is either not to separate from service or go on long-term disability with an uncertain future. And I'm not sure we want people to have to meet that Hobbesian choice. So what I would like to work with you on going forward is to make sure that people –
 that are otherwise eligible for long-term disability, that have an acute health care challenge, are able to preserve the supplemental life insurance that they had when they were in service.
 And I understand that the standard has said that they want to lift the premiums. I'd like to know how much they want to lift the premiums if it's converted to a personal policy. But to me, this is a fairness question. And it is hard enough when you are an employee and dealing with a significant and serious illness. Right.
 To layer on top of that the prospect that you would lose your insurance coverage, and your insurance coverage is vitally important here. We're talking about taking care of your survivors if you have a terminal illness. And it seems to me that putting someone in a position where they have at least a 50 percent decline in available health insurance and an unaffordable portable plan is not in our best interest.
 I don't know how many people are affected by that, but, Mayor, I think this requires significant focus. And I volunteer, since I have a different perspective on this issue with battling cancer, on some of the dynamics. But I don't think employees should have to make these choices. I think it's a very important issue that you've raised, and I was not completely aware of it.
 of that gap and I appreciate your raising it and I'm sure that there are a number of employees that are facing exactly that circumstance so I would applaud and appreciate
 that kind of a partnership to see what's available. Yes. As part of the RFP process, we have a series of questions that are directly related to how we protect benefits for employees. I'll make sure that we articulate that very much. Yeah, and thank you, Kathy. You've been very responsive in my conversations. But I'm also interested in what our experience has been
 at that intersection of people that have to choose between long-term disability or who simply separate service. And I'm not sure there's a lot of people who fall into this category.
 And then I'm interested in for how long and at what cost we can maintain the preferred rates on supplemental life. Again, there seems something cruel to, on top of dealing with a serious health challenge, on top of worrying about the impact of that health challenge on your family's finances, being told that a supplemental life insurance policy that you've been paying for all along is no longer available to you, that doesn't seem fair.
 And the truth is that the private market costs are prohibited if you start fresh for term life insurance. And after all, you have paid in and you have been playing by the rules. And I just don't think on top of all the other concerns people have to deal with, that should be weighing heavily on them as well.
 The one thing that I will say to that, it's not really a matter of choosing to have to go out on long-term disability or not wanting to do that. One of the components of the long-term disability plan is that as part of the adjudication process of that claim, the determination is made for a waiver of premium. So the waiver of premium process holds
 says you don't have to pay for your life insurance, your supplemental life insurance premiums, or your long-term disability premium. And all of those benefits remain intact at the level that they were as part of this waiver of premium process when somebody does apply and is approved for long-term disability benefits.
 Now, that covers just a certain period of time, and then after that, of course, the reduction pieces are likely going to impact an individual who is within the long-term disability benefit. But there are nuances to all of those things. So I think we should look at those nuances. We should cost them out. And, yeah.
 I'm sorry for asking a very simple question, but does eligibility for long-term disability benefits impact at all the decision as to whether you maintain your current employment status?
 It may, yeah. And then, of course, that would have a differential impact on electives versus appointees. No, you can still retire, leave, and the benefit. And be eligible for long-term benefits. Oh, yes, absolutely. And, of course, this impacts electives a little differently. It does, but you still are part of the plan. Okay.
 Okay. Yeah. So the mayor has said it's something he's interested in pursuing. I'm interested in looking at the various scenarios, the numbers of people that are impacted, and the cost of maintaining the benefit. And I would ask that we continue to have those conversations. Absolutely. Great. Thank you. Further questions before we open it up for public testimony? Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one signed up.
 Very good. And this is an emergency ordinance, and the emergency exists to avoid undue and costly delay in providing benefits to plan participants. Could you please call the roll? Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Kathy, bless you. Continue to do outstanding work. Thank you very much. Aye. Fish. Thank you, Kathy. You bet. Aye.
 Wheeler. That was a good conversation, and I appreciate Commissioner Fish raising that. Kathy, thank you for your hard work. As always, I vote aye. The audience has stopped it. Thanks. Next item is a second reading, 895.
 Authorize a contract with Brown and Caldwell Inc. for professional services for the Inverness Pump Station 24-inch pressure line rehabilitation, project number E10887, for $1.1 million. Colleagues, this is the second reading. This is an ordinance that has already had a presentation and public testimony. Carla, please call the roll. Uda Lee. Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 896, also a second reading.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the downtown Old Town Carothers Mill Sewer Rehabilitation Project, number E10986, for $3,296,200. Colleagues, any further discussion on this item? Carla, please call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 897. Designate and assign the Cary Boulevard property from the Portland Water Bureau to the Portland Housing Bureau for development as affordable housing. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. The Portland Water Bureau has determined that it no longer has use for about three acres of Water Bureau property located in the University Park neighborhood.
 and has, subject to our surplus property policy, offered it to other city bureaus. The Portland Housing Bureau has expressed an interest and intent to purchase the property at fair market value. Today we have the Water Bureau and Housing Bureau here to give a brief presentation. We're joined by Mike Stewart, the Director of the Water Bureau, and Shannon Callahan, who is Director of the Portland Housing Bureau.
 And I'll turn it over as soon as Carla gets our PowerPoint ready. Carla, I don't know how you manage all these presentations. Oh, no. Imagine where we'd be without you. Better than average. Let's put it that way. Imagine where we'd be without you. So I thought I might just begin. Go ahead, Mike. My name is Mike Stewart. I'm the Director of the Portland Water Bureau. And I am...
 We have been examining our property
 inventory and looking for pieces of property that we could free up for the community or for other uses within the city. One of those pieces of property is what we call the Cary Boulevard property, which you see up there. It's way, way up there in North Portland, adjacent to the big railroad cut where BNSF runs 34 trains a day.
 We bought the property between 1970 and 1973. For those of you who are interested, you will note that was pre all of the environmental loss that we deal with these days. And the city was a different place at that time. We bought the property to put tanks because at that time people were anticipating much greater water use than we see today.
 The combination of conservation ethic and changes in plumbing fixtures and so on, we have continually used less and less water. So we have no need for tanks there. So since that time, those three acres have lined fallow.
 They are mowed, I think, by Parks Bureau. We pay Parks Bureau to mow it because they have all these cool mowers that run around, fairly good-sized mowers. It's been mowed by the Parks Bureau and has lied unused.
 So we decided that we wanted to dispose of that property. And we've gone through the city's ordinance process, pre-ordinance process, I guess would be a better way to say it. And we have floated the piece of property to other bureaus. And Shannon's Bureau raised their hand and said that might be a good place to put housing. Okay.
 So what we've done over the preceding months is we've done an appraisal of the property. That's how we value our property. And we have agreed that the transfer price between us and the Housing Bureau is $3.35 million, I think.
 And that's kind of where we are at today. Another kind of wonky thing, the actual ownership of the property does not change. The city of Portland owns all the property. In some measure, this is an accounting exercise that keeps the funds straight between the general fund and the utility fund. So having said that, I'll now turn this over to Shannon, who can talk about what they propose to do with it.
 Thank you, Mike. First of all, I'd like to just thank the Water Bureau and Director Sturer for his team's cooperation in this property transfer. This parcel is ideal for new homeownership opportunities for Portland families. As you are aware – oh, these are old slides. Oh, interesting. Okay. Okay.
 The slides may not match my talking points. So as you are aware, home ownership costs have increased dramatically over the last seven years, leaving many moderate income families with very few options in the city. Although the Housing Bureau spends the majority of our development funds on rental housing, our work to create new home ownership opportunities is a key part of our mission to stabilize families with long-term housing options.
 We are committed to developing this parcel for home ownership. We are committed to utilizing the North and Northeast Neighborhood Strategy as developed by and with the community in 2014. And we are in conversations with Prosper Portland about adding this parcel to the interstate urban renewal area. And we would plan to use renewal funds to complete the purchase of the parcel.
 Our current estimate for the number of homes that we can create on this parcel is between 50 and 70. We have made a commitment to this council and to the University Park Neighborhood Association to preserve the existing heritage tree on the property and look forward to conversations with the neighborhood about the ultimate development. And we've also committed to the Neighborhood Association that they would have a representative
 on the selection committee for the actual developer of this property, which is to be sometime in the future. We are also in conversations, hopefully with our sister bureau at parks to maintain the maintenance agreement, but otherwise we will make sure to maintain the property in the condition it has been. And we are...
 engaging in security contracts as the neighborhood has expressed some interest in making sure that we have patrols on the on the property on a regular basis. So that is in sum our plans and our commitment to the neighborhood and thank you. Commissioner Fritz?
 Is this the property that we changed to R2 in the comprehensive plan? Yes. So what's the thinking as far as what kind of home ownership opportunities would be there since that's usually a multifamily dwelling zone? We.
 We are, it's very early. We don't have conceptual plans. Typically we bring an actual development partner on to help us design and work on the process with the community. Our thinking is that it would be either single family or potentially attached housing. We would not be looking at multifamily, you know, five-story development of that type. We're looking for more of your single family feel and or attached housing.
 Yes, and interestingly, you could do it with a land trust, couldn't you, so that it wouldn't need to be subdivided, but you could provide home ownership without selling the land underneath, which would maintain the affordability for a long time. Yes. Very interesting possibility. I think that concludes our formal presentation. The lead-up to this council item has involved lots of staff work and lots of technical work.
 and is fairly complicated. The presentation is very straightforward. We appreciate the constructive conversations with the Neighborhood Association. Tom Karwacki is here. I don't know whether he's signed up to testify, but I hope so. And I'll have a few remarks in my closing remarks about why I think this is a milestone. Great. Thank you. Public testimony. Yes, we have six people signed up.
 The first three are Sherry Dolan, James White, and Tom Karwacki. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi. Thank you. My name is Sherry Dolan, and I live at 6702 North Syracuse. I've lived there for 40 years. And I'm going to read through this quickly, but then I have a couple more things that I would like to say.
 I understand that the Cary Boulevard property is surplus property to all of you. But that surplus property has been the land that I look out at every morning and every evening. It has been my neighbor on two sides for 40 years. For the first 20 years, I called the Water Bureau every year asking when they were going to build the water towers.
 Then we were told that the ground was unstable, not that it wasn't necessary. Twenty years ago, we were told that they took samples and it was unstable. So they couldn't put a water tower there, so they might use it for a maintenance yard. In recent years, we heard through the Neighborhood Association that it would become houses. It would have been better to hear this from the city.
 but we have received nothing directly from the city regarding any of the changes. So I'm asking that the neighbors be better informed, and not just through the Neighborhood Association,
 We have addresses. You have our addresses. We pay our bills. Inform and include us in the decisions concerning our neighborhood. Protect the heritage tree and many of the other 20 different or more species of trees. We have returning falcons. This year they had two babies they raised.
 In closing, please remember that the University Park neighborhood has mostly households that have two working adults, and our houses represent the biggest investments we own. I hope that this council makes decisions that value the existing residents' quality of life and benefit all the citizens of Portland. On the way over, I had two other thoughts. The map behind you shows perfectly.
 that North Portland is, in fact, a peninsula. There are only three ways on to the peninsula from East County. We have Columbia Boulevard, we have Lombard, and we have Willamette Boulevard. Those arterials are getting clogged with all of the infill and construction that's going on. I understand that we need more housing. I have not said anything against it.
 I just believe that somebody needs to be aware that we need more arterial roads for vehicles, not just bike lanes, vehicles. We also have concerns that the Bureau of Housing is going to have ownership of the property.
 Because I've seen what they've done with the property on Lombard at 7300, where they took over the parole office, and now it's a housing place where they keep stuff, and it's not kept up very well. So I am concerned that we have the same level of response and upkeep on the property. We have had fires where we've had to leave our homes before because of the railroad cut, which we all understand, but...
 Thank you. We appreciate that. Thank you. Good morning. Good afternoon. My name is James White. I appreciate your time. I appreciate what you said to our president a little while back in retort. I appreciate the commissioners here. I'm a native Oregonian. I'm a Portlander. I went to Grant High School. I lived in northeast Portland all my life. I've lived 23 years in St. John's. I just retired as a 27-year teacher in Lake Oswego School District.
 I know what expectations are. I know how to reach expectations. My expectation with this council is pretty simple. I have numerously called the Water Bureau, called the railroad, called the police for the transients and everything down the road. I understand there's homeless everywhere.
 But there's a drug epidemic, and what my concern is if they sell this land, I want to make sure that it is maintained by the Housing Bureau just like it has been the Water Bureau, that the grasses will be cut, that there will be security around, and that we can have a little more insight into North Portland, which is growing, burgeoning, and on the possibility of being one of the most robust communities around as long as we feed it.
 I'm here today. I'm very nervous, and usually I don't get nervous in front of people. I'm pretty articulate. But today I'm here to stand behind my neighbor here. I have constantly, my wife says, you can't go out in the street anymore and run people down for doing the wrong things. I get it.
 But what I don't get is what's going on with lack of, shall I say, clarity. I mean, we've been wrestling with this issue for a long period of time. I know we're going to need to build. I know Portland's growing. I know the medium-priced houses are just escalating.
 But we've got to think really clearly and slowly where we build here and are we going to maintain the services we need around that so that it can be a viable, productive community for the years to come. I was a little long and loquacious there. I appreciate your time. Yeah, it's excellent testimony, and I'm glad you're here to give that testimony with both the water and the Housing Bureau leadership here to hear your testimony. Thank you, Mayor. It's good testimony. Thank you.
 Thank you. It's good to see you. My name is Tom Karwacki, Land Use Chair of the University Park Neighborhood Association with our two members here. And first of all, we have a long history with this land, over 35 years since the Neighborhood Association was started. We've always promoted that this be a park, if possible. Thank you.
 and we've advocated for that because it would be the only park next to a mainline railroad in the city. However, the decision has been made by the council that it be housing, an affordable housing, and we want to thank Shannon and the Portland Housing Bureau on what they've tried to do, and we look forward to cooperating and working with them to make this a,
 really model facility development. What we are concerned and we're thankful that we'll have a representation on that. We hope that the council does direct them to make sure that they include us and other members of the community because there are many other members besides just the Neighborhood Association.
 So finally, in addition to that, we just wanted to say that the issues of all of this, we've always had campers, and the written comments I've made are a little more articulate. But we've always had campers, but what we really are asking for, we have a spring water corridor situation here. This Sunday, I counted 100 campers on this parcel. 100.
 At this point, and this is only one part of a seven-mile corridor.
 So I'm just saying that this is an opportunity. In our testimony, we suggest this. Create a task force, Mayor, with all of the different bureaus and the property owners and the neighborhood and the University of Portland and Multnomah County Health Department, the police, the fire, everyone involved, and let's build a community-based effort to really, including the members, the people who are here, they're our neighbors, and let's
 Let's make sure that we can create a successful situation for all of them. We would rather not have a full Sweetwater corridor situation. So I really look forward to us including all of the people. We could create a really nice community-based effort here. And that's what we're suggesting, and we look forward to working with the Portland Housing Bureau in the future.
 Good vision. I appreciate it. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Mr. Kowalkian, thank you for sending in your testimony ahead of time. That was very helpful. You had asked for potentially an amendment to say that the Housing Bureau will work with the Neighborhood Association and the neighbors, and also another one for the maintenance. Having heard it stated on the record by the housing director, is that adequate for you? I think, okay.
 I have no offense to anyone here. I think that's a great statement, but I do really think that in the future it is helpful because administrations change, directorates change. It may be a wise thing to occasionally include the neighborhood. We've heard they didn't get notified. As part of the surplus property stuff, I talked about how much you were going to put aside when you were going to change and to do developments and so forth. And...
 What we've got here is there's been actually no notice to the community directly. I have been involved. I've followed this stuff. Some other people have. They didn't know what it meant to be a change in zoning, et cetera. So the issue is that the community has not been notified really that this is happening.
 We're okay with it. We can accept that, but we would hope that there was better communication. I would hope that a directive in some sort of writing maybe would be helpful. I understand that it may not be possible. This is really great assurances. I take her at her word. But I'm just trying to say is that what happens when she leaves? And that's a concern to the neighborhood. This is a piece of land that could be in a land bank for some time. It's been in the city's possession for decades.
 A long time. And prior to that, it was in the railroad's possession. And so the situation is that, you know, who knew what the city was thinking 30 or 50 years ago when it bought this land? The point is that it could be in the land trust for many years. It could be just a year or two. That's what the concern of writing and inclusion is in writing. It helps to include maps. Maps really show us where we're at. Thank you very much, though. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Appreciate it.
 Next three, please, Carla. The last three who signed up are Diane Lin, Steve Mezzanetti, and Charles Bertrain Johnson. All right. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council. My name is Diane Lynn. I'm Executive Director of Proud Ground. We create permanently affordable homeownership opportunities for working families with a focus on closing the minority homeownership gap, especially in neighborhoods adversely affected by COVID.
 gentrification. As mentioned by Commissioner Fish, we operate using the community land trust model, and I do think this property has a great amount of potential for that, if that's the direction it goes. We are clearly here in support of PHB's purchase of the water burial surplus land at Cary Street. This is a really important example of how
 we can leverage publicly owned land to concretely address the affordable housing crisis we face in the city. And I think...
 This could be a step, I think Commissioner Fish used an important word, that this could actually trigger more transfers just like this. This site in particular is located in the heart of a very vibrant community. You've heard from the people that live right there, and there's many others. I live and work right in the area.
 It has many amenities nearby that would serve families particularly well. And in homeownership, as you know, and you'll hear from my colleague, Steve Messonetti, it's a very stabilizing kind of housing. And we think that this site would really offer up some wonderful development opportunities, options, and we strongly support making it available for our desperately needed homeownership units.
 in north and northeast Portland. Through effective partnerships, mixed-income communities can be built where children and their parents, individuals and families can live and thrive. We support the transfer of this land to the Portland Housing Bureau, and I wanted to mention quickly that there's, again, this amenity is right nearby. There's two parks within 2 and 10 blocks, Fred Meyer's down the street, New Seasons. There's bike trails there.
 and hiking trails. The cut of the canyon is actually a good, I think, neighbor to a wonderful homeownership development, and we do really look forward to working very closely, if we are involved, going forward on this project with the neighborhood and making sure that it fits into the character and the nature of the neighborhood. Thank you very much. Thank you, Diane. It's good to see you. Good to see you.
 Mayor Wheeler, City Council, thank you for your steadfast support of creating a city where people of all incomes can live. I'm Steve Messonetti. I'm the CEO of Habitat for Humanity, Portland Metro East. And to start, I just saw a report through the United Way that they just published.
 And it was a study that showed the change of affordability in communities across the country. And for Multnomah County, I was surprised to see that for households living below the poverty line, there was actually a decrease in the last six years from 51,000 to 41,000. So that's good news. We're having fewer families that are living below the poverty line. But the number of households in our city, or our county rather, who are working households that
 do not earn enough to afford basic life necessities, food, transportation, and housing, almost doubled from 42,000 households to 80,000 households. And I really believe that that's our housing crisis, and it's one of the key factors
 contributors to our homelessness crisis, to our hunger crisis, to our equity crisis. Habitat for Humanity from 1990 to 2002 built about 110 houses in North and Northeast Portland. These homes were sold to households with an average income of 40% of the median income, and over 80% of them were households of color. And almost all of these households continue to be successful in owning and occupying these homes.
 And we've seen again and again the stability that comes from homeownership. In fact, we did a study of the 300 first households we sold homes to in Portland, and 92% of children that grow up in a Habitat home graduate. That's 17% higher than the city graduation rate.
 We also learned from families that 79% of households that had a family member with a respiratory illness no longer reported having symptoms once they moved into their healthy home. So homeownership is stabilizing, and it's also one of the greatest and most effective anti-displacement strategies.
 This three-acre parcel of R2 zone property on Cary Boulevard is a great fit for homeownership and is an excellent match for the desires of households that have been displaced from this community. And we've been working with these households for the past few years.
 there's a tremendous lack of this sort of middle zoning in the city that meets the needs of larger families where either single-family homes or townhome-style homes can be built, as well as for multigenerational households. Thank you.
 It is time to end the growing racial disparity between those who own property and have the power and the decision-making that comes with it and those who don't. So I also encourage you to support the transfer of this property to the Housing Bureau and dedicate it to providing homeownership opportunities. Thanks. Thank you. I have a quick question on that. Commissioner Fish. You know, there's a big conversation going on in our community about the benefits of homeownership in terms of wealth creation.
 But the truth is that in order to get families below 50% of median family income into an affordable home, we have to use models like land trust models, Habitat and others, which limit the amount of equity that a family can actually accrue over the life. With respect to your model and your model with Habitat, over the life of someone's ownership of a Habitat home, how much equity can they accrue?
 Actually, Habitat for Humanity has recently committed to moving to a permanent affordability model from what we currently have as a shared appreciation model. And the reason for that is all the national studies show that the benefits that come from homeownership come from the stability, the no more rent increases, and the built-in savings account, and not necessarily that equity in appreciation. Well, that's an important – I'm glad you said that because there are –
 some big cross currents in our community in this area. And frankly, another area that I worry about when the focus is excessively on wealth creation is that housing markets are prone to cycles.
 And today may be a good cycle. Tomorrow someone may be underwater. We may be doing no favor to a struggling working-class family to put them in a situation they can't be successful. So from my point of view, the model should be focused on housing stability and permanent affordability, not on picking winners and losers in the marketplace. And I know that's a controversial subject. But.
 But I think the wealth creation, frankly, is a better conversation in the area of how we assist small businesses and how we provide capital to people to chase their dreams. I think in the housing sector it comes with more risk, and I think if I had to pick between permanent affordability and this idea of giving someone a piece of the pie –
 I'd opt for the permanent affordability because of all that you've just described in terms of the benefits of homeownership. Commissioner Fish, if I could just add a quick couple of comments. For the targeted audience, we serve at 60% to 80% of median income, and again, we're partnering up on the whole range, and we think mixed-income communities are very important.
 If the family at 60% to 70% of median income, we bring an entire down payment to the table for them, removing that incredibly difficult barrier, then provide and make sure they have an affordable mortgage that stays within only 38% of their income, and in contrast to many other housing scenarios, that's way lower.
 And in the end, our studies show that in a 10-year window, people are generating as much as $72,000 a year, free and clear. They get every penny they put into their principal mortgage back out again, and an increase of 25% in our model over the course of time. That's in a 10-year window. It's going to be less profitable.
 if it's told sooner, and much more if it's sold later. So we really want to make it clear that we actually want families to thrive financially also and be able to generate revenue into their own households and at the same time be able to resell that very same home to the next income-qualified family in perpetuity. Well, there you go. But getting your down payment back when you sell is different than some of the –
 expectations people have in this marketplace of reaping huge gains. And we have to balance affordability and also some reasonable return. I think we have to have an honest conversation, though, about what affordable homeownership means because there are growing voices around wanting to promote affordable,
 you know, wealth creation, that's a very subjective term, and it could mean many different things to different people. And I think, frankly, it puts some of these houses at risk if we go down certain paths. I think we can achieve both. Yeah. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioners. It's good to have this robust discussion, but I think as we go forward, we want to make sure that when we look at the faces of the six testifiers and the presenters that –
 that we also get the input. And as Commissioner Fish has pointed out, different people have different ideas about retaining equity and wealth creation, but we want to hear the voices of the Portland African American Leadership Foundation, the Urban League, the NAACP, actual people of color, not just advocates that are looking to help them use their power to get into stable long-term housing. Charles, you might have missed the earlier preamble, but the policy of the right of return
 That was specifically crafted so that African Americans could come back to North Northeast Portland. Yeah, I recall. When Saltzman had housing, I think we started that. Well, that policy, if you listen to the presentation, applies to these homes. Thank you. So it's already baked in. The question now is who ends up developing the housing in concert with the city. But the policy has been set. And how do we get it done fast enough? I mean, Jimmy Carter's not going to live here forever. Jimmy Carter's not going to live forever. But Habitat for Humanity's number one guy should come here and...
 all the Portland all the habitat humanity homes I'm familiar with were standalone single-family housing but it was great to hear that townhomes were mentioned because at the level of housing crisis we have at 60 MFI 40 and zero we also need density we can't just build beautiful suburbs for a very elite screened few of especially qualified income participants we need to think about density on this three acres so that we can have
 not just quality of life impact, but get as many people as qualified applicants we can find into this great opportunity. So I look forward to this discussion. Obviously, this is something you shouldn't vote no on, but there's a lot of work to be done to make it happen. Thank you. Very good. Thank you all. That concludes public testimony. Very good. Mayor, I want to address one subject that came up. Commissioner Fish. So we had testimony from the Neighborhood Association and from some residents.
 that there was not adequate posting of the site. So having been through three different rounds of this debate around surplus property, I'd like to respond to that quickly. The Water Bureau revisited its surplus property policies a number of years ago, and a triggering event was the sale of some property in southwest Portland that actually had a water tank on it.
 And it went to a private developer. There was a lot of pushback. And what was clear to me at the time is our policies needed to be updated and they needed to be more transparent. As part of the response of the Water Bureau, they came up with a model set of policies that said, if the land is to be sold to a private party, there must be posting and notice so the community has a right to know and to be heard.
 The city then updated its overall surplus property policies and incorporated some of the best thinking of the Water Bureau, and that was then adopted by the council, and this predates this mayor and Commissioner Daly. And so we now have a baseline surplus property policy.
 this is, in my judgment, a conspicuous success because this is under the new policy, land being picked up by another city bureau and developed for a public purpose. However, there is a small glitch in our policy that you have identified, which is there is no requirement for a posting if the land is otherwise to be acquired by another city agency. Okay.
 In other words, if it stays within city ownership, which I can understand that, but from your point of view, there's a change of use. And since the posting would alert you that it could be a change of use from, say, what you once thought might be a Water Bureau use to what you might have hoped at one point was a parks use, and now what you're hearing is, so, Mayor, I think we should take a look. It seems to me that the posting requirement is,
 should not be limited to only those situations where it is to be sold to a third party. I think the trigger should be a decision to put up property as surplus. I think we should probably revisit whether that should be posted across the city, and that would give the neighbors immediate notice as well as the neighborhood association. And the purpose of the posting was to give you a voice.
 And I'm not convinced as I listened to the testimony today that it makes a heck of a lot of difference whether it's being acquired by another bureau or by a private developer. So thank you for bringing that to our attention. I think that's something the city will take a look at and consider updating its policies. Very good. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Udailey? Aye.
 This has the potential to be an absolutely wonderful project. I'm glad that you've been working with the Neighborhood Association and will continue to do so. It works out at about $45,000 per home for a home ownership opportunity. Obviously it's got to be built, but with our partners in the community, that'll be a wonderful thing to have happen. And I appreciate the work. Hi. Fish? You know, today has been a day in our agenda with a lot of positive news and
 To me, this is a triple win if we get it right. It is an example of our new surplus property working better than our old policy, and it still, I think, needs to be updated. But having inherited the Bureau with an old policy that was, frankly, wholly lacking, this policy is much better and involves a lot of stakeholder input. So it's a win for a more transparent surplus property policy.
 It's a win for our rate payers because they're getting fair market value for the dirt, and it's a win for between 50 and 70 families that are going to be able to afford to live in a beautiful neighborhood in North Portland sometime in the future. So I'm very pleased to support this, and since there are three bureaus that have been called out that are going to have ongoing roles, the Water Bureau, the Parks Bureau, and the Housing Bureau,
 Those will now be led starting in September by Commissioners Fritz, Mayor Wheeler, and Commissioner Fish. So all three of us are on notice that you've raised concerns about the condition of the property prior to some decision made about development. And I thank you for raising that as well. Aye. Wheeler. Great collaboration, innovative solution, significant need. Thank you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 Colleagues, we have four items left, and I have a meeting coming up shortly, so I'm hoping we can be relatively expedient. Could I call item 900, which is a second reading? Let's get that out of the way, please.
 900, authorize a cooperative utility agreement with the State of Oregon Department of Transportation for the U.S. 26 Powell Boulevard, Southeast 122nd Avenue, Southeast 136th Avenue project to replace water lines for an estimated amount of $856,000. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Commissioner Fish, 898 and 899, do you want them read separately or together? I think we can read them together, Mayor. Very good. 898 and 899, please.
 898, approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize the use of the alternative contracting method of construction manager, general contractor, in connection with the Bull Run Filtration Project for an estimated amount of $350 million. And 899, authorize a contract with Brown and Caldwell, Inc.,
 For the program management and support services for the Bull Run Filtration Project for a not to exceed amount of $67,891,398. Commissioner Fish. I think we can speed this up, Mayor. And while I'm making my opening remarks, Carla, could you hand out the Portland Utility Board's memorandum of August 21, 2018, in which they –
 signal their support for the preferred options that have been presented by the Water Bureau following their review. Colleagues, today we have two council actions from the Portland Water Bureau related to the Bull Run Filtration Project. Item 899 is an ordinance to authorize a contract with Brown and Caldwell for program management and support services for the project.
 Item 898 is an ordinance to approve the draft findings and authorize an exemption from the low-bid method and authorize a competitive alternative contracting method for the Bull Run Filtration Project. Today, the Water Bureau and Procurement Services are here to present an overview of these actions. We're joined by Teresa Elliott, Water Bureau Chief Engineer, David Peters, Water Bureau Principal Engineer, and Larry Pallatt, Procurement Services. Teresa, would you take it away? Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. I'm Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer, Portland Water Bureau. And as Commissioner Fiske mentioned, I have with me Larry Platt and David Peters from both Procurement Services and the Water Bureau. The purpose of Council Item 899 is to authorize a professional, technical, and expertise review
 contract with Brown and Caldwell for program management and support services. Dave Peters will cover this item in more detail. Then I will talk to you more about the alternative contracting method process that you asked us about at last week's council work session. And then Larry will follow up with the findings in item 898. I'll be really quick doing a couple of background slides that you've seen a portion of this information.
 last week when we met with you. So, recent progress. One year ago, the City Council directed the Water Bureau to move forward with the development of a filtration plant for the Bull Run water supply.
 And then in December of last year, the Water Bureau negotiated a bilateral compliance agreement with the Oregon Health Authority. And that has a schedule in it for us to complete that facility by September 30th of 2027. And then with that background, we embarked on...
 developing a request for proposals for this program management and support services. And we received three proposals in March of this year. So our current project activities, we're here today with these two ordinances.
 Earlier this month, we submitted an application to the EPA to be considered for federal funding through the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act. So those are some current ongoing activities. And then in the near future, project activities would include, yet this year, us beginning the program set up
 developing the project definition for these filtration facilities and beginning the pilot testing to work out the details of what a facility might look like. What that means is that in the beginning, early 2019, we'll be coming back to council with a design contract for professional technical expert contract for design of this filtration facility. And that will
 in 2019 be coming back to city council with an authorization for a construction manager general contractor professional services contract. What do you mean by advance the three preferred alternatives? So, the three preferred
 We came to council last week at the work session with the four preferred alternatives. One action will be taken care of today as we take the action for the construction manager general contractor. The moving forward with the other three alternatives will be part of the project definition and pilot testing work.
 Okay. So I haven't had a chance to meet with the Water Bureau yet. I'm looking forward to working with you all. There will need to be a – this public hearing is not to talk about what the preferred – those three preferred alternatives are in terms of capacity, location of the site, or method of filtration. I just want to make it clear to everybody that there will be an opportunity to talk about that, but this isn't it. Correct.
 That was in my notes here. I was supposed to cover that. The three preferred alternatives in this slide, Commissioner Fritz, are the three preferred alternatives that you bring to council. You've been given a range of choices, and you've been given a preferred alternative by the Water Bureau,
 And as we explained in the last hearing on this, the fall will be taken up with further community consultation. And at some point, and that would be in quarter one of 2019, it is your privilege to bring forth what you believe are the preferred alternatives on each of the remaining questions. Thank you. So this slide here –
 It's just a visual representation of what I've just described. It shows the schedule of the full project across the top with a highlight for where we're at today with the two council actions for the program management contract and then the findings authorization for the construction management general contractor. We will in the future be coming back in 2019 with a design contract
 for professional services as well as professional services for the construction manager general contractor and at a future date we'll be coming back with the GMP for the construction of the facilities. So last year we gave you an estimate on the project budget which has a range of $350 million to $500 million. That's still the range that's being used on this project.
 The program management and support contract is coming in just under $68 million, and if approved, this amount is the only action that's being committed at this point in time. The CMGC construction contract is estimated to be around $350 million, and this is only an estimate for authorization purposes and has a low level of confidence.
 The construction contracts will actually be developed as we go into the project definition and pilot testing phases as we do our detailed planning over the next two years. So $500 million is what we have factored into our 10-year capital plan at this point in time. So again, this $350 million is a placeholder number, and it could be changed depending on the capacity, the location, and the filtration method chosen. That's correct. Thank you. So the...
 Today's professional technical and expert contract with Brown and Caldwell is for program management and support services for the filtration project. The Brown and Caldwell will support the Bureau in delivering a complex water treatment facility and overall program management. Specifically the contract activities include development and implementation of a pilot testing program, development of the project definition.
 providing quality assurance and quality control during design and construction, and providing construction management support. This contract will focus on integrating all of the Water Bureau's treatment systems related to the Bull Run supply, which includes disinfection, corrosion control, filtration, and any pre- or post-treatment systems that are going to be necessary. Thank you.
 We used a formal solicitation process and received three proposals. All were from well-qualified firms, but it was determined that Brown and Caldwell was the most qualified to complete our work. So they'll be given a five-year contract with a possible five-year extension to complete these facilities. Brown and Caldwell has committed to renewing
 in support of the city's aspirational goals, has proposed 22% disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business participation, which has an estimated value of just under $15 million. So at this point, I'll turn things over to Teresa to talk about the alternative contract delivery.
 I'm Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer. In Council Item 898, we're seeking Council's approval for use of alternative contracting delivery, for the use of alternative contracting delivery method, specifically called the Construction Manager General Contractor Method, or CMGC. At last week's Council work session, you asked us to explain this method a little further and to explain who has the risk.
 The next couple of slides will actually answer some of those. So first of all, we have the...
 Thank you. First, we have the design-bid-build, which is considered, a lot of people know it, as the low-bid process. And that is required by Oregon Revised Statute 279 that says all public improvement contracts will use this approach unless a contracting authority, which is you in this case, approves exempting the project from the traditional low-bid process.
 In the low bid method, the project is designed to 100%, then it's advertised by the city, and then the lowest response of bidder is selected based on cost. We have no other selection criteria that's involved in deciding who gets the bid. Okay.
 What this means is that the design is developed without any input from the construction community, and so as engineers we're making our best guesses of what the construction community would be bidding on and how they would be building it. In a design-build process...
 Sorry, it seems odd. In a design-build process, during planning, we would develop performance measures and criteria and include those in a request for proposal. Then contractors would submit proposals on how they would design and build the project. This project leaves the city with minimal control and input as the project moves forward. In a construction manager general contractor process,
 The project is designed 100% by the owner, but we bring on the construction contractor early in planning and design to participate in the project development. This provides a competitive process, but we have a better idea of what can be built and the capabilities of the contractor and the contracting community.
 In the next slide, this slide just shows a little bit of the relationship between the owner, which is the city, the designer, and the construction contractor. In the low bid method...
 The city hires the designer and the contractor separately, and all formal communication is through the city only. In the design-build method, the city hires the construction contractor, and the construction contractor hires somebody to do the design, and they hire somebody to do the subcontract work, and all formal communication is between the city and the contractor.
 And if we want to talk to the designer, it all has to be done through the design-build contractor. In the CMGC method, the city hires the contractor and the designer, and we do a cooperative agreement between all parties or a partnership between the parties to work together to come up with a project that works for us. Can you go ahead?
 And Mayor, you specifically asked me in the work session who actually is bearing the risk. So in a low-bed contract, the city is bearing most of the risk. In a design build, the contractor is assuming most of the risk. And in a CMGC method, it's a shared risk between the owner and the contractor. Okay.
 Could I ask on what basis is the bar shorter? Go back to the last slide, please. Why is the risk less with the bar?
 With CMGC, why is the risk presumed to be less than design? In the CMGC, it's presumed to be less because the contractor has participated during the design, during the development of the project. And so a lot of things that we know about on a construction project don't come forward until you get to construction. If a contractor is involved sooner, then they're participating in what that might happen. So CMGC is not new anymore anymore?
 And that was certainly one of the big selling points. Does the data, now that we have some longitudinal data, does it bear this out? I believe it does, but I'd have to do some research to verify that. I'd be curious. I can look that up. Okay.
 So in order for the contract to be exempt from a low bid, the city is required to go through, according to ORS 279, Oregon Revised Statutes 279, we're required to go through some alternative findings. And then also according to city council resolution that was passed last fall, 37330,
 We have developed with procurement a process for evaluating whether a project is a candidate for alternative or not. We have used both of those methodologies and Larry will tell you more about it. Good afternoon.
 Yeah, really. I'm Larry Pallatt, Procurement Services. I'll try to cut back on some of my talking points. In the CMGC process, the findings are required by the state. There's actually 14 findings. I'm going to address kind of the top six. The idea is the process.
 The methodology cannot reduce competition, and it does not reduce competition. The RFP for the final construction contractor is a competitive solicitation in which proposers submit responses to the information requested by the city, specifically around the qualifications, their experience, and their approach to the project. We do ask for cost information at this time frame, so we are at that point able to begin to develop some very serious budgets.
 Cost savings, as a rule, cost savings are achieved by bringing the construction contractor into the project team very early. They generally are very good at identifying possible areas in which we could save money, utilize a different product, compress a timeline. Because these are the people that are actually going to do the work, their thought process is extremely valuable. So specialized expertise and construction methods are –
 An additional requirement, project of this scale with as many possible complications as this one requires that the contractors be experienced and knowledgeable to be sure that the project is successful. It's become more common than not that many of the contractors who are of the size and are capable of successfully completing a project of this size will not participate in standard low bid processes because there's far too many variables
 that they cannot accurately account for on the front end. They either highly overload the cost process or they just simply don't participate. And that has been borne out. We've seen that in several of the city's own projects.
 The faster total delivery by eliminating the potential for change orders and their negative impact on completion by encouraging cooperative selection of alternative products or compressed timelines, and by promoting good communication, the schedule is almost always met under this type of project delivery.
 Benefits to operations, the owner, the designer, the contractor work together throughout the project to make improvements as they become known. Many of these improvements will not be known until construction is underway, and the communication promoted through this methodology capitalizes on the working arrangement to take advantage of those kind of opportunities. And in providing public benefit,
 The Portland Water Bureau customers, the rate payers, benefit from this construction method by having the most efficient and effective water treatment plant incorporated into their water supply in the most effective and least costly way possible. So that's the conclusion, and basically what we're saying in addition –
 This is a fully competitive process. There is no limitation on who can bid, but you do want to get some specialized types of people. Thank you.
 The CMGC process allows the Water Bureau to actually have contractual authority and contractual capacity to stipulate DMW-ESB participation for the selected contractor. And in addition, this methodology promotes highly effective and frequent communication. Okay.
 So the CMGC contract for this treatment facility will use a community benefits agreement for the construction that's mandated by the resolution passed last fall by this council. And when they enacted the overall community opportunity and enhancement program.
 So, in conclusion, the Portland Water Bureau, in conjunction with Procurement Services, asks these three things of the Council in the two actions before you. Accept the findings and authorize exempting this project from the low-bid competitive solicitation requirement. Authorize the use of the Construction Manager General Contractor CMGC competitive construction method and approve the PTE contract for Brown and Caldwell. That's actually item 899. Questions? No.
 Very thorough. Public testimony on these items, Carla. Yes. I believe we have three people signed up. Excellent. Dee White, Alan Norman, and Colleen Johnson. So, colleagues, Alan and Colleen, who are the co-chairs of the Portland Utility Board, have informed me that they were not able to stick around for the testimony and that they fully stand behind their August 21, 2018 memo.
 very good i see ms white good afternoon thank you for your patience um it's just amazing that y'all always do these really high-end contracts i'm the only member of the public in here besides shudrick all these and mary sorry during the budget right hearings i was the only member of the public in here you always schedule them during the summer and plus i have i wanted to comment on both
 these but if I only have three minutes it's going to be kind of hard so shall I proceed please my name is Dee white I'm going to talk about the Brown and Caldwell track contract first you've already spent twenty million dollars designing a UV plant over the past ten years
 There's a big pile of documents wheeled in here the day y'all decided to change to filtration. How are you going to account to the rate payers?
 For this $20 million. AD, we're not here to litigate the question of filtration. The question that you can testify to today is whether you think we should use an alternative procurement method on filtration. Council has made the filtration. And I can do Brown and Caldwell too, which is what I'm. Sure, but the question is on alternative procurement, not on relitigating the question of filtration. The question is also on the Brown and Caldwell contract. And that's what I'm commenting on now.
 Yeah, but you started with UV. The council has made a decision on filtration. Yeah, and so I'm just asking where's that $20 million going? You know, it could have been going towards the Brown and Caldwell. It has no bearing on whether we do alternative procurement. The question before us today, and you have every right to testify. I'm talking about the Brown and Caldwell contract now. Whether we should use alternative procurement and whether Brown and Caldwell should be sold. Okay. Okay. I'll move on. Okay. Okay.
 The impact statement on the Brown and Caldwell say it is a filtration project, the Bull Run filtration project. You're talking about a filtration plant. The ordinance says Bull Run filtration project. You're talking about a filtration project, a filtration plant. The contract says...
 The project will design, plan, design, and construct all treatment systems related to the Bull Run supply, including filtration, pre-post treatment systems, disinfection, and corrosion control. This is so not transparent. And I can't even say, I mean, I don't know what to call it. It's not illegal, but you're not, in the ordinance, you're not doing the whole thing.
 It's for all, it's so untransparent. It's like you've tricked everybody. Unless I'd read this contract, I wouldn't know what you were contracting for. And that's for all treatment systems, including corrosion control. In the meantime, y'all have passed a $650,000 contract last year for a corrosion control project.
 confluence and in this contract I see that she's going to be getting 1.2 million more dollars for corrosion control. So is this a double payment? Is she getting paid twice? I don't understand that. You also passed last year a contract for Stantec for a $7 million contract.
 for design of a corrosion control treatment plant. So again, are they getting paid to design a treatment plant? And these people are too? It's not right. It's not right for the rate payers to have to plow through all this stuff. It's not right. And last but not least,
 What are the benefits of – no, that's for my GMC. I'm sorry. I'm mainly just commenting on the lack of transparency and –
 Anyway, that's all I want to talk about that. Now can I talk about CMGC? Why don't you take another minute? Go ahead. You're the only person here, sir. I know. That's another thing. You know, it's like you always do this in the summertime. That's not true. Oh, Chloe, you haven't been here long enough. Listen, we've all had a long day. Let's just keep going. That's fine. Let's stick to the point. I'd like to hear your perspective.
 So I can't talk about what y'all talked about in the work session and the pub meeting because I can only talk about this. So I can't go into all the other stuff about the demand going down, all that. All right, on the CMGC, this is pretty much putting the cart before the horse. It's ridiculous that you are going to be giving a no-bid offer.
 contract to someone before you've even decided where it's going to be, how big, what type, anything, before you've even approved a filtration part, cart before the horse, has anyone ever bid on anything this big? I mean, it's...
 The first two treatment plants, y'all said filtration, nothing's ever been built this big. This is the first time. So, therefore, we're going to go with the third type. Well, there was no comment. Is this the biggest one ever built? No. But I know it is. Does the contractor that y'all, I mean, is there going to be a track record? No.
 with this no-bid person that gets the contract. The Washington Park design, the Washington Park demolition, was a CMGC and Powell Butte, and they went to the same contractor, the same designer. The Washington Park is three times over what the bid was. No, that's not true. Yes, it is. No, it's not true. Okay.
 Well, listen, let's not have a back and forth. Let's do this. You've asked some good questions. Let's have the staff. Can I just keep talking here and not be interrupted? Christina Nieves on my staff is going to be the liaison to the Water Bureau. We'd like to understand your concerns in greater detail. We're not voting on this today. I know. You're voting on it next week. But she will be in touch to try to get a proper conversation with you to understand your concerns better. Can I keep talking? Not right now because we've got half an hour before the next afternoon meeting. Okay.
 Okay. But she will be... Well, it was voted on at $72 million. Y'all voted. And then four months later, you came back and said, oh, it's going to be a massive amount of work. That's right. It's going to cost $220 million. We will get in touch with you, and we will have a proper amount of time to understand your concerns. Paul Butte, same thing. Paul Butte, cost overruns. It wasn't a cost overrun. We re-scoped the whole project, as you know that. Cost overruns, it's...
 It ended up having 3,000 cracks. You can repeat a false statement as many times as you want, and it doesn't change the facts. So Commissioner Fritz has agreed to have her team meet with you, and we'll clarify that. You've raised issues, and we're appreciative of that. Thank you. Appreciate your being here. So what should I do, Commissioner Fritz? If you could stop by my office, make sure that they've got your contact information. Where? Right now? If you'd like to. Christina will be in touch. Christina. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Do you appreciate it?
 Last but not least, colleagues, oh, I'm sorry, I have to move these. Item 898, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Item 899, first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. And we had one item, poll consent agenda, item number 886. Who polled it?
 Mr. Lightning, authorize a grant agreement with Greenhop LLC in an amount not to exceed $95,155 for their Greenhop cannabis workforce incubator. Any public testimony on this item? Call the roll. He left. Udaly.
 Well, in the interest of saving time, I won't go through all my talking points, but we did release the information on this grant and three other grants awarded as a result of a months-long community-based process our office undertook in collaboration with Commissioner Fritz's office in the 2017-18 budget cycle using $500,000 of cannabis tax dollars.
 That information was released on August 7th and can be found on our website. I want to thank Commissioner Fritsch. Sorry. I should know how to say your name by now. That's what happens. This is a tongue twester. Commissioner Fritsch and her staff, especially Claire Adamsick for their collaboration, Steering Committee of Community Partners, and the diverse panel of staff that helped pick the awards. I vote aye. Fritsch.
 Well, thank you to Commissioner Udeli and her staff particularly, Jamie Duhamel, for their partnership on this. It's been really exciting. When we referred the cannabis tax to the voters in 2016,
 We're hoping to create just such a program for just such an entity, although at the time Greenhop didn't exist, so we didn't actually have them in mind. But they are an African-American-owned business that the mayor and I had the honor of being at their opening a couple of months ago. They are young entrepreneurs of color. They are in the community where they grew up, and I'm very pleased we can support their work. Thank you.
 Fish. Aye. Quayler. The Green Hop Cannabis Workforce Incubator is a pilot project under the leadership of Green Hop LLC. This project is an intentional effort to racially diversify the cannabis industry with an accelerated training and apprenticeship academy that connects historically underserved populations with the knowledge of how to enter the cannabis industry from seed to sale.
 The grantee hopes to make an impact within the Oregon cannabis industry that offers equity, inclusion, job health, and prosperity for people of color in the Portland metro region, with an emphasis on educating communities of color about the cannabis industry to help them recognize the medicinal and economic opportunities available to them and help heal the isolation and stigma that have been associated with the cannabis industry
 for far too long. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned for 35 minutes. Yes. Alright, very good. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the August 22, 2018, afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, could you please call the roll? Yes. Saltzman? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Wheeler? Here. Carla, could you please read the item for this afternoon?
 Do we want to read the lawyer's statement? Oh, yes. Sorry, the lawyer's statement. How could I forget? Sure, lawyer's statement. All right. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to speak briefly about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Thank you.
 Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Very good. Thank you. And before I forget, we have a couple of people benefiting from our translation service this afternoon. And so, ladies, if you could just wave if we're going too slowly. I mean, excuse me, if we're speaking too slowly. No, I need a translation service. If we're going too quickly, could you just wave and catch our attention? Okay, great. Fabulous. Terrific. Thank you. All right. Carla, can you read the item, please? Yes. Item 901.
 amend the comprehensive plan, comprehensive plan map, zoning map, Title 33, planning and zoning, Title 18, noise control, Title 32, signs and related regulations to create the residential manufactured dwelling park designation and base zone.
 Colleagues, despite recent headlines that indicate that rent increases may be evening out or potentially even declining, that's not the case for lower-cost market-rate housing, including manufactured dwellings, also commonly known as mobile homes.
 Mobile home parks play a unique and important role, offering lower-cost market-rate housing, especially for larger units that can accommodate families. Because people can own their own home and only have to rent a space, a mobile home can be an affordable pathway to homeownership for lower-income households.
 As I expect we will hear in testimony today, these mobile home parks offer a sense of community that's attractive to residents and different from other housing choices. For these reasons, the city wants to support the long-term stability of these parks. With this ordinance, the city is adopting a new approach to zoning mobile home parks.
 This is an emergency ordinance. An emergency exists due to the fact that Portland's continued population and economic growth have had a significant impact on rental housing, resulting in a more than 30% increase in average rents from 2011 through 2017 and consistently low vacancy rates between 1.7% and 3.3% from 2011 to 2017. So,
 Manufactured dwelling parks play a small but important part in providing affordable housing, and the incentives to promote this housing type should be available immediately. My co-sponsors, Commissioners Fritz and Udailey, would like to make a few comments. Commissioner Fritz? Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. I'm really happy to be here today. This work implements a comprehensive plan policy that I worked on with Mayor Hales and the community, the colleagues on the council, and with staff in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability back in 2016. And so it's exciting to see where it was 2018, just two years later, this is coming forward. And thanks to everybody in the community who's helped work on it and to the Planning and Sustainability Commission.
 The comprehensive plan policy is policy 5.37, mobile home parks, which says encourage preservation of mobile home parks as a low-moderate income housing option.
 Evaluate plans and investments for potential redevelopment pressures on existing mobile home parks and impacts on park residents, and protect this low-moderate income housing option. Facilitate replacement and alteration of manufactured homes within an existing mobile home park.
 So we are now routinely referring to them as manufactured dwelling parks, of course recognizing that although the word is mobile, many of your homes, these homes, are not mobile at all. They don't move, and it's hard to find a place for them to go if they are displaced. This is one of the most important forms of naturally occurring affordable housing in Portland.
 Some of the most vulnerable communities in Portland live there, and it's important that we respect and provide assistance for vulnerable and underrepresented communities. I believe this change carries forward the Council's intent to provide incentives and options for making the parks financially viable for owners, thus allowing residents to stay there. And I'm very excited to be here. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for bringing it forward. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Udali. Thank you.
 Mayor and Commissioner Fritz, it's an honor to co-sponsor this item with you. And I think you've covered almost everything. I guess I'd just say we need a diversity of housing options. And in order to guarantee that, we need to come up with some creative incentives for...
 creating those. So thank you for this. Very good. We have Tom Armstrong from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. He's going to help introduce today's session. Good afternoon, Tom. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. I just wanted to give a brief overview of the proposal in front of you today. Thank you.
 You know, the city of Portland has 57 different manufactured dwelling parks. They come in all different shapes and sizes.
 and many of them were built in the 1940s, 50s, and 60s. But as you can see from this map, many are located in East Portland and Southeast Portland and some in the Cully neighborhood along Northeast Killingsworth. There is...
 With these actions today, we are rezoning 56 out of the 57 parks in Portland. There is one park...
 up off of Northeast Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. It's called Fox Run. It's up by Delta Park. It's in the middle and surrounded by the prime industrial area, and it's actually zoned for employment use and is part of our prime industrial organization.
 overlay. It's part of Metro's Title IV prime industrial overlay and there was just a number of employment land supply issues tied up with that site that we could not at this point in time do the map change for those, for that site itself. But we can take a look at that in the future once we have a handle on where we sit with our industrial land supply.
 As it said in the title, to implement this zoning, it requires a comprehensive plan policy amendment to create a new land use designation and to apply that to the map, the comprehensive plan map. And then as part of the zoning code, we're creating a new base zone for manufactured dwelling parks and then corresponding zoning map changes.
 As part of that new base zone, it will be for manufactured dwelling parks. In addition to that, we are creating a limited retail and sales and service use for recreational vehicle park.
 because sometimes those are co-located in the same facility. And then all of the other institutional categories in the zoning code that are allowed in the other multi-dwelling zones are also allowed here. So you could co-locate daycares or schools or medical facilities as part of a limited or conditional use in these zones. Okay.
 Also with this new zone, we are creating a number of incentives that help, we think will help support and sustain the operations of these parks. The first one is we are resolving a number of parks that are currently non-conforming uses. Right now, today, manufactured dwelling parks are only allowed in the R3 and R2 zones.
 And there are 17 other parks that have different zoning. And some of this goes way back to the parks were established before county zoning was applied. And then that county zoning rolled over to the city zoning when we annexed East Portland. And so these changes will resolve those nonconforming uses and make those parks an allowed use.
 At the same time, we are increasing the density on, I believe it's 52 of the 56 parks. The density recommended by the Planning and Sustainability Commission is slightly higher than what's allowed in the R2 zone today, and that that will provide owners of the parks more room to expand their parks on site
 And in addition to that, we are also expanding the area where that unused density can be transferred to other multi-dwelling residential sites. Currently, right now, a transfer can only happen on the same block as the site or across the street.
 And we're expanding that to any other multi-dwelling zone site outside of the central city. So it basically creates two transfer markets, one inside the central city and one outside the central city. So there's a wider market where this underutilized density can be transferred to. At the same time, we are creating an affordable housing bonus.
 As Mayor Wheeler said and as we put in our staff report, many of the residents are lower income. And that if a park owner enters into an agreement with the Housing Bureau to provide long-term affordability for half the units at 60% of the area median income,
 then they'll get an additional density bonus that can either be used on-site or transferred to other sites under the other transfer provisions. We do have in front of you today a series of technical amendments. The first three technical amendments, which are in the August 20th memo from me,
 make adjustments that when the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommended increasing the density, maximum density, we did not chase down every reference to that density standard and so we have an amendment to the comprehensive policy to note that
 increased density as well as the base zone description. And then at the same time, when the density is raised, Metro has a standard that the minimum density required should be 80% of the maximum. And so Amendment 3 will adjust the minimum density to match that.
 We have two other changes that, you know, as we were preparing the council package, we discovered two changes that were inadvertent.
 errors on our part. One is we made changes to the planned development review section to add a reference to the RMP zone where it shouldn't be and so we want to take that out. At the same time we deleted a reference to a minimum space requirement that we thought was in the state code but it turns out it's not so we want to restore it to this one.
 And then finally, new today, we have a substitute exhibit for the findings of fact. And this is in response to testimony that has come in so far. And we wanted to respond to that with up-to-date findings. So, Mayor, I move that as a package. Second. So, Commissioner Fritz moves. And let's do you want to also include six on this?
 Okay, good. So Commissioner Fritz moves amendments one through six as a package. Commissioner Udaly seconds the package. And with that, we can go ahead and accept public testimony.
 help support making this decision today, including a review of the natural resources and hazards that exist today and are protected by our environmental zones today, and there's no change to those, as well as a memo from PBOT on the transportation impacts that might result from new development on these sites. Very good. Commissioner Saltzman had a question. Yes. Tom, you said at the outset that the Fox Run project
 Mobile Home Park is not part of this package? Yes, that's correct. And why is that again? Because it's up north just off of MLK Boulevard. It currently has a prime industrial zoning designation both at the city and metro.
 And it's in an area where we have a pretty small surplus of industrial land. And that if we were to change that, it would take us to having less than a 1% surplus of industrial land supply. And we felt that at this time...
 given where we are at in terms of when we did the economic opportunities analysis and determined that we had an adequate supply of industrial land. It's been enough development has gone on in that industrial area that we did not want to take the time at this point
 to do all the economic studies that we needed to justify changing that park.
 I will note that we expect Metro is currently adopting a new urban growth report and will have a new population and employment forecast allocated to the cities at the end of this year, and that that will start an update process for us that we can then factor in changing the zoning on Fox Run as part of an update to the economic opportunities analysis and come back to.
 at a later date to try and address that issue. So, I mean, this package is an emergency ordinance in part because it's designed to establish some incentives today at the end of this session? Yes. For owners of these parks to keep them residential? So are we at risk? Is Fox Run at risk of falling through the cracks here in the interim? Fox Run will be at risk in the interim, yes. Okay.
 So what would be the harm of us including Fox Run in this package today? I think the harm would be the time it would take and for us would have taken over the spring. We published this proposal in early May and so it's been on a pretty fast track.
 And so what we opted in that decision-making was holding back on Fox Run so the other 56 could go forward with at least an idea as to when we could circle back and address Fox Run itself. And so we prioritized moving forward on the other 56 rather than trying to update our...
 industrial land inventory to try and show that by changing Fox Run, we would still have an adequate supply of industrial land. Okay, I'm going to think about that as a testimony. But I guess my last question is, so you're saying that if we were to include Fox Run in the package today, that the package would not be complete and ready to move forward? Is that what you're saying?
 I think there probably is not substantial evidence in the record to support that change and to continue to make a finding that we have an adequate supply of industrial land in that area and that we have not done the analysis, especially with Metro, to change the regionally significant industrial area designation that it has on that.
 and so that site in particular would be vulnerable to appeal and having it remanded to us. Okay. I'm going to think about that. Yeah. Okay. Yep.
 Very good. Any further questions? Folks, there's a tradition here at City Council, those with small children, elderly, folks with disabilities, any elected officials, please let the council clerk know that, and she'll bump you up to the front of the list.
 How many folks do we have signed up, Carla? Currently 16. 16. Very good. Why don't you call up the first three, and the microphones move in about this much distance is the right amount. Go ahead and leave the microphones turned on. State your name for the record. We do not need your address unless you want to give it to us, but it's not required. And if you are a paid lobbyist, we need to know that. Thank you.
 The first three, please come on up, are Jay Perasco, Hannah Cruz, and John Mulvey. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light will go on, and when your time is up, the red light will go on. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Would you like to start, sir? Yes, please. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Jay Perasco, and I am here on behalf of JOIN, a nonprofit organization that helps Portlanders transition from homelessness to stably housed.
 JOIN strongly encourages you to adopt the Manufactured Dwelling Park Project. For more than 20 years, JOIN has been working to ensure that everyone in our community has a home. Each week we help 15 to 20 Portlanders exit homelessness for stable housing. Our biggest obstacle remains our city's critical shortage of affordable housing, particularly units that are affordable to people exiting homelessness or vulnerable to falling into homelessness.
 Homelessness is a symptom. The underlying illness is our affordable housing shortage. And the only true remedy is to preserve existing affordable housing and create new units, especially for low-income households. That is precisely what the Manufactured Dwelling Park Project will do. Manufactured homes are among the most affordable, low-barrier units in Portland's housing inventory.
 JOIN has successfully housed formerly homeless clients and manufactured homes, many of whom would still be experiencing homelessness today, but for the availability and accessibility of manufactured homes. Manufactured housing parks are the only housing option available for many people who are transitioning out of homelessness. Manufactured housing parks are also the housing of last resort for people who would end up homeless if the parks are shut down.
 For many of the 3,000 households, there really may be no other place to go. We need to create more affordable housing, not eliminate 56 affordable, livable communities. Today, you have the ability to preserve 3,000 truly affordable, low-barrier housing units in resilient, hardworking communities across our city.
 Voting yes will ensure that 3,000 households will not be at imminent risk of homelessness. We applaud Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners Udaly and Fritz for introducing this measure, all the staff who contributed to the project, and we strongly encourage you to adopt the Manufactured Dwelling Park Project today. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of the council. My name is John Mulvey. I'm speaking today on behalf of the Housing Subcommittee of the East Portland Action Plan, and we are strongly supportive of this measure. East Portland is home to 42 of Portland's 56 mobile home parks. That's more than 2,000 East Portland families. The residents are retirees.
 They're students in our public schools. They're hardworking parents trying to raise their kids in a city that is increasingly unable to provide them with an affordable place to live. These parks can be the only home ownership option for many people, especially those on fixed incomes. These homes often represent the largest financial asset that low-income families have. But mobile home parks are more than lumber and concrete.
 They're multi-generational communities where people look out for each other. Neighbors drive each other to doctor's appointments, and they pick up things for each other at the supermarket. They're precisely the kind of communities that our city should be supporting. But in our current real estate environment, there is intense pressure to redevelop these properties. In the last two years, six of Portland's mobile home parks have closed.
 uprooting the families that once lived there. At least two more East Portland parks may be vulnerable to redevelopment right now. That's 38 more families that are facing displacement. They need your help. They need it quickly. And I hope you'll vote to support them. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm Hannah Cruz, Senior Communications Manager with Energy Trust of Oregon. And thank you for taking up the proposed new zoning regulation, a designation, pardon me, as part of your continued focus on combating Portland's affordable housing crisis. Energy Trust is an independent, nonprofit organization serving Oregon's five largest utilities.
 and helping those customers save energy and generate clean energy. This includes the customers of Portland General Electric, Pacific Power, and Northwest Natural within the city of Portland.
 While Energy Trust is not in a position to support or be in opposition to proposed policies, including the zoning ordinance, I wanted to provide you with context regarding the challenges we encounter when helping manufactured homeowners and renters lower their energy use and associated utility bills.
 According to the Oregon Housing and Community Services, approximately 80,000 manufactured homes in use today were manufactured prior to 1978. So they were manufactured prior to codes being established and are very energy inefficient. This embedded inefficiency forces occupants to spend a disproportionate amount of their income on utility bills and limits their ability to update and maintain their homes.
 So to help overcome these challenges, Energy Trust is working with manufactured home builders, Oregon Housing and Community Services, non-profit manufactured home park owners, and others to introduce a pilot program that would help residents replace their old, inefficient manufactured homes with new, efficient manufactured homes.
 Our incentives that Energy Trust can provide are based upon the energy savings realized over the long-term useful life of the new home. And this can reduce the residents' utility bills, and the incentive amount can also help reduce the amount of that loan principal and associated payments due to the replacement costs.
 But since our energy incentives are based upon the usable life of the new home, the risk of park closures and eviction reduces the likelihood that the full value of the energy savings will materialize and challenges our ability to expand our pilot program to additional sites in Portland and even beyond.
 So to the extent that the proposed zoning ordinance in front of you today may reduce the risk of park closures, it would provide energy trust with increased certainty of energy savings over the long term and assist us in expanding this pilot program. So I hope you find this context useful, and thank you for your time today. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. The next three are Lee Reinhold, Mike Connors, and Paul Scott.
 Good afternoon. Would you like to start for us, please? All right. Thank you. My name is Lee Rinell, and when I first moved into my place, it was not that safe. A lot of thievery and all that. But now we have a new bunch of people moving in, Mexicans with their children, and it's a really good place to live now.
 They helped. It's a good family place now. It wasn't, but it is now. That's all I can say. Thank you. That's a powerful message. Thank you. I was hoping. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor.
 Commissioners, my name is Mike Connors. I'm here on behalf of Hayden Island Enterprises. They're the owners and operators of the Hayden Island Manufactured Home Community and have owned and operated that park since 1992. I've submitted written comments into the record, and to each of you, hopefully you've had an opportunity to read those, and I obviously am not going to be able to get through all those points in three minutes, but I do want to touch on a couple things.
 First of all, I just want to acknowledge the fact that my client and I understand that there's a legitimate purpose, intent behind this and a concern about affordable housing. That's without debate. I think the disagreement or concern from my client's perspective is we don't believe that this is the appropriate manner in which to address this issue.
 And we believe that's going to result in unintended consequences and it's not going to achieve the purpose for which this proposal is being raised. And the main issue has to do with the primary component of this proposal, which restricts the use of these properties to manufactured home parks.
 By restricting the use to the existing use, which would be the first concept that the city has employed with a zoning code that I'm aware of, that's going to result in a loss in fair market value for that property immediately because you're restricting it to the existing use. And that's going to have some unintended consequences, which we don't believe that the city has really adequately evaluated. I'm going to focus on two of them in my limited time.
 The first one is a big one that I'm surprised I haven't heard more of a response or analysis to, and that's Measure 49. Measure 49 is a state-adopted voter initiative that provides any land use regulations that restrict the residential use of property in a manner that reduces the fair market value, provides a claim under Measure 49.
 And Measure 49 claims would give the city two options, to either compensate the property owners for the loss in value or to waive the regulations. The vast majority of these parks are residentially zoned. This zoning proposal will undoubtedly restrict the residential use of them. So by adopting it in this fashion, the city has exposed itself to a number of lawsuits that park owners could file under Measure 49.
 I don't believe the city will have the financial resources, and so the result will be the waiver of the regulations, which will undo the whole purpose for this proposal. And the second one, very quickly, is...
 We believe that by reducing the fair market value, you're going to undermine the financial viability of these parks. A reduction in value will make it harder for refinancing, which will make it more difficult for park owners to get the necessary finance and to make upgrades. And as a result of that, they're either not going to upgrade or maintain the parks at the level that they do currently, or it's going to result in an increase in rent. And both of those are goals that I think are contrary to the purpose for this project.
 And with that, I'll conclude my testimony. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Paul Scott and I live at Viking Mobile Home Park in southeast Portland. I have lived in the park approximately 11 years. I own my mobile home and I'm 76 years old. I live on Social Security retirement benefits. I'm a cancer survivor and have multiple health problems.
 Last year, I received a rent increase of approximately 14%. This year, I received a rent increase of about 10%. I'm worried I will not be able to continue to live at the park if these rent increases continue, which apparently they will. In the last four years, we've received three letters of intent to sell the park. And in...
 In August of 2016, it was sold to the Holt Corporation, which operates out of Washington. And the first thing they did was to raise the rent 14 percent. The second thing was to close the laundromat in the park and try to convert it to apartments.
 About July 21st of this year, I heard from my neighbors that the residents of the park had an opportunity to compete to purchase the park because we had recently received our third letter of intent to sell. Prior to this, the management had told me that the park had already been sold.
 On July 24th in 2018, I and my neighbors formed the Viking Mobile Villa Residence Committee and served Cheryl Walker, the management of the owner, by mail and email a request for the park's financial statement.
 Ms. Walker responded with the information, but not all of the financial information we requested. In August, a committee member sent a follow-up email to Ms. Walker for the rest of the financial information. She responded by email that the 10 days is up and we do have a buyer for the property. This matter is now in the, we've requested a court injunction to halt this.
 the sale until we can provide a counter offer. I hope that Portland City Council and a community partner will help us to buy the park and set up a cooperative ownership or at least provide nonprofit management. It's important we have some control over our homes and having received a
 Three intent to sell letters. Everybody is really unsure and afraid of what's going to happen in the future. Thank you. I appreciate your testimony, all three of you. Thank you. Next three, please. Are Anthony Nocky, Oscar Cervantes, and Gloria Contreras. I'm going to interpret them tactically for the Spanish speakers. Very good. Why don't you go ahead and start, please. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, ladies and gentlemen of Portland City Council. My name is Anthony Kenoke. I am a disabled veteran representing the growing coalition of manufactured home parks. We have a gift of hundreds of postcards delivered to you today. Postcards? Yes. You can give them to Carl. Probably. I want to interpret for them to hear. In Spanish. You can put your microphone. Will this? Okay, that's good.
 No, I don't have to be here. These were from the hundreds of supporters that have been supporting us. I live at the Arbor Mobile Home Park, one of the many communities the zoning law will help save. These communities are unique in many ways. Each is like a family, but we are the poor, the elderly, the mentally ill, and the disabled. You, by passage of this law, have a chance to get ahead of the housing crisis sweeping through our city.
 If you act boldly today and pass this in the law, it is morally the right thing to do with this housing crisis. They asked for a volunteer to do this. Here I am. I'm asking you to do the same for them and me. I served in the military and defended my country as a volunteer. Now I volunteered again, serving and speaking for not only my community but all the communities. Nonprofits and charities are standing by and lining up to help us.
 This law will affect 3,000 homes, 10,000 plus people. We need your help in this fight. Stand with us. Vote yes on this law. Save our communities. Whole families live in them. In my park, there are five families that own about half the park. Whole families. Grandmothers, mothers, daughters, brother-in-laws, sisters, children. They take care of their elderly. They take care of each other. They help take care of me.
 This crisis will become a flood if you do not vote yes on this law. You need to act. Voting yes is right to protect and save these communities. Societies are judged by how well they take care of the most vulnerable members in it. So please vote yes. Thank you. Hello, my name is Oscar Cervantes. I am the father of three children.
 Hello, my name is Oscar Cervantes. I'm the father of three children. Nosotros vivimos en un estacionamiento de trailas desde hace seis años. We live in a trailer park. We've been living in a trailer park for the last six years. El motivo por el cual estoy aquí presente hoy es porque quiero pedirles en nombre de toda mi comunidad que por favor nos apoyen con la propuesta de zonificación. The reason I'm here with my whole community is I want you to ask you to support this zoning proposal.
 Porque es algo que nos podría ayudar a conservar nuestras viviendas y tener nuestras familias más unidas. It is something that could help us to keep our homes and keep our families more united. Sería muy difícil para mí y para mi familia dejar a mis amigos de mi comunidad y también para mis hijos. It would be very difficult for me to leave my friends in my community and it would also be difficult for my children. Dejar a sus amigos en mi comunidad.
 to leave their friends and their school, which is like their second home. Because if the park is closed, it would be very difficult for us and for our families to find another place for our homes. Because many of the homes really can't be moved.
 We would lose all the money that we've invested very sacrificially, we've saved very sacrificially to be able to fix it. We've fixed this, we've changed the siding, we've changed the roof, and we've fixed the patio to be there better with our families.
 Before this, I was not able to be alone in an apartment with my family because of the high cost of rent. I always had to share the apartment with other families. I always had to share the apartment with my family.
 But from the day I was able to move into the trailer with my family, I was able to give more children to my amigos, to my friends. I'm going to school to get better at things, and I'm also trying to get involved in community activities. My wife and I have been working very hard for almost two years to fix this trailer.
 I leave my full-time job and then I go home and fix the trailer in the afternoons. I and other people have worked very hard to fix our homes. And it seems very unfair to me that other investors come and
 take us out of our homes just because we have no protection. Somos muchas familias que quedaremos sin hogar y yo por experiencia propia puedo asegurarles que es muy duro y triste. And there's a lot of us that would be homeless and by my personal experience I can tell you that it's very difficult and very sad cuando no puedes darle un techo seguro a tu familia when you cannot give your family a safe home. Gracias.
 Thank you. Buenas tardes, mi nombre es Gloria Contreras. Good afternoon, my name is Gloria Contreras. I live in Shadow Hill Mobile Park. Que está ubicado en 7120 Northeast Killingsworth Street. Which is at 7120 Northeast Killingsworth Street. Tengo cuatro hijos de 16, 14, 13 y 7 años. I have four children ages 16, 14, 13 and 7. Para mi familia este es nuestro hogar.
 For my family, this is home. We've lived there for more than 12 years. My children have made great friends and very good neighbors. We share a garden with the community and we also share the harvest.
 We take care of each other, our homes, and we take care of strangers. There are elderly people who know that
 in any kind of time of need or in an emergency we will be there to support them and help them. We have access to doctor's offices soccer for children parks and a lot of things.
 Para mí, mis hijos, mis vecinos son mi comunidad. For myself and my children, my neighbors are my community. Solo es un poco de mi historia. That's just a little bit of my story. The next three are Andres Oswill, Andre Tremolat, and Monique Smiley.
 For the record, good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. For the record, my name is Monique Smiley, and I'm the communications and movement building director at Welcome Home Coalition. As you know, we are a regional housing coalition compromised of over 65 organizations that are committed to working with local jurisdictions to advance new and emerging funding sources to create more affordable homes. Thank you.
 I'm here today to show my support for the Manufactured Dwelling Park Project. This effect of the zone change will provide long-term housing stability for about 3,000 low-income families who could otherwise face displacement. This zone change is an opportunity to also redress the inequities in the past on land use and preserve affordable homes and parks.
 As you all know, housing insecurity is touching everyone in our city and we don't have the rental stock needed. The biggest opportunity for folks who need affordable housing is the opportunity to live within their communities and to preserve their existing homes. We have a vulnerable supply right now in our region and only a small fraction of affordable homes remain for families and communities of color.
 A study showed that in the largest 100 metro regions, mobile home residents spend on average 40% less on housing costs than those living in non-mobile homes in the same metro area.
 As residents are hard-pressed to find alternative housing at similar costs, mobile homes provide a solution for our affordable housing shortage, which is why we need this zone change in order to sustain all mobile home parks that will continue to serve future generations. Manufactured housing is an essential, unique part of the affordable housing continuum and must be preserved. They are a platform for success, and the parks provide community gathering for residents. Thank you.
 The Welcome Home Coalition believes that Portland needs to address all the required tools to solve the housing crisis, and I urge you to advance the proposal on mobile home zoning change. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, and thank you for your patient attention today.
 I'm André Tremolet. I'm a 20-year resident of northeast Portland and a research associate at PSU's School of Urban Studies and Planning. And I can't tell you how thrilling it is to have a captive audience to listen to some words from my doctoral dissertation. Thank you.
 On the closure of manufactured housing communities from 2001 through 2007 during the last real estate boom, during that time approximately 2,800 households were impacted when 69 communities closed throughout the state, many of them in the metro area. Okay.
 While I can't match the eloquent presence of the last group, what I'd like to do is to provide some facts that I learned from a detailed case study of the closure of the Thunderbird Mobile Club in Wilsonville. I discovered that that closure had both financial and non-financial impacts. Financially...
 Three-fifths of the homeowners just abandoned their homes, typically because they were too old to move safely, moving them cost too much, or because there was no place to put them. For many, it represented a loss of their largest financial asset. Some still had a loan on the house that no longer existed, and therefore 4% declared bankruptcy. Thank you.
 most lost access to affordable housing. Only 8% were able to move their homes to a new location at a 2007 cost of $20,000 to $30,000 per home. But equally important, perhaps more important, was the human toll.
 Involuntary displacement triggered something known as relocation stress syndrome in many residents, particularly older, they were older residents. Anxiety, apprehension, confusion, depression and loneliness. They experienced something now known as root shock, the loss of community and life affirming connections to people in place.
 Most tragically, 6% of the homeowners died, a rate likely higher than the expected mortality rate for that population. Even money can't fix those kinds of impacts on the human spirit. So now is the time to act. You know that. I just wanted to add these facts and...
 a lot of pages to the hard work that's already been done in favor of this ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I finished it. It was published in 2010. Okay.
 And Cy Adler was my dissertation chair, and it was one of a few handful of doctoral dissertation grants funded that year by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. That's fantastic. Thank you for sharing that with us. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Mayor, Council, my name is Andres Oswald. I'm a member of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, but I'm here speaking for myself today.
 I won't restate what others have said better than I could, but I'll focus on sharing my experience. During the time that this proposal was at the Planning Commission, Living Kali offered the members of the commission to come and take a tour, and I was fortunate to be able to see two of the mobile home parks in Kali myself. I was later invited back for a community meeting, and what I saw there showed me what the testimony today and research has told us repeatedly—
 These homes, these parks, aren't just inexpensive housing. They're also a source of community. They're places where families, older adults can live. They're places for people with fixed incomes. The testimony we saw was incredibly inspirational, one of the largest turnouts we've seen and showed how important that this is to members of our community.
 One piece in particular that resonated with me was a mother who was talking about how living in a mobile home park allowed her to not just have a housing she could afford, but also to have a better quality of life for her kids. It allowed her to be able to take her kids to the movies, which is something that is easy to take for granted and often gets lost in conversations about meeting basic needs and necessities. It's a unique low barrier housing type. Yeah.
 And I think that something I appreciate about the policy is its creativity. It allows a way to preserve these parks, but also allows a financial incentive through density that could create forms of funding that would provide for maintenance that these parks need. This policy is a good first step, but further work is needed. We all know that there are problems with mobile home parks. They're not perfect, but those problems deserve the city's attention and support.
 I believe this is also mentioned in the Planning Commission letter. But some areas in particular I'd like to draw your attention to is increasing home repair funds. Now that this zoning changes would hopefully go into effect, there is a sense of stability and permanence with these parks that makes them a more persuasive investment for home repair funds. These homes are older and many of them need repair and replacement.
 We saw with Oak Leaf Trailer Park the potential for community and nonprofit ownership. I think that this will hopefully be the first. We also saw through it how complicated it is. And I encourage you to continue exploring and supporting ways that we can keep these parks in permanence.
 We need further tenant protections, both on a state and local level. And lastly, organizational support. Not every neighborhood has the organizational bandwidth that Cully does. They need further help organizing and supporting the residents of these parks, and even Cully needs more resources. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. The next three are Lisa Rogers, Rich Kaufman, and Mary Kyle McCurdy. Good afternoon. Was there a...
 Carla, was there one other individual? If Rich Kaufman is not here, the last person who signed up is Cameron Harrington. Is Rich here? Yeah.
 Oh, he is. He's coming from downstairs. Thank you. Okay, very good. Thank you. Sorry, go ahead. Would you like me to start? Yeah, thank you. Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, thank you for hearing us today. My name is Lisa Rogers, and I work with CASA of Oregon. Over the last 12 years, CASA has been working to preserve manufactured home parks through resident ownership. To date, we have converted 12 parks to resident ownership in Oregon and are working on our 14th. We believe that resident ownership is the key to preserving affordability. Thank you.
 building wealth and building empowerment for the residents of those communities. Manufactured housing is the largest supply of affordable housing in the country. According to Prosperity Now, 74% of all residents in mobile home parks own their homes. And why this is important is because manufactured housing or in parks is a kind of a hybrid. You've got homeownership and you have rentals.
 In terms of you own your home, but you lease your space. And if a park closes, that home is typically either the only asset or the largest asset that these folks have. So not only are they losing their home, they're losing any wealth that they might have as well. So...
 We really urge you to go ahead and approve this. We applaud you for bringing it up. It is a very important piece of our affordable housing inventory in Oregon. Can I ask you one question? Yes. I know anecdotally that the –
 manufactured home industry generally, but particularly the prefab industry, has taken off here in Oregon. Are we seeing more manufacturers of mobile homes here in Oregon providing safe and environmentally sound homes? They are building the homes to a higher level of efficiency as well as they're much better made than they were previously. I don't believe that there are more manufactured homes
 home builders in the community now than there have been. But there are some. There are some, yes. I know that when we did a project with some prefab units in Lentz about six or seven years ago, they were shipped up I-5 from a place outside of Salem where they were actually built, and they were beautiful, and then they were just put on, you know,
 trucks and ship up the highway. Yes. Yeah, and we are really actually currently piloting a project in southern Oregon with Energy Trust of Oregon, USDA Rural Development, to replace the homes in one of the parks that have been converted to resident ownership. It's a great collaboration, and we believe we'll be able to replace many of those homes with a 1% loan and then a lot of down payment assistance through various sources to make it so that it would be affordable. Because
 The residents in these parks are typically very, very low income. So, like I say, if they lose this housing, there's nowhere for them to go. You know there's no vacancies. There's no vacancies for anybody, let alone for poor people. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council. My name is Mary Kyle McCurdy, Deputy Director of 1000 Friends of Oregon. 1000 Friends urges you to support the proposed ordinance before you. We were actively involved in the Anti-Displacement Portland Coalition, which advocated for the anti-displacement policy that the city has adopted in its comprehensive plan and is reflected in Plan Policy 5.37, which specifically refers to preservation of mobile home parks.
 Not only is this ordinance a key component to turn that policy into action, but it also helps the city carry out its obligations under statewide land use planning goal 10, which requires Portland and all other cities to enact land use measures that encourage the availability of adequate numbers of needed housing units at price ranges and rent levels that are commensurate with the financial capabilities of Oregonians. Needed housing includes specifically manufactured dwellings.
 You've heard from many eloquent speakers of the human benefits of preserving the existing mobile home parks as one of the most cost-efficient and immediate impact steps that you can take. So I won't go over those, but I do want to address the issue of Measure 49, which has been raised before you. We've submitted written testimony to the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and I have copies here of testimony to the City Council as well,
 addressing this in detail. I'm sure you've heard from your city attorney on this also. But briefly, we do not believe that Measure 49 poses a barrier to the city adopting this proposed ordinance.
 Among other things, qualifying to make or show a Measure 49 claim is more challenging than was described earlier, but nonetheless, this ordinance has built into it ways in which the value of these mobile home parks will increase to the mobile home park landowners through increased densities, transfer development credits, density bonuses for affordable housing, that sort of thing. Thank you.
 But just as importantly, if a mobile home park landowner was able to establish a grounds for compensation under the Measure 49 statute, the city has the ability to, quote, authorize the claimant, the landowner, to use the property without application of a land use regulation.
 to the extent necessary to offset the reduction in the fair market value of the property. This gives, we believe, the city the flexibility to tailor application of the zone to address compensation issues. Complete waiver might not be necessary. In other words, you have flexibility for how to deal with this if a case does arise on a case-by-case basis.
 but adopting it now also sends a message for the future and future new mobile home park land owners, because if you buy the land after this ordinance is passed, if it's passed, there is no Measure 49 claim available then. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Rich Kaufman. I don't have a script or anything. I just kind of have a unique experience. I lived in Texas.
 and close to the Austin area. And I keep hearing this Measure 49, and it seems like they went that path, and they built condominiums and made it, and put profits over people. Well, what happened is the reason people come there, the art, the culture, the nice living, those people left. And now, if you look at the statistics of how much money Austin is making,
 it's way downhill and I don't want to see Portland do that. And Texas ran out of water before California did. I watch lakes disappear to streams and streams disappear and huge forest fires. And I knew I had to get out of there. I mean, my only agenda is to stay alive. I live on a very small fixed income. And all of us, we come in today, we see the smoke.
 California's burning. Washington's burning. This is the place that has water. This is the place that's still here. This is why I'm here. I came here. I bought an old TriMet bus that was used in the TriMet busing system that had been converted to a coach. That's, I don't know, the depth that I'm involved in this Portland idea. And I think if we start putting profits over people, it's not going to end well.
 You've already had a huge influx from California, and you're going to have another, and you're going to have one from Washington and maybe Canada. This is not affordable housing. This is keeping people alive. You know, everybody wants to float around numbers and this and that. You know, who cares if someone loses $10,000 if someone else loses their child, you know? How long until the redwoods burn?
 I mean, it barely hopped over him this time. This world is really changing. And some people can sit in kind of a gilded cage and say, no, it's not. No, it's not. Well, I'm here to say it is. When forest fires get right to your house, a light turns on. When your county runs out of water and they keep, it goes from your toilet to the water treatment to your faucet to your toilet to the water treatment to the faucet.
 You change. You become human again. And I guess be human. Thank you. I had a question for Mary Kyle McCurdy. So there's one mobile home park that's being left out of this. That's the Fox Run. And apparently it's in prime industrial land, meaning that if we were to extend this protection or the incentives in this proposal to that property, we could be sued.
 for taking prime industrial land without finding replacement land. So two questions. Is that something Thousand Friends of Oregon would likely appeal if we made that decision? And secondly, who else would likely appeal that decision or who would likely appeal that? Commissioner Saltzman, I cannot answer the second question. I don't know who might. Although, well, on the first one,
 I am not familiar with the details of this particular site, its size, where it's located. Is there something unique about it, like a rail access line? Or is it...
 simply a piece of land zoned industrial that's fairly fungible. I mean, I'm not an expert. I think it's the latter. That's what you're finding. It's a fairly nice mobile home park village, but it is in industrial land, yeah. So I believe that your staff said, although I certainly don't want to speak for them, that it's not –
 you could do it, but you'd have to make findings about it and relate them to the requirements to provide sufficient industrial land. So I'll speak more generically and not to that piece of land in particular. If a city has an obligation to provide up to a 20-year land supply for all urban uses, and if you were to convert industrial land that brings you beneath the
 amount of land for the planning period, you would have to make that up in some way. If I heard it correctly, this won't bring you beneath, but it'll bring you close if you were to apply this to that piece of land. However, I believe it's on Metro's regionally significant industrial land map. Like I said, I just was hearing more of the details of it today as I came in, so there may be some other steps you have to go through with Metro and with LCDC, but it's something...
 that you could do. We are not contemplating appealing that or suing the city on that. Whether anyone else would, I don't know. I don't know who owns the land or anything about it. Okay. Thank you. Just in general, can the city change an industrially zoned land without any findings in the ordinance? Yes.
 I think you'd have – I'm going to defer to your city attorney, but I think you'd have to make findings. Yes. Yeah. There's some specific state statutes and administrative rules related to industrial land conversion and the need to make findings, and is this regionally significant industrial land? There's probably a higher standard. But, you know, findings are –
 You make those every day, don't you? Can I just ask another question? It's not related really to the legislative matter before us, but
 Over the last few years, I've increasingly seen a divergence, almost a disconnect between industrial land and job creation. And we're seeing applications for use of industrial land that don't promote a job creation agenda. And that includes storage units or facilities that operate autonomously and independently. Is it –
 at some point in the future, is it time for us to take another look at Goal 9 and update it? Commissioner Fish, yes, and it's past time. There is something about the economic activity generated by land, the employment that's generated by land. It just seems like some of our assumptions are wildly out of date. And a few years ago, Metro did a study looking at
 large industrial employers and large lot industrial users and those are not the same. As you mentioned, a warehouse uses a lot of land. It might not have a lot of employees in it. A hospital, which sometimes is on industrial land,
 It employs a lot of people. They're not all the same, and we should be looking at them in a more sophisticated manner. Of course, a lot of industrial goes on in buildings that look like office buildings in their downtown. We definitely need to. And let me be clear, this is separate and apart from the matter that's before us today, but we've seen this time and time again come forward, and it does seem like we need to update our thinking about the jobs nexus. Yes.
 I agree, having seen a great growth in storage units also in some pretty good locations for some other uses. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, all three of you. I understand we have one more. Is that right, Carla? Correct. Very good. Cameron Harrington. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm here to thank you for the efforts of your offices, your staffs.
 and specifically the staff at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to get us to this point today. I think in addition to the content of this policy being an excellent example of equity in action, the process of developing this proposal is an example that other bureaus should learn about and follow.
 The Bureau staff, led by Joe Zender, Tom Armstrong, Leslie Lum, proactively worked with community members, with mobile home park residents, hired temporary staff to canvas mobile home parks around the city to make sure they understood the content and implications of this proposal.
 And it was that work that made this process, which would otherwise be very complicated and confusing for anyone. People understood what the implications were for them and for their housing. And so I'd like to commend the Bureau and as well as the staff of your offices for their work behind the scenes to get this onto the agenda and get this to the vote today.
 I'd also like to again point out that this really is an example of the city prioritizing equity and prioritizing the interests of those people who would otherwise have the fewest options. As we've heard today, most people who live in manufactured housing parks don't have as many options as you and I do in terms of where we can live.
 And it is incumbent upon the city to take this action today to prioritize, to proactively protect those homes and those communities. And the roots of today's actions, I think we can trace back to the equity commitments made in the Portland plan. And then those were made more concrete in the comprehensive plan, as Commissioner Fritz referred to. And today...
 to actually implement those commitments in a very concrete way, I believe is a strong precedent that we can apply to other kinds of policy in the housing realm and in other forms of policy. I also want to
 highlight that none of this would have happened if it weren't for the organized efforts of manufactured housing residents across the city coming together, meeting with you and your staff, meeting with the Bureau, door knocking in parks across town from the ones where they themselves live in order to get the word out about this policy. Many of those folks are here in the room today, but hundreds of others were not able to come down to City Hall during the afternoon
 But they have all signed a huge banner that we have downstairs that says, We Love Our Mobile Homes.
 after the conclusion of this hearing we'll be gathering downstairs to take a group photo and we would like to invite you and members of your staff to join us for that photo. Very good. And that was good testimony and I want to make sure you get credit for it. Could you state your name for the record? Oh yes, I'm sorry. Cameron Harrington with Levine Cully. Thank you. And for those of you who made the sign, I apologize. I know there was an interest in bringing it into the chamber. We have some rules on the side of banners but I will
 I'll be delighted to see it downstairs. Thank you. Thank you for bringing it. Very good. So that concludes our public testimony, colleagues. Do we want to bring staff up for further questions? Please come back up if you don't mind, Tom. Commissioner Saltzman. Okay. So, you know, Mayor, I support this proposal, but I am not prepared to support this proposal today unless we have a clear path to provide the same protections and incentives for mobile home park owners that
 in this package, to the owners of the Fox Run and the residents of the Fox Run. It's not equitable to leave everybody, to include everybody but one mobile home park, for sort of academic, paper-pushing, planning-type speak, which the residents, if they find out that the property gets sold out from underneath them, will never understand, and I would never be able to explain it to them. So I, in order for me to support this package today, I need a clear path that culminates in a time certain before this body is...
 that will consider the Fox Run providing the same incentives to the owners of Fox Run and protections to its residents. So help us get there. The option that I would suggest that we do is that you pass the ordinance as amended today and that what we would do is bring forward a separate ordinance for a map change for Fox Run itself and
 That would have to go as a legislative project through the Planning and Sustainability Commission, which would require... One of the problems...
 In addition to the findings and amending the findings today and or tomorrow to include it in this package, is that the owners... He's not proposing that, Tom. I know. We don't even have to hypothesize. He's just asking for the path forward. So the path forward would be to send it to the Planning and Sustainability Commission. We'll send out the required 35-day notice. We will find a time in September or October for the Planning and Sustainability Commission to make a recommendation.
 and we will bring it back to you later this fall as soon as we can get it through the PSC and back here with just the Fox Run and just the map change for that. And if it, refresh my memory, if it doesn't pass the PSC, it can still come to us for consideration or not? If the council directs BPS to bring it to the Planning and Sustainability Commission, then it will come back to council.
 Do we need to do that today? Did they need an amend the ordinance with that direction? Yes, we can amend the ordinance to include a directive. Yeah. Let me draft something. Okay. Okay.
 So by late fall, we could have this in front of us, this question. Okay. You know, my suggestion is we not amend the ordinance and keep this clean as has been proposed. I think if there's a commitment made to Commissioner Saltzman that it will come back to council, I'm confident it will come back to council. And his office between now and January 1st will be highly motivated to see that it comes back to council. Dan, I would urge you to go that route rather than amending this today.
 We've been given, I think, clear sense of keeping this as unencumbered as possible. Yes, and I would say given the level of support that we saw at the PSC, I would not have concerns about it not getting out of PSC and back here in an expedited manner. In a timely manner. Yeah, in a timely manner. Timely manner means October.
 We can't do that. Get it to PSC in October. We still have a 35-day notice that we have to send out before the PSC can hear it. Commissioner Saltzman ends his term sometime at the end of the year. Yeah, I'm running on a fixed block. Right. Can you give us some sense that it would come back to council while he's still a member of the body? Sure.
 We will make our best effort to get it through the end of the year. I can't promise, given council's agendas at the end of the year and the way they get congested, but we will make our best effort to get back here. Or we'll have to go to Dan's house. Good. Does that verbal commitment satisfy your requirements, Commissioner? Not really. But, I mean, I appreciate the efforts, but I also see, you know,
 The clock easily running out on this and me being in no position to influence it to get it before this body while I'm still here. And it's not to say that's up to the body. I just don't have a lot of comfort that this is going to get back to us in a timely manner.
 And I think it's important. I mean, I'm not talking about myself so much. I'm talking about people who live in Fox Run. I agree. I think it's a principled stand, and I will make every effort as mayor to make sure that this comes back to the council prior to your departure, that you will have a chance to see it through. May I? Yep. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, yes, you bet. I agree. It's a principled stand, and there's 56 of these properties. Fifty-five of them desperately need this.
 advancement today to provide some incentives to the owners to keep the current uses.
 I just want to remind you about 3rd and Harrison, a third of an acre that we could not rezone from industrial because of appeals by the industrial property owners. So rezoning industrial and also Harbour of Hope at Terminal 1. Rezoning industrial land is really difficult and should be considered in the context of the whole community and the economic needs of the city.
 This is prime industrial land, as has been said. It's in the Harbour District and the Airport Way District. I don't know whether I will support...
 I'm adding this when it comes back, and I don't know if the Planning Commission will either. I think what we're all committing to is that the Planning Commission will send us a recommendation, whether it's yes or no, and then we'll have a council discussion and a decision yes or no. Absolutely. Nor can we make that finding today. Correct. Mayor, I wasn't here earlier, and I apologize at the beginning of the hearing. Have we adopted the amendments? They're on the table. Okay. Okay, yeah, I appreciate the discussion. I appreciate Commissioner Fritz reminding us how difficult it is.
 This is, but I think we owe those residents a shot at taking it. Yeah. Hear, hear. Good. Any further questions of staff? We'll call the roll on the technical amendments one through six. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendments are adopted. The main motion is amended. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye.
 This is on the final package? This is the final option. Well, thanks, everybody, for your advocacy and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the Planning and Sustainability Commission and all the residents who worked so hard to get this proposal before us in such a timely manner. This is an important step we need to take, and I'm pleased to support it. And as I just said a minute ago, I hope we will provide the same protection and incentives to the residents and owners of the Fox Run development. You daily? Yes.
 I'd like to thank Cameron Harrington and Living Collie and all the advocates and community members who worked on this issue and everyone who came today to give testimony. Thank you as well to the staff at BPS, to my colleagues who supported and facilitated this work, to my staff, of course. I vote aye. Fritz.
 As Mary-Caroline McCurdy pointed out, these zoning changes uphold a number of specific anti-displacement policies in the adopted 2035 comprehensive plan. And again, Cameron Harrington pointed out that that grew out of the Portland plan. So thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Daly, the whole council for joining me in championing this effort which began with the previous city councils.
 Thank you, Tom Armstrong and Susan Anderson, Joe Zender, all the staff, Shannon Boner over there. A lot of work has gone into getting this done. There was a complaint in my emails that this has been done way too quickly. I think two years...
 is pretty darn quick for all the hoops that needs to go through. So thank you very much for making sure that we do go all through those hoops. Lauren King in the City Attorney's Office, thank you. Claire Adamsick and Tim Crowell and my staff are particularly meaningful and helpful. And Claire was very much a part of crafting the policy in the first place.
 Thank you all the community members who came here today. My notes say you had to juggle work or family obligations to be here. In one case, you had to juggle the family obligation. Having that young man on your shoulders was really wonderful. So thank you. That was my favorite image from today, I think. Thank you to the translator who facilitated many people being able to participate fully and to everybody who arranged for that. And finally, thank you to Pamela Ferguson in Hayden Island, who...
 took me around their manufactured home community there. I may have been one of the few candidates for city council who has actually canvassed not once but twice in mobile home communities. Ed Guerin was also part of that community. These are wonderful communities, wonderful places to live with a real sense of belonging.
 And I'm very happy that we've just opened the new park in Cully built with Verde and Living Cully that is very close to several of the manufactured home parks on Killingsworth Street. And how wonderful that we're providing parks where wonderful communities are. So thank you very much for all of your work. I. Fish. Commissioner Fritz, I can't believe you mentioned Ed Guerin earlier.
 In 2008, I think I got the tour following your tour. You know, it's not yet 3.30, and so someone in this room is going to say, we have just handled a big lift around a legislative change, and we're about to conclude final adoption of amendments and speeches in an hour and a half. And what I would like to say in response to that is this thing has been cooked for a long time,
 It is carefully constructed. It has broad community support. And there is a sense of urgency for us to act today. And that's why this is moving with some speed and dispatch. I want to thank the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for all the work they did. Joe Zender, and congratulations, Joe, on taking on the interim director title. And we wish you best of luck. I want to thank my colleagues for their leadership on this issue.
 I want to thank the community for coming out and testifying today, especially community members under the age of 10. And I think we had a lot of them here today. And this is democracy in action, so you got to see how we operate. And your presence here was greatly appreciated. We're taking up a proposal today to broaden the incentives for affordable housing. It is one of a number of key initiatives taken up by this council.
 I am proud of the progress we are making. We have more work to do. Today, I vote aye. Wheeler. I'll be brief. Portland, as you heard, has 57 manufactured dwelling parks citywide, providing affordable housing for nearly 3,000 households.
 And the vote we're taking here today, because I can count the votes, it honors the intent of the comprehensive plan through this action. And it also increases the diversity of affordable housing options that are available in this city.
 There are so many people to thank, and I know I'm leaving people off of this list, and I hope collectively we have hit most of those who are certainly deserving of our thanks. First of all, I want to thank my colleagues on the City Council, particularly Commissioners Fritz and Eudaly, who brought this forward with us today. I want to thank my staff, in particular Kyle Chizik and Cupid Alexander.
 who work tirelessly on this, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff. You guys always impress me, Tom and Joe and the whole team. And I know that the Housing Bureau is well represented here, and they've been active contributors to this process. And at the end of the day, we're ensuring a very important balance.
 And increasing housing options and all of this, of course, is supported by the findings. And so I think it's a great package. It is supremely important. It is yet one more tool of many that are in the toolbox to ensure that the people who work in this community can afford to live here. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you. Thank you.
 I need to keep a shawl in my... What?