Go ahead and start. I believe Commissioner Fish will be here momentarily. But we have a pre-gavel celebration and proclamation. And we have a very honored guest who I'll introduce in just a moment, who will be coming up and sharing some words with us. This is of course the kickoff for us here at the City Council of Hip Hop Week. And that's something that's been really important to our music scene, to our overall culture. It's really important to the fabric of our community. And as you all know, Hip Hop Week came together as a result of multiple artists in the city of Portland coming together in partnership with the city in order to strengthen relationships using this unique artistic platform. We have us today David Jackson. David, if you could just raise your hand. He is better known, I think at this point, internationally as DJ OG1 and is the official DJ of the Portland Trailblazers. And I'd like to start off by introducing DJ OG1 to come on up and say a few words on behalf of Hip Hop Week. Welcome and thank you for being here. And if you want to introduce your friends, you're welcome to do that as well. Thank you. Thank you, council, for having me have a few of the hip hop community here with us. We just completed a full week of hip hop celebration. And we wanted to personally thank you for your support. because this is a very significant and historical situation for us because it speaks to the relationship, the very necessary relationship that's needed between the hip-hop community and the city. For a while, there was the feeling that hip-hop was not welcomed here in the city of Portland, and so for the city to make a statement that, that is absolutely not the case and that we definitely need to continue the communication to bridge the gap of accountability and respect is very important. So today is historical for us. And I wanted to present you an award that we constantly give out during our celebration honoring people that have contributed to the hip hop community and you have definitely played a part in supporting this new movement and so yes we thank you again hip hop manuela hip hop laughter laughter I promised I wouldn't spin any rhymes for you guys. You didn't have any? That's great, thank you. Just trying to visualize this, you know? Will is going to spin a rhyme for you guys. I absolutely will. Thank you, and on behalf of all of us at the City of Portland, I thank you and I appreciate everything that you do. It is so incredibly important. This is an important touch point for not only the city, People in the music community is important for all of us in the community. It's one more opportunity for us to share. And so have a seat, and I'll go ahead and I'll read. This is a real honor. I think it means a lot to me, and it means a lot to the city council. We really appreciate it. You're not going to wear that thing? Mayor, if I may just say a couple of words. Please, Commissioner Hardesty. You bet. I just want to add that. I just want to appreciate this historic moment because hip hop and the city of Portland have had an uneasy relationship And it is really wonderful to see that not only has Hip Hop Day gone from Hip Hop Day to Noun a Week, it is also important that from this podium we say that every type of music expression is welcome in Portland and that we are very honored that you are here this morning and took time to be here. So thank you all. Thanks, Commissioner. So with that, I'd like to read a proclamation. And proclamations, of course, are a statement of the entire city councils and by extension, the city's values. So this is really the highest way, or the best way, the most obvious way that we can recognize important things in our community. And so without further ado, I'd like to read a proclamation on behalf of the city council. Whereas hip-hop was established in the early 1970s in the South Bronx to be a voice for urban communities who didn't have a voice, and whereas the movement set the platform for the world to get a glimpse into the daily struggles of youth in urban communities and has become the most influential genre in music over the last few decades. And whereas the hip hop platform consisted of the DJ who would take breaks from popular songs from jazz, soul, disco and more to create loops that would then invite the MC who would vocalize words in poetic form to tell stories of present realities. And whereas hip hop was also accompanied by break dancers, beatbox and graffiti art which created a culture where people from diverse backgrounds could find their paths of expression, as well as establishing entrepreneurial opportunities. And whereas hip-hop culture in Portland has been spearheaded by an enormous collective of people who've represented Portland both locally, but also on some national and international platforms. From national and international tools, tours, commercials, corporate campaigns, local shows, to being official surrogates for presidential campaigns. Portland artists have represented our city extremely well. And whereas the City of Roses strives to be a place of support and nurturing to these individuals and groups that lend to the positive contributions of said culture, especially when it promotes a culture of growth, inclusion, diversity, and good business practices. And whereas today's proclamation is not just about recognizing the importance of the culture of hip-hop in Portland, nor the obvious power of hip-hop socially and economically. but it is to publicly recognize the efforts of the City of Portland and its hip-hop community to build better supportive relationships, better systems of communication and accountability with law enforcement and other city agencies, better business practices, and overall mutual support of one another in hopes of making Portland a positive and more thriving environment for the business and culture of hip-hop. And now therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim August 20th through August 26th to be Portland Hip Hop Week and encourage all residents to observe this week. Thank you. And commissioners, unless there's anything more you'd like to say, I'd like, could we come on up here up front and have some photos taken? That'd be great. Thank you. We appreciate you being here. Thank you for the acknowledgement. Really, this was about acknowledging you today. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And colleagues, I was just reminded by a member of my staff, something that was not said earlier that probably should have been said, is to acknowledge Starchild, who founded Hip Hop Week. Starchild, unfortunately, passed away, I believe it was about two years ago. But this is a good time and a good opportunity to remember Starchild's contributions to this effort as well. Thank you. Thank you all for being here. Keelan, good morning. Good morning. Good morning. All right, we're now in session. This is the Wednesday morning, August 28th, 2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. Keelan, please call the roll. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Hardesty. Here. New Daily. Here. Wheeler. Here. Now we'll hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, counsel. Good morning, Mayor. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on, and when your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Kindly remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for your help. Excuse me. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Okay, great. Okay, good. All right, very good. Communications is up first, Carla. You keep switching out on me. Look at it. It's good to see you again. Thank you. Thank you. First communications please. Item 792, request of Robert J. Patterson to address council regarding housing solutions, the Southwest Barber Corridor and riverboat gambling. I don't believe I saw Mr. Patterson. Is he here? I don't see him. Next individual please. 793, request of Mike O'Callaghan to address council regarding homeless emergency. Welcome. Thank you. Back again. It's been about 10 years I've been talking to the council about the unhoused. Anyway, I want to start out thanking my heroes, okay? First one is named Michael. He's armless and he rides a bicycle every day on Springwater Trail Corridor. And I sought to help him one time and I have never seen anybody put a cell phone in their shirt pocket with their feet before. Here's to Michael. Anyway, and thank the woman that fought the city for years to get murals in the city. And thank God the city caved in and we have beautiful murals all over the city now. Hopefully the city will cave in again and we can house people. You saw, everybody saw the stats about all the unhoused, right? I talked about this for a long time, okay. We need a safety valve, okay? It is, from my perspective, unacceptable in a culture to have this many people unhoused. Obviously, to those that are rulers, have decided it's acceptable because it does exist. This program is called GO, okay? Garage occupancy. Approximately 350,000 units in Portland that are habitable, about a third of them approximately have garages, giving 100,000 garages. If the city offered to permit to people who wanted to house people in their garage with preconditions, one of them being you can't charge any more than your 1 12th of your annual taxes for rent. Okay, it's the same thing as a renter, landlord thing. They've got to come to you to rent. You have to supply water, sewer, garbage, access to electricity, and you have to provide a fire extinguisher and a smoke detector. The average is $3,000 a year in taxes. That'd be $250 a month. Okay, doable. Okay, we can house a lot of people with this really quickly. And you can put this program on another housing program, though it doesn't really add a whole layer of bureaucracy. People come to you, they tell you that they have these things set. You give them a permit for $100. They go out, they get somebody to rent their place for $250 a month. You know, if the tenant decides that place isn't up to spec, they can get a hold of you. You can check it out, get rid of it, but almost all of them will be up to spec. This is a way that we can house people inexpensively, no cost to the city. And here's the real trick. I love this part. Real estate, 100 times monthly average is a rough value for your property. So you increase your property's value by $25,000 average. Okay? That's a pretty big chunk, $25,000. And you guys get to tax it. Okay. So, and this can, you control the permits, so you can control the number of houses that are set up underneath this program. Okay. We can do this quickly. Thank you for your time. Interesting idea. Appreciate you bringing it in. Okay. Thank you. Next individual, please. Item 794, request of Ronald J. Saffold to address council regarding eviction. Good morning and welcome. Good morning, council. Please have a seat. I have the privilege to be here. to actually meet all of y'all. I loved Oregon. Been here 14 years. Never had a problem. The reason I am here and my caseworker is that back in 2016 I was wrongful evicted Section 8 voucher of my Section 8. In parole court there was a matter of a 24 hour eviction. I was evicted. Woke up 24-hour eviction notice stating that I sexually assaulted an elderly lady in 16. I woke up to this 24-hour eviction notice on my door. It's very disturbing. I call it very disturbing. In the report, they stated on June 14th, there was a Portland police report was taken, with a model number in which I am very aware and the Portland police and I have, when I was living at the parole court 34 months before this incident, the police already knew who I was at the time. I did a lineup of some incidents that happened in our building in which this report, they say they have a Portland police report, don't make sense. As a result of that, I kind of tried to explain this to Section 8, the real matter of me going to court and losing my Section 8 vouchers because this company, Pearl Court, or IPM is who they are, has been lying to housing authority and telling them one thing. But not telling them the truth of what they took me to court for was the 24 hour eviction notice for a sexual assault to an elderly lady in a wheelchair. It's all about a lady in a wheelchair, nothing else, just a lady in a wheelchair. So then after a while, Section 8, them asked me and I spoke to them and told them. I had made a way to get in, there was a Detective Shepherd who called me. Asked me told me that they did an investigation of the parole court. Then I turned around and I went and got the background checks shows that there's nothing on state. I even have the actual desk. One second, sir. Commissioner Fish? Mr. Saffold, let me jump in for a second. First of all, ma'am, who do you work for? I work for TPI. I'm his case manager. I'm just supporting him. At TPI? Yes. Okay. And what I want to make clear here is... Mr. Saffold, of course, has the right to come here and to plead his case. We obviously thank both of you for taking the time to do it. We actually have no authority on a Section 8 voucher. It's a program, as you know, TPI knows, it's administered by the federal government with Home Forward. Home Forward actually allocates the Section 8 vouchers. So the remedy is an administrative one. if he believes it's been unfairly removed. What is the relief that you're asking us to provide? Well, basically, he feels he was wrongly convicted. I understand. Because there was no police report, there's no pictures, there's no nothing. And Pearl Court and them will not talk to me about this case because my job is to house him. And if he has this, then it's going to be impossible for me to house him. because I pay for their rent, their deposits, I get them furniture, and get the credentials that they need. But it's going to be hard. So I'm here to support him, and we just want to figure out where can we resolve this? Because we don't want this to go on his record. He did not touch the lady, and he needs help to solve this because there is no police reports. They won't even talk to me, so we just want to figure out why are they saying that he did this if they don't have the right information or the evidence to support his case. Who won't talk to you? Full Court, Hamilton West. Full Court, Hamilton West refuses to talk to me about the situation, and they told us that this is where he has been. I'm sorry, Commissioner Fish. Thank you. So our only authority here is we... appoint a number of people to the board of Home Forward. But we don't handle administrative appeals on people's Section 8 vouchers. In the 10 years I've been on council, we've never taken that up. We don't have a procedure. If you believe the police department, the police bureau, has treated you unfairly, then you have recourse to the Bureau. If your ultimate concern is the Section 8 voucher, that is home forward. That's not the case. He said he lost his section. It's that this is a company that's called IPM and Pearl Court. What happened when I say there was a 24-hour eviction notice, actually when they took me to court, this was a state charge, not through Home Forward. They took me to court. You see, there's two charges. The first charge was a 24-hour eviction notice stating that I did a sexual assault charge. And like I said, I woke up to this. Then they took it to the civil court. We took it to civil court. The judge in civil denied the rape charge. They turned around and said, we're going to get you for bad language and all this other stuff. Okay, can I just ask you to pause for just a moment? Yes, counsel. And so the normal process that you would use to appeal, what is that process? Yes. I'm asking you as a case manager, right? Your role is to house people. Yes. And it sounds like you have a caseload of people who are difficult to house anyway, right? Yes. So what is your typical process when someone has been evicted or wrongfully evicted without a conviction or without any other factors? So basically, we... If they put an application in and we pay for the application fee, if they were denied, then we'll do an appeal letter. And then once we do the appeal letter and then they get denied again, then you can only get denied twice. Then we'll look for another place to house him in. Right. And you're in that process now? Where are we now? I mean, are you housed today? No, I'm currently at the... Clark Center right now. I'm actually in the shelter because the way that I look at it, we have looked in to try to get into housing. The way they say on my background check is that this is the problem. This is a problem. As Commissioner Fish said, this is not the body that we can do this in, but let me encourage you to go to my office, which is just across the hall, leave your information with my staff, and I'll be happy to talk to you outside of this process to see if there's some advice that we can provide that will help you address this issue. Okay? And I understand that you didn't understand what the process would be, and you're just looking for help. So let's see if we can help. Yes, we are. Then we can get the arresting officer. All I know is I don't have enough information to tell you what the help could be, but I'm willing to talk to you. Not being funny, just being a black man in society, when you get accused. of raping elderly, not being funny white women. And it's hard. And that weighs on you. And that can be on his record. And he'd probably have to get registered for a second. And this is something that he did not do. So he is... He's lucky to have you as an advocate. As an advocate. And as... I've been fighting for three years. Sure, but I think... You've got an invitation from a commissioner to do some work. There's two issues. One is the eviction. And two is... continuing to have a Section 8 voucher, which the Home Forward administers. And so I'm sure that the Commissioner will look at both issues and talk to the Mayor if necessary, because the Mayor has a direct liaison role with Home Forward. So thank you both for joining us today. You're welcome. And I'm so sorry you're having this experience. And I hope that we're able to help you navigate the system because it's hard to navigate from this side of the building. So I can imagine what it's like on that side of the building. Yes, ma'am. Have a good day. Commissioner, Tia from my office will work with you on that as well to coordinate whatever we need to do on our side. Thank you for coming here. Thank you. Appreciate you coming. Nice to meet you. Thank you. Next individual, please. Item 795, request of Cheryl Graves to address council regarding a community village. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Cheryl Graves from Portland, Oregon, and I'm not a lobbyist. I am a resident of Portland. Excellent. Welcome. Glad to have you here. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor, City Council, and fellow Oregonians. I am here today because of this. I know you've all read it. This article printed last week in Oregonian. And again, in the Portland Business Journal, reads 38,000 homeless people in this area. They say we will spend $4.1 billion over the next 10 years just to manage the problem. $4.1 billion with no recovery. On top of this $4.1 billion is the allotted $21 billion for 10 years of sponsored housing. That leaves us with $25 billion to spend over the next 10 years. It's an alarming amount of money. I ask that instead of a $4.1 billion for a Band-Aid, you invest only $1 billion for a rehabilitation community village. Homes for everyone. My name is Cheryl Graves and as a native Oregonian, I have a lifetime investment and protective love for my city, Portland. I did not bring on this bad issue that we have. I take it personal. I was born and raised here. My job is here. My children live here. So to go out in the city every day and just be accosted by people on the streets in front of our businesses every day is unacceptable. Over the past three years, I have written a book. This is how much this meant to me. I wrote a book and a detailed outline of my vision to shift the energy from non-functioning homeless individuals into productive, thriving families and communities by way of a group called Yes, My Life Matters, The Homeless Cure. This is not a homeless management plan, but an end to homelessness. No more people on the streets. Hungry and cold children will be safe and in clean surroundings. People will soon discover there's a place just for them. The village is not a handout or a temporary fix, but a job with life and personal skills development, a community surrounded by fellow people with like issues, and positive role models. For this plan to succeed, we must remove the lost people from the city streets, getting away from temptation. and safe carrying surroundings. This manageable, all-inclusive village will be established for the unconventional persons, the lost, the recovering addicts, returned war heroes, and children and seniors at risk. This is not a low-income community or low-income housing and no free food, but this is a community built on hard work, better education, and skills training opportunities with positive goals. Every person will have a safe place to live while they learn to trust and become engaged in their future. The team leaders and mentors will be there every minute, living and showing frightened people that it's going to be okay. This plan includes large and small animal care, gardening and landscaping, nursery stock and ecosystems, farming. Ma'am, your time is up. How much more do you have there? This much. Okay, go ahead. Thank you. In this case, I'll let you finish. Ecosystems, farming and archers, wind, solar and pedal power fields along with child and senior care programs. The village will promote job ready employees for our community partners employment. I am here today asking for 300 to 400 acres for our community grounds. Although one large site would work the best after reading about the troubled golf courses, possibly they might be the better sites. And these sites could have a wider use for a greater number of people, while at the same time helping the city to get clean and safe. By reducing the courses from 36 holes to 18, we can invest in working, learning farms and agriculture with job skills opportunity. Once you have read this book, contact everyone you know, engage your friends, and caring people who love Portland. Thank you. And Cheryl, could you possibly leave a copy? Do you have an extra copy of your comment? This book will be in full publish on September 11th. Perfect. It's published. All right, the book tour started right here. I want everybody to remember that. Thank you, Cheryl, and you've left your contact information with us as well. We appreciate it. This is interesting today. I'm enjoying this. Next up, please. Item 796, request of Luvia Morello to address council regarding fossil fuel infrastructure. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Council Members. Morning. It is good to see you all again. I hope that my words find meaning in your heart and minds this morning. My name is Yuvia Magali Morello. I am here today as the Energy Justice Organizer at Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility, a concerned mother, a local business owner, community member, and an indigenous woman. Oregon PSR is an organization of health professionals and public health advocates working collaboratively with community partners to educate and advocate for societal and policy change that protects human health at local, state, national, and international level. We seek a healthy, just, peaceful world for present and future generations. I wonder if any of you have passed by one of these long oil bomb trains that have been traveling through our neighborhoods filled with toxic chemicals that threaten our well-being. I live in Portland's northeast Cully neighborhood, and I see these oil bomb trains passing through and sitting in my neighborhood all too often, coming to and from the Zenith facility in north Portland. My lifelong friend and her family live in Southeast Brooklyn neighborhood, and these same trains pass within 50 feet of her home at all hours of the day and night. I have worked and been a part of schools and communities that are close to Portland's railways. And when I see an oil bomb train, I think of all these communities and how the storage and train traffic of fossil fuels like tar sands oil locally at Zenith facility pose serious public health and safety concerns for all of us. I'm here today to ask that you, Mayor, and all City Council members take any opportunity that you can to prevent any oil bomb trains from coming into our community. Because ultimately, the safest choice for our community is to shut down the Zenith facility. Until shutting down Zenith is an option, I ask that you work together to deny any permits for any expansion for Zenith. Next week, Oregon PSR members will be here to testify and to invite you to the Zenith Vigil that the community is organizing at the facility. We're still working out the details, but please know that you all are invited. This will take place the week of the climate strike in late September. I greatly appreciate the time and attention that you have dedicated to this matter. Thank you. Thank you. And Mr. Patterson did not arrive, did he? Very good. Consent agenda, please, Carla. Have any items been pulled? Yes. We've had a request for 800 and 810. Very good. Please call the roll on the remainder. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly?
 Aye.
 Fritz?
 Aye.
 Fish?
 Aye. You threw us for a curveball, Carla. We did a different order when we did at the beginning of the council meeting. Oh, did I? I'm sorry. I was second. I'm just curious. Are we? That was the oddity at the beginning. That was what? That was the wrong order at the beginning. Colleagues, I just have a brief comment I'd like to make on one. on one item on the consent agenda, and that is 797, which is renewing a relationship with the Citizens Utility Board. The Oregon Citizens Utility Board has provided citizen oversight of our two public utilities these past five or six years. The City of Portland has the distinction of being the first and only public utility that receives its oversight from CUB at no cost to rate payers. The Cubs oversight has provided direct benefits to rate payers over the years. After the Great Recession subsided, at Cubs recommendation, we restored SDC levels to ensure developers paid their fair share, resulting in over $2 million in savings to rate payers. CUB gave us pivotal recommendations for the success of the biogas project known as Poop to Power, protecting rate payer dollars while maximizing the success of the project. And CUB played a key role on the Blue Ribbon Commission that led to the newest oversight body, the Portland Utility Bureau. My thanks to Janice Thompson and the team at CUB for their partnership and diligence, and I'm pleased that we're renewing this fruitful relationship. Aye. Wheeler. The consent agenda is adopted. First item on the regular agenda, please. Item number 811. Appoint Eric Breesman and Bill Bailey to the Building Code Board of Appeal for terms to expire August 27, 2022. Colleagues, today I'm requesting council confirmation to appoint two new members to the Building Code Board of Appeal, Bill Bailey and Eric Breesman. It's a privilege to recommend such highly qualified members in our community to provide guidance on the building code appeals to the Bureau of Development Services. Bill Bailey is the owner of an architectural firm. Over the span of his 35 year career, he's been passionate about using the building code as a design tool and one that can provide creative solutions for design problems in our community. Understanding that code is the minimum to provide fire and life safety for building construction. Eric Bressman is a practicing architect with 40 years of combined educational and professional experience. In his current position, he reviews projects for code compliance and assists project teams in developing acceptable alternate code strategies. We have Terry Whitehill of BDS here to answer any questions. Would either of the appointees like to say anything? No. Good morning. I'm Bill Bailey. I want to appreciate this opportunity to serve. While I have served in other roles and other committees and those kind of things, this is an opportunity to serve for what some people may see as a narrow band that I actually am very passionate about. We're talking about how to make rules, in this case building code rules, work for people and work for design and community. So I'm excited about this opportunity. Thank you. I actually would like to echo Bill's thoughts on that. our firm works all up and down the west coast with many many different jurisdictions and the process that Portland has is very unique in that it it provides a system for architects when they have alternate solutions they'd like to propose and they're reviewed and decisions made very quickly in other jurisdictions many times that can take Three to six months to get decisions like that and as a practicing architect we need to get those decisions quickly so I really commend the city for implementing and maintaining the system and Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. This is just a quick question for staff. I applaud the background and experience of the gentleman that we're going to appoint today, but I can't help but notice that you're all white men over a certain age. And so I'm just kind of curious as to what process is in place to bring women and people of color into the fold so that when we appoint, you the folks that we're appointing actually look like the community that we're working in? So there's already three members on the committee. Two of them are women right now, one male. So and the finding the minority, I still have one position open, and that's why I keep one open trying to find those. It is difficult in this community because it's a very specialized type work, and there's... It's a pretty small percentage, so I have to do a lot of hunting to find. We've had them in the past. Right now I don't have, but I'm still looking. I bet our beer of purchasing could help you identify Ocutex and other expertise in communities of color because they're also really focused on reaching out and making sure that we're diversifying our committees. And, yeah, any help that I can give, I'm certainly happy to help with that. But it's really important that we – you know, A not just have one seat that's a minority seat, that B it actually reflects the community of the workers that we're trying to provide advice to. So thank you. Commissioner Fish. I just want to applaud both of you for your opening statements. A number of years ago, one of our distinguished arts organizations, Northwest Dance Project, found a building on the east side that was a perfect location for their new headquarters where they would also do rehearsal space. And they ran into a roadblock at the Bureau of Development Services which interpreted the code a particular way. They had the benefit of having a creative team that they work with, including a lawyer that knew the code. They went to the building code board of appeals and to your point, they fashioned a common sense remedy where they analogized the space to a different part of the code, figured out a workaround, and allowed Northwest Dance Project to move into this new space, and so it is a unique thing that we have where Members of the community help provide that oversight and do some problem solving. And I've seen firsthand where it has benefited arts organizations. So thank you for taking this on. And thank you for bringing some common sense and some community perspective to these decisions as we go forward. Appreciate both of you stepping up to serve. Thank you. Very good. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you both for serving. This is a wonderful appointment because you actually get to make decisions. And so I really appreciate that you will be making them in the public interest. And when you find rules that need to be changed, I hope you will forward the advice to Mayor Wheeler to change the rules if there's consistently something that you're granting the appeals on. Commissioner Hardesty, I wanted to mention that since I was in charge of development services in 2013, I've been working with Mike Clevefield with that very same charge. So I assure you that he is doing his due diligence. What I found was that it often takes the commissioner in charge or another commissioner reaching out and explaining to somebody, why would you want to volunteer so much of your time on a city committee? And so I know that it's going to be really helpful having you on the council to help make those connections. I'm sure Mike will work with you on that. May I move the report? Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aren't you going to let us speak on this? It's a report. Please call the roll. Excuse me, sir. This is in violation of council rules. If you continue, you'll be asked to leave. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udaili? Thank you for your willingness to serve. Aye. Fritz? Thanks so much for the expertise that you bring. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Two outstanding individuals. Thank you for your willingness to serve. Great recruitment. I appreciate it. I vote aye. The report is approved and the appointments are confirmed. Thank you. Next item, 812. Extend intergovernmental agreement with Home Forward through September 30, 2022 to continue to provide patrol services at the new Columbia housing sites. Colleagues, Home Forward collaborates closely with the Office of Community and Civic Life, Income Property Management, and the Portland Police Bureau to provide community policing and patrol services to the new Columbia community through the new Columbia community policing team. The community based style of policing encourages citizen participation in crime reduction and focuses on greater coordination with other service providers to address crime related problems in the community. Police officers are a vital component in the new Columbia Community Policing Team, ensuring the community safety needs are met by creating a frontline access to services and law enforcement. The police borough has an IGA, an intergovernmental agreement with Home Forward to provide patrol services at their new Columbia housing sites. In September, this agreement expires. The Portland Police have been providing patrol services under this agreement since 2012 and would like to extend the agreement to 2022. And we have Michael Blanacore is here, obviously, from Home Ford. Captain Pasador is here from the Portland Police Bureau. And? Elise Temple. And Elise Temple. Thank you. And I'm not sure who wants to start. I'll go first, Mayor. Thank you. Thanks, Captain. Commissioners, thank you very much for allowing us to come and talk with you today. I'm here to represent the Portland Police Bureau and ask for the extension of the New Columbia Community Intergovernmental Agreement with Home Forward. I'd also like to recognize that Officer Josh Silverman and Officer Joanna Ortiz are also in the gallery. They are also two other officers that are assigned to this program. I'm a captain with the police bureau and I'm assigned to North Precinct and that obviously is where the New Columbia is located. The New Columbia policing team is a collaborative effort between Home Forward, Portland Public Schools, Portland Police Bureau, the Office of Community and Civic Life, and Income Property Management. The team's focus is on building community relationships to effectively solve problems, increase public safety, and improve community livability. The Portland Police Bureau's primary focus in this program is not on law enforcement. Rather, their focus is on creative problem solving, utilizing the programs, the partnerships, and the strong community relationships that they develop. When I first became the captain at North Precinct, I went around and I talked to officers assigned in different details to get a good understanding of what their day-to-day jobs are. And when I talked with members of this policing team, from the officer's perspective and what we do with police work, I was very surprised at some of the things that I heard. I was under the impression it would be more of a proactive type environment. But one of the... proactive in police enforcement environment. But one of the quotes that I wrote down in that meeting by Officer Josh Silverman really summed it up the best when he said, we have a very light touch with the community. We look at creative and positive ways to solve problems. And then they explained how they do that with the partners that they partner with. So how does the Portland Police Partnership work without the primary focus being on enforcement? Every week, officers meet with members of Home Forward to discuss issues that may have occurred within the property of the New Columbia, including some of the calls for service. The purpose of these meetings is to ensure that the team is aware of issues that are occurring. This process allows Home Forward to develop plans to assist their residents. Examples of this assistance related to, for example, domestic violence type calls would be home for being able to follow up with domestic violence survivors. And possibly offering different types of assistance such as changing locks to make the survivors feel more comfortable staying at their homes. As well as the Portland Police Bureau officers assigned having the time to respond to those locations and follow up with the survivors, talking about maybe the need for extra patrol. So that those survivors feel safer staying placed in their homes and not feeling like they have to be displaced or moved somewhere else. This team approach also helps to connect crime victims with advocates. It also helps to make referrals to adult protective services, to life works, to other mental health providers, helps to connect with the office, the mayor's office of youth violence prevention and the Native American Youth and Family Center as well as several other providers within our city. This type of approach also helps to organize mediation between neighbors that may have disputes that if not dealt with in a proactive, productive way could cause them potentially to be displaced or to lose their housing. This is the type of program that helps the Portland police build strong relationships within the community. It truly is. This truly is policing woven into the community. This team of officers consists of four officers. They're each selected by not only the Portland Police Bureau, but by Home Forward members in the process. They all possess certain skills that make them very strong candidates to provide this type of service in community policing. For example, each of the partnerships contains at least one ECIT, that's an Enhanced Crisis Intervention Team member, so that if and when they deal with people suffering from mental health crisis, they're better qualified to assist in that manner. This program helps build long term relationships established with crime victims. These officers don't go call to call. They have the ability to follow up with victims of crime and to build strong relationships. So they trust those relationships if they need help later. In the past, the New Columbia has been underserved by the Portland Police Bureau. And historically, issues have at times caused some community members to lose trust in the Portland Police Bureau. Through this program, Home Forward and our community partners have truly helped the Portland Police Bureau in rebuilding damaged relationships. And in the process, they have helped us increase police legitimacy within the New Columbia area specifically. This project is an excellent example of community policing. Our officers participate in community events, community meetings, leadership events. Some of those examples of that would be the POIC youth groups that occur monthly. The B-Town Kids program that goes out to McCoy Park every weekend in the summer. That's filled with community members, a positive environment for children. That also has police officers that are present taking part in that and building those relationships with kids. They participate in family night events, penny carnivals, bingo nights, and several other type events within the area. As a result of this partnership, we are seeing downward crime trends in in the New Columbia area. The New Columbia patrol area accounted for 15,340 calls for service between January 1st, 2012 and June 30th, 2019. The New Columbia has experienced a declining trend in NIBRS Group A offenses between 2015 and 2018. Those offenses are offenses such as arson, burglary, break-ins, vandalism, destruction of property, and narcotics related offenses, there has been a decline in crime within the boundaries of the New Columbia patrol area as compared to some of the other areas within the city. An example would be Total calls for service within the New Columbia area. That's one of the ways we as a police organization measure crime within an area that's seen from the citizens. It's not police officers seeing something and saying there's a problem interacting. It's citizens saying we see something and we need help from the police. And since the height in 2015 of the last six years or six and a half years, which was 2015 calls of service. It has steadily decreased to where last year there was 953 calls for service. That is not because of lack of trust in police. The relationships that are built out there with our police department are stronger than they've ever been right now. That is because of the effectiveness of this program in showing a downward crime trend. Comparisons of total of group A offenses by year within other parts of the city. If you look in the New Columbia area at the top, the crime trends for the most part have remained flat. Same thing with the nearby areas that surround that area. The crime trends have remained fairly flat. That's a positive influence outside the surrounding area with the neighbors and youth that live in that area as well. Unfortunately, we do see a slight increase when we look citywide and we look precinct-wide. That's not the case in the New Columbia area. Priority level calls are one of the main responsibilities for the officers assigned to the assignments in this partnership. 53% of the calls they respond to are high priority, 30% are low priority. But if you look at the dispatch calls, they spend more time on self-initiated directed patrols. Those would be contacting people at programs, at events than they do responding to calls. And that's what we want to see within a geographical area. This week, I took the time to take police officers in this detail to council members' offices and talk with some council members and their staff. Those of you that had time on your calendars, we truly appreciate it. And that was to answer questions and hopefully some hard questions. time specifically with a meeting with Commissioner Hardesty, she brought up a very, very valid point, and that is why do you keep coming and asking us to extend a program, extend a contract? Why don't you reevaluate it and come to us and tell us what it's reevaluated like? Does it need to be adjusted? Does it need to be changed? Maybe it's for the better. Maybe there's things we're missing we the police bureau and talked with the administrators of this program. I talked about putting a time constraint on it where it would trigger a response for us to have to have that meeting to sit down and discuss is it working? What I found out during that meeting is that under this agreement, if it's extended, Agreements can only be extended for 10 years at this time. This would take it to its 10-year mark. That would make it to where we have to have the sit down, the evaluation. We certainly would bring community input in on that. My recommendation going further would be that in the next agreement, we put those benchmark requirements in where we sit down and we analyze the program, how it can be improved, how it's working, how it's not, and with community involvement. This is a program that works. This is a program that I, as the captain of North Precinct, am trying to replicate in other areas of the city with high crime volumes. I hope that this helps you to see how it has been a benefit for the community, for the Portland Police Bureau. And we thank you for your time. I'm going to pass the mic over, but I'd also like you to know that Officer Temple is here at the end in case you have more questions that are personally related to the activities that the officers do. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Was there anything you wanted to say? Oh, go ahead. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, thank you for having me today. I'm Michael Bonacore. I'm the executive director of Home Forward. I want to start by saying that I stepped outside and connected with Jamie and Commissioner Udailey's office, so we'll make sure that we follow up on the Section 8 question that was raised during testimony. And what I want to tell you... is that I started to work at Home Forward in 2001. So I spent a great deal of my early years at Home Forward in Columbia Villa and saw the redevelopment of the property. And one of the things that we experienced in the early years is the reality that if you build a nice place and you put 10,000 people in it, no matter what you do, it takes time for relationships to form. And those early years were... a little turbulent, including just sort of community safety and law enforcement. And we did not have the foresight to put this model of community policing in place in those first years. And so, you know, I've had a chance to sort of see what it looks like without this model and with it. And I would just reiterate everything that Officer Pasador said, you know, relationships make all the difference and once we uh once we started engaging in this model and i got to know some of the first officers who were assigned to it um you know i got to hear their own reflections on what it meant to have the time to build relationships with people and also just how much history um carried forward on the force um from the days of columbia villa and um There's a lot of, I think, real and misperceptions about what that community was and is. And it takes people really having connections to understand that and change narratives about what a community like New Columbia is perceived as. My only other... experience with a model like this was a few years ago there was a sort of a walking patrol in downtown Portland and Hawthorne. and I did a walk along and it was really amazing to see the officers have to know the names of everyone they interacted with that the folks on the street knew the officers names and the interactions that I observed were really touching the amount of trust that was there and I hope you will not only renew this but I just want to voice my support that you know, sort of relationship-based community policing, I think, can be really powerful and transformative for our community and our country. So I just wanted to offer that little plug of support, and I hope you will renew the agreement. Great. Thank you. Officer, anything else you wanted to add? I just, I really feel like this experience being a part of the detail has changed my perspective on policing and I really, I think it's like the only position I really want in the Bureau right now because I love doing the follow-up. I love getting the extra time to adjust my schedule. If there's a community event that starts early, even though my shift is typically two to midnight, I can go in and I can join in and I just. And I just, it's helped me in experiences where I've already known people that I've met at events or like our school visits. It's helped, I think, just it has helped them feel comfortable reporting things to me at times. And I think it's just a great agreement, and I hope it continues forever. Great. Thanks, Officer Temple. Appreciate it. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you so much. It's always a good thing when you have a conversation and you see it reflected in what comes back to the City Council. So thank you for going back and having that conversation. Michael, you said you've been at New Columbia since 2001? I worked at Home Forward starting in 2001 when it was Columbia Villa. And so when I had the visit of my office, the context that I had the conversation was around an experience that happened in 2014 where I thought it was a 12-year-old girl, but then I just was reminded it was a 9-year-old girl that was arrested. And so what I see is younger officers engaging and interacting in New Columbia. And just, and so my concern was that, again, that we had these uneven policies about how policing would take place. But I am impressed with the officers that I met with. I believe the program, I'm appreciative that this is the last extension and that next time we will have an evaluation of what's really taking place. And I personally would like to have some demographic data around arrests and outcomes of interactions and engagements, especially with young people in New Columbia. It feels really hard for me sometimes to say really great things about the police, right? Because I certainly come to this experience as an activist and advocate. But when you do good things, I want to also applaud the good things that you do. And so just know I judge your activity based on both history and then the opportunities that we've had to change outcomes in the work that you do. So thank you for what you do. It feels weird. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you very much for bringing this report. Captain Passamore, I would encourage you not to wait until the end of the next contract, that although we can direct you to do the next contract, I would suggest an annual discussion and documentation of what's going well, what can be improved, because that way you'll have your report written by the next time you come back here. Thank you. I just wanted to mention that one of my senior policy advisors, Cynthia Castro, was the director at Charles Jordan Community Center before she came to work with me. And she noted that the officers regularly come into the community center for community events. For instance, the Charles Jordan Community Center Spring Break Dodgeball Tournament, which sounds like an epic event. And that she was asked while she was... in the director position. Does this kind of collaboration happen in any other parts of the city? Are there other similar community policing efforts in other parts of the city? Ma'am, we certainly strive for that. Unfortunately, due to some of the constraints with call loads and staffing, and I'm not here to try to advocate for staffing, but this creates a unique opportunity where there's some extra funding that brings those officers in and focuses in that area. We are working on programs in North Precinct specifically. The Lloyd Center community safety plan that's occurring now that are modeled in part after this, and we're going to try to see if we can model them further after it. This is a very successful way of policing areas because you're it's not policing with the sense of the police 1st, it's the community watching out for the community 1st and the police being of assistance. So. That's our goal. Some constraints keep us from being able to do that everywhere, but we definitely want to move that direction. Captain, I think you just did make the case for more resources, and particularly of people. As we know, we have 100 unfilled positions that are funded. So I think, Officer Temple, you also have just demonstrated to anybody who might be watching that policing is changing in Portland and that there are deeply – satisfying areas that people can work in as officers, which aren't necessarily the traditional way of doing the work that you do. So I hope that people will sign up to do that and join the effort. Thank you very much. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. I just have a couple clarifying questions. It looked like on the charts that crime is not particularly high in New Columbia relative to the rest of the city. Is that correct? Yes. That's correct. The main thing that we're seeing is that it's stayed consistent, where in the city there's a slight increase, but crime within that area is lower. Okay. So the 15,000 plus calls over a period of six years wouldn't be extraordinary for a community of that size. I mean, it sounds like a lot to me, but... Yeah, no. For example, in the Lloyd District where we're running our program, within a year period, there were over 2,000 calls just for disturbances. Our 1,000 calls just for services, 2,000-some calls, which is a much smaller geographical area that doesn't have the same type of housing environment. So it's really not that large of a call volume. It's certainly higher than we'd like to see. Okay. It did appear that you're getting a lot of phone calls for non-emergency issues or issues that maybe shouldn't require the police. Is that a fair characterization? Yeah. Well, the police get phone calls from the dispatch center that are asking for people to respond. The majority of the connections that we're having with the community are just in general interactions because they're out there. When people have a concern, a lot of times there is an apprehensiveness to call 911, thinking maybe they're being a burden. They know the system is overwhelmed. Those are not excuses that we want to have. We want people to believe the system will work for them and that we are going to come. unfortunately may be delayed to a certain extent. But in this geographical area, the officers are there seven days a week. They're having those interactions. So those are the type of interactions we're talking about. And then who provides mediation services? I'm really intrigued by that. I'm a fan of mediation and wondering how you administer it. I know that they will – they use the services. I don't know, sorry, who provides it, but they contract out to people. Outside vendor, okay. But we also just have – Not official mediation, but just groups, meetings together where, like, if two neighbors are having a dispute, we'll invite them in and say, hey, are you willing to come in the office, have a talk with one of the managers, and have a talk with an officer there, and we'll try to figure it out there together before it's, like, the formal mediation. I'm just, the wheels are starting to turn in my head because in civic life we're really reorienting crime prevention more towards community health and more towards equipping community members to deal with some of their own challenges instead of involving law enforcement. So I'm interested in the potential to collaborate there because it sounds like what you're doing is working. It sounds like the type of policing that we would like to see more of throughout the whole city and it also sounds like there's some opportunities to work with community whether it's conflict resolution, skills, mediation that I'm interested in. Thank you. Thank you. So I want to thank you for your presentation. Michael, I was reflecting when I listened to the presentation this morning that I've been involved one way or another over the last 20 years in helping to revitalize what used to be called Columbia Villa and now is the new Columbia. I think it's worth noting that there was a time when the Federal Housing Department actually gave grants to help communities revitalize old public housing stock. The difference between Portland and some other cities was a lot of the aging and unacceptable housing in big cities tended to be vertical. This was more of a suburban development and had its own challenges. But without the help of the federal government, we would not have been able to revitalize the New Columbia. And then as pleased as I am with the report about how community policing is working, I want to acknowledge that for that community to be successful, it takes a lot of partners. The police are a piece of it. Tamela Newsome at Rosa Parks Elementary School is a big piece of it and Tamela's retiring this year after a distinguished career, but she's earned our thanks. The Village Market, which is a grocery store that is partly subsidized by the county and the city and that violates all the rules of grocery stores. It doesn't sell tobacco, alcohol, or lottery tickets. So it actually needs a public subsidy to survive because it doesn't sell people things they don't need. I'm reflecting on the community garden and the ball field that has come in and some of the commercial space, McCoy Field, McCoy Park, actually, um, Michael, I think at one point, it may be still true today, it's the most diverse census tract in the state. It was once upon a time, whether it's now Cully competes for that mantle, I don't know, but it is among the most diverse census tracts in the state of Oregon. Okay. When you invest in non-profits and in small businesses and in high performing schools, when you invest in a community center, and we renamed the community center in honor of Charles Jordan. I invite all my colleagues this Saturday, we'll be honoring Charles Jordan from 12 to 3, an event that Dion Jordan and Michelle Harper have organized. And when all these pieces are working together, we build community. And I think that's what we're getting a sense of progress. It's taking time, but it is ultimately the goal is to knit together community so people feel safe and comfortable in their own neighborhood. So thank you for your presentation. Very good. One last comment I just want to say, I want to add to the accolades here. I appreciate the hard work. I just want to acknowledge what some of my colleagues have already pointed out. This is the difference between resourced policing that has the opportunity to be proactive and engaged on the front end, reactive policing where you go from 911 call to 911 call, where you don't have that opportunity to build those relationships. And as Commissioner Fish just said, it's also about building community partnerships. But somebody has to facilitate the development of those partnerships, and here we have the time and the resources to be able to do it right. And so I want to acknowledge what my colleague said earlier, that this is the way we should be doing policing. all across the city and that's certainly the vision of community policing. But here's a good incubator, a good example of how we do it right. I appreciate your being here. I appreciate the presentation that you gave as well. It's well done. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. How long have you been a police officer, a Portland police officer? Eight years. Eight years. And are you local? Actually, in the eight years I've moved around. But I grew up in Seattle and then since living in Portland, I've lived in Portland and all the suburbs. Okay. And what brought you to Portland? I went to college at Portland State and then I moved back to Seattle. I actually was going to be a lawyer. I was going to law school at UW and I decided I'd rather be a police officer and my time and my experiences were with the Portland police so I moved back to specifically work for the Portland police. And last question. I'm sorry to be putting you on the spot but you're probably the youngest police officer that's ever sat in front of me so I've got questions. My last question is, why did you decide that you wanted to be a Portland police officer? So, like I said, it wasn't originally my plan and I started going on ride-alongs. And I liked that I felt like you were directly working with people, directly having the ability to help people and it was always changing. You know, there was another element of excitement too. I did like driving fast. But I just, I really wanted to be able to go out and Be a compassionate, caring person who can listen. And I obviously always had a knowledge of the historical issues with police, too, and I wanted to be someone that could be trusting and understanding of situations. Thank you. I didn't mean to put you on the spot, but inquiry minds. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. We'll now take public testimony. You guys can call your heels if you'd like. Thank you. How many people do we have signed up, Carla? We have five people. Very good. The first three, please come on up, are Joe Walsh, Maggie, and Lightning. Yeah, great. Good morning, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We oppose this strictly on the lack of community input. At least the paperwork that comes off the computer. It's basically saying the cops go to events and they go to parties and they talk to people during those events and parties and get together. That's not good enough. You need people to sit down and say, you know what you should be doing, blah, blah, blah, blah. And you accept it or reject it. You don't need people at a party saying, pass me the popcorn. And by the way, how do you like this program? That's not professional. And what we saw here today is the police department giving you a report. And you believe in it. We don't believe the police department. We think they lie. We don't believe this council. We think you're corrupt. Uh-oh. With the mayor under a RICO investigation? That's corrupt. That's bad. With people paying $1,000 for a hotel room? That's corrupt. We don't trust you anymore. We used to. We really did when I first came here. We at least trusted you. I missed that period. But we had a different mayor then. We had Mayor Pahala, who was kind of cool, if I remember correctly. He used to ask... Hey, how are the children doing? And I always thought that was interesting. Rico, Rico, do you know what Rico is? It's rocketeering. They use it for the mafia. Rico, we're against this. We know you're going to vote for it, but we want to go on record. We're against it strictly because you have no input from the citizens, and you guys are phony and corrupt. Outside of that. Good morning, and just for the record, I'm not under a RICO investigation in case anybody's wondering. Good morning, Maggie. Good morning. I would like to give you that citizen input that Jill Walsh was just talking about. And that is at 9.40 AM this morning at Southeast Milwaukee. I went and reported what somebody told me because they would not go to the cops, which is at 3 a.m. And I don't know if it was on a Monday or Tuesday. A man was walking back from Cocoa Donuts towards Walking East. And a white 2000 Ford was driving east. did a U-turn, came back, within 20 feet of him, a Caucasian man got out of a car and pointed a gun at him. He turned around and he ran and he heard a shot out of the gun. I don't know. Hang on, hang on, let me finish. Let me finish. Is this at New Columbia? Let me finish. Is this at New Columbia? No, I'm talking about, The cop that I walked up and told this to was very, very rude to me. He was Caucasian, by the way, and extremely rude. He was like, what does this have to do with me? That is literally what he said to me. So, Maggie, this is about something else. You certainly can file a complaint through the Independent Police Review on the top floor of the building. Why not have the participants of this program, rather than the police, come up and give you testimony about... how the cops are doing. The cops should not be giving you testimony of how the cops are doing. The participants in the program should be coming up to you and saying, yeah, things were bad for years and now they're getting better. Not the cops. Thank you, Maggie. Thank you. Morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superhumanity Connectome. On this issue here is that And I'm not going to necessarily talk negative about the police on what I'm going to say, but I'm going to say this. The police serve a purpose, but when they become intertwined within a property and a large number of people, and they call it community policing, my first question is, I assume they're going to be carrying guns. I don't like that in the villa. I want to have more private security without the guns at a lower price. more relationship with Home Forward. The police need to keep more of a separation because, as you know, how many other properties have this taking place? Well, they answered, we'd like to expand, but really we don't know any. I don't think it's appropriate. And my question to you, if I'm in Columbia Villa and I'm just on the edge of the property and my car just got broke into or something and I say, hey, can you help me over here? Who do they have to answer to? Are they actually supposed to answer to IPM, to Home Forward? Who is their agreement with now? And I want to complete separation and as you know, I fought against any Portland Police being hired by Target and having to listen to them in the property. Because once you have a conflict, if you're a tenant in the property with the Portland Police, such as this gentleman that sat before us this morning, expressed, where is the mediation then? If that Portland police took the report and then points at you and someone sitting over there, what happens? We need to look at the eviction process. We need to look at the mediation process. We need to hear the people that have been evicted. What do you think about this program? Why didn't it work for you? And I'd like to look at those names and those people and see exactly what the problem was. So I know you're going to approve this, but I'm just saying shorten the approval time. Make sure you have a renewal possibility option and do more research on this. This is so serious. If you were in this property and you had to say, boy, I had problems 10 years ago with the Portland police. And by the way, this person knows me. I'm not going to last in this apartment building. And I shouldn't have to worry about that. There's always two sides to the story, as this gentleman sat up here and stated. Until you hear that other side of the story, it may not mean anything. And that's what we need to look at. And by the way, Mayor, you are under investigation by lightning pertaining to the RICO Act. Have a wonderful day. The last two who signed up are Steve Entwistle and Dan Handelman. Good morning. How are you today? I'm doing fine, thank you. Good morning, morning council. My name is Stephen Entwistle, and this has been an interesting morning. I agree with Joe Walsh on the fact that we don't have enough public input on all these issues. I think that can be disastrous, because... And the fact that what... Maggie said that the people here that were in the building, the tenants, aren't here to comment. That's a valid note as well. And with lightning, the fact that they're having weapons in these facilities is rather disturbing, especially due to a lot of the histories that folks have. I think that it could be put together. I think better minds can see. And there's other folks that have not gotten involved that maybe should have a voice as an opinion, at least, to listen to. I think that we're living in a time that is not natural. Our economics is all skewed, and good people are... not making it the way they should be. And it's not their fault. That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Council. I'm Dan Handelman in Portland Cop Watch. I was not planning to testify on this agenda item, but after hearing the discussion, I just wanted to add a few things. I appreciated a lot of the things that Lightning said before. One of the things that you always have to think about is the power dynamics of having armed officers involved. Everybody in this room got treated like a criminal suspect on the way into this building, except the police officers were sitting at this table with guns on their hips, telling you about how they're part of the community. Most people I know don't wear guns on their hips. So I find that very disturbing that they're being used for mediations, playing dodgeball games with children while they're wearing guns on their hips. We have this new public safety support specialist who are supposed to be unarmed officers. Maybe especially because you're thinking about a 10 year extension of this contract, instead you should think about having those public safety support specialists be part of this team instead of the armed officers. It's not a 10-year extension. It is an extension that does not exceed 10 years cumulatively with all of the extensions. We're not extending it 10 years. This extension bumps up against 10 years. Okay. So you're saying that we're starting from 2012, so it goes until 2022. Correct. Okay. So three years is a long time when you have this program available to you. I'm pointing out it's not a 10-year extension. I understand. So, you know, a question to ask about these relationships with the police is always what happens if there's an officer-involved shooting. So they build this great relationship with the community, and then something happens, and the trust just goes away. So that's another reason why you should think about some other form of... community interaction to help with mediation and problem solving instead of armed police officers. Because that's ultimately, the ultimate power of Portland Police is to take lives with guns and that's one of the reasons Portland Cop Watch exists because we're very concerned about that and the way that our society allows the police to do that. We also have testified many times in the past, and this is something else Lightning touched on, about people who have extra money being able to hire important police officers to do policing in their communities. Normally, this is a problem in higher-end communities like we're talking about the Downtown Business Association pays for four police officers and this new idea about low district. But this is a lower income community, and I'm not exactly sure and it sounds like federal funding is paying for this, but it's still It's still, I mean, you've all expressed how, boy, this would be great if everybody had it. Well, yeah, that's the way police are supposed to work. We all collectively pay our taxes and everybody gets the same kind of policing services. So even that is another troubling aspect of this. I'll just leave it at that. Thank you. And just for me. Please. According to the financial impact statement, it's funded through an ongoing appropriation in the police bureau budget. Mayor. So we're not voting on this? No, it's a first reading. I would just like to say I agree with a couple other commenters, a couple members of the public that I would have liked to hear from members of the community about their experience with this program. I certainly... It sounds like a wonderful program and it helps to have a recommendation of from home forward but there's just nothing like hearing from directly from the people who are involved and impacted so I am likely to support this as an extension but when we come back to talk about renewing it or evaluating it as Commissioner Hardesty has suggested I really want to hear from from significant community Yeah. Mayor, if I might. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I know we're not voting on this today, but because of some of the public testimony, I just want to put on the record. I just want to correct some things for the public record. First, the police are not doing the mediation. They're contracting out for mediation services. That's what they said. Right? Yeah, that's what they said, though. public testimony and said that the police were in fact the ones that were mediating. I have actually a long history with Columbia Villa slash New Columbia. In fact, when we first got awarded the Hope Six Grant, I was very concerned that low-income people would be totally displaced once the new pretty environment was created, as has happened pretty much in every community across the country when these federal dollars came in. I was also concerned about making sure that mixed-income people could cohabitate in a community. and that the community would be better off for the new investments that had been made. I recently went and toured the community garden and talked to a whole host of community members. I think there's like 50 different languages that are spoken at New Columbia today, and it was really wonderful to talk to people about how community is building community in New Columbia. I also wanted to make sure that we, I'm appalled by the suggestion of private security. We have no oversight of private security in the city of Portland today. And sometimes private security has weapons, sometimes they don't. And their practices are not uniform across the industry. So I would be very concerned about people that I could not hold accountable. Is Columbia Villa the... community policing program the best thing is just sliced bread? No. Are there room for improvement? Absolutely. I would love to see bicycle police officers or the unarmed police officers be the ones that were building community at New Columbia and maybe we will get to that process. But where we are today this program is working and it's working in a way that we are reducing arrests, we are reducing uh community members interactions with police and all of us want the police to be less involved in community members life except in a positive way and everything I have seen and based on the conversation that I had both with the officers are involved in community members This is good at the moment. I want to dispel the myth that we can't do this in other communities because we don't have enough money or resources, because we could do this in other communities if we were as thoughtful as we were when New Columbia was being created. We could do this, and we could do it with officers that we have as we start redirecting 911 calls to other systems so that police are doing what police are supposed to do and other community responders are doing what they're supposed to do. So I apologize for the long-winded response because I'm old, and I figured it by next week when we voted on it, so I wanted to make sure it was part of the public record. Thank you. Very good. And before I move this on, is there anything the panel felt like they needed to respond to on this? I don't see that. Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, everyone. Thank you for your work. Next item, 813. amend Police Review Board code to clarify that a citizen review committee member will sit on the police review board as an additional community member in all cases that go before the board that involve use of force. Colleagues, this ordinance amends the Police Review Board code. To clarify that a citizen review committee member will sit on the police review board as an additional community member in all cases that go before the board and involve use of force. So the ordinance amends code section 3.20.140. Under the terms of the DOJ settlement agreement, when the police review board reviews use of force cases, one of the two community members on the board shall be drawn from the citizen review committee members. Paragraph 131A of the settlement agreement provides, quote, currently seven voting members of the PRB review board use of force incidents, including two citizen members. When the PRB reviews use of force cases, one of the two citizen member slots shall be drawn from the citizen review committee members. On May 4th of 2019, the United States Department of Justice issued its fourth periodic compliance assessment report. The DOJ found the city to be in substantial compliance with paragraph 131A and found as a matter of practice the police review board in use of force cases has included two community members, one of whom was a CRC member. In connection with its finding of substantial compliance, however, the DOJ offered the technical assistance that the city should conform city code 3.20.140. To clarify that in accordance with paragraph 131A, all use of force cases, regardless of how they're referred to the police review board, will include a community member drawn from the citizen review committee. To clarify that all police review board cases involving use of force regardless of the level of force or how the case is referred to the board will include on the board at least one citizen member from the citizen review committee. A change to the Portland City Code section 3.20.140C2 is appropriate. This code change amends city code to comply with the technical assistance offered by the DOJ, the Department of Justice, to the city. Ultimately, the city's goal is to obtain compliance under the Department of Justice settlement agreement, and this is an important step towards that goal. Mark Amberger is here to tell us more. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor, Council Members. Mark Amberger with the City Attorney's Office. As the mayor has basically stated, this really is a cleanup to bring provisions of city code in conformance with a requirement that was agreed to under the US Department of Justice settlement agreement. To clarify that when a police review board is convened to review a use of force incident, regardless of how that case gets to the review board, there will be two community members that sit on that board. One of those members will be drawn from the Citizen Review Committee or the CRC. Under current code language, it wasn't entirely clear. Although that has been in fact the practice of the police bureau and police review boards involving use of force incidents. Anytime there is a review of a use of force incident by the board, there are two community members, one of which is a CRC member. Under the current code, it specifically lists four particular types of use of force. that will require a citizen review member, citizen review committee member to sit as the second community member on the board. And there's two other ways that a case can come to the board in addition to those four listed types of cases, which are officer-involved shootings, physical injury caused by an officer that requires hospitalization, in custody deaths, or any use of force where the recommended finding is out of policy. There's two other ways a case can come to the board, discretionary referral by the chief of police and assistant chief or the independent police review, or when a case is controverted by an independent police review and assistant chief or internal affairs. And to clarify that in those types of cases, if it's a discretionary referral or a controverted case, that comes to the board on use of force case to clarify and code that those cases will in fact also include a citizen review committee member as the second community member on that board. So that's what this ordinance does is to to put that into code so it's clear that in any use of force case there will be the two community members including the CRC member. Very good. Thank you. Anything you wanted to add? No sir. Colleagues, Commissioner Hardesty, and I understand Commander Parman is here as well if there's specific questions about the program, maybe.
 No.
 Yes. I'm sorry. Thank you. Apologize. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Mark, for coming to brief me yesterday on this particular proposal. As you know, I have no problem with this clarification. But for the public record, you might remember that the OIR made significant recommendations for the Police Review Board. And those recommendations have not been considered and updated, either considered, rejected, or updated since the OIR report was presented to us earlier this year. So I'm just curious as to what the timeline is and when we can expect to have a conversation about the recommendations that came out of the OIR group report. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, members of council. My name is Brian Parman. I'm the commander of our professional standards division. Thank you very much for your question. So I went back and I reviewed the last two years' worth of OIR reports. In both of those reports, the Police Bureau has filed a response on whether they agree or disagree with those recommendations. And in looking at those recommendations, many of those were addressed through changes in our policy and practice and changes through our SOPs, our standard operating procedures within specific divisions. Okay. based on my examination and in consultation with the city attorney's office, none of those changes required changes to the code language, which really is about the structure and composition of the PRB. So many changes have been incorporated, and we'd be happy to share information related to that at a future date. I would greatly appreciate you sharing that information about what's been updated and then kind of if there's a timeline for the rest of the updates or if you've rejected the recommendations and if so, why. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Commander, I have my glasses on now. I just want to acknowledge. I see you. Thank you. Quick question. And I assume the CRC concurs or CRC leadership concurs that this is the right thing to do. Mayor, we met with the chair of the Citizen Review Committee, and it was also presented by IPR to the CRC as a whole that this code change was coming up, and there were no objections. They were supportive of the change. Okay. I appreciate that. Thank you. Any other questions for now? Very good. Commissioner Fitch, do you have a question? Public testimony? Yes. We have two people signed up. Very good. Thank you, gentlemen. Dan Handelman and Maggie. Thank you. Good morning again, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. I'm still Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. And we don't have a strong opinion about the language that's being proposed today. We do have many questions about practical ways of fulfilling the intent of this ordinance change. And we also are concerned that this ordinance keeps getting tinkered around the edges when there are large issues the council keeps ignoring. The change being made that requires the CRC to sit in on use of force cases is consistent with the DOJ agreement. But, you know, I think it's already been said the CRC already sits in on police review boards when there's deadly force. Nearly every time in the last two years, the same CRC member, Chair Kristen Malone, has been attending. As she's spoken repeatedly about how the Bureau is reluctant to provide case materials to CRC members outside of certain business hours, which makes it difficult for others to set aside the time to review the files and then sit in on the hearings. One solution would be to overhaul the board so it's not fully internal to the Bureau, and civilian staff could be more flexible with their hours. You could also direct the chief... or the PPB to allow CRC members to have the case files digitally. I think there's a secure portal that was set up for regular CRC appeals or else they get DVDs with the information on it. I'm not really sure how that works but it's not clear why this isn't done for the Police4U board. Another issue is that we brought up over and over again, though, is that CRC is made up of mostly young professionals who work full time and they don't have flexible schedules. So we've talked over and over again how there used to be too many retirees on the CRC and now there's nobody over the age of 50 on the CRC. And that would also help to expand the CRC's ability to fulfill this requirement to sit in on more police review boards. The PRB code keeps getting modified. little bits at a time over the years in the wake of the DOJ agreement. In fact, you've had five years to make this change and it hasn't been done. There's another change that was done in policy but never in code that when the police review board asks the Bureau to do further investigation, they have to do that investigation. They have to complete it within 10 days. That is not in the code. I don't know why. It's part of the DOJ agreement. It should be included in the code. That we should also allow the person who was harmed or their survivors to sit in on the board. This is not part of the DOJ agreement. This is something the community's been asking for. We should open the PRB to the media and or to the public. We should require the civilian members of the board to hold public meetings twice a year when the police review board reports are published. And I would point it out in this full testimony that there has not been a police review board report yet this year, even though they're required to come out twice a year. We're already in August. I don't know why that is. You're about to appoint or reappoint a bunch of new people or returning people to the police review board sometime in the next month. You can ask those people to hold those public meetings. They're supposed to be the voice of the community sitting in on those closed dual police review board meetings. I would love to have an opportunity to talk to them. We would like to see you take bolder steps to reform the police review board and not just do a checkbox to try to finish the DOJ agreement. The DOJ has said many times you can create a board that's stronger than what exists. You just can't go backwards. Great. Thank you. Good morning. Hi, Maggie Portland, Homeless Town Hall. I agree, no closed-door meetings. I agree, survivors to sit in on board meetings. I agree, members of public to sit in. And also, why not the public member that's going to be part of the CRC be different each time based on... It should be someone from the community who that use of force was used against. In other words, each time the use of force is reviewed, and it's being reviewed obviously for a reason, it should be somebody... from the community who is of the victim of the use of force. And it should change each time. The person who is the victim of use of force by the state, it should be the person who's on the CRC who's the public member should be from the community the victim. That's it. All right. Thank you. Thank you both. Colleagues, do you have further questions of Commander Parman or Tom Slanham? Very good. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Hardesty? So I'm concerned about us doing piecemeal fixes and doing it just so the DOJ can check a box and leave town. Clearly there are some big issues that still must be resolved in the issue around the police review board. And I wish we were having a more in-depth conversation about really where are we headed as far as this review board process is concerned. Okay. So I guess at the end of the day, this is a change that just clarifies a community member. Two community members will sit in on each hearing. But it's clear that the fundamental structure is broken, and it's been pointed out in every OIR report that we have received. And so the... I am very interested in seeing a timeline about when we're going to do the other fixes because quite frankly the DOJ settlement is just one tiny piece of the reform efforts that we're involved in. Having said that, I vote aye. Fish.
 Hi.
 Wheeler. I think there were some legitimate issues raised by Dan Handelman in particular. I don't always agree with Dan, but I think he made some good arguments today on a number of issues. And so I will commit to following up on a number of them that I think are particularly important. But I applaud the work that is being done both in the legal department and as well as in PPB. I know this is a very complex subject and I believe this moves the ball forward in an important way and I thank you for that. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is item 814. revoked franchise granted to Lucid Energy Inc. for a renewal energy project in conjunction with the Water Bureau for a period of 20 years. Colleagues, this is a second reading, so we've already had a presentation in tight and public testimony. Is there any further discussion on this item? Please call the roll. Hardesty?
 Aye.
 Udaly?
 Aye.
 Fritz? I commend Commissioner Fish for, when he was in charge of the Water Bureau, approving this innovative experiment. It didn't work out as well as hoped, but that's a good thing for us to do, especially since the only money we lose on this is that we won't get paid the franchise fees anymore. It didn't cost us anything to do it. So thank you for trying, Commissioner Fish. Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 815, also a second reading. Authorized contract with Biomed Testing, Inc. for drug, alcohol, and steroid testing services for an amount not to exceed $1,244,150. Colleagues, any further discussion on this item? Please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. I just want to say that I'm not the world's biggest fan of drug testing, but we have an obligation to ensure public safety. So especially when employees are operating vehicles or performing other tasks that could endanger the public, if they are under the influence, I certainly support that. I vote aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye.
 Wheeler?
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 816, please. Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the safer access to bus shelters project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, Mayor. This project is a pedestrian access to transit improvement project focusing on Southeast Stark Street and and Southeast 146th Avenue. The scope includes sidewalk infill, ADA-compliant curb ramps, pedestrian crossing improvements, striping and signage improvements, and new traffic signals. Here to explain the details and answer any questions is Ellen Kilmer, PBOT right-of-way agent. I have to say I love that title so much it makes me think I really want to be some kind of agent one day just so I can say that. Yeah. Welcome, Ellen. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Morning. Good morning. My name is Ellen Kilmer with PBOT Right-of-Way Acquisition. Thank you, Commissioner Udaily for your introduction and for the summary. Agenda item 816 would authorize the city's eminent domain authority and allow us to offer just compensation to property owners for their property rights in connection with the safer access to bus shelters project, which is a fixing our streets project. The property rights in question, as Commissioner Newdaily stated, would support construction of the sidewalk, construction, ADA ramps, signals, and driveway reconnections at the intersection of Southeast Stark and 146th Avenue. I would also like to add that the effective property owners have been informed and have also been invited today. That's about all I have. If I can answer any questions that council might have. I think it might be interesting to note the impact on the property owners. I understand it's a very small slice of their properties and that it won't impact the current use of the properties. Correct. So there are two properties that we would be acquiring property rights from. Each property we would be acquiring a temporary construction easement on each of them about three feet wide. And on one of them, we would acquire about one, two feet of permanent right-of-way dedication. For the sidewalk? For the sidewalk construction, yes. And as far as we know, neither of those property owners have an issue with that? No, I haven't. They haven't spoken about that with me. In fact, one of them has already offered their support. Commissioner Hardesty, then Commissioner Fish. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much for your presentation and this information. I just have a question about the safe access to bus shelters. Are we really going to get shelters, or is this going to be the butt cheek lean? That's a great question. I'm going to actually, do you mind if I pull up Sheila Parrott? She's from the project team, and I believe that she could answer that question a whole lot better than I could. And just to be clear, Trina builds those bus shelters. It's not PBOT. I totally understand that, but if we're putting money on the table, we would very much like to be like the rest of the city and have real bus shelters. Not the rest of the city. Yeah. Some of the core inner city areas. I hear you, Commissioner. The struggle is real. I've inherited a lot of... Issues with the Bureau and I just want to be clear when the issue is not with our Bureau. But I think this is a good opportunity, right? Yes. As all of us inherit work that others have moved forward before we got here, it's really important for us to take the opportunity to say, are we really moving in the right direction? And so thank you so much for joining us. My question is really specific to this statement that says safe access to bus shelters. And so do you know whether or not we're getting real bus shelters or we're getting butt cheeklings like we currently have in East Portland? Sure. My name is Sheila Parrott, and I'm the project manager on the project. And, no, this project doesn't include any shelters at all. It's just access where there already are bus stops. Okay. Ah, so even though it says safer access, so it's about the street cuts to make it easier for people to get to a bus shelter if it exists? Correct. So it's access for pedestrians to cross that busy street. Do we know if there's a bus shelter that's going to be in this area? I do not know. I do know that there is a bus stop, though, on the... on the westbound, in the westbound direction at that intersection. So now I understand the confusion, and I'm going to suggest that this name be changed to Safer Access to Bus Stops. and shelters because that is confusing. I like that. And I also want to go on the record and maybe try and as listening that as PBOT and the city invest more and more money in our pedestrian infrastructure specifically on corridors with significant bus lines, we would like to see them stepping up and offering additional improvements like shelters. We are trying to make it easier and safer for people to get to their bus stops, their customers to get to their bus stops, and increase ridership. And I think some improvements would be justifiable. We can certainly bring that up to try, Matt. Commissioner Fish. So I want to go back to what's actually before us, which is authorization to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights. And you mentioned eminent domain. So we're sensitive to the fact that we have, whether it's sidewalks or remonstrances on LIDs or other processes, a mechanism for people to come to council and object if they object. So in this instance... I take it that you can assure us that all the property owners have been notified in writing. Correct. That they have been given notification of this hearing. Correct. And if they have an objection to what you are seeking, this is their opportunity to come and address counsel. And we've received nothing in writing from any of the property owners. In fact, this has been a friendly transaction so far. So far, correct. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. So I appreciate you both being here and thank you for your, thanks for the conversation. It seems like we've got to carry it and we maybe need to have a stick as well. Because I have found it very difficult to get changes made at TriMet and I would, like before I leave this august body in 16 months, to feel like we are starting to develop a better, more collaborative relationship. So since we are investing taxpayers' money into improving the system that benefits Trimex customers, I hope that you will have conversations both at the staff level and at the executive level to say let's get real and let's do this together and maybe we could put in the shelter at the same time as we're doing the sidewalk or whatever. I absolutely agree. This has been a topic of ongoing conversation with TriMet. I'm really gravely concerned about by their lackluster mode share and that we're not seeing ridership going up. We, of course, have an obligation to make our streets safer, whether they want to give us a bus shelter or not. And in some instances, bus shelters simply aren't possible because the sidewalks aren't wide enough. I don't know if that's the case here, but there are some factors that would prevent... would prevent the construction of shelters in some areas. But that being said, we really need TriMet to partner with us in making mass transit more appealing to more people. And I appreciate the remarks of Commissioner Hardesty and Commissioner Fritz. And you have my word that I'm really working on it. Commissioner, I just want you to know, let me know how I can be helpful because I actually think we can't be spending the kind of money we're spending on transportation improvements and not have a good transit partner. And I got to say, the fact that the governor appoints TriMet board still bugs the daylights out of me, even though I actually like the governor. I just think that we should be the ones appointing TriMet. board and it should not be something that happens at the state level, especially when we're not getting the kind of cooperation that we should have. So just saying. Thank you. Duly noted. And on that mic drop, we'll take public testimony. Thank you both for your presentation. It was good. With three people signed up. Good. Let's hear them. Maggie Lightning and Joe Walsh. Do you have to leave? Okay. Warning. Good morning, my name is Joe Walsh and I represent Individuals for Justice. I just like to point out to you guys how important it is when it's raining and I have to go or anybody in a mobile device or a wheelchair has to find some safe space. There's two reasons for that. Number one, I'm almost positive that my batteries are secure and they're okay in the rain. But if they go out, I'm really screwed. Okay? I'm not going to get off this thing and push it up a hill. The shelters become very important to people that have mobile devices or are on wheelchairs. We have the ability to travel distances, but weather is really important to us. And the shelters help. So I want you to think about that. I know that there's some conversation about this and that about shelters. However, it was introduced. You open up the door, as they say in TV land. Think about the people in the city. They have to go out in the rain. And this is not San Diego. This is Portland. It rains a lot here. And I noticed that. So thank you for your patience. I just wanted to make sure you thought about that one issue. Thank you. Hi, I'm Maggie Portland-Ten Hall. I second the motion by Joe Walsh to build more bus shelters, especially since and about the wheelchairs and the mobility devices. If he had not said that, I would have said it. But especially in areas where there are many low-income people and many people with disability and many older people, you find there are not shelter by shelters. And it's not hard to figure out why this is because, you know, the rich people get the nice stuff and the poor disabled people don't. That's the way it is across the nation. So definitely think about that. Thank you. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Humanity Connectome. One of the concerns as always with me is that when we authorized to go into basically eminent domain on any property, That always concerns me up front. Now, it seems to me that you've contacted the owners, you've stated there would be an ordinance today. But my only question is that once you go into that eminent domain mode, it kind of is saying we're going to get your property, whether you like it or not. And I guess if I was a property owner, I'd love to have the whoever come up to me and say hey we have an interest to buy your property we're going to do this and this is the price we want to give you are you happy with that or not because once you throw out that imminent domain it's kind of like well here's the deal my friend We'll come back with the price. You can use your appraisers. We'll use ours. But this is what we're going to pay, and we're going to get your property. So I don't like it like that. I'd almost like to have it negotiated up front, and then the owners come in and say, wow, you know, that price was so low. I'm not happy. This is why I'm here. But now we're going to go through that. It's a little bit kind of tilts the scale, in my opinion. Now, issue number two, and this is just my opinion to TriMet, You're like a dinosaur. You should be underground. And here's my opinion to you, TriMet. Sell out to Uber now while you have some value. They're going to crush you into the ground, grind you up like fossil fuel, and then spit you out. Lightning. Sell to Uber. Please do not cut my speech off. This is to the subject. You have your time. Can I just point out that Uber just reported a $5 billion loss? Well, also Uber did their IPO. And I'm saying they may not be around long enough to break you up on the deal. Here's my answer to that is that. It's amazing how you can show a $5 billion loss and do an IPO which values that 60 to what 100 billion. So understand that, that they just fund money and have investors coming in, funding, funding and they create losses. But the reality is here is that they're so much bigger than TriMet. They're going to swallow you up like a shark. Sell now. Quit wasting the public's money and understand Uber and Lyft and these companies will take over the transportation industry in this city. Get out now while you can and sell while you can before the public takes tremendous losses. And as far as your ridership being down, thank you Uber and Lyft and thank you for bringing in these ride sharing companies that you thought were going to protect your interests. And one guy sat here and said, guess what? They are going to go after public transportation like you can't imagine, and they are going to buy you up at little to nothing, and guess what? We're going to go in that direction. Good work, Uber and Lyft. Get ready to buy them out. Thank you. All right. And does that complete public testimony, Carla? That's all who signed up, yes. Very good. Any further discussion on this item, please call the roll. Hardesty? Hardesty? I think that this is a good improvement that we are making to make it safer in East Portland for people to travel. I'm hopeful staff will go back and make sure that as the street improvements are being completed, that we are also making sure that it is safe for people to stand on the bus stops that have been designated in that area. I vote aye. Udailey. I want to acknowledge Mr. Walsh's testimony and just affirm that TriMet service for people with disabilities, especially people who have mobility devices, is grossly inadequate. And shelters are a part of that, obviously. I agree with my colleagues, Commissioner Hardesty and Commissioner Fritz. that we would love to see TriMet step up with some improved amenities. Mr. Lightning, as far as I know, TriMet is not for sale. It's a municipal corporation, and it's not publicly held, so I don't think that Uber will be buying them out. TNCs are certainly not the solution for congestion and climate change. We need a better transit system. I'm committed to getting us a better transit system. I vote aye. Fritz? Aye. I think we need to return to celebrating that Southeast Stark and Southeast 146 has been selected to get these improvements and that at the very least there will now be a sidewalk for people to stand on instead of the mud. So I appreciate the allocation and your the shared commitment that we all have to partnering with TriMet to improve transit service so that everybody loves it. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next up 817. amend the Open and Accountable Elections Program to clarify CAP on in-kind donations and reporting requirements. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. As we continue to work through the implementation of this program, we found some areas within the law that could be improved. And as you know, I'm going to be continuing to bring you those tweaks as they come up so that we continue moving full speed ahead as candidates are already using the program. The two small amendments to the code before you today are intended to clarify reporting requirements for all candidates seeking election for City Council, not just those participating in the program. And it also removes a loophole for in-kind donations, which came to our attention and everybody involved agrees needs to be closed. The Open and Accountable Elections Commission has reviewed these changes and approved moving them forward. Susan Mattei, Program Director at the Open and Accountable Elections is here to walk through the changes. Thank you Commissioner. For the record, my name is Susan Mattei. I'm the Director of Open and Accountable Elections. I bring before you two amendments for your consideration found in Exhibits A and B. The first amendment is to section 2.16040D. It strikes the language that would allow unlimited in-kind contributions of paid supervision of volunteers. That way donors can still in-kind paid supervision of volunteers like paying someone to help supervise a canvas or some phone banking. or to do voter engagement and education, that it would be subject to the $20,000 cap for in-kind contributions that each campaign is subject to per election. The second change is to 2.16.140A. It just clarifies that... the non-participating candidates that need to report their, in political committees, that need to report their contributions and expenditures to the Open and Accountable Elections program, um, which we're allowing them to do through ORSTAR so they don't need to do duplicative work, um, doesn't apply to the candidates, uh, that are spending less than $750 on their campaigns and therefore aren't required to report to ORSTAR, we're not suddenly making them report to us. So we just didn't want to create a burden on for campaign reporting that doesn't currently exist. As the commissioner said, all of these amendments were discussed with both the coalition and the Open and Accountable Elections Commission unanimously recommended making both of these changes. I have a question, and I support both. What was the logic? With the first change that you're suggesting, what was the logic behind exempting paid time for a supervisor of volunteers from the $20,000 cap? The thought was that that's one paid in kind that can really support democratic ideals of providing more time engaging voters and educating voters. So that was why it was left unlimited, but after the code passed and as we were getting into implementation people realized, wow you can really just in kind a whole staff member to a campaign and that might really be allowing in you know, kind of large contributions within the program that were not contemplated and felt like a big loophole. Makes sense. Thank you very much. Very good. I just want to say, number one, I support today's amendments. They make a lot of sense, and I appreciate the work that Commissioner Fritz and you've gone through to bring today's amendments forward. And I support the values of the program, but I want to continue to express my ongoing serious concerns. Mm-hmm. about the viability of this program overall. Just before we sat down to counsel today, we got the latest QA, Quality Assurance Report from the Technology Oversight Committee, and it shows that all of the program is either in the yellow or the red. And the overall rating for quality assurance for the entirety of the program is red. We already have candidates lining up declaring that they're going to use this program in this cycle. What can you say to give us confidence that this program where quality assurance is basically saying it's not ready to go? What can you do to give us confidence that it is ready to go? Sure. Well, so we had hoped to get the entire technology product delivered on September 1st. We have since amended that schedule so that there are two pieces that we know we will not get. One until October 1, one until November 1. Those pieces are not important for the city to be able to administer the program. One of them is the ability to see public data visualizations about how campaign finance dollars are being raised. that will be ready October 1. The second piece is the ability of campaigns to bulk export their campaign contribution and expenditure information they put into our software and then bulk import it to Orstar so that they're not doing duplicative work reporting to us and then having to type all that information into Orstar separately. So those two pieces, while nice to have, don't need to be ready in time for the program to the city to implement the program. We have received already modules one and two of the technology and as soon as we receive module four which should be soon because it's a little coding is a lot of a mirror image of module two so it's very very quick to do, we'll be able to do Plan B implementation, which is mostly automated but a little bit of manual implementation on the city, matching donor record names and addresses to the voter registration list manually rather than automatically. So, you know, that's Module 3, and that is due to be – delivered to us on September 15th. So that's two weeks late, but it's not worrisome in any way in terms of creating a burden on the city. So once that's delivered, we'll be in plan A, fully automated implementation of the program. Okay. So I think we're actually in good shape. And I've not had the chance to fully digest the report. As I say, it came to me literally minutes before I came to the city council meeting. But I have to express my ongoing concerns. And I'm happy to brief anyone who has questions. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I think it would be great if you would come around and brief us all, just because we want to make sure that when this program rolls out, as the mayor said, there are candidates that are actually already publicly declared they're planning to use this system. And so I'm certainly looking forward to an update. I have not seen what the mayor has seen so far today. And it would be good for us to get the oversight committee back here and hopefully sometime in the next few weeks so that they can tell us what their concerns are as well because I do think we have an obligation to roll it out well and I look forward to the update. Thank you. Madam Director, as of today how many candidates are you aware of who have indicated a desire to access this program? Five have filed notice of intent so far and there have been a couple of candidates who have said publicly that they intend to use the program but have not yet filed for their notice of intent. Is there a scenario where you anticipate coming back to us in the fall bump for additional resources to administer the program? There's already money put into the contingency fund for $950,000, which the program was underfunded in the FY17-18 budget. So I anticipate asking for that not to administer the program, but to ensure we have enough matching dollars to continue matching at a six to one rate throughout the entire election cycle. If you don't get that $900,000, will there be, in effect, forced rationing? So what happens is if I, once I determine that we need more money than we have in the budget to do the full six to one match, I ask the council to please provide me with the additional funds and then only if they say no, I then lower the match rate. So it is possible that I would lower the match rate. Being only August, it's a little bit too early for me to say. Because you don't know who's going to actually qualify. But once we get a little further into September, I think I can start to say we might need, you know, whether we need that 950 or whether we could potentially go over needing more than the 950. Okay, thank you. Very good. Thank you for the presentation. Thank you for answering the questions. Any public testimony on this item? Carla? Yes, we have one person. Maggie? Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. believe in public money being spent to help people running for local offices because I would like to see more people of lower income running for these commissioners' seats. So I hope there's some... Mayor, this is not what's before us today. There's two amendments that are before us. Excuse me? I'm speaking to the Mayor. I know, but I'm talking. It's my time. But you're not speaking to the matter before us. Yeah, I'm speaking to the... Maggie, just get to the point, please. Thank you. I'm saying that I'm for public money being spent on candidates who can't afford to run. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate it. This is an emergency item. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye.
 Udaly.
 Aye.
 Fritz. Thank you again, colleagues, for your support for the program and for your interest. I'm really pleased with the variety of folks in the community who are considering running because of it. I thank you the Open and Accountable Elections Commission continues to be an amazing group of dedicated individuals who are seeking to empower all Portlanders. Thank you Susan Motte, director of the program who's made great progress and continues to do so and Anna Paisio, the former deputy director who is now working for the mayor of New York. and we are recruiting for that position right now. Thank you, Christine and Jevis, one of my senior policy advisors, and Tim Crowell, my chief of staff. And thank you to all the community members who showed up at the council meetings to provide input. This is truly a big step forward in democracy, and we're going to do everything we can to make it successful. I would like to thank the Commission as well. I would like to thank the director and Commissioner Fritz. I would like to thank you and your team. I know I'm being very hard on everybody when I keep raising the quality assurance reports, but I believe it's my duty to do that, my responsibility to do that, and I'm very hopeful that everybody working together can get through. those issues that have been raised. And I appreciate the amendments that were brought forward today. I think they're entirely appropriate, and they solved some of the problems that have been identified previously. And I thank you for your attention to that. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 818. amend parks and recreation system development charge to clarify the eligibility of projects that expand capacity by increasing access to parks and recreation experiences and add arts capacity projects to the capital improvement plan to improve community access to arts and culture. Commissioner Fish. Thank you Mayor and colleagues. Portland Parks and Recreation has a long-standing goal that every Portlander live within a half mile of a park. New parks are a big lift and new park development is a multi-year process as we'll learn next week when Park Lane comes before council. So while we work towards that goal, we are also looking for new ways to bring park service to our community. And we are focused on increasing access to arts and culture through our park system. Today we have a two-part proposal to help us do that more effectively. Tracy Schreiber from my office is here to briefly describe our proposal. We have part staff on hand to answer questions. And I want to thank Commissioner Udalli for her ongoing partnership on these and other changes. Tracy, welcome. Good morning, my name is Tracy Schreiber and I'm with the office of Commissioner Fish. And my job is to implement the city's plan for preserving and expanding affordable art space. The item before you today does two things. First, it clarifies Portland Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Code to make clear that mobile parks facilities are eligible. Mobile projects provide many benefits. They deliver arts programming, recreation activities, and free summer lunches to communities without existing access to a park. They add capacity to existing parks during events, and they help meet growing seasonal demand. Second, it adds arts and culture capacity projects to the Parks Bureau's current capital improvement plan. Amending the list to include this category of capital investment, We'll allow parks to add acoustic mitigation, sound systems, and stage capacity to existing facilities so that we can continue to meet the demands for access to arts and culture opportunities in our park system. As Portland grows and becomes denser, service delivery will look different. This proposal directly responds to both the city's arts affordability plan and to community surveys conducted by parks that highlight the need for adaptable and versatile infrastructure. These changes do not alter parks SDC rates. We're excited to bring you this proposal, and we welcome any questions. Mayor and colleagues, I just also want to say I got an email from my chief of staff today that we found the resources to extend Tracy Schreiber's Arts Affordability Fellowship for another month. She's been taking the lead on a whole host of things, and we're really proud of her work and grateful that she's going to be with us for a little while longer. Great. Thank you. Any further questions? Thank you. Public testimony? One person, Maggie. All right. To the item, please, Maggie. What we really need is money spent for homeless people to participate in arts projects in the park. And we need to have the Parks Department stop participating in what I call Jim Crow-like behavior with locking the bathrooms down when homeless people show up. Thank you. This is a any further discussion. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you for the presentation. Next item 819 please. Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Southeast Claiborne Street at Southeast 135th Avenue Sanitary Sewer Extension, Project number E10873, for an estimated cost of $3,148,000. Commissioner Fish. So we're joined today by Joe Dvorak, BES's Principal Engineer. And Rachel Frogner, did I get that right? Yes. Although the spelling is a little unique. It is. R-A-E-C-H-E-L, Frogner, who is the BES project manager. Colleagues, the Bureau of Environmental Services protects public health and the environment by designing, operating, and maintaining Portland's sewer and stormwater system. The southeast Claiborne Street area is in the Pleasant Valley neighborhood in outer southeast Portland along Johnson Creek. This project would extend sewer service to an area that is currently served by septic systems at risk of failure. By providing sanitary sewer service to the neighborhood, the project will better protect public health, the environment, and the homes near Johnson Creek. As I said, here today to give us a brief presentation are Joe and Rachel. Please take it away. Great, good morning. Thank you. My name is Joe Dvorak. So we'll talk a little bit about what sewer extensions are and why we do them. So basically we're building a new sewer system connecting to an existing sewer. Another way to think about this is we're extending the existing system, hence the term sewer extensions. Why do we do this? To ensure wastewater systems to the whole community. Specifically, it provides municipal sewer service to existing properties that are currently on septic systems. Eventually, those septic systems fail. So by having a viable public system in front of these properties, it ensures that... they can quickly connect and do so without impacting the environment. So as you see in the last point, when we do have a system available, we're protecting groundwater, specifically in this case Johnson Creek, and we're being proactive about it. And now I'll turn it over to Rachel with more details on the project. Thanks. So just to get us oriented geographically, this project is taking place in southeast Portland between 129th Place and 140th Avenues, west to east, and southeast Foster Road and southeast Claiborne, north to south. This project will construct 4,100 linear feet of new 8-inch diameter mainline pipe that will connect into the existing system that's present in southeast Foster Road The project will also construct 2,100 linear feet of new 6-inch diameter service laterals that will serve 80 properties that are currently using on-site disposal systems. Kind of getting back to the purpose of this project is that this is an area with septic systems that are aging and are either failing or at risk of failure in the near future. Failing systems are a threat to public health, watershed health, and groundwater in this area that is adjacent to Johnson Creek. The smaller lot sizes limit the area for replacing these on-site disposal systems if they were to fail. And additionally, 50% of the properties or about 50% of the properties in this area have a public sewer line physically available to them within 300 feet. And it is an Oregon requirement that they connect if they fall within that range, which can be quite costly. Okay. When we build or upon completion of this project, the residents will be required to connect within three years or upon failure of their current systems. At the time of connection, fees are due to the city, and we do offer financial assistance programs as well as deferral options for those folks. Throughout the life of this project, we have done extensive outreach via mailings. Okay, never mind, go ahead. Continue. Go ahead. Via mailings, web, email, and social media updates. We've held community workshops and on-site tabling events. Materials that we've sent out to the public have been translated into Russian when needed, and we've also had a Russian translator available in person when we go out to meet with the community. We've worked individually with a lot of the property owners in this area and have tried to determine the best solutions for them in regards to this project. The engineers estimate, as mentioned, is $3.1 million. We have a high confidence level in that estimate. We are expecting to advertise the project in October of this year and begin construction in the spring of 2020. Construction is expected to last approximately a year and believe me, That's all I've got. So if you have any questions. Commissioner Hardesty had one. Thank you Mayor. My question is, is this an area that has always been a part of Portland or is this part of an area of Portland that was annexed into the city 30 years ago? I believe it was annexed. I don't know the exact date. What I'm hearing is that property owners are going to have to pay $27,000 approximately for each individual property owner. And if I remember when annexation happened, that was part of the deal. That was if you join the city of Portland, we're going to hook you up to the sewer lines. So when you say to me this is a proactive program, I would say it's probably about 30 years behind. Are you sure? Yes. All right. Could you supply to me the documentation in support of that promise? You know, I would be happy to try to research it. What I know is that I have worked with many areas of the city that have been annexed into the city of Princeton. No, no, I take your point very seriously. In fact, I've asked the director of the bureau within existing law to see if there's another mechanism that we can access to help pay for these public improvements. And in fact, if you'll give me a little time, this won't kick in for three years. If you'll give me a little time on this, I want to actually solicit your thoughts on how we might do that lawfully with ratepayer dollars. We have to be careful because these are ratepayer dollars, and this is a separate system than the City of Portland's general fund. But I take your point very seriously, and we'd like to work with you on that. Wonderful. I guess that's my last question for the moment. Thank you. Very good. Very good. Any further questions? Any public testimony on this item? Yes. Maggie? Thank you very much. Thanks a lot. Thanks for the presentation. Okay. So Maggie Portland, Homeless Town Hall. So I guess they've had more overrun-offs recently. of the sewage system this year than any other year that's going into the Willamette, correct? That's actually not correct. Well, that's what they, that's what's been reported. Okay, but that's not correct. Well, that's what's been reported. So we're gonna go with what's been reported that you've had more sewage runoff into the Willamette this year than previous years past. So what I'm wondering is, What kind of alternatives are permits allowing for compostable toilets? Because compostable toilets can be made very inexpensively and don't have to have large capacity and need to be maintained about three times a year. So what kind of things can we do to have more alternatives for compostable toilets? Because you're going to hook these people up to the system, and the systems are... We had someone here earlier this year before Hardesty was elected that came in to testify that the... sanitation processing sewage plant was like over way over capacity they don't have the capacity to sanitize the sewage that's not correct either well I'm just saying your own people are saying that so what what about that Thank you. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, 820, our final item for the morning. 820, authorize and... Oh, plus the consent, correct. We actually have one item, the last item on consent was moved to the regular agenda, Mayor. Yeah, we have two actually. Two parks items and then the items that were pulled. 820, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University Northwest Economic Research Center to provide research for new revenue options for an amount not to exceed $75,000. Commissioner Fish. Thank you. Colleagues, we're heading into the lunch hour, so I'm just going to turn this over to our Deputy Director of Portland Parks and Rec, Todd, to give us a brief presentation. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Council Members. Happy to be here today. My name is Todd Lofgren, Deputy Director of Portland Parks and Recreation. I'm here with Jason Smith, PPNR's Financial Planning and Analysis Manager. Today's Intergovernmental Agreement with Northwest Economic Research Center at Portland State University is part of PPNR's ongoing work to create a plan for a sustainable park system. Portland Parks and Recreation's team is actively working on service and financial projections for the park system. To inform the review of our possible funding options, we have formed a task force including members of the Portland Parks Board, Portland Parks Foundation, Urban Forestry Commission, community members, external experts, and a variety of internal experts across the City of Portland. We are preparing these materials for a city council work session with all of you in November. In this agreement before you today with Northwest Economic Research Center at Portland State, we'll provide PPNR specialized expertise and tools to complete analysis of various funding options, including revenue potential and how any funding measure might affect Portlanders. We're happy to answer any of your questions. Nicely done, thank you. Short and to the point. Excellent. Any further follow-up questions? Any public testimony on this item? I think Maggie just left. She is left. I think Shedrick left also. Is he here? I think he left. I think he left. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Hardesty? Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? We're very excited with the work that we've launched on the task force, This will give us some technical expertise to look at impacts of various proposals on property owners and property taxes, among other things. And I want to thank Portland Parks and Rec for putting this on turbocharge to be able to meet what we hope is a November goal of coming back to council and getting some preliminary feedback about options. So, nice work. Bye. Wheeler. So I appreciate this. I always feel badly things that get put on the end of the agenda after a long agenda. This is really important. and it gets to one of the major questions that the public was asking us about during the last budget session, which is how do you get parks onto a sustainable foothold so we as residents don't have to come back year after year after year and beg you to keep our community center open or beg you to keep our pool open or beg you to keep certain recreational programs or certain coaches employed. And I think all of us have our... about what we think would be the right answer to that question. I certainly have my preference, but I think it's good to have an independent, separate reality check in terms of what the options are and what is possible. So I appreciate this harder look, Commissioner Fish, and I appreciate the work you're doing. I vote aye. Now we're back to the consent agenda. We're back to 8-10, Mayor. We're at 8-10? 8-10. 800 and 810. 800 and 810. We have someone here to do 810. Then let's do 810 first. 810, extend management agreement with Kemper Sports Management, Inc. for Heron Lakes Golf Course for an additional 24 months. Increase the management fee and add funds for the management fee and operating expenses for the extension period for a new not to exceed amount of $7,307,912. Before I turn this over to Commissioner Fish, who polled it? No, no, no, it wasn't pulled. We want to have it as a regular. The bureau filed this originally, intended this to be on the regular agenda. Okay, very good. And it was in the first memo that the bureau had put it back on the regular agenda. I see, thank you. Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, Portland Parks and Recreation owns five public golf courses. Each has a management agreement with concessionaires who provide many of the daily clubhouse and customer service operations. Kemper Sports Management is our current concessionaire at Heron Lakes Golf Course. Their current contract expires in October, and this ordinance would extend their contract for an additional two years. In May, city auditors released an audit of the golf program. One of their recommendations was to update the concessionaire agreement. This extension will align the expiration of the contracts for all four Eastside courses, allowing Portland Parks and Recreation to conduct a comprehensive proposal. Joining us today is Vincent Johnson, PPNR's Director of Golf, to provide some additional detail. Welcome. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Good morning, or I guess good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Before I get started with today's item, I thought I'd share a little bit about myself and about the Portland Parks Golf Program. I'm Vincent Johnson, and for the last three years, I've worked for Portland Parks and Recreation, and next week, I will have served as Director of Golf for one year. I grew up on the East Side, born and raised in Portland, and I was given access to golf when my dad worked at a golf course as a mechanic. And when I think about the impact our golf program has, I think about the experiences that I've had through golf. I remember that golf started as recreation for me. It was really a way to get around my dad and my brother who already knew how to play. I remember my first golf cart ride and observing wildlife that I never knew existed in the city. I remember how excited I felt when I saw myself improving as a golfer. And a person's golf swing, it's like their fingerprint. It's uniquely theirs. And I remember the empowerment I felt through the ownership of my golf swing. It was imperfect, but it was completely mine. And I think about all the lessons that I've learned and the relationships I've built, the connections I've made, and I've had all of this because I had access to public golf. So I chose this role as director of golf because I believe in golf's ability to help Portland Parks and Recreation fulfill its mission, specifically towards equity and inclusion. Because when I think of providing recreation services in an equitable and inclusive manner, I know that our golf program is reaching boys and girls that look like me that don't know yet that golf can be for them. That our spaces are theirs too. And this is why I'm sitting before you today. As you know, the golf program has five golf facilities, and we are an enterprise fund. In fiscal year 19, we had over 340,000 rounds played at our golf courses. With a combination of expense reductions and revenue increases, or excuse me, fee increases, the golf program made $515,000 in fiscal year 19, and this was our most profitable year in the last five years. I just want to give a little more clarity, I guess a little more description around the contract as Commissioner Fisk set this up. This Heron Lakes contract, it consists of two types of payments. One is the direct funding for the day to day operations for Heron Lakes Golf Course. This averages about $150,000 a month. The other is a management fee paid to Kemper Sports for their services. That amount is $20,188, which includes a 3% increase, which helps reflect the cost of living adjustments. These funds for this contract are accounted for in the golf operating budget and in the five-year forecast for the golf fund. And with that, I'd be happy to take any questions. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you so much for that presentation. Thank you. I guess I'm a little concerned that we're extending this contract, especially at a time where we're losing parks employees and we have a private firm that's now managing these golf courses. Do you know the comparables based on if it was city park staff as compared to... having a private entity manage it. You said management is $20,000 a month, right? Is that comparable to how many FTEs are on site? And so what are we actually funding, I guess, is what my question is. Right, it's a very fair question. There are examples in the country that actually do have city employees. Usually, I've seen in the directions I've talked to, those facilities are smaller and shorter staffed. So this is what we've gone with. For instance, our Eastmoreland concessionaire has been there for 40 years now. I grew up in that community and then ended up being the GM of that program. So we've always contracted out the clubhouse operations. So the city has five golf courses. Is that normal for a city of our size to have so many public golf courses? It varies. Obviously, you know, the demand for golf, it's really based upon that. We're also an enterprise fund, so we need to bring in the revenue to help our program sustain itself. There are some examples nationwide that have the golf program as part of the general fund. We are not. So it's really based upon, you know, can we support ourselves and continue to, you know, drive that demand. Thank you. And it's probably a little unfair for me to be asking you these questions. I should probably be asking the commissioner in charge. But let me just say for the record that I hope. The last thing that we passed was about having this independent committee look at how we generate funds. And I hope that the five golf courses are on the table to talk about whether or not there's some opportunities to utilize those golf courses in a different way as we're thinking about. long-term funding for Portland Parks programs. It may not be popular with the people who currently play golf but I hope that everything is on the table as we look at sustainability for our parks programs across the city. So I thank you for your presentation. Thank you. Very good. Any further discussion on this? Is there any public testimony on this item Carla? I think they've all left unless there's an emblem here. All right. This is a first reading. Commissioner Fritz. I just want to thank you for coming in to tell your story and also for taking over the program. You did a stalwart internship under the previous director, and I'm really happy that you were selected for the permanent position and doing such a good job, and I really appreciate it. Thank you very much, Commissioner. Thank you. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. And last but not least is item number 800. authorize charitable organizations eligible to participate in the city's 2020 charitable campaign and authorize exemptions for charities not meeting the 25% overhead cost cap requirement. Colleagues, the City of Portland's charitable campaign was introduced by Commissioner Mike Lindberg back in 1989. The campaign allows city employees to donate to their choice of participating charities through payroll deduction. Employees have donated more than $3.3 million over the last 12 years. The 2020 campaign will run from October 30th, 2019 through November 30th, 2019. This ordinance authorizes the applicant's participation in this year's campaign. The ordinance also authorizes an exception this year only for organizations not meeting the 25% overhead cap limit, while the charitable campaign advisory committee develops an equitable exception process. And I'd like to go ahead and answer any questions you have. And then, colleagues, I'd also like to introduce an amendment. There's an organization that was not originally included, but we have an affinity group that has requested the inclusion of an organization. But I'll get to that amendment in a moment. First, I wanted to address any questions. Mayor, if you're offering an amendment, does this still have to be an emergency for some purpose? Why don't we ask the person in charge? Not necessarily. Could you state your name? Oh, I'm sorry. My name is Janet Storm. I'm with Office of Management and Finance Business Operations, and I'm the charitable campaign coordinator. Why is this an emergency? It's traditionally been submitted as an emergency because of the time factor. The campaign is coming up. However, the campaign will not be until October 30th this year, so we still have plenty of time. It's not necessary to have it be an emergency if it doesn't happen. Mayor, are you offering a substantive amendment? I'm offering a substantive amendment. So why don't we take the emergency off just so that people have a chance to comment. Okay. Okay, very good. And by offering the amendment, I would be doing that anyway, wouldn't I? No, you can. Okay, very good. I move to take the emergency clause off the ordinance. I second. We have a motion and a second. Please call the roll. Hurstie. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment carries. I'll go ahead and make my amendment unless there's any further questions. I'd like to amend this item to add SMERC, the Sexual and Gender Minority Youth Center to the list of approved organization. They provide a safe, supervised, harassment free space for sexual and gender minority youth. As a city partnered non-profit, they do work with the Portland Police Bureau, the Joint Office of Homeless Services, and the Office of Community and Civic Life. Additionally, the LGBTQ Deep Affinity Group here at the City of Portland, LGBTQ and Friends, requested SMERC be on the list, and therefore I would like to offer this as an amendment. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. I think Commissioner Udaly beat you to the punch, but you were so close. Any discussion on the amendment? Please call the roll on the amendment. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly?
 Aye.
 Fritz?
 Aye.
 Fish?
 Aye.
 Wheeler? The amendment's on the table. Any public testimony? We did not have a sign-up sheet for this. Very good. Seeing no further testimony, does Commissioner Hardesty? I'm sorry, no. No worries. No worries. Thank you so much for your presentation. I actually asked this to be pulled off the consent agenda because as someone who's very familiar with nonprofits, I'm very concerned that we have a process where we're treating multi-million dollar organizations the exact same way that we're treating very small nonprofit organizations. and I'm referring to the 25% cap on overhead costs. So 25% on a multimillion dollar organization is different than with a very small. Why are you proposing that we authorize you to do that this year? What we're proposing is to suspend that rule for one year so that the campaign charitable advisory committee can go back and create a more equitable process for some of these nonprofits. We did an analysis again this year and found that 68 of our applied nonprofits did not pass that 25% rule, and many, many of them are. are organizations that work with minorities, the disadvantaged, the homeless, animals, the environment. They're very tiny. And as you said, when you have a multi-million dollar organization, that's a lot more leeway for them to reach that 25 percent. But with a tiny organization that's only bringing in about $100,000 a year in revenue, they're that 25% is a tiny amount of money to run an operation. So what the committee would like to do is continue working on an equitable exemption process. We did have some committee turnover this year. We're going to have some new committee members, and they would like to prepare something to present to you next year for your approval or for you to look at and maybe change the way that we do things from here on out rather than just... doing a blanket, making it a blanket rule. And so best practices in nonprofit associations actually do require a good ratio between the money that's raised and how much money is actually used for the purpose that it's used for, right? As a matter of fact, it's not considered best practices anymore. Sure. we looked at GuideStar, Charity Navigator, the Oregon Association of Nonprofits. They all feel that that 25% rule contributes to something called the nonprofit starvation cycle, which means that nonprofits are purposefully not investing in the kind of infrastructure that they need to to operate successfully in order to keep themselves at that ratio? Well, the children's levy operates with a 15% administrative cap, and so that is money that is given out to community non-profit organizations. So again, I'm just troubled by the fact that 25% just seems very arbitrary, right? I don't know where that number came from or why we thought that was the good model for this year. Since this is not on an emergency at the moment, I think it would be really helpful when, well, I guess we won't have any additional public testimony on this issue unless we make an exception for that day. But I would really like to hear from some of the smaller nonprofits about why this could work. So that's one question. The second one is that I noticed that RAC is an umbrella organization, but also is listed separately as a fundraising. I'm sorry, it's not RAC. What is it? With the arts funds, though. Do they go to RAC? It is RAC. It is RAC. So RAC is listed as an umbrella organization where they can get the money and pass through, but they're also listed as an independent organization. So I have questions about whether or not there's, and because they're the only ones that gets the arts fund, even though they distribute it out, that I was concerned about the appearance of double dipping into money for that particular organization. Does that make sense? Well, these are employee contributions, so our employees should have the broadest choice of where they contribute possible. So it's not remotely double-dipping. It's not our money. I'm making a charitable contribution from my own paycheck. If it happens to be an organization that the city also funds, I don't see why that's an issue. Okay. And didn't we have this conversation last year? I was going to ask, how many times have we done this exemption? I'm really looking forward to resolving this because it is arbitrary. And it's also, if we think of charitable organizations strictly as pass-throughs for money, going from donors to the needy, then I can see how this would make sense. We don't want to... finance massive salaries for CEOs of these organizations, but many nonprofits, all they do is administer programs. So whether it's a literary nonprofit or providing legal services to immigrants, the overhead's going to be really high because they're not giving the money to individuals. They are providing services. Well, as someone who works You said it was 1989 that Mike Lindbergh put this together. Well, 1990 I was working for the Black United Fund of Oregon. At that time, just a little bit of city history, the only organization allowed to raise money through government programs was United Way. Okay. And because of my advocacy and work, we opened it up to organizations like the Black United Fund and some other national organizations. So it's kind of overwhelming now to see that there's hundreds of organizations that we now have on this list. But I can tell you as someone who's managed nonprofits for over 25 years that a reasonable administrative expense is what people expect when they're giving charitable dollars to an organization. Unless there's an organization that is all voluntary and is just really about providing the service. I'm glad this is not an emergency ordinance and that we'll have another opportunity to continue this conversation. And I'm sorry that you ended up being here all morning because we needed to have this conversation, but thank you. Well, it's a good conversation and Commissioner Fritz, please go ahead. Thank you. So yeah, we did it last year as well. give you my two cents that I think our city employees make good decisions when they have good information so the chart that you just handed out as to overhead expenses I would not be, in fact I do donate to Kairos PDX and I am not deterred by their overhead because as Commissioner Eudaly said that's what they do is provide support and programming for the people and that's what the money goes to. So I would suggest to the committee that the rule be just publish it and that we take away that limitation. I'm sure the committee will make a good decision. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Thank you for a great presentation, good conversation. There was no testimony, right, Carla, just to confirm? We didn't have a sign-up sheet. Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading as amended. Thank you. And we are adjourned until 2 p.m. All right. Good afternoon, everyone. This is the August 28, 2019 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, could you please call the roll? Yes. Hardesty? Here. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Here. We'll now hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good afternoon. Afternoon. Welcome to Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you. Well, unfortunately, we're out of time for the day, so thanks a lot. Our first item today, very important item. Carla, can you read item number 821, please? Yes, I am. Proclaim August 28, 2019 to be Parks for New Portlanders Day. And before I call on Commissioner Fish, I want to acknowledge Mayor Tom Potter. And I see Karin is here as well. Can we please acknowledge her time? Thanks for being here, we appreciate it. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Let me start with the run of the show for this afternoon. I'll make some brief introductory remarks. We have some distinguished speakers, we have a panel that we'll invite to come forward. Then we'll hear from commissioners and the mayor. The mayor will read a proclamation, then we'll see if we have time for a group photograph. So that's the afternoon. Colleagues, today we are proud to celebrate the Parks for New Portlanders program. Parks for New Portlanders provides free, inclusive, and culturally responsive programming and events. Some of the events include the annual walk with refugees and immigrants and the Portland World Soccer Tournament. Parks for New Portlanders is successful in part because of our many strong partnerships. I want to acknowledge, for example, the work of my colleagues, especially Commissioners Udailey and Fritz. other city bureaus, immigrant communities, refugee resettlement agencies, local nonprofits, and many volunteers. And for one of our premier summer events, the World Soccer Tournament, I want to especially recognize Adidas, our first title sponsor for their generous support. Tom Hughes, not that Tom Hughes, the other Tom Hughes. Tom, would you please stand and be recognized on behalf of Adidas for your general effort? Thank you. Now I'd like to invite Director Adina Long to come forward with our distinguished panel. And we're going to ask everybody to introduce themselves. We'll have a brief presentation, then we'll move to council comments. If the whole panel, some, if everyone could come forward. And we'll start with introductions across the panel, and then we'll take comments in order. Director Long? Good morning. My name is Adina Long. I'm the Director of Portland Parks and Recreation. I'm the engagement coordinator of Portland Parks and Rec. My name is with Portland Parks and Rec. Sorry, I'm going far away. But my name's and I'm a youth ambassador for the Parks for New Portlanders program. Great, good afternoon. Thanks all of you for being here. Thank you, Commissioners and Mayor Wheeler. Again, I'm Adina Long, Director of Portland Parks and Recreation, and we appreciate the opportunity to honor the Parks for New Portlanders program today. I remember when I was just a few weeks in as director when I spoke at the program's Portlanders Stand with Refugees and Immigrants event at Southwest Community Center. I remember the music, the dancing, and most notably, the resounding and sincere message that all are welcome here. Representing many cultures, the event was a keen reminder of the strength of our diversity as a city and an auspicious beginning to my tenure as Parks Director. I thought, Portland, you're my kind of town. And while it was a celebration of the arrival of new Portlanders, the day had also taken on a new meaning. It was March 16th, one day after the tragedy at a mosque in New Zealand. So we gathered to celebrate refugees and immigrants, but we also gathered to mourn and truly stand united. The Parks for New Portlanders program welcomes our refugee and immigrants and celebrates their arrival. But during times of division in our country, gatherings like the Stand event also define us as a community that fights hate and bigotry in all forms. From Portland World Soccer and our partnership for World Refugee Day to the walk event in East Portland, this program connects new Portlanders with resources and services, but also the respect and welcoming they deserve. It's an honor to celebrate Portland's refugee and immigrant community today. We recognize their courage, their resiliency, and their contribution to a stronger Portland. As your parks director, I am committed to welcoming refugees and immigrants into Portland Parks and Recreation's programs, services, and spaces. Thank you. Thank you. Namaste, city council members. My name is Sam Sibedi. I'm the engagement coordinator at Portland Parks and Rec. My job is to help integrate refugees and immigrants into city life as early as possible by increasing recreational access, creating culturally responsive programs, and partnering with city bureaus and refugee and immigrant communities. Growing up in a refugee camp and getting an education 10,000 miles away didn't prepare me to be in this vast bureaucratic Western system. I didn't know how to use Outlook Calendar upon my hiring as a seasonal employee. As one of the few refugees hired by the city, I have to represent refugees and immigrants well by working extra hard. Giving back is not easy, especially in recent years. Federal funding and support have sharply dropped, pressuring local governments and staff to go above and beyond to engage and build community. I'm so proud of my diverse team at work. My accent and writings are passionately and politely accepted, and my welcome to some moments are surprising. It may take years, but I try every single day to be better. I write down new words and phrases. I have my volunteer mentor check my grammar. I wish American English wasn't my fifth language, but I do my best to communicate, and those around me are great listeners. I have a very social job. I reach out to ethnic stores, community gardens, cultural events, and diverse soccer practices. I meet with community leaders and members at mosques and temples. And of course, Facebook has blocked me more than 100 times because you are inviting people too fast. Success to me is measured when within five days of arrival in Portland from a refugee camp, a young soccer player participated in Portland World Soccer Tournament. Sorry, Portland World Soccer Tournament. When churches and mosques cancel their services to join. Success to me is measured when two singles, an immigrant and American born, meet at an event, get married, and come back to share their story. Which actually happened. When community members communicate on Facebook in languages other than English. When an initiative brings new refugee and immigrant families into the community centers. When a nine-year-old wants to come back and volunteer at an event again the following year. When community partnerships double in second year of engaging. And when the program gets published in nine different media within three months. One of my proudest moments was receiving the 2017 Parks Champion National Award in New Orleans. This is my belt I got in the National Awards. And this belongs to all of us. Thank you. I also received the Immigrant of the Year Award, the Oregon Immigrant Achievement Award, and the Phillips Diversity Award, among others. I couldn't have done it without the generosity and compassion of community members present here today. Thank you so much. Thank you, Council and my Bureau. I have turned past challenges into opportunities, and here I am ready for another decade. It's a privilege and an honor to serve Portlanders. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Edea Katemwe. When I was four years old, my father was set on fire because of political upheaval in my country, Congo. By the time I was 12 years, I was in a refugee camp called Mayukwa-Yukwa in Zambia. It was not a good place to live, but we were there not because we wanted to, but because of the situation that we found ourselves into. It was in animal forests where People were attacked every night and sometimes you will see someone crying without you knowing that an uncle has gone or an aunt has gone. It was a miserable place without clean water, often not enough food. People were often depressed. Through it all, I believed there was hope. And one way I tried to encourage those around me was by getting involved by playing sports such as soccer, track and field. And they were all done without shoes, no soccer ball. As well, there was no clean water to drink. When I arrived here in Poland, I used the same experience learned in refugee camp and talent to help and got involved with Poland World Soccer Tournament. Thanks to Mr. Sam who recruited me in 2011. Thank you. Well, since then I've been involved with Poland World Soccer. I started as a soccer player and it helped me to stay away from trouble and making good decisions. I started as a soccer player and after that I became a soccer coach. And that outcoached boys and girls teams and now I'm one of the organizers. To make a long story short, I am now a full-time employee with Portland Park and Recreation as a member of the Equity and Inclusion Team. From this journey, I have learned. No matter where you go, it is how you respond to your situation in life. It is the willingness to assess, learn, and adopt the situation that will help, that will allow you to be successful in life. It is that mindset that allowed me to take the lead and be where I am today. Thanks to Poland Park and Oroquation for believing in me. Thank you. Thank you. We need to speak all the way over. Assalamu alaikum. Can you hear me? Assalamu alaikum City Council Members. My name is Fawzia Ibrahim. I was born in a refugee camp in Kenya, but my family's from Somalia. I was three years old when I came to America. I speak the languages Somali and Maimai. I am one of the community youth ambassadors under the Parks for Newport Lenders program. In early 2017, I saw a flyer at my locker at Madison High School for a community youth ambassador job position. After reading the job details and requirements, I knew that this was the perfect opportunity for me to get involved in my new community and home. I'm from Boise, Idaho. On the flyer it said, all applicants will be called for an interview. No resume needed, no cover letter needed, no work experiences needed, your community service is validated. This made me feel more confident in applying for this job because I knew I would gain all the skills I didn't have on the job. I was one out of 125 applicants who spoke 41 different languages. Ten of us got hired and the rest were referred to different job opportunities at Parks and Beyond. Working at this job, I was able to advocate and organize events for people who are within my cultural backgrounds. I interpreted for them and got them to participate in different events that helped them meet different people with multiple resources that could be an asset to them and their families, and their adjustments to their new home. These events made them feel welcome, safe, and included. My involvement with Parks and Recreation has really opened more doors for me, has really opened doors for me personally. It helped me gain many skills that became useful to me in school, other employment opportunities, and in my volunteer work. It made me open-minded about my surroundings and the people I interact with every day. It helped me see the world in a new light. I was able to find my voice through the Parks for New Portlanders program and I truly believe if my community members were not included and welcomed at the events Parks for New Portlanders organized they wouldn't be aware of the resources provided and accessible to them in Portland. In my early days my family and I struggled to adjust our new home because we didn't have enough resources and support. This program made it possible for me to bridge the support to those who are in the same position my family used to be in not too long ago. Thank you. Mayor, that concludes the formal part of our program. There's now an opportunity for commissioners to make comments, and then that would be followed by you reading the proclamation and then a group photo. I would like to acknowledge, though, a lot of people helped to organize today, and one person in particular I'd like to acknowledge is Ascenda Lawrence. Ascenda, would you please stand and accept our thanks to your co-colleagues? Commissioner Fritz. I am so happy with this program. I was just thinking, I think in the ten and a half years that I've been on the City Council, I have only once told the director, you will hire this person. And that was for SOM. and it was one of the best decisions I've made while I've been on the council because you have really took a concept that you started in partnership with Paolo Cazzolani and Anne Downing who are both with us today. Anne Downing, ESLT, English as a Second Language teacher at David Douglas High School. You started a concept and developed it into a program. It used to be an event and I had to explain to people, no it's not an event, it's a year-round thing. and then look at you both being part of this program, being part of the improvements and you know the interview process where you didn't have to be able to write that you just showed up and talked about your experiences and what you wanted to do for the program which again was in partnership and so there's been many different city entities that's had a piece of this. Portland Parks and Recreation obviously, the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, the Office of Human Relations and the Office of Equity and Human Rights all of us working together to make sure that we provided the support that people in our community need and as a refugee, as an immigrant and somebody who had a very different experience coming into this country with the privilege that I have with the colour of my skin and the background that I had in growing up in a secure environment I'm just so happy that we can provide all of these opportunities to so many people. And P.S., it's really a great program, the Parks for New Portlanders program. It's for everybody. And everybody's welcome at the Slavic Festival this weekend. Everybody's welcome at the Tongan Festival. Everybody is welcome to come and celebrate our different cultures and how together in our diversity we are so much better than any one group by ourselves. So thank you so much for what you do. I appreciate you, Daley. Thank you, Mayor. I don't know if I've ever admitted this in public. It's a little silly. But before I was ever elected, I came across the new Portlanders program, maybe on the city website or an event. And I thought... We have a program to welcome people who are moving to Portland. No wonder so many people are moving here. And then come to find out, no, New Portlanders is specifically designed to serve immigrants and refugees, which in my mind is cooler. And I'd also just like to share that, It's really one of the greatest pleasures in this job has been working with the New Portlanders Commission through the Office of Community and Civic Life and getting to know some. I grew up in rural Oregon. I read my way through the Gales Creek area. elementary school library. My favorite books were about countries around the world. I dreamed of leaving my tiny town of 500 people who were mostly farmers and traveling the world and life didn't quite work out the way that I thought it would and I didn't get very far just 45 minutes away to Portland, Oregon so I mean, it's a special treat. I don't really have to travel the world because I can meet people here from all over the world and learn about their cultures and learn about the unique needs and challenges of our immigrant and refugee community and work towards having a more inclusive, joyful city for everyone. So thank you very much for your work. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Commissioner Fish, for bringing this resolution forward. I want to say that I really, really missed the opportunity to be in the immigrant walk this year, but I want you to know that I was in D.C. actually lobbying our legislative leaders to ensure that they continue to fund fun refugee resettlement programs in Oregon. And so though I wasn't with you on the street, I was there in spirit. I had a blast the year before. And what it showed me was what I already knew is that Portlanders are very generous And when you see neighbors putting drinks out on the street and cookies out on the street and welcoming people to stop and have a conversation, it almost brought me to tears. And so today we're celebrating this resolution, but I also have been hearing from the many of the communities that are in this room about the inequity and how we fund various programs. And so while today is a day of celebration and I'm not going to go down that road today, I think it's really important that we live up to our values about equity and making sure that everyone has an opportunity. I didn't even know the mission statement until today for parks, which is everybody has a park and access within a half mile of their house. I think that that is a core value statement that we can all agree to. But the way it's playing out today isn't equal for everyone. And I just want to say, I wish that every city council meeting looked like this. And as I look in this audience and I look upstairs, This is what Portland looks like and this City Council Chamber should look like this much more often. So thank you so much for being here today. Well, first of all, Commissioner Fish, thank you for bringing this proclamation forward. Thank you, Director Long. You've come in here and you've hit your stride from day one. And this is another example of the great ways that parks integrate with the needs of this community. I want to thank the folks who've testified, who run this program. This is a celebration, as Commissioner Hardesty just said. We have a lot to celebrate, and this is also one more tangible example of what we're doing. When we say we are a welcoming, inclusive sanctuary city, it has to be more than words. It has to mean something. And we have to acknowledge the larger national context as well. We're in a time when we are more divided than we've been recently as a nation. There is a lot of hate speech out there, much of it targeted towards women, towards people of color, towards immigrants. I hear and I know that people in this community are living under the fear of that increased hateful rhetoric, and sometimes even under the umbrella of the violence that results from that hateful rhetoric. It's really important that the city of Portland at every opportunity possible drive a stake into the ground, and remind everybody what our positive values are. And our values are about being welcoming, about being inclusive, and about supporting diversity and equity. But not just as statements of value, but as tangible things that we're going to act upon. And this is great in my opinion in terms of continuing to build that coalition. And Commissioner Hardesty, I've just got to say you knocked it out of the ballpark when you said this is what every city council session should look like. And boy, wouldn't it be a lot more fun if that were the case? So it's now my honor, one of the great perks I get as mayor is I get to read the proclamations. But these are not just my proclamations, these are proclamations on behalf of the entire city council. They are a statement of our shared values, our collective ideals. And by extension, they represent what we believe this community stands for. And so we see this as a very important way to acknowledge and honor what it is that we're discussing here today. So it's my privilege as mayor to read this proclamation. Whereas Portland is proud to be an inclusive, welcoming and sanctuary city. Whereas Portland Parks and Recreation formed Parks for New Portlanders in 2015 to help welcome and integrate refugee and immigrant communities into the city of Portland. And whereas Parks for New Portlanders provides many annual cultural specific events. And whereas this year in partnership with Adidas, thank you, Parks for New Portlanders celebrated the 10th anniversary of its most popular program, Portland World Soccer, which engaged more than 500 refugee and immigrant youth and their families. And whereas this summer, Parks for New Portlanders hosted its third annual Walk with Refugees and Immigrants with over 3,000 attendees. And whereas this summer, Parks for New Portlanders also celebrated the fifth annual PDX World Refugee Day. And whereas Parks for New Portlanders in partnership with local organizations, nonprofits, resettlement agencies, city bureaus and volunteers, provides a vital service for the city of Portland in celebrating diversity and multiculturalism. Now therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim August 28th, 2019 to be Parks for New Portlanders Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Come back here. Come back here. We're going to come back here. So we'll put our... We'll put our four guests on. We'll put you in the middle. Our four speakers. Put the belts in the middle. Put you right here. Oh, yeah. Put the belts on. We'll put our four speakers in the middle. Oh, close your eyes. We're close. We've got a plan. We've got a plan. Come on in. I'm going to join us over here. Great. Thank you. Hi, here. Hi. I'm . Thanks, guys. You did such a great job of presenting. It's new and a whole new population. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Ready?
 Ready.
 Ready. We get over here and we talk. I think the crucial message I can cut us off with. Everyone look at this camera. One, two, three. Up here. One last time. Up here? Oh, wait. Up here is not a good job. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks again. Thank you. Thank you. We've had a request for everybody to step outside for a picture. For a picture? Yeah, if everybody could meet out front for a picture. Do you want him outside? Well, that's fine. Oh, I'm sure. All right. I'll go. Everyone, please let's meet downstairs for a picture. Thank you very much. That's taking charge. Guys are future in radio. Thank you all. Amanda. That's great. Thank you. You can give it to Carla. Yeah, and she'll distribute, yeah. Great, okay, thank you. Okay, good, it's good seeing you. You too, thank you. And as you like to say, mouth or something. Well, actually, no, it's not. It's about how do we welcome. And break, we'll reconvene at, I can't see the clock, five minutes from now. We're back in session. Carla, could you please read item 822? appeal of Raymond Burse Sr. and Raymond Burse Jr. against the hearing officer's decision to revoke the land use approval for a type B accessory short-term rental use limited to three bedrooms and six guests within the existing house located at 2946 Northeast 9th Avenue, LU18-118-937CU. Very good. First, the city attorney will make some announcements about today's hearing. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. This is an on-the-record hearing. This means you must limit your testimony to material and issues in the record. We will begin with a staff report by Bureau of Development Services staff for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, City Council will hear from interested persons in the following order. The appellant will go first and will have 10 minutes to present his case. Following the appellant, persons who support the appeal will go next. Each of those persons will have three minutes to speak to the counsel. After that, counsel will hear from persons who oppose the appeal. Again, each person will have three minutes. Finally, the appellant will have five minutes to rebut the presentation of the opponents of the appeal. The Council may then close the hearing, deliberate, and take a vote on the appeal. If the vote is a tentative vote, as we expect, the Council will set a future date for the adoption of findings and a final vote on the appeal. If the Council takes a final vote, that would conclude the matter before Council. I'd like to announce several guidelines for those who will be addressing counsel today. First, the evidentiary record is closed. Again, this is an on-the-record hearing. It is to decide only if the hearings officer made the correct decision based on the evidence that was presented to him. This means you must limit your remarks to arguments based on the record compiled by the hearings officer. You may refer to evidence that was previously submitted to the hearings officer. You may not submit new evidence today that was not submitted to the hearings officer. If your argument includes new evidence or issues, you may be interrupted and reminded that you must limit your testimony to the record. The Council will not consider the new information, and it will be rejected in Council's final decision. Thank you. Second, if you believe a person who addressed City Council today improperly presented new evidence or presented a legal argument that relies on evidence not in the record, you may object to that argument. And I'd also like to add that in order not to interrupt the hearing, I have asked folks who do want to object to talk to staff Marguerite Feuer Sanger rather than interrupting the hearing. Third, under state law, only issues raised before the hearings officer may be raised in this appeal to counsel. If you believe another person has raised issues today not raised before the hearings officer, you may object to counsel's consideration of that issue. And finally, the property owner must identify constitutional challenges to conditions of approval if the counsel were to amend or add conditions of approval. If they fail to raise such issues, The applicant will be precluded from bringing an action for damages in circuit. That concludes my remarks. Very good. Do any members of the council wish to declare a conflict of interest? No member of the council has declared a conflict of interest. Do any members of the council have ex parte contacts to declare information gathered outside of this hearing to disclose? Nobody does. Have any members of the council made any visits to the site involved in this matter? Nobody has made a visit to the site. Do the council members have any other matters that need to be discussed before we begin the hearing? I don't see any, so we'll start with the staff report. 10 minutes, welcome. And the way I do this is I ask people to please stay within the required time limit. But if somebody needs to go over 30 seconds, a minute, I typically allow that. But then I give the other side the opportunity to also extend by the same amount of time, just so people understand that. Thank you. And that does not apply to the staff report. The staff report is separate. Are we ready? You're ready. You're good to go. Well, good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, council members. My name is Marguerite Feuer Sanger and next to me is Justin Lindley. We both work for the Bureau of Development Services. We are city planners working with the zoning code. I review my main responsibilities to review land use proposals and Justin focuses on enforcement. He investigates citizen complaints about violations of land use approvals. Whoa. So before you today, our discussion is really focused on zoning code enforcement. Before you is the property owner's appeal of a prior hearings officer decision to revoke or to take back a prior land use approval. The property owners are requesting that the city allow their accessory short-term rental. We call it ASTR, Airbnb, an ASTR use that was previously approved on the site. So this ASTR business has a two-year history of repeat violations of the conditions of approval. BDS has substantial evidence of the violations and we'll go over that later in our presentation. As a result of these repeat violations, BDS no longer has the confidence that the ASTR business will operate within the limits set by the original land use approval. And BDS did initiate the process to revoke the land use decision. This process is detailed in the zoning code, and it's designed to be a strong enforcement tool. So our staff presentation quickly is in three parts. I'll just go over the ASTR proposal. and the rules, and then touch on the hearings officer findings, and then Justin will talk about BDS compliance. The site's in the Irvington neighborhood, northeast 9th Avenue. It's just south of Fremont and a few blocks east of northeast Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. The site is there in the blue square. It is rather in a sea of R5 zoning, single-dwelling residential zoning. So ASTRs, what are they? The zoning code defines them as an individual or household group that resides in a dwelling unit and rents bedrooms to overnight guests on a short-term basis. But what's important here is that they're allowed in any dwelling unit as long as there is a long-term resident present. So the city allows ASTRs for good reasons to promote efficient use of residential buildings and also to provide an alternative form of lodging for visitors who want a residential setting. The zoning code does regulate them because they tend to have impacts on neighbors. These are guests or groups that are on vacation. They tend to be noisy. but the primary reasons for regulating them are to prevent them from detracting from the neighborhood character and ensure that the primary use of the site remains residential. Of note, the zoning code prohibits commercial vacation rental which is essentially a whole house rental and there is no long-term tenant present. Here's a picture of the site and the house on Northeast 9th Avenue. So the zoning code regulates two types of ASTRs. The type A is one or two bedrooms, a rental in a house, and it's an administrative process. The type B requests three, four, or five bedrooms, which this proposal fits into, is conditional use or a land use review is required. I just want to make a note that site context plays an important role in the review of the conditional use. The prior land use approval, conditional use was approved by the hearings officer for up to three bedrooms and up to six guests. Very important were conditions that were applied. They are essential to the ASTR being a good neighbor. They reduce the intensity of the use. And they minimize noise and late-night impacts on the neighbors. Could you please clarify type B specifically? Type B? It's a term that we use, a shorthand term. So type B is where a resident or property owner wants to rent out either three, four, or five bedrooms in their dwelling unit. The type one is just one or two. And that's an administrative process. There is a process that they have to go through, but it's not a land use review. Thank you. So the hearings officer decision to revoke the land use approval, the essential findings of the hearings officer was pointedly that the AST operator is legally obligated to follow the conditions of the land use approval. And the hearings officer's review of all evidence in the record, the hearings officer found substantial and continued violations of nine conditions of approval. And when you say continued violations, what has to happen for a violation to be considered continuing? I... think that it's not just a one event. It happens over a course of time. They've received notice prior? Yes. They've received some sort of a formal notification? Yes. Okay. And lastly, the hearings officer found that the zoning code consideration requirements were satisfied and the revocation of the land use approval is factually and legally warranted. So I'll turn it over to Justin. Good afternoon, city council members. My name again is Justin Lindley and I'm a city planner with the property compliance division at BDS. As mentioned, this property has had a history of short term rental violations with date back to the previous owner. Prior to the appellant's ownership, there were two separate violation cases for operating unpermitted short term rentals at the house. The total of four citations were issued to the previous owner, totaling 35,000, which remains an unpaid lien balance. Since purchasing the property on October 27th, 2017, the appellant has received four citations for the continued operation of unpermitted short term rentals. These four citations total $53,000, which remains an unpaid lien balance. The property owner ceased operations in early 2018 and rented the home to a long term renter, which allowed the BDS compliance case to be closed. The appellant then initiated a conditional use review application for a type B short term rental that is subject to the appeal. After approval of the type B conditional use, multiple complaints were received alleging that the site was operating in gross violation of the conditions of approval. In response to these complaints, BDS staff met with the appealant and discussed all conditions of these complaints. BDS staff met with the appealant and that the conditions of type B permit. After this meeting and in response to ongoing complaints and verified continued violations of the condition of approval, a notice of violation was issued to the operator in November of 2018. This notice outlined each condition of approval that was violated based on evidence collected at the time. In January of 2019, BDS compliance staff met with the appellant to discuss the notice of violation letter, the enforcement process, and options for compliance. The appellant stated that they would ensure compliance with all the conditions. Received complaint logs with date and time stamped photographic evidence documented that violations continued at the property in February and March 2019 despite insurances from the appealant that all violations would be corrected. Based on continued evidence of ongoing violations, BDS initiated a hearing of the conditional use. Evidence of the violations collected during the investigation period was presented to the hearings officer at the reconsideration hearing, along with testimony from BDS staff, the operators, neighbors, and other concerned parties. The hearing officer found substantial evidence, documented continued violations of the conditions. I will go over some of the evidence for the violations that had the greatest impact on the neighborhood and surrounding properties. Condition B1 relates to the number of guests per night and the maximum number of rooms that may be occupied. The rooms that were authorized for use as short term rentals were two rooms located on the main floor and one room located on the second floor for a total of three rooms and up to six guests. No rooms in the basement were allowed to be rented to guests due to the impact it would have on the living arrangements of the long term tenant, potential for a greater capacity at the house which would increase the intensity of the use. Evidence collected during the investigation documented that the basement bedroom was used for guest stays and advertised as a bonus space on the Airbnb ad. The hearings officer found the multiple violations of this condition with the use of the basement bedroom and additional guests to be a substantial violation. Condition B2 attempts- Could you go back one screen please? Yes. That was just too fast. Okay, thank you. You're welcome. Condition B2 attempts to limit the impact on neighboring properties by, quote, imposing quiet hours and restricting the times the outdoor spaces are used. The exterior gathering spaces of the property are in close proximity to the neighboring houses and have the greatest impacts by short term rental guests. This condition was imperative in reducing the impact the guests would have on the adjoining properties. Multiple violations of the conditions from various guest stays occurred. Many of these violations occurred with guests conducting parties lasting through the night and into the next morning. Additionally, violations of this condition were confirmed after the notice of reconsideration was mailed and prior to the May 15th, 2019 reconsideration hearing. The hearings officer found that the violations were substantial. Condition B7 sought to mitigate the impact of guest access going from the driveway and using the side door directly adjacent to the neighboring property. During the conditional use review, The condition was proposed by the operator to mitigate the impact of the short term rental guests would have on neighboring properties. This condition was never implemented by the appellant. The code entry to the house was on the side door. The hearings officer found substantial violations of the conditions. In conclusion, this site has had a continued history of violations with the short term rental regulations. Despite the appellant's assurances of compliance throughout the conditional use review and enforcement case, the violations continued. Multiple opportunities were available for the operator to take corrective actions to implement and meet the conditions. Effort taken by the operator proved to be disingenuous. At no time was there an effort, such as providing an on-site manager, to enforce any conditions or address complaints from neighbors. The conditions set forth were essential in ensuring the accessory use of the house as a short-term rental to guests would have a minimal impact on the neighbors and surrounding properties. The conditions of approval that have and continue to be violated were authorized by a city code hearings officer through the afforded land use appeal process. No additional conditions can be implemented in this situation to ensure the compliance with the existing conditions. The reconsideration hearing found continued substantial violations of the conditions of approval and granted the revocation of the conditional use. We recommend the appeal be denied and that council uphold the hearings officer decision to revoke the conditional use. To be clear, there is no owner occupant, which is a violation of our short term rental rules. We were not able to confirm that. Did the hearings officer address that? The hearings officer did not address that. With the type B, is that still a requirement that the It is. Dwell in as owner occupied? And the conditions on noise that you mentioned, that's standard citywide, 10 to 8 a.m., but ours is 10 to 7 a.m., 10 p.m. to 7 p.m.? So the noise condition was a little bit detailed because the outdoor decks were of such a concern during the hearings. The applicant proposed and the condition, the hearings officer applied the condition that the outdoor deck use would stop at 7 p.m., which is earlier than typical. Oh, I see. So there's quiet hours, and then there's the actual use of the outdoor spaces. That slide went by a little fast. It was 7 p.m. to 10 a.m. No, 8 a.m. Why don't you bring the slide up again so the commissioner can take a look at it. Okay, will do. Thank you. I'd like to clarify the earlier question about owner occupied. The dwelling unit with the ASTR does not need to be owner occupied necessarily. It just has to have a long-term resident and what we find is a lot of the ASTRs, the owners will assign or have another long-term resident that occupies a portion of the dwelling unit. Okay. And was that looked into in this case? Yes. They met the requirements and there was a slide up that showed There was a long-term resident. This is from the- There's been multiple long-term residents. We did have a family that was living in there from the period when the short-term rental ceased to when they received their conditional use permit. At the time that they received the conditional use permit, there was a new long-term tenant that was to reside at the property. We had received complaints that there was not a long-term resident at the site nor on-site manager. When we investigated that and looked into Yasmeen Barghouti, who was listed as the occupant for the property or what would be the long-term resident, during her... she said that she had ceased living at the house in October and was no longer the resident there. We then received a clarification from Raymond Burst, Jr. that he was the resident, and so would be owner-occupied, and that he had been residing there since October. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Could you, I understand part of the conditional use permit required front door entry for the guests of the ASTR. Thank you. That's what makes me batty. From my reading of the hearings officer's statement, that was never done. So there was never a process that actually met that requirement for how guests would enter the location. Is that accurate? That is correct. And the reason given, I believe, was that – what was the reason given? Okay. During the hearing, the appellants had argued that because of the historic nature of the door, that they could not move the key code from the side door to the front door, which is not correct. That was going to be my next question. If you've had that experience in the past where that's been part of the conditional use permit and that condition was finalized, happen, right? So you said this is what you need to do and so normally that takes place? Yes. Very good. Does that conclude this panel? Very good. Next up, thank you for the report. Next up is the appellant. Ten minutes. If you could please identify yourself for the record, we'd appreciate it. Welcome, sir. Good afternoon. I hope you can hear me. I got a little hoarse voice. My name is Raymond M. Burse and I own the property jointly with my son, Raymond Jr., Raymond Jr. was employed in Portland, has an undergraduate degree from Ohio State, graduate degrees from Indiana University Thunderbird School, and was here playing for the Portland Timbers. Myself, I'm a Central College undergraduate, Harvard Law School Rhodes Scholar, and we're both professional people. We've had problems with this site from the very beginning, starting with the application for permit neighborhood objection at every stage. The permit was granted, and a neighborhood association showed then and continues to show intent to get rid of, no matter the method or the consequences, and sometimes even engage in untruths. which is presented in an environment not conducive to safe and livable neighborhoods. As an example, I point to three things. A camera mounted on the neighbor's house focused on the bedroom of the property in which we own. Daily log of each activity, everything that we've done has been logged. In fact, there was an air conditioner complaint made that the air conditioning unit was too loud and the city came out and checked it. There was no problem. So any little nit, whatever you have it, comes there. And what has happened is the activity has empowered a neighbor and neighbors to complain, block, and destroy, not what you want and what you support. And that is the reason we're here today. I heard earlier that there was a two-year period in which we have not been involved in the property for two years. It was acquired in October of 2017. The review notices that we got were brought at the review action. Did you take the property subject to the lien? To which lien? The prior lien that the Bureau of Development Services put on the property. There was no lien on the property when we purchased it. Okay. So we, so the review that was taken was broader than the notices. The violations gave us 30 days to correct the violation. And if you, if we do the review, the review included items not in the notices itself. There was in fact efforts made and corrections made, but no consideration by the staff or the hearing office for action taken in response to the notices. If you can read into the hearing officer's decision, The definition of substantial was used in different ways depending on what result was seeking to be achieved. In one instance, he dismisses our definition of substantial, but later in the decision itself comes back to justify a conclusion what he was reaching for. The substantial violation in our opinion has not been improved because there's been a misapplication of the facts. In some instances, we were alleged to have done things which we did not do and did not. In fact, when we were owners present on the property, there have been complaints about us using our own property and the inability to do that. The hearing officer failed to review, use, and consider all of the evidence. And if you read through the hearing officer's decision, he makes reference that there are times where he considers this evidence but gives credence, greater credence, to a log of individual who has not necessarily gone through the rigors of that. There was over-reliance on proven discredit witness. And the discredit witness, I'd say, is the witness who had the daily log. in terms of things that she recorded or alleged to have occurred that didn't occur. The hearing officer found that some conditions were not typical that were imposed on the property. And for instance, one was if you're going to be away from the property for three days or more, notify your neighbors. I don't know how many people are going to do that. And as I said, there was stated evidence not in the file by the hearing officers when in fact it was there. There were statements that were attributed that neither my son nor I had said in the record what was in fact there. And when you review it, it was there. We also raised in the hearing a equal protection argument which was not considered. Constitutional protections are available to all and ours were dismissed outright by the hearing officers with no consideration. And what I mean by equal protection is that we be treated the same way as any other similarly situated individuals in regards to how we park cars in our driveway, in terms of how we enter our property, And what we have in fact is, from the equal protection, is a property taken. Our livelihood and ability to in fact maintain and own that property. All we ask is we use our property like others use theirs. This next item I hate to raise after having heard you in the earlier session that you had. My son has raised on several occasions racial animus. His record shows that there has been no cooperation with neighbors as contemplated by the process. Not one time did any of them come to us and complain about anything that was going on. Their objective was to close it down, no matter what. The staff was put on notice regarding animus and to our knowledge, no action to correct, counter this, or to take into consideration when reviewing complaint. There was a duties and responsibilities assignment sheet, what I saw was put up, and who, and other than us, no one has lived up to those. Never once contacted by a neighbor with a complaint. So from my standpoint, the decision is not supported by substantial evidence. Substantial evidence being relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion. Reasoning leading from the facts found to the conclusion drawn more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance. A case-by-case analysis requiring review of the whole record, relevant evidence. When you look at that, what we have here is just sheer number and volumes of complaints being used as a guideline to, in fact, move forward with this. And the volume and the number of complaints was really by an uncredited neighbor, and that in itself is not substantial. To do so without more is dangerous. It's an unlawful taking. And the staff has relied on a lot of what the neighbor's complaints in terms without any independent validation by staff in terms of that. And you review that, they always cite what the neighbor said, but no validation in terms of going back to do that. In conclusion, I would say Perfection is not possible. We made some mistakes, yes we did, but we also, when put on notice, took efforts to, in fact, to correct those. Perfection is an unreasonable standard. We took action. We fired the management company because they were allowing more folks into there than we had done that. We appeared before, or at least tried to appear, the appearance and the function of the neighborhood has not changed by us being there. The use does not fully comply with the conditions of approval, but violations correct those corrected after the notice letters are not substantial enough to warrant revocation and use can comply with the original criteria if the conditions are met. And therefore we ask that you reverse the decision and affirm the use permit. Commissioner Fish. So sir, thank you very much for your presentation and I understand from listening to your presentation that you have in fact preserved a number of constitutional issues that you may choose to take up. You've mentioned taking, you've mentioned equal protection, and you mentioned racial animus. And just to be clear, as a deliberative body reviewing the decision of the hearing officer, we're not really in a position to rule on a constitutional claim, but you have clearly put that in the record, so you have preserved your right to bring those claims in some other form. How long have you owned the property? Since October of 2017. And since October of 2017, which is almost two years, what efforts have you made to relocate the keypad to the front door? According to my son, when it originally was given to me. According to your son? According to my son. Okay. He was the one who was charged with primary responsibility for doing that. Okay. Okay. According to him, he had locksmiths come to the property themselves, and given the historic nature of the door, they said they could not change the door to put the keypad on the door itself. Okay? And he failed to finish and complete that. He has subsequently put, and this was made total to the hearing officer, it has been corrected in terms of, a padlock that's attached to, I guess, one of the seats of benches there that you now use the combination to open the front door. The front door. So you currently have a lock on the front door. Yes, I do. Okay. We had a slide earlier that you saw, sir, where some guests of the property – referred to having as many as 10 people present. Do you acknowledge that during the period of time of your ownership, you've had more than six guests in the building? According to the records, I think prior to December of 2017, there were, I think, four occasions where there were more than six guests. Okay, and what steps have you taken to correct that? We corrected the website itself, went in and corrected the website. We did that in terms of the rules. We also fired the management company who was responsible for the actual rental of the property. So there are apparently 16 conditions of approval on this property. Have you affirmatively taken any legal action to reduce any of those 16 conditions? We mean affirmative legal action. I don't understand your question. There are conditions on how this property can be used for ASTR. Yeah, I know. I have the same problem with acronyms as my colleague. Have you affirmatively moved to set aside any of those conditions? No. I guess I'm not understanding. In terms of addressing those issues, we have gone through the things that we need to do to address those issues in terms of our agreement with our rental agency, the things that we put on site, the rules and regulations for the operation of the property. Right, but according to the timeline we were given earlier, sir, we have violations that are actually contemporaneous. Yes. So you've owned the property for two years, but there are some violations that have occurred fairly recently. So what – let me state it slightly differently. What's the current lien on the property? What's the current what? Lien on the property. I don't know of any current lien on the property. So the Bureau of Development Services and in our material says there's a $100,000 lien on the property. Is that correct? Just under $100,000, sir. You're not aware of that? No, we're not aware of that. When we purchased the property, there was no lien, and we also had a title search and information done. None of that was a record. Okay, but part of that lien has been applied since you purchased the property, and you're not aware of that? No, I'm not. We didn't even notice of it. Okay, I'm just going off of what was said in the presentation before you. I do not know of any lien on the property that has been imposed for which we have an obligation. Okay. So, um, When you were presented at the hearing below with allegations of violations of conditions, did you present testimony rebutting the allegations of violations? We presented testimony where we could rebut it. We acknowledged that in terms prior to then that there had been some violation. But we also contested the question of notice was that we got the notice of violation said you needed to correct these in 30 days. Okay. When you look at the record of things that were used, all those things required, most if not all of those, occurred prior to that notice. When you look at the period after, it's a different story. Who is your current property manager? It's being done by the Airbnb itself. Airbnb, the company itself, is doing it. Airbnb itself? Yes. You do not have a property management company in the area? like a White Spider or some other company? No, we don't. White Spider was who we terminated because they were responsible. I understand you terminated them. Yeah. Now Airbnb does property management? Airbnb is doing it and they have local contractors in the community who in fact clean, do or undertake all of those activities. Okay. So I have some other questions that I want to defer to my colleagues. But sir, I will say that we have been advised that you have $100,000 lien on your property. I don't know what that property is worth. I assume given the pictures of the property and the location, it's worth quite a lot. But I'm a little concerned that that's news to you because that's a substantial lien on your property already for violations, alleged violations that have been put on the property, separate and apart from what we're here today to talk about. Right. But, you know, I guess the question is what was the dates and when were those liens replaced? Because at the time that we purchased the property, There were no liens on the property. That title search showed that. In addition to that, since then, the notice of violation said that we had 30 days corrected and then said there would be some, if not there would be some potential. But nothing has ever been assessed or we've received any notice of it. I'm just suggesting it's something you're going to want to look at. Yes, I will. As a matter, that's a substantial lien. Right. And thank you very much. Commissioner Hardesty, then Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Reviewing the hearings officer's documents, but let me go back before that. So there was a process where you went to obtain the permit in order to use this property as a ASTR document. or as a temporary rental, short-term rental property. Correct. And there were some very specific limitations that were set on this property based on its close proximity to neighbors. One example is the parking. There seems to be a long record of cars being parked in a driveway, even though the conditional permit actually said that cars would not be parked in a driveway. It doesn't say cars would not be parked in a driveway. It says that you have to, in fact, cannot extend beyond 10 feet from the property line itself, so in the actual driveway. and it's supposed to be limited to two cars. Right. Okay? Now we have some people who have parked cars in there that's not under 10 feet. When you look at the neighborhood and the way everybody else parks, where people are parking are no different. So when I talk about having standards that apply to everybody, that should be one that applies to everybody. Well, let me challenge that a little bit, sir. I think you're in a residential neighborhood. So most people are parking based on their individual use of their house. So you have additional criteria placed on you because other people are coming and going at a regular basis. Do you agree with that? Yeah, I understand that. Right? And so when you went to get the permit, There was a conversation about these are going to be the limits on how you can use this property if, in fact, you want to use it as a short-term rental property. And you agreed to that. Yeah, we agreed to that. We also, those requirements were actually put in the rules for the use of the property that was given to the management company, given to people at the time that they rental, and then the rules that were on the property itself. I understand. And of course, if you hire a management company, you have an expectation that they're going to do the job that you hired them to do. However, you have an obligation to make sure that the people you hired are doing the job that you're paying them to do. Right. And when you made that argument with the hearings officer, what the hearing officer said was, the fact that the company that you hire did not do what you asked them to do is not an excuse for it not happening. Right. It's not an excuse for it, but when we got notice of what was being done, we addressed it. Well, I also noticed in the report that you agreed with the... With most of what was laid out, when the hearings officer was reviewing your conditional permit, you agreed that you had violations to the numbers of people, you agreed that you had violations to using the basement property, you agreed that you had violations for parking, you agreed that smoking was in fact taking place, you agreed people were using the outdoor balconies, and so... So let me just finish my, and then you can respond. I'm just trying to let you know that I have read all the documents that I have, and I've read your statements that affirmed many of the complaints that have been filed against you based on this conditional use, right? And so if you agree to all that, That, yes, we did make, we had, and I actually see it as substantial because it was just kind of an ongoing thing, right? That there was a consistency of not actually implementing what you agreed to as provisional use of this property. Do you agree with that? In part, I agree with, and in part, I disagree with. We acknowledge and agree the things that we were going to provide, we're going to abide by. Okay? If you take the date of notice of violation, which was in December of 2017, and you look backwards from there, there were violations. It's hard to argue with that. Right. Okay? And I don't argue with that. Right. Okay. But what I do argue with is the notice said you had 30 days from here to do some correction, and we did some corrective action. But was it enough for you to actually meet the requirement that was part of the conditional use? You did some things. It wasn't perfection. Well, I mean, I'm not asking for perfection. I'm just asking if you met the letter of what you agreed to do. We tried, we attempted to, and from our perspective, we thought we were in compliance. We had some variations in there where people did things. But when you look at the number of people who were supposed to be in there, after that December 30th, we abided by that. The rules were put in as it relates to the cars. Part of the roles and responsibility document that we signed or at least agreed to it was that everybody had a responsibility and they were going to do that. Part of that responsibility was for if neighbors thought there were violations to in fact give us notice. They never gave us one single notice, one call, one anything. So my last question, because I know my other colleagues have questions as well, and so What did you do to proactively address the concerns that were being raised about the non-compliance with the conditional use of this property? The notice of non-compliance with the Warren Iowa was December 1st was we went and changed the rules and regulations. We put those rules and regulations in place. We visited their property, and my son is here in the community looking at the property. We did all those things to, in fact, do that. And when we found people that were not doing it, we said, no, you couldn't be doing that. We even put into the rental agreement itself, if, in fact, you engage in some of those activities, you're going to be fined for being on the property. Right. Yeah. I'm sorry, I do have one more and then I'm done for the moment. So you said as of January, when did you get the notice? We got it in, I guess, roughly December the 1st of 2017. No, yeah, 2017. So there's a substantial list of violations that happened after that starting on January 1st. I mean, January 9th, 2019, going through April of 2019. And so there's a pretty long list. There is a log, the list of a log generated primarily by one person. Do you disagree that these violations were in fact happening? I disagree with it because I've never seen them or reviewed them or any of those things, nor have I ever had a conversation with her about violations. And further, she didn't want to have a conversation with us. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. When did you change the management company to Airbnb? We did it in, I think it was February when we finally got rid of it. Of this year? Yes, of this year. Okay. So they didn't change, according to the records from development services and from the operator's guest blog, they didn't change the listing until March 2020? I think there's something. Let me make certain on the dates. I think there's some confusion on the dates. We purchased the property in October of 2017. It was in December of 2018 that we got the notice of violation. Okay. Yeah. But then there's BDS, Development Services documents that the House rules and the narrative haven't been changed on the Airbnb listing. It most certainly has been changed. Well, it says it was changed on March 21st of this year, but not before that. And even then it says... And we actually went on there and provided the actual language to the company that this was, in fact, to be done. And we know for a fact, based on the logs of the use of the property, that, in fact, there was no time after December where there were more than six guests on the property. But there were use of more than four bedrooms. More than three. Right. And the operator's logs talk about using the fourth bedroom and about having more. And on that site, to get to the rules and the information, you had to click through some items. And I think based on what my son and I looked at what was presented was they presented the front page of it, never clicked through to where the rules and all that information was. That's what we saw when we looked at it. So it would be helpful if staff have some screenshots of that that are in the record. I'd like to see what was listed as of both 1-23-19 and then 3-21-19. I don't know if that's in the record but if it is I'd like to see it please. Because it seems like Airbnb has not paid attention to the conditions that you were given either. That even though they're now responsible for it which I'm kind of glad. they haven't acknowledged that there's a conditional use for this house. According to my son, who's gone through it in detail, and he sent me some screenshots. I don't have those. I got them on my phone. In fact, it was changed. We showed the rules. In fact, as an exhibit to one of our responses, we showed screenshots. Okay. Thank you. We'll see if we can get that. Thanks so much. Commissioner Udeli, did you have a question? Sure. Yeah, I was just taking a look at where the property is located. I want to sympathize with you as it does seem like there's an extraordinary focus on this property in your neighborhood. And there may be racial issues at play. However, it's extremely rare. For the city to revoke these permits, and this is an extraordinary number of complaints that's continued well into 2019. Too many occupants, people in an illegal basement bedroom. I'm unclear about the smoking rule. Is there a no smoking rule for... Is that something? It's a limitation we put on the property, but it's not a limitation we put on anyone else's. Okay. There's a question of whether you have a long-term occupant. There's been repeated noise issues. And, you know, some of these complaints are there was someone outside at 8.20 p.m. Honestly, that's beyond nitpicky. But there's also complaints of people being disruptive at 1, 2 in the morning. Mm-hmm. It's a real problem having unattended hotels essentially in the middle of residential neighborhoods. And besides wanting to reduce the intensity and minimize the noise of on this property, we also have these rules in place to protect our rental market. Because every rental that's taken off the long-term rental market and put into short-term creates more pressure on our rental market, and we're in the midst of a housing crisis. So the question remains, is there a long-term occupant of your house? The house, in terms of when it was set up, there was a young lady, my son, employed to, in fact, do that. She, in fact, moved out. He was here in Portland working and doing that, lost his job in February of 18. So he is in Portland just about every week or every other week until the house had sailed. So he's back and forth. And then he lives there when he's here. What I'm unclear about and maybe need to find out from staff is that I know different types of people buildings have different rules, but we have this rule that there needs to be a long-term occupant. Well, I'm unclear. I thought it was nine months out of the year it's owner-occupied. Is it any different for type B? No, and it's 270 days, so it doesn't have to be nine consecutive months. Right.
 Okay. That's all. Thank you. All right, good. Thank you, sir. Next up are supporters of the appellant, and you'll have three minutes each. And I ask people, please keep it within three minutes because we'll have to stop you at three minutes. No one else signed up. Very good. Opponents of the appeal, three minutes each. Same rules apply. And we need people's name for the record. We do not need your specific address. We have 13 people signed up. The first three, please come on up. Can I just make an observation? If 13 people signed up, I just want to caution people. This is an on-the-record hearing. But if 13 people come and say a different variation of the same thing, that is not helpful to us as decision-makers. So I'm hoping that it's 13 different pieces of testimony that are relevant to this. If not, we'd be happy to take a handful of representative speakers who are here to talk more generally. But if we spend the next 30, 40 minutes having everybody repeat themselves, I just want to caution, that does not help us as decision makers hear redundant testimony. It's also okay to come up and just say, I agree with what somebody else said or whatever. Or stand behind people. Yeah. Can I just ask? Commissioner Fritz, then Commissioner Hardesty. As the city attorney, often in these proceedings, we have a principal opponent who gets 15 minutes. Do we not do that in this case? In this case, we do not have a principal opponent. Correct. Thank you. And I had a question for the attorney as well. Well, my question is, is the... appellate is that the right term appellate is the appellate son uh present no he's not he's not uh because we've had a lot of testimony based on what your son told you so i it's kind of hard to weigh what your son said if he's not in the room and so i just want to put that on the record that I guess we will ask direction from legal counsel after we hear public comment. Can I just jump in on that? That's classic hearsay. And unless he – did he testify at the hearing below? It's my – Yes. So I want to just – without interrupting you, if you – Don't mind. Because this is an on-the-record hearing, you're basing it on all the testimony that was before the hearings officer anyway. So I think what you would do is look at the hearings officer's decision and look if staff has information that was presented by the appellant at that time and give you that information. So, counsel, I have a follow-up question. I listened very carefully to the... questions that Commissioner Hardesty raised and the answers of the appellant. And I think it's fair to say based on that exchange, that the appellant acknowledged virtually all the violations. But in the course of his presentation offered explanations such as well, we had a property management agency that didn't do their job, or we had tenants that violated their lease agreement, their conditions of being on the property or whatever. I did not hear the appellant specifically say that on the vast majority of the so-called violations that he denied them. He said either they were the fault of others, or he said some steps had been taken to correct them. In light of that, is there a controversy before us? The standards you have, and I think staff has or will go through in the staff memo what your options are. Any options. But if the appellant has acknowledged that there were these violations, but has instead chosen to either argue that they are the result of someone else's failure to act, or that some action has been taken to correct them. Is there a controversy in terms of findings of the hearing officer? I think the answer is yes, because the standard is not was there a violation or was there not a violation. It's whether there was a substantial violation. And so, yes, there is. So we have to judge the volume and the qualitative and the quantitative. Yes, and I'd point out that the hearings officer includes a discussion of what the appellant's position was on whether they were substantial, and he chose to interpret the code in a particular way and determined they were. Thank you very much. That's helpful. And just again, before we get started, thank you for your patience. I'm noticing in the reconsideration documents that there are several Airbnb advertisements with house rules. So if staff needs to get them copied for us, you're welcome to go to my office and run some off. Very good. Carla, how many? We have 13? Yes. First three, please. First three, please come on up. Our Bob Dobrich, Jim Barta, and Dean Griswold. Good afternoon. Why don't we just start on this side over here, please? Good. No problem. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Robert Dobrich, Irvington in Portland. I am the current president of the Irvington Community Association. For context, the ICA represents all residents of Irvington, homeowners, renters, and businesses. All of our meetings of the ICA and all of our committees are open to the public, and all requests to speak are granted. In Irvington, there are over 100 permitted short term rentals. The majority of these operate within the city guidelines and permit requirements. Unfortunately, the whole house vacation rental at 2946 Northeast 9th is not one of them. As the record shows, there have been blatant disregard for the rules. In fact, the owners of 2946 Northeast 9th have been violating the rules for approximately two years. After the first hearing in August of 2018, the current owner, Mr. Burse, was granted a Type B permit with conditions. These conditions were not unreasonable and they followed the city protocol and standards. However, these conditions were not followed with many egregious violations. Neighbors, not just those next door, continue to complain and document these violations. Since the city of Portland is complaint based, it puts the onus of enforcement on the shoulders of the neighbors. The reported violations were captured in official complaint logs and filed with the Bureau of Development Services. These violations led to a revocation hearing in May of 2019. At that hearing, hearing officers Frank found that several substantial violations to the conditions of the permit and revoked the permit. In addition, Mr. Burse has repeatedly used intimidation tactics against his neighbors, including threats of police arrest, legal action, and verbal harassment. The ICA has fielded complaints from several neighbors regarding this whole house vacation rental. Contrary to Mr. Burse's assertion, not all of the neighbors were board members of the ICA. Mr. Burse has continued to say that race played a factor in these actions. I would not disagree that race has played a big part in Mr. Burse's life. However, I will emphatically testify that race had nothing to do with any complaint or action by the ICA. But let's bring it back to the facts. Mr. Burse purchased a property that already had violations of the short term rental code. He chose to continue to operate the whole house vacation rental. He chose to not follow the conditions of the permit set forth by hearings officer Turner in August of 2018. He chose to simply ignore the rules set forth for its operation repeatedly and to this day. The result has been an impingement on the livability of long term residents on both sides of the block and behind the subject property. In summary, the whole house vacation rental at 2946 Northeast 9th continues to operate with numerous violations of the permit condition. And has generated countless complaints logged by several neighbors. It appears the operators are blatantly disregarding the permit requirements. As such, and based on all of the information in the record, I support the revocation of the permit. I see the balance of my time to Dean Gisvold. Thank you. Thank you and nobody can cede their time here. It's three minutes per person. Okay. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello, my name is Jim Bartup and I'm in charge of code violations for the ICA Land Use Committee, ICA Urban Community Association. We've been tracking this matter since July 2017. The owners of the property are operating in violation of the code for more than two years. ICA filed a complaint on behalf of the neighbors in October 2017 after the initial complaint was closed in error. The owners finally filed for the required Type 2 permit in February 2018. They wanted to continue to operate the unlicensed STR during this time. They wanted to use staff approval for the Type 2 permit in June 2018. ICA appealed that approval. The unlicensed Airbnb continued to operate during that time. The ICA PO was denied to the hearings officer in August 2018. The hearings officer approved the Type 2 STR with additional conditions, which we refer about here. In October 2018, ICA filed a complaint that the owner was operating STR in violation of the August 2018 HO conditions, hearings officer conditions. The owner continued to operate STR in violation of conditions. Revocation hearing for the Type 2 was held May 15, 2019. Hearing officer decision after the hearing was revoked the Type 2 STR. Order to appeal the decision to council today. The order continues to operate the STR in violation of the August 2018 hearings to this day. We ask the council to deny this appeal. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Dean Gisvold, I support the revocation. I prepared and submitted a two page rebuttal to the arguments of the owner. I'm not going to read it. Plus copies of the list of violations, seven pages, single spaced. taken from the staff report and the quoted findings regarding nine of the 14 operating conditions which are in that attachment. You don't have to read the whole staff report. Let me summarize what happened after the owners filed for a B permit after operating without a permit for a significant period of time. The owners received approval from hearings officer Turner for a B permit for three rooms, up to six guests with 16 conditions. Owners object to these conditions now, but they did not appeal it. They had the right to appeal to Luba, but they did not appeal it and they should have done so if they objected to it. By city code, they must comply with all of these conditions. whether they feel it's fair or unusual at this point. The violations then continued on. Since Portland has instituted a resonant complaint-driven enforcement process, the neighbors and the ICA did what the city requires and filed complaints. The neighbors filed complaints using forms and pursuant to the instructions from the city. and in some cases even provided pictures. They filed periodic logs each week, week after week, month after month. All these logs for the relevant times are in the record. The violations nonetheless continued and the complaints logs were filed again and again. A hearing was scheduled for May 15th, 2019 and a staff report that contained the seven pages of violations was sent to all parties, including the owners, Mr. Burse Sr. and Mr. Burse Jr. Owners received notice of these violations, they received notices in November and December of other violations. And the hearings officer Frank found that the city gave all the required notices. Please note that most of the B1 violations were from the owner's own guest log. Who wrote in there how many guests, how many rooms, how good it was that they were there. The revocation hearing was held and on June 21, hearings officer Frank found that there was substantial evidence of numerous violations of nine of the 14 operating conditions in order to revocation. But the violations continued and the complaint logs had been filed up until last week. The owner's appealed and here we are. I ask you, as the others have, approve the decision of the hearings officer and support the efforts of the residents to follow the city requirements. And the verification decision should be upheld. Thank you. Thank you. Next three please, Carla. Are Barbara Nagel, Richard Flagy, and Lily Copenagel. Good afternoon, would you like to start please? Good afternoon, thank you, I would. My name is Lily Copenagle and I am the daughter of Barbara Nagel and Richard Plagi. I'm testifying today because in the course of assisting the city in gathering information about violations of a short term rental permit, they have been threatened and accused of racism by the property investors who own the short term rental next door to their house. The threats were frightening, but the accusations of racism were what hurt us the most. The influence of racism, and in particular as it relates to housing and businesses, is very real and very serious. And you don't know my parents, and you don't live on our block, so I want to share with you some of the history that might help you evaluate those accusations. My family moved to our neighborhood when I was less than a year old. I went to neighborhood school and I grew up with the neighboring kids. In our inner northeast Portland neighborhood, race, racism, and Portland's history with the black community are a big part of our collective conversation. And in our house, we discuss this history and the ways in which it impacts the day-to-day lives of our friends and neighbors. My parents are deeply committed with an unflinching humility and honesty about the privilege that we enjoy as white people and our role in fighting against the systems that exclude and discriminate. But they don't just talk about it, they showed me with their actions. My family could have left our neighborhood at any time in the last 44 years. In fact, many factors have made it challenging for them to stay. But they chose to stay in part because of their lasting and deep relationship with the neighborhood and the connections that we have there. They have helped the long term residents as they have aged and encouraged them to stay. They have watched with sadness as many of our long term residents have left the neighborhood and the neighborhood has gentrified. I am a product of their house and my experience is growing up in the diverse community of our neighborhood. I have dedicated my career to exposing the ways in which race and gender disparities impact our communities. I work with several local organizations and government agencies such as the Coalition of Black Men, the National Association of Minority Contractors Oregon, and even the City of Portland to provide transparency and accountability in the Portland business community, and to help the residents of the Portland area understand the impacts that discrimination and bias has on us as a city. While I have no doubt that Mr. Burse Jr. and Mr. Burse Sr. are impacted every day of their lives by the culture of exclusion and oppression that we live in today, I hope that this helps you make an informed decision of the history on our block and my family's commitment to a diverse and healthy Portland. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Barbara Nagel. I live at 2938 Northeast 9th. My husband, Richard Plage, and I have lived there for 44 years. Through the years, we've had warm, positive relationships on our street. We've always been committed to Portland's strong, diverse, inclusive neighborhoods. We appreciate the Bursa's concerns about racism. We, too, are concerned about racism in our community. It means a great deal to us, and so I state clearly and sincerely that, To attribute our complaints to racism is an abuse of the word. Our complaints have nothing to do with race. We're both retired, and although we both have volunteer obligations, we're home a lot, and we do a lot of our own maintenance, so we're outside a lot. We're especially aware of what happens next door at 2946. The driveway passes five feet away under our bedroom window, and the back deck is five feet from our garden. We see and hear almost every person and car that enters that driveway. There is no barrier between our house and that driveway. Sometimes the guests are considerate, and then there are those who party until the morning hours, run enthusiastic team-building retreats, use foul language, urinate on the fence, separating our backyards, or barbecue on the deck after midnight. We're awakened at all hours as guests come and go, greet each other in the excitement of their vacation, and drag their suitcases down the driveway to the back door. We hear it all from our bedroom above, especially in the summer months. We understand it. They're on vacation, eager to have a good time in the motel they rented. This whole house rental started in January of 2017 under the prior owner without a permit. We complained to her and then to the city in 2017 before Mr. Burse was the owner. We complained to Airbnb. Our last notice from Mr. Burse says Yasmeen Barghouti still lives there. She doesn't, never did. Why would we call her? None of our concerns have been addressed. The city only accepts complaints with documenting time stamp photos. On the day of the hearing in July 2018, Mr. Burse Jr. called the police claiming my husband was harassing his guests. Richard's crime was that he had taken photos of guest trucks blocking the street. Mr. Burris Jr. then emailed our neighbors saying that they shouldn't communicate with us because we were under police investigation. As noted by BDS at the July hearing, this was not true. The complaints with photos are our only tool. We've submitted 19 citizen complaint logs with 167 photos. The evidence shows the flagrant, serial, proven dishonest management of this enterprise in spite of multiple opportunities to comply. We are deeply affected by those unsupervised activities. We can't capture all of it on complaint logs. We're no longer comfortable entertaining in our garden. We don't allow our grandniece or my 95-year-old mother in the garden alone. We dread the better weather because it brings out the worst. Mr. Burse claims he's corrected the problems, but he hasn't. Thank you. Good afternoon. Yes, my name is Richard Plagge. I live in the house next door to you. The house is advertised as a whole house rental and it is rented almost every day. On July 28th, the owners listed it for 12 guests, defying the permit six person limit. Here's a screenshot. City code explicitly prohibits full time short term rentals and requires that someone live there at least 270 days of the year. Mr. Burns Jr. claims he lives there, BDS exhibits 25C and D. But he doesn't, and he never has. On July 22nd, Mr. Burns Jr. informed the Washington County courts that he lives in South Carolina. And that when he exercises his parental rights in Oregon, he stays with his girlfriend on Murray Road in Beaverton. And here's the court record. His LinkedIn page says his realistic... Can I ask a question of legal counsel? Is that already included in the record? So I'm trying to figure out the date. So I want to make sure that the people testifying understand that this is limited to the record in front of the hearings officer. The hearings officer hearing was on May 15th of this year, so I don't believe... Unless somebody else tells me I'm wrong, anything after May 15, 2019. When was the record closed? The record was closed May 22nd for new evidence. So if there is new evidence coming in, and I'm keeping a list of some things I've heard that might be, but this might be better to stop because it sounds like it's definitely new. And, counsel, if I could also just add, the appellant has already testified that his son lives somewhere else. that he is an occasional visitor to Portland, that he may on occasion stay at the house, but there has been no representation that there is someone currently living there 270 days a year. So just to be clear, I think that's already been established in the colloquy between Commissioner Hardesty and the appellate. Thank you. Right. And not to cut anybody off, but this is a legal hearing, and therefore we have to stick to the record as it currently exists. That's fine. Thank you for explaining. Okay. Let's start here. Yeah. Our only respite in the past two years was February to July of 2018, when the Freemans, an African American family displaced by a fire, rented the house. They were considered responsible neighbors, but Mr. Burse raised their rent from 4,000 to 6,000 a month, saying he could make a lot more money renting it on Airbnb. The Freemans left and we were sad to see them go. We recognize the merits of alternative housing and there are many models on our street. But there must be limits that respect livability for all. We have a right to enjoy our homes. We accepted the conditional use permit because it set reasonable limits. But with no on-site resident, unsupervised guests continue to violate the permit. We support the city's efforts to prevent unsupervised motels like this. This is not a home. It's an investment company's low overhead motel in a residential neighborhood. Everything the city claims it wants to avoid. It displaces long term residents and exacerbates our housing crisis. This is not about the investors who own 2946. It's about the livability of our city. For over two years, we've tried to find relief to once again fully enjoy our home. Condition number 16 of the August 2018 decision says, but the most minor violations should be grounds for revocation. We need relief now. We plead for immediate revocation. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. Next three, please, Carla. All right. Karen Diora, James Stevens on behalf of Carolyn Dasher, and Kate Bloom. Good afternoon. Would you like to go ahead and start, please? Sure. Thank you. My name is Kate Bloom. I live at 2947 Northeast 10th Avenue, the house that is directly behind the house in question with the Airbnb. I have seen many Airbnb users being rowdy and partying past 10 a.m. The smoke, both from marijuana and tobacco products, both fills my window as I face that my bedroom faces directly their outside living area. That was not allowed to be passed, that they weren't allowed to be out past 7 o'clock, which they were. And on top of that, I have never seen a full-time resident whose job was to watch the house within minutes. the property. On top of that, my family also has trouble spending their dinners outside due to the noise and the smoking that we have to endure when we have family gatherings. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is James Stevens, and I'm reading a letter from Carolyn Dasher, a neighbor who's not able to be here. In their narrative of support of appeal, the operators imply that the complaints of a single neighbor are behind the revocation of the permit. This is untrue. The northwest corner of my property touches the southeast corner of the operator's property. Their deck overlooks my patio and is probably about 25 feet, if that, from my actual house. So we definitely are impacted by what goes on on this property. At the recommendation of BDS, we have submitted a number of complaint logs regarding noise, partying, and after permitted hours deck usage. While we have not been as strongly impacted as the neighbors immediately next door to the property, we are just as tired as they are of having to yell at tourists who take their noise inside. In the small hours in the morning, and in fact, they have had to submit additional complaint logs to BDS since the June 21st, 2019 decision. On weekends, perhaps because the operators assume no one at the city will be checking their Airbnb listing, then the operators change their Airbnb listing by increasing the number of guests allowed to 12. On Monday, they changed the listing back to six guests, the maximum allowed per conditions B1 and B10 at the ASTR permit. The operators will not have provided an on-site, still have not provided an on-site manager for this property. Condition B13 of the ASTR permit. Neither of the Burses reside there, their property essentially functions as an unstaffed hotel. This leaves managing noise in the hands of us neighbors. Based on the operator's historic lack of interest in solving these problems and the fact that Mr. Burse Jr. has called the police on neighbors who have complained, we have no confidence that they will suddenly become responsive to our concerns. The operators have shown repeatedly that they are unwilling to operate this property in adherence with the conditions of their ASTRD permit. We strongly urge that you maintain the revocation of the ASTR permit for 2936 Northeast 9th Avenue. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, I'm Karen Deora. I'm here to speak in support of Barbara Nagel and Richard Plagi. I lived across the street from them and the Burr's property for 21 years. I know the neighborhood well. I've written letters, made phone calls, and spoken to Ray Jr. in opposition to the conversion of this family residence into a profit making business. I'm not a member of the neighborhood association. Those of us in opposition don't want a business there that allows 12 strangers to arrive and depart every couple days, people who have no interest in us as neighbors. It has been very disruptive in many ways. However, we do value diversity. In 1975, when Barbara and Richard moved to this street, it was mostly inhabited by African-American families. That's why they wanted to live there, being avid supporters of social justice justice issues. They didn't want their daughter to grow up in a predominantly white neighborhood. Their neighbors on one side were a refugee family from Eritrea, and Barbara and Richard are still their friends. An older couple across the street and my next-door neighbors, until they both passed away, were also Barbara and Richard's friends. When his wife died, he was all alone, only nieces and no children. I'd see Barbara bringing him food—she's and Richard would go and sit with him to watch his favorite games on TV. These are only a few examples of the kindness and generosity which I admired and also received from them over the years. When I heard that Ray Jr. accused two of the families in our neighborhood of being racist, I was surprised. I don't fault him for assuming that. Portland is well known for its racism. But these two families hadn't known that the new owners were African American. If Ray Burse Jr. and his family would have moved into this house, they would have been welcomed. Thank you. Thank you all three. Next three, please, Carla. All right, Nikki Johnston, Helen Mushi, and James Posey. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Nicolette Johnston and I'm here as a citizen in this process. By way of disclosure, I sit on the Irvington Land Use Committee. The cost of this type B accessory short term rental process is being borne by the taxpayers. Not only the time that city staffers, Margaret Singer and Justin Lindley have put into this particular situation, but also not one, but two hearings officers that taxpayers have paid for. And now this appeal to you. If the appellant had simply followed the ASTER requirements like everyone else, we wouldn't be here today. In my opinion, a poet doesn't want to comply with Aster requirements, or they would have done so ages ago. Stop history from repeating itself, please. Enough is enough. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon Council, Mayor. My name is James Posey. I think most of you all know me. I've been in the community. I live down the street from the residence on the other side of MLK. I live in lower, I say lower Elliott neighborhood. I'm here because when Lily Copenago told me about the issue and the specter of race was raised in this particular circumstance, I was offended because when an outfit or an appellant or anybody raises the specter of race, then it becomes a different ballgame, and everybody knows it. And so I'm concerned that that whole issue of racism in this matter is being inappropriately and outrageously used in a way that doesn't serve us well in this community. We know there's racism in this community. You all know I'm no patsy when it comes to talking about racism and how it affects our community, but this particular case is outrageous. When a person doesn't get what they want, they start throwing the race corp. That's outrageous because it lessens all that we do to try to change the situation in our community. I got to tell you, after listening to the testimony, if this person or this house was down the street from me, I'd be raising hell. I'd be in here screaming at you all every day until you got rid of them. We've got kids in our neighborhood. We've got old people in our neighborhood. We just can't have that kind of mess going on where parties and smoking and carousing. These communities are already disrupted enough with the many changes, homeless and so on, etc., So I'm saying to you all, divorce yourself from the concept of racism in this matter and look at the merits. Look at what people are saying. Look at the evidence. Don't let somebody come here and spew the concept of racism. And people will basically transit to our community, by the way. transit to our community, and let them influence your decision on how you look at this matter and the people in this community. Thank you very much for allowing me to talk to you today. Thank you. Thanks to both of you. And the last person I have is Greg Snyder. I think one fell out. Good afternoon. Yes, good afternoon. Is there anything that's been said that you have not had a chance to address? I am last but late, not least. I will make my testimony short because many of the things I do say, I put in the record already in the hearings officer plus the conditional use. But I'll say, Mayor and Council, when are we going to crack down on illegal Airbnbs? How many thousands of Airbnbs do we have in the city that are not following the rules that you set out? And yet here we are trying to follow the process, trying to say, look, this is a problem, this is a problem, this is a problem, only to have it thrown back in our faces as citizen enforcers. We're doing the only thing we can, and that is to take it to Bureau of Development Services in a systematic way to try to document what's happening. We need real leadership. We need real policy change. We need a crackdown on illegal Airbnbs in this city. And I don't know what it's going to take, but this is a wake-up call to that effect. So please, I implore you, now is the time to make policy to get rid of illegal Airbnbs in the city of Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right, next up, and that concludes, Carla, the opponents of the appeal, correct? That's all who signed up, correct. Okay, next, if you so choose, Mr. Burse, you have the opportunity to rebut. This is the appellant's rebuttal. You have up to five minutes. Mr. Burse, while you're collecting your thoughts, since we won't be charged against your time, I have a couple of questions that would help me. Where do you live, sir? I live in Prospect, Kentucky. Okay. excuse me prospect kentucky and how often are you in portland i have a grandson here i'm here four to five times a year myself my son is here every other week every other weekend and what's his domicile he still claims portland he's working out working out of south carolina and also out of dayton ohio for this the company they have been moving around Okay, and sir, is there someone currently in this house on Northeast 9th Avenue who lives at least 270 days a year and is your agent? And is my agent, you said? Correct. But my son, you know, based on the calculation of the number of days. Let me state my question again. Is there someone living in the house at least 270 days a year? Yes. who meets the code requirement of having a full time occupant of the house separate and apart from people you rent to. Is it yes or no? No, but he calculates that he's here 270 days a year. That doesn't mean he lives in the house. Okay, sir. Yeah. And, but my final question is, we have a couple of exhibits that list complaints that can be brought against tenants for violations of the rules and it says that there's a mandatory walkthrough if there's an allegation of a complaint. Who does the mandatory walkthrough? It is done by the management company, put folks to walkthrough. My son also walks through those properties. And how many times has the management company done a walkthrough with one of your tenants? With one of the tenants? They charged us to do it on a regular, routine basis. No, I'm talking about when there's a complaint brought against a tenant. How many times has your managing agent, this is Airbnb, done a walkthrough of the property? We have had a complaint against a tenant. a actual complaint. Thank you. And that's part of one of the points that I was making earlier, is that there have been several complaints, but none of those to us, for us to address, or for the management company to address. There's been no outreach, no contact whatsoever. Okay. You know, as I've sat there and listened to a number of things in terms of what people have said, it's still my position that a substantial violation has not been proven. Okay. and we have not operated an illegal Airbnb. But according to the rules, we have a permit for what has been operated there and continue to be operated there. We submit that we heard from the president of the ICA, who said that they had been open and willing to, in fact, meet with us in regards to things. The record, if you review it, shows that they have not met, not made the opportunity, nor provided any notice to anyone. They've kept a record and log of complaints, but nobody has complained directly to the owners or to the property. There was, in fact, phone numbers. email addresses provided and no time was in fact anything done to to in fact do that. Had we been told of some of these things, it was fine. We would have done something. After the December 1, 2018 notice, we took action. And I think what we're saying is that if you look at some of the facts, and many of them, that there was a misapplication of the facts in the hearing officer's report. And in that regard, there are several things in terms of misstatement. He states that there was no evidence in there in regards to... In regards to the rules and regulations, before those rules and regulations were in fact posted, they were in fact shown to BDS in terms of what we were proposing to do and in fact that's what we ended up doing. We said that in fact, granted there's been a parade of folks in terms of number, but the primary person who has been on in regards to all of this has never reached across the five feet in the driveway to say, I've got a concern, I've got a problem, how do you help me and how do you do that? The hearing officer also found that there were some conditions that were not typical, meaning they weren't consistent with what has been done in the past. Even though they were not there, there was nothing that he could in fact do about that. So in fact, an undue and unfair burden was in fact placed upon us in terms of doing some things. When we got the notice again... it took place. We did the things that we needed to do. We're not saying that someone else didn't do what they wanted, didn't need to do. What we said is what we did to in fact address and do the things that we needed to do. And we have done that. The hearing also stated in many instances that there was evidence not in the file And when in fact it was there in terms of giving and saying that we are things that we had said and not done We're not there And if you if you and if you look at it You know in terms of one of ones that he said was there in terms of the ICA notice and in terms of that Was not there we spoke to him also regarding the how individuals distinguish between who was in fact a residence of the home versus who was in fact an Airbnb tenant in there. And they could not distinguish between them. But because they were in fact there, his assumption was it was everything applied to everybody. You know, we are, as I said earlier, we're far from perfect. Didn't do perfect in terms of doing that. But we've tried our best to in fact be... hospitable and good neighbors and to work towards trying to make this situation work. But in order to make things work, you had to have people working with you. And I think it ought to be very clear to you that there was no inclination or desire on the other side at any point to work with us, to notify us, to do any of those things. It was more bent on they have to go, they have to go, and we seem to be the point for a much larger issue, a larger discussion that is taking place. So thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, you had some questions. So I'm just trying to appreciate staff getting me involved. Airbnb screenshots from March, January and the latest is April 17th of this year. And it lists six guests but five beds and when you look over where the beds are, there's a king bed in the master suite, a queen bed in the guest bedroom and a queen bed in the second guest bedroom. So that's not five beds. Felly mae'n ymwneud â bod ystafell gwbl oedd yn cael ei wneud hefyd. Mae'r cwestiwn i chi yn dweud bod 6 cwbl o fynion ar wythnosau drwy'r wythnos ac 4 mis. Pan oeddwn i'n gweld hynny yn y record, roeddwn i'n meddwl bod hynny'n tybwr, bod hynny'n golygu cymaint. Dwi'n credu bod hynny'n tybwr. Wel, mae'n ymlaen yn y listing hon a'n ymlaen yn y llistingau. A yw yna farchnad per person ar y farchnad hwn? Nid yw hynny'n ymlaen. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae Beth rydych chi'n ei ddweud yw, ar gyfer y wythnosau a'r misau o'r wythnosau, beth rydych chi'n ei ddewis yw 6 gwestr. 6 gwestr i fod yno. Ni fyddwch chi'n rhoi unrhyw fwy na hynny, ond os mae rhywun eisiau rhannu'r adeilad, mae'n rhaid i'r 6 gwestr eu bod yn cael eu cyfrif ar gyfer 6 gwestr. A pam nad ydych chi'n cael 4 gwestr ar wythnosau a wythnosau? Ie, pam ond 4 ar ymweld â'r hwylid, os yw hynny'n ymwneud â'r ffordd y mae'r dweud yma, mae'n dweud maximum ond yw'n golygu minimum? Yn ymddygiad, dwi'n meddwl fy mhobl yn dweud... Mae'n ddiddordeb iawn, dwi'n dweud. hyd yn oed ar ôl bod y cwmni rheoli wedi newid, mae'n wirioneddol yn anhygoel bod yna'r maximum. Comisiynydd Hardesty. Diolch, Gweinidog. Gweinidog, mi fydda i am... Rwy'n gofyn i ddod â'r cyflwyniad i'r arweinyddion a chyflawni penderfyniad yr awdurdodau'r cyflawniad. Rydyn ni'n cael cyflwyniad gan Gweinidog Hardesty. Rydyn ni eisiau siarad yn fawr â'r cyflwyniad. I ddynnu'r cyflog, gwnawn ddatganiad i'r Swyddfa Gweithredu a chynnal y cyfnod o ddefnyddio'r cyfnod. Yn ail gan Comisiynol Ud-Daily, Comisiynol Fish. Mae hyn yn ddewisol, ond rwy'n credu, o ran yr holl ddewis y mae wedi'i glywed a'r ddewis yn y record, mae yna ddewis cyffredinol o wahanol athrofnodau yn y sefydliad yma. Ac rwy'n credu ei fod yn dderbynol i ni ddewis, unwaith i gyd, i droi'r llawr. Comisiynol Fritz. Roeddwn i eisiau i'r Cyngor ddweud y bydd yn rhaid i chi ddweud yn ymlaen i'r broses gywir yma. Rwy'n gwerthfawrogi y byddai Cymru yn adnabod y byddai'n bwriadol. Rwy'n credu ei fod yn bwysig yn y cas hwn, er bod, o ran y byddai'r cyllideb arbennig y Cyngor, yn dda i weithio'n gyflym. Rwy'n credu ei fod yn fwy pwysig i sicrhau bod y canlyniadau'n ymddangos y trafodaeth a ddigwydd heddiw a hefyd i sicrhau ein bod yn llyfru bod yna rhai o ddau o ddewisiad newydd ac rwy'n credu y gall y ddewisiadau ei ddysgu fod y ddewisiad newydd ddim wedi'i ystyried gan y Cyngor. Yn ystod y ddewisiad, allwn ni gael ddewisiadau yn tri wythnos? Rwy'n credu bod y datrysiadau a allwn ni sgwrsio arnynt ar ôl, nid wyf am amgylchu ar y cyflawniadau o'r blaen, allwn ni sgwrsio arnynt? Felly, byddwn yn cymryd ymwneud â chyflwyniad a yna ddewis pan f Any further discussion? Call the roll. Hardesty? I just want to say that I know that we live in a community that has suffered from deep gentrification, from racial tension, and racial inequality. And I just want the record to reflect that I'm appalled when race is used in a way as a hammer and as an excuse for non-action. I vote yes in favor of this motion. Lindley, are we good, Lindley, then? It's a tentative vote. It's a tentative vote. We're just taking a tentative vote. You daily. I agree with Commissioner Hardesty. When I looked up this residence, I realized I lived on this street in 2007 for a year, so I can attest to kind of the character of the neighborhood. It's quiet. It's very residential. It ends into the park. It's a street where kids could probably safely play in the street, however, not with dozens of people that aren't invested in the neighborhood coming and going and treating it as a hotel. I've made up an alternate slogan for Airbnb, which I can't say because of our FCC regulations, but I'll modify it. It's live like a local... and not care about your neighbors. And, sir, you have complained that these individuals never spoke to you directly, didn't reach across the driveway. They reached across the driveway, they didn't know, they wouldn't know who they would find. You were not the neighbor. And although on our website, we do encourage neighbors of Airbnbs to talk first to the owner, you're not present. The next alternative would be neighborhood mediation. Again, how do you go through a mediation process with an absentee landlord? And finally, they are absolutely entitled to submit a complaint to BDS enforcement program. And I don't know this gentleman's name, but I have had the same question. It's been a huge frustration to me, our inability to enforce on illegal Airbnbs. And today, I think we have seen how incredibly difficult time consuming and expensive it is, and it's not fair that the responsibility falls upon neighbors and the cost falls upon the city. We shouldn't have to pay for Airbnbs and allowing people to illegally operate in our city and or the illegal operations of hosts. This is an extraordinary case with an extraordinary number of violations. I was completely not compelled by the argument for the appeal, and I vote. This is always confusing to me. Every single time. Just want to make sure. Yeah. I am voting aye. Yes. Fritz. There are... Mae pobl sy'n ymddangos yn yr awdurdod wedi nodi bod yna cyfnod o ddau hund o ffyrdd o ffyrdd o ddau hir yn y Cyngor Cymunedau Erbyn Erbyn. Dyma'r un cyntaf rydyn ni wedi'i glywed eu bod nhw'n cymryd problemau. Gallai fod yna eraill, ond mae hynny'n pam rydyn ni'n sefydlu'r rhentr amser hir i'r cymunedau cymunedol gael rhywfaint o ddodd-bwysau i'r math o weithgareddau. Rwy'n cytuno â'r Swyddfa Gysylltiadau, Greg Frank, bod y cyfnodau o ddodd-bwysau'r swyddfa gysylltiadau cynharach yn rhywbeth anodd ac, mewn rhai achosion, roeddwn i'n meddwl yn rhyfeddol. Ond roedd y pryd i'w ddewis yn 2018. Rydyn ni'n cael cyfrif ar y cyfnodau hynny. Dydw i ddim yn cael record ar y cyfnod hwn, felly dydw i ddim yn gwybod pam y cyfnodau hynny oedd wedi'u cymryd. Rwy'n mynd i ymddiried yn ein proses y ddyddiau yma oherwydd So, Mr. Posey, I want to particularly thank you for coming and saying what you did. That was very helpful. And to the neighbours for making this about the case and about being good neighbours. I. Bysch. I will just start by saying that when we do these land use proceedings, they are heavily prescribed. We have a very outstanding counsel who walks us through what we can and can't do. There are clear roles assigned to people. Ac rwy'n credu bod y Cyngor yn gyfan, ac rwy'n siarad dros blynyddoedd 10 mlynedd, yn gwneud rhai o'i gwaith gorau, oherwydd rydyn ni'n dod i'r cyfarfod hynny heb ddibynnu. Yn y ffaith, rydyn ni'n cael ein bod yn cael gwneud ysgrifennu, na'r materion ysgrifennu, nid ydym wedi gweld y safle, nid ydym wedi cael cyfathrebu â'r ex parte. Nid ydym wedi ymgysylltu â unrhyw ffordd sy'n ein hwylio, ac rwy'n golygu hynny mewn ffordd nid-racial, ond Felly, mae hyn yn wir yn gwrthdaro, lle rydyn ni'n gwrando ar y ddau ochr a'n ceisio cael y canlyniad cywir. Nawr, heddiw, roedd yn rhywbeth anodd oherwydd roedden ni'n cael 13 o bobl yn ymddangos ar un ochr ac nid ar y llall. Ac yn ffraith, Mr. Burse, rwy'n credu y byddai eich cas wedi bod yn fwyaf, oedd eich mab wedi bod yma. ond rwyf wedi gweld yn ymlaen eich cyhoeddus bod chi wedi newid y cyfrifoldeb neu'r ffocws i'ch mab, i'r arweinydd rheolaeth, i'r tenant, i Airbnb, i eraill. Nid wyf wedi, gyda'ch gwrthwyneb, gweld cyfrifoldeb gan rydych chi fel gweithiwr am hyn. Rwyf wedi tyfu o'r ffordd y mae'r newyddion newyddion yn y cyfrif economi rhannu, sy'n ffyniad anodd, wedi dod i'n cymuned ac wedi gwneud yn ffyniadol o'n rheolau a'n normau. Mae 70-80% o'r Airbnbs yn ein ddyddiau yn ddewidol, oherwydd mae'r gweithiwr yn gwneud yn ffyniad anodd i ddewis busnes a neu isbeciau diogel, sydd, ar ôl i gyd, yn ei ddylunio arbennig i sicrhau bod y gwestyr yn siŵr. exclusively designed that a visitor to this city is safe while they're visiting the Rose City. And with our friends at Lyft and Uber poised to take another run at preempting the basic right of the city of Portland to even regulate those industries through a legislative end run, I think it speaks volume about what we are up against. But this is one of the most egregious cases that's come before the council during my tenure. And I think we have to send a strong statement of disapproval of the behavior of the owner. And if we cannot enforce a modest requirement of for 270 days there being an occupant, who is responsible for the well-being of the guests and is accountable to the neighborhood, because that's the other piece of this. God help us if we can't enforce such a modest requirement, which clearly has not been met in this case. I believe there is substantial evidence of past and current and recurring violations that require this council take a bold step, and I am pleased to support my colleague's motion. Aye. Wheeler. Well, I try to boil all of this down to its essential elements. And the essential elements from my perspective based on the record are these. Number one, a conditional use permit was extended. That permit gives the owner privileges. That permit comes with conditions. The hearings officer documented repeated failure to meet those conditions. You acknowledge that you have failed to meet those conditions. you failed to address those conditions even when given the opportunity to do so, apparently repeatedly. Therefore, I vote for the motion to deny the appeal, uphold the hearings officer decision, and revoke the conditional use permit. I vote aye on this tentative vote. And now the question is, when do we adopt the findings and take the final vote? Commissioner Fish had requested findings back in three weeks. We think that is the 18th of September. And I think Carla and I had talked about that possibly working. Right. It will be 1045 on September 18th. 1045 a.m. today. September 14th?
 18th. 18th, I'm sorry, Carla. And that's time certain? Correct. Commissioner Fritz? I just wanted to thank staff for all of your work on this. I know that the enforcement and indeed the whole Airbnb, the short-term rental is fraught with challenges, and I think you did an exemplary job of getting us the information that we needed to make this decision. Thank you also to everybody who took time out of your days to come here. We're adjourned.