Good afternoon, everybody. This is the August 24th session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Here. I'm going to condense our long statement at the beginning. When people testify, please let them testify. Let's be respectful, respectful.
 Regardless of people's opinion, we want everybody to feel that they have been heard in a safe and welcoming environment. If you're a lobbyist, we need to know that per council rules. If you're here representing an organization, that would be helpful as well. Please do not interrupt people's testimony. If you are disruptive, you'll be asked to stop. If you don't stop, you'll be asked to leave.
 If you don't leave after you've been asked to stop, after you've already been warned and disrupted twice, then you are subject to arrest for trespassing. But we don't like that to happen, so let's make sure it doesn't happen. I think that's it. Let's jump right in. Commissioner Fish, please. Yes, I'm here. You know, I'm technically on my staycation this week, but I'm here today because of the importance of the issues. Thank you.
 I did want to just say publicly, express my deep gratitude for the kindness of my colleagues, co-workers, and members of the public. My office is filled with beautiful flowers and gifts and cards. I start chemotherapy tomorrow, and I can't think of a better way to spend a couple hours than reading the cards and doing my thank you notes. So from my heart and my family's heart, I want to thank everybody for...
 lifting us up during this challenging time, and I am deeply grateful. We're glad you're here, Commissioner, although we question your judgment about how to use your staycation. Have any of the consent items been withdrawn or pulled? I've had no requests. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Here. Aye. Excuse me. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted.
 First regular item, please. Item 942, accept and appropriate a grant in the amount of $68,250 and authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the Oregon Department of Transportation, Transportation Safety Division for the 2017 Motor Carrier Safety Assistance Program for motor carrier safety inspections by the Police Bureau Traffic Sworn Personnel.
 Very good, and I understand we have Officer Burns is here to discuss. He's in the hallway. That teaches me to start a meeting on time. Greetings. Welcome. You're on. How are you today? Doing well. Good. If you could just state your name for the record, please. Gregory Burns, G-R-U-G-O-R-Y, B-U-R-N. I'm a police officer with the City of Portland Traffic Division. Please have a seat. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 On our agenda for right now, we're looking to get permission to accept a grant from Oregon Department of Transportation specifically to...
 work and inspect commercial motor vehicles within the city of Portland on our public highways. Commercial motor vehicles in Oregon are vehicles that are over 10,000 in one pound or designed to carry over 15 passengers. Commercial motor vehicles are generally obviously larger in size and can create a lot of damage when involved in a traffic crash.
 This grant specifically looks for driving behavior. It doesn't just look for equipment, but it actually looks for vehicles that are being driven unsafely within the city of Portland. This grant has been written to accept approximately...
 $68,250 for the use of doing these commercial motor vehicle inspections outside normal work hours to help. Last year, when we did this grant, we were able to have 10 level 2 truck inspectors do
 297 truck inspections that would have probably not been able to get done without the grant that we used last year. So these are 297 trucks that were stopped for unsafe driving behavior and allowed officers to inspect the vehicle, inspect the driver, make sure that driver's behavior changes and that ODOT's at least aware of the situation.
 Very good. And I have just a couple of questions. It's my understanding this does not require a local match. Is that correct? That's correct. There's no local match required. So are we acting as an agent of the state in this capacity, or what's the arrangement within the IGA? Oregon Department of Transportation has – we have total of –
 12 truck inspectors, 10 that are level 2 truck inspectors, which are basically looking over the vehicle and looking over the driver, looking over the log books. And we have two level 1 truck inspectors at the traffic division. And those ones, the truck inspectors get a little bit more down and dirty with the vehicle, actually get underneath, checking brake operations underneath. So there's no requirement from the state to do the match time. But all the training that we received
 ODOT provides at the truck inspector. So a police officer in Oregon can enforce the law across the state of Oregon, but we're working to assist Oregon Department of Transportation to make sure these truck inspectors get done specifically within our city boundaries. Very good. And you're saying truck, but it sounds from your description, is it just trucks and buses? Is that accurate? Commercial motor vehicles in general. And, again, that's over 10,000 and one pound or more, or holds over 15 passengers. Okay. Very good. Colleagues, any comments?
 Questions? So the 12 inspectors are in the traffic division? That's correct. Are they sworn officers? Yes, they're all police officers. They're all traffic officers. That's correct. And of those 200 or so inspections that were done last time, how many resulted, if you know, of trucks being taken out of service?
 The exact number I don't know, but I could definitely get back with you. We do what's called an out-of-service. And, again, there are certain criteria that – and this isn't just ODOT. This is actually Federal Motor Carrier Set Rules to look for certain items that do make a vehicle or a driver out-of-service. And the exact number I don't know. And, fortunately, it is a smaller percentage. The 297, it's a smaller percentage. And some of them, again, are driver-related, and some of them are vehicle-related. Thank you.
 Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. I remembered this before, and thank you. I'm very glad we're doing it again. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Thank you, Officer Burns. I appreciate this. Obviously, this is a tip of the hat to safety. It's obviously a great thing, and I'm glad that we're doing it. I vote aye. The IGAs adopt it. Thank you. Thank you all very much. You bet. Thanks for being here today.
 Next item, please. 9.43, authorize construction and permanent financing in an amount not to exceed $5,766,360 and a ground lease with 72nd and Foster Limited Partnership for portions of city-owned property at 5005 Southeast 72nd Avenue to facilitate the affordable redevelopment project known as 72 Foster.
 Colleagues, as a city, we're responding to the urgency of the housing crisis with unprecedented affordable housing production. In the past two years, we've worked to triple our pipeline of affordable housing units, now with 2,200 units currently under development.
 One of these 72 fosters is expected to break ground in the Lentz neighborhood next month. It's an innovative project that leverages the combined strengths of three valued nonprofit partners, REACH, the Asian Health and Services Center, and Hacienda CDC, to create culturally responsive affordable housing that will serve a diverse mix of households and help prevent the displacement of minority communities here in Portland.
 Conceived as an intergenerational mixed-use development, 72 Foster will provide more than 100 units for low-income households within the most concentrated Asian American population in the entire state of Oregon.
 Just across the street, the Portland Mercado offers a variety of food options and provides incubator space, training, and support for new Latino businesses. And if you haven't been there, it's a real treat. I highly recommend it. It's 72nd and Foster.
 REACH will coordinate leasing efforts to the commercial space with Hacienda and Asian Health and Family Center to support the success of the neighboring Portland Mercado, advance the multicultural character of Lentz, and other aspects. Projects like this exemplify how housing is more than a roof over our head or a place to live.
 When housing development is thoughtful and intentional and inclusive by design, it is the cornerstone of a community. Commissioner Saltzman selected this project for funding in the spring of 2016. I want to thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. I don't know if you had anything you wanted to add. No. Very good. Director Krieger, come on up.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, members of council. The request today before you is to approve $5,766,360 to reach CDC. This funding is from tax increment financing originated from the Lentz Urban Renewal Area. And it's also approval to lease a site to reach to support the 101-unit project.
 The site itself is valued at $1,140,000. PHB paid Prosper $1,014,101. So we have essentially done an inter-bureau transfer between Prosper and PDC. The other things I'd like to mention to you, this is 101 units in total, 21 of which are affordable to people with incomes between 0% and 30%, made available.
 through the allocation of project-based rental assistance from Home Forward. It's also important that you know that 72nd Foster Apartments is part of a larger effort to transform Lentz,
 And when you look collectively at the allocations made by the city, we have $118.5 million underway in Lentz. With that combined, 364 total units. So when you go to Lentz, you start to see the difference that this level of effort has made. And it's been a concerted level of effort between PROSPER and the Housing Bureau and our local partners.
 It's important that you know that the target for women, minority, disadvantaged small business for this project is 38%. They are exceeding 38% participation. It's especially important to note that with the design subconsultants and professional services, they're getting up to about 90% small business participation with women and minority-owned firms.
 With me today is Dan Valiere, Executive Director of REACH, Jessica Woodruff, the Director of Development, and Lisa Corbett, the Project Manager. And I'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have before they speak or afterwards. I have a question. Can you tell us a little bit about the commercial spaces and how the deal has been structured to provide for community benefits through the commercial spaces? Sure.
 Yes, and Dan and Jessica might want to expound on this, but it's my understanding that they are taking responsibility, they, REACH CDC, are taking responsibility for the tenant improvements and will be leasing those spaces on a spec basis. They don't have any pre-signed tenants. It is hoped that with the success of the Mercado immediately next door, that some of the small businesses that have been incubated at the Mercado will become...
 stores at some point in their economic life. And so it provides an outlet for successful entrepreneurs at the Mikado to graduate into a real storefront. It's also important to note that
 Asian Health and Service Centre is providing resident services as well as multilingual services. So there will be a very robust suite of services provided in Mandarin, Cantonese and Korean. And given the preponderance of Asian businesses in the area, I think you'll see a mix. They can describe their approach, but they're taking responsibility for the ground floor commercial. Commissioner Fritz. Obviously, this is a great project.
 I'm wondering about the parking situation. Where are people who are living in these apartments going to park? And in particular, I understand the site currently is used for parking for the Mercado. So what's the capacity of the nearby streets to accommodate that? I'll let Lucy and Jessica speak to the parking issue. Okay, thank you. Thank you very much. Very good. Why don't we move to the invited testimony, please? Come on up. Good afternoon. Thanks for being here.
 Afternoon. Thanks for having us and for considering this on the agenda. Dan Valliere, CEO at REACH Community Development. You got the good background there. And just one other sort of acknowledgement that this is part of the largest single funding round PHB had ever done in late 2015. So we wouldn't be here but for amazing step forward that Commissioner Saltzman and Director Krieger presented.
 I initiated back then, and I remember Director Krieger's words. He called it a stress test, meaning that we're going to test our system on how fast can we develop housing and how much. And so a lot's going to come before you in the coming weeks too, I know. So thank you for taking leadership like that.
 You already had a good background on the project. I think I'll just add that, yeah, this really goes back to 2014 when we drove around the neighborhood with Holden Leong, the director of Asian Health and Service Center. At that time, they had a dream of a new center. They're currently on Powell Street.
 near 33rd and Powell. They had a vision for moving to a new location in Southeast that would be bigger and designed for what they do. They currently rent space. And they had a vision, too, of having housing nearby that they could be part of advising or be even providing services in. So we didn't know where it was going to be. We were driving around and...
 That was when they honed in on Lentz and now are developing their new center, which is already under construction, so the Asian Health Service Center is separate from this project. I'm not saying it's linked explicitly. We're not developing it, but I just wanted to point that out. Their center is under construction at Lentztown Center. It's very exciting, and this project really was part of that vision. We're developing this, and they're going to be the resident service providers you heard in the building.
 So again, this is kind of a dream come true for both organizations that we're able to make this happen in the Lentz area. I think it also is worth saying that Asian Health and Service Center has helped us better understand the ways in which cultural communities work.
 may sometimes feel shut out of traditional affordable housing, especially if we don't take into account different languages, traditions, or a sense of mistrust that sometimes people have with institutions. So thinking about how we can develop and design a building and manage it with community in mind is important, and we all are working on that. So this has been a good process that we've been doing collaboratively with the center.
 both involving the community in the design and in insight on how we should manage the building. It will be open to all. Of course, we will not discriminate. It will be a very diverse building. But given the concentration of Asian communities in southeast Portland, we are going to extra efforts to make sure the building is welcoming and managed in a way that's friendly to the communities. With that, I think we have some questions that we need to answer. Parking, for one. Okay.
 And I don't know if, Jessica, you also have a couple comments on the financing that you might want to add. So we'll get to parking.
 Yes. I'm Jessica Woodruff, the director of development at REACH. And I just wanted to give a little bit of context of how excited we are to be here today. Dan gave the background of how much we'd worked and how long we worked with the Asian Health Service Center on this vision. And in the time of the 2016 election, federal tax credits are the main way that we finance affordable housing nationwide.
 And right after the election, this project, as every other project in the nation, faced a budget shortage. So it was a really stressful time when we looked at the need in Portland and then what was happening with tax credit pricing. And in talking with our peers nationwide about how we were going to face that, I have to say I feel very fortunate on this project in particular that we started working in the strong public projects.
 private partnership with Oregon Housing Community Services, Portland Housing Bureau, KeyBank, and REACH, all to come together. We all put additional resources into the deal to keep it on track, and that is something that we're not seeing
 nationwide the same way that we're seeing in the Pacific Northwest. So we're just very grateful to be here today. We did receive permit approval today. So with the city's approval, we will be able to close and begin construction next month. So very happy to be here today. Thank you.
 And so, yeah, so do you want to add something? I'm just here to answer the question. Dan, can I start with the question I posed about the commercial space? Oh, yes. So do you – are you going to own the commercial space? Yes. I can answer this one. And will it be like a condominium? How?
 How will that work? It actually is not a condominium. We structured it as a single finance deal. It was more financially beneficial to the project that way. What needed to happen for us to pull that off was reach –
 is master leasing the entire commercial space. So that is all on reach. We take all the risk to do that, to allow the affordable housing financing partners in the project to know that their portion of the project is protected.
 So that gives us more flexibility to work with our community partners, but also with leasing agents to try to meet that vision that both Kurt and Dan talked about, to lease it the way in which we want. So we will own it. We do intend to lease it up to small businesses and businesses.
 but we will take that risk if it's slow. It's not publicly financed, that portion of the project. Dan, is this similar or dissimilar to the approach you took at Gray's Landing? It's different from Gray's Landing because, well, so at Gray's Landing, there's commercial space. REACH moved its offices there and bought, in a sense, it was a condo though, so it's a different structure. We essentially bought some of the commercial space space
 and then run our offices there. So REACH, it was a transaction. REACH paid for that space. There's then other commercial space that's for local business, but PDC was involved in that. So it was, again, it was very different from this because REACH didn't have all the risk. It was shared to some level with Portland Development Commission because that was a different era, and there were different thinking about how the role that PDC would play in some of those kinds of commercial deals. So...
 So it's quite different at Grey's Landing, yeah. This one is reached pretty much by itself on the commercial space. So we've had this conversation before, but, you know, there are times in this job you wish you could go back in time.
 10 or 20 years and kind of know then what you know now about opportunity. And it's been my impression that the undervalued part of a lot of these deals has been the commercial space. And typically we've asked nonprofit operators that have one set of skills to also manage, you know, the commercial stuff. And because of the locations, because of the people being served, because of the economy –
 It's been challenging for some of our nonprofit partners to
 But if you think back 20 years ago and you looked at it differently and said, we're about to create a portfolio of very attractive commercial spaces spread around the city that someday are going to be very attractive. I mean, now what we have is something quite different. And as that part of the city where you're going to be building builds out, as Grays Landing, you know, that part of South Waterfront develops, it's a different story.
 So one of the things that I hope we can consider is how more holistically we can use the commercial space to drive public benefit. Now, you're going to be looking at it as the owner, and you've done this in order to –
 I mean, you've taken on the risk here. And you've got skin in the game and you're to be applauded. It makes it pencil out. But you've got now a resource that's a great community resource. And I think the larger question is, how does PDC, Prosper Portland going forward in the city, help you be successful in really leveraging that space? Because that space there and another nonprofit affordable housing development throughout the city I think increasingly is going to become a more valuable asset. Right. And maybe one way to think about it is instead of,
 pre-committing to it, you know, we're willing to take that risk right now. But, yeah, if there were potential public users or public benefit sort of uses there that others have in mind,
 that we could negotiate and talk with and also find some resources to help support that, then that would work great, right? We clearly would love that. We've actually had a number of discussions with potential partners, including Hacienda, of course. But maybe Mercy Corps. So we've had some conversations that to date haven't resulted in, but we will continue to have them and clearly –
 has an interest too in having some public benefit there, but we need to figure out the resources and make sure it will financially work for us since we have to assume the rest. Well, I'll just close by saying, help us crack the code on this. Okay. And I also think the city, through Prosper Portland and through other pots, we have an interest in seeing you be successful here. Thank you. Because we just haven't... It's never been the primary focus, how to leverage the commercial space. And yet...
 if we can maintain that as entry-level space, affordable space, and if we can make it connected to the community in which we serve, that space is really important. And so we have a shared, I think, commitment to make that happen.
 It's a good point. We're happy to be part of that conversation. And obviously, Prosper Portland has been very clear, which is a good thing, about some of their priorities right now. So it would have to align with that or have discussion about what their priorities are for a commercial subsidy. But it's a good topic. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. Could somebody address the challenge of parking for both residents and for the Mercado? Yeah, so I can tell you that's one of the first things that we talked with Hacienda about as we started to develop this. They did, you know, they were clearly aware that it was temporary parking arrangement. They as an organization were prepared for that change.
 We also talked to the neighborhood about it in multiple neighborhood meetings so they understood. We did get helpful feedback from the neighborhood that they –
 Love the Mercado so they only want to see things that support the Mercado But they also did see our project as doing that and that they felt like there was ample street parking And with that said I'll turn it to Lucy just to remind everybody what the exact parking arrangement we have is sure There's there will be 35 parking spaces for the 101 units and there's also several high frequency bus lines that run right in front of the project so we had a
 I expect that residents will also utilize those. So it's 35 units actually in the project, in the building? Correct. Great. That's helpful. I suppose when we've made our parking changes that allow shared parking with nearby businesses in off-peak hours, that might be helpful also. So it's a possibility for some other cooperative arrangements moving forward, because I think we all agree that this is a great project and we want to continue to support the Mercado. Thank you. Thank you. Very good.
 Why don't we see if there's any public testimony, Carla? No one signed up. Could I ask Kurt one final question? Please, Commissioner Fish. Mr. Director, I appreciate very much the community impact statement and listing the units. And 20 units at 30 percent or below MFI is a good number, and I'm delighted to see that.
 What this doesn't say, though, is whether there's the possibility of any of these units being permanent supportive housing units. They are heavily subsidized with Section 8 voucher, which is amazing. So could you address that? Well, I think it will turn on the affirmative fair marketing efforts that Asian Health and Service Center and REACH undertake together as to how many of those have service needs. But I'll let Daniel and Jessica respond.
 Yeah, I think our approach, since there wasn't an official sort of permanent supportive housing goal in the original competition, we don't have a formal commitment to that. But we do have, like you pointed out, the subsidized units. So it's affordable to people with very low income or zero income potentially. So it will be open and available to potentially people coming out of homelessness.
 With Asian Health Service Center, this will be the first time that they have been providing resident services in an affordable housing building like this. So it's a new partnership. So the other thing we're going to be doing here is learning. And so I think we're also being cautious about how many formal commitments we make on the service side up front. But clearly, they would tell you.
 very clearly that homelessness in the Asian communities they serve is often visible. They're not always counted. They're often staying with people in circumstances that are not being – that aren't visible. And so they see this as a huge opportunity to provide housing and services to people that are extremely vulnerable and homeless. So –
 I believe that the partnership we have with them is going to serve the intent of the commitment to permanent supportive housing, even though you don't see that here as a formal agreement per se. Thank you. Thanks. Very good, colleagues. Any further questions? Thank you for your testimony. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman? Well, thank you, Housing Bureau and REACH, for doing some great work here, and the Asian Health and Service Center as well. This sounds like a great partnership, and this is very –
 Very well needed and will be well utilized in a great location. Hi. You daily? Hi. Britt. Thank you very much for your presentation and for this work. It's a great project. I think one of the most...
 exciting things is what Commissioner Fish and you have talked about in terms of the partnership with the Asian Family Health Centre. To me, one of the most discouraging pieces was in your write-up, where over three quarters of a million dollars is not coming from the federal government that we were expecting just last year. And so we are fortunate that the Lansdowne Centre urban renewal area has capacity to provide that 766,000
 $1,360. On the other hand, that's over three quarters of a million dollars that's not going to be going to other purposes that we were expecting to be able to use it for within the Lentz Urban Renewal District. So if people think that what's happening in Washington, D.C. doesn't affect us directly here, it certainly does. So thank you for triumphing over despite that. I. Fish? Well, I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman and Director Krieger, who brought this home
 I want to acknowledge that if you put REACH, Asian Health and Family Center, and Hacienda together, that's an all-star team. And it's fantastic. And the last time that REACH had a gnarly project that I recall that was similar was Gray's Landing, and the tax credit market collapsed, so every possible path forward to financing that project collapsed.
 hit a dead end, and it took remarkable creativity. And I think Margaret Van Vliet deserves a bow for the work that she did then to make it happen and a similar work around here to make this work. I believe, and I may be wrong, but I believe this land was purchased when Sam Adams was mayor.
 and it was long before people really thought that foster, this section of foster, was going to be a focal point of our affordable housing strategy. But a little PDC money and a little housing money went, I believe, to purchase the property, which was not in great condition. And I say that because these projects take time to incubate and marinate, but it was worth waiting for because this is an outstanding partnership. So congratulations to all. Hi. Wheeler. Wheeler.
 I think this is a great partnership. I applaud you all, and Commissioner Saltzman, I think this was a very visionary step for the Portland Housing Bureau under your leadership. Commissioner Fish, thank you for reminding us also of the history of these projects. As you know, there's a lot of urgency involved.
 to getting affordable housing stock into the community. And even with the financial resources ready and available, it still has taken years to get to this point. So it's a good illustration that we have the right players, we have the right funding resources, we have the right visions, but none of this comes easily and none of it comes quickly. Thank you.
 But this, I think, is a particularly visionary project, and it's one I've followed with great interest, and I'm really glad to see it finally be at the phase where we're close to shovels in the ground. Very exciting. Thank you all for your community leadership. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Next item, please. Item 944, authorized contract with KPFF Consulting Engineers, Inc.,
 for design of the Sullivan's Crossing Active Transportation Bridge in the amount of $2,315,359. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. This is a very exciting project, and Dan Layden is going to fill us in on that. Thanks, Commissioner Saltzman, Mayor Wheeler, and members of council. Here today for an ordinance that authorizes a design contract for the Sullivan's Crossing project,
 I want to start with just a little bit of background on the project and then a little bit about the contract. The project is a span across I-84 and UPR railroad tracks. It's about 370 to 420 feet. There are still a couple of options that we're considering. It's mainly a pedestrian and bicycle bridge, active transportation bridge. However, it does allow for emergency vehicle access if that becomes necessary in the future, which, of course, we all hope it doesn't.
 It provides improvements at Northeast 7th Avenue and Lloyd Boulevard to that intersection there. And it's also looking in a little more detail at the Sullivan's Gold connection between where the bridge would land at 7th Avenue and the connection across the river and East.
 And it's also a key element of the Green Loop. A map to kind of show you the general area. It connects on the north side to the existing 7th Avenue bikeway connection. And on the south side, it connects to the central east side. It also provides a really critical connection to Sullivan's Gulch Trail, as I mentioned, and connects several of the major neighborhood greenways and also is a major piece of the Green Loop.
 The project itself is a total project budget of $13 million, $11 million of transportation SDCs that was passed by council last year, $2 million from the Prosper Portland urban renewal area, and also some funds from Goloid.
 What is in front of you today is actually just the design contract with KPFF Engineering. We did a competitive RFP process. It was a very competitive process with several well-known engineering firms bidding on the project. KPFF was selected. They have 24% MWSP participation, and they are a Portland-based design firm.
 tentative project schedule. We are having the discussion around the alignment. There are still some questions as to the alignment on the southern end of the project between 8th or 7th Avenue that will be happening this fall.
 Once that is completed, we'll begin the design of the project. It should last for about a year to 18 months with construction scheduled for summer 2019 through summer 2020. There will be a series of open houses throughout the process. And finally, just because it's a cool-looking bridge, a picture of what, at least conceptually, the bridge is planning to look like. I'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have. So Sullivan's Crossing connects...
 does the north-south connection, and we have this long-term vision for an east-west connection. Correct. Any updates on any progress in thinking through Sullivan's Gulch? I think there has been some progress, and I think this actually will be a pretty critical step in that project because it will provide one of the biggest questions with Sullivan's Gulch has really been how do you get from 7th Avenue to Sullivan's
 the existing bridge across the Willamette. So this will provide a study to look at that and get into more detail in the engineering questions with that. I think there's still a lot of work to be done on the rest of the Sullivan's Gulch Trail, but this will at least put one of those pieces in place, hopefully.
 If I might just follow up on that, it seems to me from what you just showed us that even if the Sullivan's Gulch Trail never comes into being because the railroad never changes its mind, this is a good north-south connection anyway. Is that fair to say? This is a really critical north-south connection. Right now, the only two ways of getting across the Sullivan's Gulch and the freeway in this location are...
 and MLK, which are both pretty uncomfortable, pretty much impossible for bikes, actually, with the streetcar tracks, and then not very wide, comfortable sidewalks, and then 12th Avenue, which does provide a good connection, but is a bit out of the way. So this really does provide a really important direct connection, particularly from the development that's occurring in Central Eastside into the Lloyd District. So it's something that Go Lloyd and others have been advocating for for a long time, so we're glad we can finally make it happen. Thank you.
 Is it safe to say the maintenance and upkeep of this will be the city's responsibility? Is that correct? Yeah, it'll be a city-owned bridge. Very good. And I had the opportunity to drive north to Seattle the other day in –
 By the way, the traffic is really much worse there for what it's worth. But I notice just about every overpass north of Kelso is tagged, sometimes pretty dramatically if it's easily accessible. So I assume in the design they will take that reality into account. That is one question we're looking at very closely. I mean, there is, yeah, safety, public safety is a critical issue, and we have a team that's going to work on that very closely. A long drop.
 It is a really long drop, yeah. Okay, thank you. I appreciate that. May I just follow up on that? Commissioner Fritz, yes. Councils now and for the last several years are used to parks...
 the Parks Bureau bringing annually a list of new operations and maintenance for new facilities. That policy is about city facilities. It's not just for parks or emergency management. So I would expect when this bridge comes online, as with the Wildwood Bridge, when that gets done, that there will be a request in the budget process for the ongoing operations and maintenance of it.
 I'll suggest that to the director. Yeah, that would be great. Thank you. Great. Public testimony? No one signed up. Nobody wants to testify on this beautiful bridge. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Well, this crossing, this pedestrian bicycle crossing and emergency vehicles is very well placed and very exciting and I'm sure will be a heavily used addition to our green loop and other ways of –
 helping people get around in our city. So I'm very excited about it. Hi. Hugh Daly. Hi. Fritz. We often hear from residents that they're not getting any benefits from the growth that we've been seeing in population or they're questioning what's in it for their neighborhood. The lion's share of the funding for this is transportation system development charges, which is from new development. So it's really something that for the inner east side is so important and I'm very glad it's moving forward. Hi. Hi.
 Great project. Thanks to PBOT and Dan and the team. Hi. Wheeler? Yeah, I'll second that. I think this is fantastic. I had the privilege of attending the Sunday Parkways on Sunday, which was very, very well attended and a lot of fun. And my wife has some knee issues, so we rented a tandem bike.
 We're still married, even after riding tandem bike together. That's impressive. She actually ended up doing more of the pedaling. I'm pretty sure of it. But on the way back, I was absolutely looking for a crossing, and boy, I would have liked that crossing to have been there then. It could have saved me. So I vote aye. I think it's great. Thank you. The ordinance is adopted, and we will follow it very, very closely. Thank you.
 So, colleagues, the next items regarding the police bureau are a time certain at 2 p.m., and so we are required to take a recess until 2 p.m. We will reconvene at 2 p.m., which is in a little over 15 minutes. Carla, are we ready? No, we're going to vote on it.
 Are we ready, Carla? Yes. All right, good afternoon. We are back in session. Carla, could you please read items 945 and 946? Yes.
 945, adopt revised post-deadly force procedures for police bureau, including requirement for prompt compelled statements by involved officers. Authorize and direct city attorney to pursue legal proceedings to validate that requiring compelled statements will not preclude ability to criminally prosecute. And 946, revoke.
 approve amendments to settlement agreement between the United States and the City of Portland in United States District Court Case No. 312CV02265SI and plan for Portland Commission on Community Engaged Policing.
 All right. Good afternoon, folks. Welcome back. Today, obviously, we're hearing two different ordinances. We're going to hear them at once. After opening remarks, we're going to take care of some housekeeping. We're going to take public testimony. We're going to be starting with invited testimony from Pastors Bethel and Haynes. We'll have our deliberation, and then we'll take a vote.
 First of all, with regard to the 48-hour rule, I've been on the record in strong opposition to the 48-hour rule. Ending it has been part of my policing agenda since the day I decided to run.
 For Mayor, it continues to be. This ordinance honors the intent behind the rule's elimination. We've also made what I think are some strong improvements to the original ordinance, and I'd like to turn this over to Commissioner Fish, who along with his office and my staff have been working very hard on this issue. Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much, Mayor, and I'll be speaking directly to item number 945.
 I'm very pleased to co-sponsor this amended ordinance. Three weeks ago, in response to guidance from the district attorney, council considered a proposal to update the city's policy about compelled statements by officers following deadly use of force. The DA, the district attorney, had cautioned that compelling a statement could jeopardize his ability to bring criminal charges against an officer. In response to that concern, and under the previous proposal,
 We would have affirmed our right to compel statements but would not have implemented the policy until a court confirmed that it would not, in fact, compromise any criminal prosecution. In my view, the DA's opinion was reasonable, and there was a good argument for deferring to his guidance. But there was also a compelling argument pointing the other way. It was an argument about transparency, accountability, reform, and trust.
 Now, last year, as the mayor noted, we negotiated the removal of the so-called 48-hour rule, which required investigators to give officers 48 hours' notice before a compelled interview after a deadly use of force. We then implemented a policy establishing that we would interview the officer within the first 48 hours, and we have done so at times compelling interviews within a day.
 Removal of that notice requirement was important to our community, it was important to this council, and important to me personally, and it was the primary reason that I supported the then-labor contract. So when we began to debate whether to defer to that guidance or to stick with the hard-won reform we implemented earlier this year, I had a strong preference.
 and so did many community stakeholders like the National Lawyers Guild, ACLU, the Albina Ministerial Alliance, the NAACP, longtime community advocates, as well as a number of editorial boards. They argued that the city's policy was on strong legal footing and that it was possible to put up a firewall in place to protect the district attorney's investigations.
 In testimony, Council was asked to protect its right to promptly compel interviews and to implement that policy immediately. Coming out of the first hearing, I was persuaded that we could be responsive to the DA's concern while also keeping faith with the community and the reform we had fought for. After many conversations with advocates and our legal team, we elected not to move forward with the original proposal.
 Instead, on August 9th, we directed our city attorney to finalize and return to us with a policy that affirmed our practice of interviewing officers within 48 hours, would be effective immediately, and included a firewall between the city's administrative investigation and the district attorney's criminal investigation to protect any potential prosecution. I want to mention that something came up in our last hearing.
 In that proposal, excuse me, I want to mention something that came up in that hearing. In that proposal, we suggested that one way to protect criminal investigations that were likely to lead to indictment would be to give the police commissioner, together with the police chief and the city attorney, the discretion to wait on an interview until a criminal proceeding was concluded.
 But we heard eloquent testimony that the community was not comfortable giving that level of discretion to decision makers for fear that it could be misused. Mayor, someone very powerfully said once that while you might be trusted to use that discretion judiciously, this policy is likely to be in place for many years, which would mean we'd be proposing that the next mayor would enjoy the same trust. And community members were simply not ready to sign on to that.
 We listened to that testimony, and particular to the suggestion that we narrow the exception to cases of incapacitation. The proposal today includes that language and is better for the testimony we heard in both the first and the second hearings. It also directs the city attorney to pursue court review of this policy to ensure that we're on strong legal footing going forward. This is a complex policy question, and we've been working to balance a number of different and competing needs.
 The Mayor and I believe that a firewall can be placed between administrative and criminal investigations, as is consistent with the practice of virtually every other state in the union. We believe the policy is supported by the law and that the risk to a parallel criminal investigation is very small. And we believe this proposal keeps faith and builds trust with community leaders who advocated for the reform of the 48-hour rule and expect us to protect that reform as vigorously as we can.
 I just want to say on a personal note, I'm grateful to the people who took the time to review the various proposals, to offer their feedback, to meet with the mayor's staff and my staff, and to lend their expertise to this discussion. I'm grateful to my colleagues for their full engagement and their willingness to explore alternatives. And, Mayor, I'm grateful to you for your leadership and partnership on this issue. Well, right back at you, Commissioner. I'm...
 always impressed with the ability you have to navigate very complex legal issues, and I appreciate your partnership on this, and I think your leadership and your staff's leadership has made this a much, much better ordinance. So thank you for that. I would like to introduce one technical amendment to item number 945 under 10.10.10 under the definitions.
 All the way at the end, under public safety statement, I would propose, colleagues, that we remove the word compelled.
 The likelihood is the intention there was to include compelled, but we are unintentionally excluding voluntary statements from that language, and I do not want to do so. So I would propose and accept a motion that we remove the word compelled. Second. We have a motion from Saltzman and a second from Fish. That is now on the table. And if people will bear with me for about...
 three minutes I'd like to go through the changes to the language around community engagement. These are changes made since the last public testimony that we heard.
 The portion, obviously, of the settlement agreement that was of most importance to people related to the question of public engagement, I think everybody acknowledges that the Portland community is very exceptional in terms of both its activism and its civic engagement, not just on policing issues, but all issues. Thank you.
 And there are many community advocates, some who have decades of experience in this community, whose ideas deserve to be heard. And we heard from some of those folks during the last hearing of this ordinance. We know that there's a lot of work yet to be done when it comes to police reform in the Portland Police Bureau.
 And there's more work that needs to be done in terms of improving the relationship between our police bureau and the public that it serves. The city, I have come to the conclusion, cannot do this work alone. And the police bureau cannot do this work alone. It also requires active and involved community engagement in order for us to be successful. To put it bluntly, we need you.
 I believe we've put together a framework for an effective and credible engagement body that builds on the strengths and the successes of the former COAB. A big reason for that is that we've included many of the ideas that were provided in public testimony the last time we were here together.
 This council heard testimony not only in the chamber, but we certainly received lots of emails, lots of calls. We went to various places around the community and received direct feedback. I want you to know I heard you.
 And I appreciate the testimony that was provided here, and I appreciate the many of you who took the time to meet with me or meet with my colleagues in recent weeks and recent days to have your experience heard.
 I want to thank all of my colleagues because they've worked very hard on this. Commissioner Fritz, I want to especially thank you for your work with me on the PSAP. I think it would not be half as good as it is without your very active participation. We've made significant changes based on the feedback we've received. I'd like to highlight some of those changes. You told us, well, first of all, you told us you hate the name.
 and should the board choose, the board may change the name and call it whatever they would like to call it. We're always open to good branding suggestions. You told us that you'd like PCEP to have the explicit authority to, quote, independently assess the settlement agreement, unquote.
 That language was in the original settlement agreement. People wanted that explicitly called out. That language is now explicitly included in this plan. We also added an element to allow the PSAP to report to Judge Simon.
 PSAP will now have the right to make appearances before Judge Simon, at least at an annual status conference, and through discussions with Judge Simon, potentially more often than that. And again, that is the same. It's similar to what COAB had.
 There were a couple of people who asked that the Office of Equity and Human Rights be actively engaged in this process. That is now the case, and Director Dante James, I know he's exactly out of my line of view, but he is here, and he certainly welcomes that.
 We heard that PSAP should be able to review Portland Police Bureau policies. It now has that explicit authority, and it will be embedded in the Portland Police Bureau's policy review process. PSAP will also have the authority to identify policies for expedited review based on community concerns. Thank you.
 The level of authority granted to PCEP in this area has never been granted to any public body, including COAB, previously. We heard the call to make the majority of PCEP's meetings public meetings. One monthly meeting must be open to the public. On balance, taking into account the quarterly town halls, roundtables, and community meetings, the vast majority of PCEP's meetings will be public meetings.
 A major concern is the need to ensure adequate training. We've now added a mental health advocate to provide training on the settlement agreement, in addition to AMAC's participation. We share a desire to ensure that the PSAP is a body capable of organizational transformation.
 The city will contract the services of a consultant relying on their expertise in organizational transformation to establish the PSAP and develop training for PSAP. We heard testimony that the PSAP should be capable of self-direction. I believe this is at the core of our mission.
 of this new concept. The PSAP will have broad discretion to approach their work in ways that they, those who are the members, believe are the best ways. They'll have control over the number of meetings and the kind of meetings and the subject area. We also heard concerns about this being a mayor-controlled board from application to appointment.
 In addition to including a selection panel of five community members, the other commissioners will now be involved in the selection process from beginning to end. Finally, the plan does not contemplate term limits for committee members. It does have length of term, but there is no limits to the number of terms that one may serve. We understand the value of stability and longevity.
 I would also like at this point, colleagues, to introduce Commissioner Fritz. Absolutely, please. Thank you. And so we have heard a lot of community input. One of the things that I read loud and clear in many people's input was the need for all of council to stay engaged. And I can tell you just from what we've been doing in the past three weeks that every member of the council is engaged. In fact, speaking for myself, just try to keep me away from this and that would not be easy.
 We've all had a part of making it better and I believe that the language we've settled on does require the council to stay engaged and so that's just one piece that I want to be clear about so that
 We all know it's not just up to the mayor to reform the police bureau. It really is up to not only the mayor and his council, but also the community. And thank you very much for all of your participation. It's been very helpful. Commissioner Fritz, would you entertain a motion to accept the PSAP amendments as a package under Ordinance 946?
 So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz and a second from Commissioner Fish. So that is also now on the table in addition to Saltzman one. We now have Fritz one. So we will move to invited testimony. Our list of invited testimony is very brief today. We've asked Pastors Bethel and Haynes if they would mind coming up and sharing their thoughts today.
 and I see both gentlemen are here, and we're very privileged to have you here, sirs. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Dr. T. Allen Bethel, for the record, Senior Pastor of Maranatha Church, President of Albina Ministerial Alliance, and serving as co-chair of the Albina Ministerial Alliance Coalition for Justice and Police Reform. We have sent a copy of our report.
 comments to the Commission, however they relate. You're probably just receiving them now, so we will highlight them as we go through. This is addressed to Mayor Ted Wheeler and to all of the Commissioners from the Albany Ministerial Alliance for Justice and Police Reform. The AMAC wants to affirm the City for hearing the voice of the stakeholders and citizens about their concerns and the seriousness of them
 Thank you for adopting many of the ideas of the stakeholders in this new proposed Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing, known as PSEP Plan, and the city moving in a direction to enhance community policing and engagement.
 The following are some areas that we still have some concern about, and we've tried to identify them by section or page that remain about the PSAP. And a few suggestions we believe will improve the goals of the PSAP as we continue to work on the assessment and implementation of the settlement agreement.
 Under Section 2, when we speak of goals, we affirm that PSAP members' goals, however, we suggest that not only is it to independently assess the settlement agreement, but the implementation as well be added there, that they report on progress and non-progress as it relates to the settlement agreement. On page 3, we talk of the scope of work.
 And I refer to bullet point number seven. They are not numbered, but if you count those little bullet points, you come to the seventh one. We recommend, and Mayor has spoken to this, that at any other conference that shall be called by the court,
 We understand that PSAP has been given the ability to now report or make status conferences with the judge. But, however, we know that the Ninth Circuit decision is pending and action of resolution for that. So we would like to have included in there that the PSAP at any other conference called –
 status report that may be called, that they will also be able to participate and give report in that. And we note also that under footnote number two on page five, the same should be changed to reflect that at any other conference that might be called by the court, if in case that happens. In section three, it talks about membership and reporting. While we believe that this strongly should be a committee between 11 and 15 people, we
 that there would be 11 persons. And this still has, as we spoke of, too much mayoral control, but it would be an improvement to have the community selection panel do the initial screening and to have the community panel be made up of representatives from different communities. Thank you.
 We also would like to see the PSAP members be required to read the settlement agreement and the city should provide, and we call, quote, a layman, unquote, interpretation for the PSAP. Yes, there is a lot of legal language in there, but if they don't have a basic understanding of what they're supposed to do, then they're not going to be able to accomplish that to a level of success.
 We raise again the concern of members' stipends or other financial assistance to help reduce any barriers to participation as they or if they arise. The final one that I want to talk about is going to be in Section 5, where we understand the staggering process.
 of electing so many for a two-year term and so many for a one-year term. If I'm correct now in hearing that Mayor Wheeler has stated that there is no limit on terms in which a person can serve, then that kind of almost makes our concern here a mute one so that we understand now that the persons can serve as many terms as they choose and they're appointed to continue to serve.
 With that, I want to conclude, and Dr. Haynes will pick up with the balance and add some other comments. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you very much, Mayor. To Honorable Mayor Ted Wheeler and distinguished members of the City Council,
 The Obama Ministerial Alliance Coalition for Justice and Police Reform would like to commend the Mayor and the Commissioner for hearing the voices of stakeholders, citizens, organizations, advocates for police reform by going back to the drawing board and coming back with a revised ordinance that reflects many of the concerns that were voiced at the City Council hearing.
 We especially give special accolades to Commissioner Nick Fish for adding his legal skills to help the council in drafting. And we'd like him to know that our prayers are with him in his battle against cancer, as well as all the houses of faith throughout this city. Thank you.
 The Portland Committee on Community Engagement, Police and Peace have a revised version in the original state. It's a better proposal than other drafts, yet it still needs some tweaking. And I would only add to what Dr. Belter has stated with a few recommendations in this.
 under Section 7, City Responsibilities.
 There's a need for a person on the staff to be designated and compensated as a community organizer that does work. We do appreciate the process of providing funding and staffing in other areas. But one of the things we have learned from the COAB, in order to get pre-work done in the community area,
 It is not just enough to use the neighborhood association. There must be a staff person out there, a community organizer promoting, informing, engaging, and developing both designated leaders and what we called in.
 neighborhoods and influential leaders in a neighborhood. And so we feel that a community organizer will make PSAP more effective in its forum and community engagement.
 And page 6, the paragraph before the final of that section, the mayoral office shall publish on the city website an annual report. We recommend adding status,
 progress or non-progress of community policing and a full summary presentation to the city council highlighting major items of progress and non-progress.
 We note the request and Section 9 deliverable products that the full City Council has included in the group receiving the summary report.
 On page 7, gathering input from, we request that AMAC, who has been working on this issue for decades, with several hundred years of collective experience, be named among the organization.
 And then on Section 9, delivering products, we affirmed that the holding of two public hearings within 180 days of PSAP members being seated and using the quality town hall for such a neutral and accessible space. I believe that the modification that the
 Mayor has articulated, we'll help respond to some of these too. Subsection 5 of that, how does, we asked the question, how does this impact or allow input into review of directors
 and any outcomes. And will PSAP during this one-year period have a voice to raise concern about the many directives that are coming out from the Bureau on an almost monthly basis? And we want to know whether we will have, PSAP will have an independent assessment and implementation of this.
 Another question, are we to read that PSAP has one year to present then the community engagement plan proposal to the Portland Police Bureau? Just a question that we would like to articulate. Finally...
 We have reached a crossroad in the struggle to bring 21st century community policing to the city of Portland and to address both the failures and the costly mistakes of the past.
 Let us begin anew with the coming of a new church, a new chief, excuse me, that embraced 21st century community policing and creating a new model not only for Portland but for the nation that will build respect for
 and build trust and build accountability and justice to all citizens of Portland, as well as those who serve on the Portland Police Bureau. Thank you very much. Thank you, gentlemen. Commissioner Fritz? I know. That was beautiful, Dr. Haynes. And thank you both, Dr. Bethel, for all of your work over decades on this issue. We wouldn't be where we are now without your leadership and support.
 I truly appreciate it. I wanted to just address a couple of things in your request, and I'm actually hoping that several of them seem to be things that we should be able to accommodate. So hopefully by the end of the hearing, your staff will have a recommendation with us for that. It seems to me, for example, that since we already had 9 to 11 members...
 Why not just make it 11 numbers? So that's really clear that we need that many. I think the thinking was not to have too many so that then it's harder to make a quorum and harder to get people together. So that was that. I asked a lot about the stipends issue, and you've also raised the community organiser. The challenge is that the settlement agreement says that the oversight cannot be by city employees for this part of it, and my understanding from the attorneys is that should we give financial benefit, then they are...
 perhaps deemed city employees. But again, we'll hear back from the city attorney about that. We, Christiane Nieves on my staff, who, as you know, has attended lots of meetings, we realised that with the first Community Oversight Advisory Board, one of the big mistakes we made was putting deadlines in. So it was not possible to do the trainings, for example, all of the work that had to be done before the first public meeting, for example. So we've deliberately taken out a lot of the...
 Trusting the community people, they're going to work diligently and wanting to be getting their reports out as quickly as possible. The deadline we kept in was that the Police Bureau has to respond within a certain amount of time, but we want to trust the new committee to take the time it needs to learn the rules, find out about the settlement agreement, hear from the community.
 without putting an artificial deadline of 180 days or anything on it. So that was the thinking behind that. And yes, I think most of the others seem really great suggestions. And again, thank you very much for your leadership and partnership. Thank you. Yeah, and if I could just add to that, some of these I need to get some further feedback from legal counsel and others, but some of these are definitely important.
 The Section 2 goal, the implementation is definitely implied, but we could be more explicit about that. The conference is called by the court, if I can just understand the intent. The intent is that somebody from the PSAT be present during all conferences where the parties are called. Do I have that correct? I just want to make sure I understand the intention there.
 In the previous, whenever the COAB, and I always refer to it as COAB 1, when there was a status conference call, there was a representative from the COAB who was able to report to the court or the judge what they were doing.
 And so we're asking, since this new precept is going to have the ability, has been given the ability, to speak, and you used the term, at least at the annual status conference, understanding that the Ninth Circuit appeal is still pending for resolution one way or the other, if it goes one way-
 and the court can call status conferences more than once a year, we want to make sure that PRECEP is also empowered to speak at those conferences. Yeah, I'm certainly – that would absolutely be my intention, and I would certainly be happy to do that. If we need to tighten that up, legal counsel can advise me. I'm with Commissioner Fritz in terms of the number of people –
 On the committee, I'm agnostic, 9-11. I think we can quickly come to an agreement on that one. Section 5, I agree that has been addressed through the amendment. We're not putting term limits on.
 I like the idea of the community organizer. I hear Commissioner Fritz is concerned, but maybe there's a different way we could do that. Let me say this, Mayor Wither. I think even there are ways either directly or indirectly of paying for that. It could come from a foundation, can come from also a group of friends.
 of the city and community policing. But we can achieve that goal. I just think it would be effective, more effective, and engaging the community. Okay, very good. And I'm not clear on page 7 why AMAC was not included amongst the listed organizations. As you know, you're two go-to guys for me.
 I would be delighted to have that input. I forgot to mention the neutral space. I meant to mention that in my initial remarks, and I'd had good conversations with some other people about finding locations other than city properties where the PSAP meetings could be held, and I agree with that, and I think there's some tremendous opportunities. This council goes out into the community from time to time to,
 We had a meeting not too long ago at IRCO, the Immigrant and Refugee Center, and there are other opportunities like that. They're accessible to the community. And what's really interesting is they bring different audiences to the table that might not otherwise want to come to City Hall or go to the North Precinct or wherever. So I think that's actually a really important statement to provide neutrality.
 And I don't have all the answers under Section 9, Subsection 5, so that might be a question for legal counsel, just to make sure I don't give you misinformation. May I add one more thing? Yes, sir. Under the section of goals, we think it should read, as far as PSAP, independently assess the implementation, the word implementation, of the settlement agreement.
 And it does talk about the new group reviewing directives and giving feedback on it. So that's a clear expectation. Yeah, the language that was used in the co-op was independently assess the settlement agreement, so we cut and paste it. Old legal trick, but I believe the totality, including the implementation, is implied in that, but we can ask legal counsel for that.
 I know Tracy's here somewhere. She's hiding in the back today. We can ask her opinion on that. If we need clarification, we can certainly provide that information.
 Gentlemen, thank you. Thank you. We always appreciate your testimony. So I've had a request from a member of the community that we take a brief recess at this point. Why don't we take a 10-minute recess? Everybody can use the restroom or go grab some coffee. And we will reconvene at...
 We'll find out how many people signed up. 2.45. How many people, Carla, signed up? I think 14. 14 people today. Very good. So we'll reconvene at 2.45. Philip, is that enough time? Is that good? Okay, great. We're in recess until 2.45. That's appropriate. Yeah, he wanted to have a chance to digest. All right, we're back in session. All right.
 Yeah. Okay. So, colleagues, I have some quick answers on the proposals that were made by Pastors Bethel and Haynes, and I'd just like to get this out there prior to the public testimony so that if people have comments. Number one, the Section 2 goal to affirm the PSAT members'
 implementation shall be added to the assessment that is implied. That was both the intention and that is implied. So we see that as already in the agreement and I'm stating so on the record. With regard to page three scope of work
 This was the question of participation by PSAP at all judicial conferences. We agree to that. The city will support PSAP being at any conference before the judge.
 I'm stating that on the record, but I've also been asked to make it very clear that we don't get to make that decision. That is ultimately the decision of the judge, but we will support PSAP in that effort. With regard to membership and reporting...
 This is something that would be developed by the committee itself with regard to its own bylaws. So we support the language. The number of committee members being, it currently is between 9 and 11. I will state on the record that I will appoint 11. Okay.
 Section 5 is no longer relevant because there are no term limits.
 So with regard to the hiring of the community organizer, apparently I'm not the first person to say it's a good idea. The city has already said that they like that idea. There will be a program manager and administrative support. There will be community organizing capacity. In order to bring forward a specific community organizer, that would have to be offered by the committee.
 You can do that through me as mayor or through one of my commissioners in the ordinary budget process, and that position would have to be funded.
 Page 6, with regard to publishing information, unfortunately we are not able to do that. That would make the body a public body. However, it is our understanding that PSAP would provide written reports, written updates. PSAP would provide written reports and written updates, and
 And that would be sent to me in letter form. It would be posted online. I would certainly post it on social media, and I would assume that people would help us post that information through social media as well, that it cannot actually be posted on the city's official website. Did I get that right, Tracy, the city's? It can't be a report to council. I'm sorry.
 But it can be a letter to me? And it can be posted on the city website. Okay, yes. If I could just add in this bit. One of the changes, I just realized that we haven't given a strike through underlined version. So folks may have missed that we've now got a directive within the plan. The mayor or the mayor's delegate and the Portland Police Bureau's chief or the chief's delegate shall endeavor to attend all public meetings of PSAP unless PSAP requests otherwise. Other.
 Other commissioners or their delegates are encouraged to attend unless PSET requests otherwise. The purpose of such attendance is to listen, to understand, provide information either at the meeting or as a follow-up, and learn from PSET members and public testimony. So we've got in there that there's a clear expectation that there will be ongoing engagement by all of the council. Very good. Thank you, Commissioner. Page 7, where it says gather input from.
 And the request was that AMAC be explicitly listed. We agree, and that will require an amendment. So, colleagues, I'd like to put forward an amendment that on page 7, the sentence starting with gathering input from, it includes AMAC. Second. So we have a motion, and we have a second from Commissioner Fritz. We'll call that Wheeler 1. Okay.
 Section 9, the deliverable product, we agreed to that, and that is on the record. But not with the timeline, right? We took out the 180 days. I've lost Tracy again.
 Tracy, would you mind coming just closer? So I can't find you back there. Sorry. And you have to speak into the microphone. Otherwise, you can't get captured. We have a giant novelty clock in the back. And it's hard to see over it. It's now one year. It's one year. Thank you. And that's Tracy Reeves Legal Counsel.
 Section 9, subsection 5, we believe this is already included. The consultant has been hired to help the committee with this. So we believe that is already implied and already staffed and ready to go through the consultancy process. So that is my quick and dirty summary.
 interpretation working with legal counsel on those issues. So without further ado, we'll get into public testimony. Could you remind me, Carla, how many people? We have 14. Fourteen? Great. We're making good time. So, folks, testimony is three minutes. There's a little box. It lights up yellow and you have about 30 seconds left and it goes to red and beeps.
 When your time is up, all you need to do is state your name for the record. You don't need to give your address or anything like that. If you are a lobbyist, a paid lobbyist, then we do need to know that under council rules. If you're here representing an organization, that's helpful too. And as always, we just ask people not to interrupt other people's testimony. Let's be respectful. Whether you like what they're saying or not, thumbs up, thumbs down is sufficient. Thank you. And we'll get to the first three.
 are Dan Handelman, Juan Chavez and Lisa Wright. Dan would you like to start us off? Yes. Thank you sir. Mayor Wheeler, members of council, I'm Dan Handelman from Portland Copwatch. We appreciate the council voted unanimously on August 9 to suspend the Bureau's intended implementation of the 10 times 48 hour rule. While the revised directive on deadly force is much improved, there are still many concerns.
 Many in the community would like to see involved officers interviewed before the end of their shift or within 24 hours rather than 48 hours. We appreciate the only exception is an officer being incapacitated, but maybe you should better define that so officers can't say their emotional state is a form of incapacitation. Appropriately, clarification has been made about giving officers the Garrity warning so any other compelled statements won't be used for criminal proceedings, but failing to answer questions could get them disciplined.
 Also, most references to waiting for approval from the District Attorney have also appropriately been struck. The previous version proposed by the Mayor split up tasks based on whether a shooting was fatal or not. The new new 48-hour rule splits tasks up between on-scene responsibilities and follow-up responsibilities following departure from the incident scene.
 This creates a few problems. I'm sorry, Dan. Yes. I'm going to cut people a little extra slack on the time. Okay. I would ask people to read a little bit slower because we have a translation underway. Okay. Thank you. Why, thank you.
 So the problem between by splitting up between on-scene responsibilities and follow-up after departure include that the homicide detectives can ask the involved officer for a voluntary interview and then conduct one on-scene, but then they can also ask one afterward. So it should be made clear where the second request is if the officer declines the on-scene, if it's a follow-up, or if it's both. Is this also true for witness members in the new directive? Yes.
 The civilian witnesses do not get interviewed until after PPB leaves the scene, the way this is written now. Witness officers are told they must submit to an audio-recorded interview before going off shift, but that doesn't appear until the following departure from the scene section. Also, even though Bureau standards are more restrictive than constitutional policing, the PSD captain is asked to decide whether to conduct further interviews after the voluntary homicide investigation.
 Homicide will not be asking the same questions as the administrative reviewer. It would be unusual then that IA would not have more questions for an officer than what criminal investigators asked. This being an option was not in the previous draft, which also allowed PSD to ask for a voluntary statement from the involved officer. It would be a good idea to reinstate that option so that compelled testimony would not be an issue at all.
 The requirement for interviews to be audio recorded has been removed or made optional a few places and we have details in our written testimony.
 There are two sections that still have professional standards filling out the use of force report instead of the officer. If the city believes the officers being required to fill out that form violates their Fifth Amendment rights and or is concerned the officer's words will be used in the criminal investigation if they fill out the report, nothing in the current draft prevents PSD from sharing that report with the detectives even though that was in the old version. I just have a few more things. Can I finish up? All right. Witness members are no longer required to fill out use of force reports.
 and we're concerned that officers who are under criminal investigation might stay on paid administrative leave, even if they admit to wrongdoing during an IAA interview. IAA is not supposed to share its findings until after all criminal proceedings are over, including the police review board.
 That means they can't share it with the police review board until after criminal proceedings. The criminal investigations directive is constructed so that an assistant chief who would not be involved in the criminal process would sit on the PRB to prevent leaking information between IA and homicide. The city should consider implementing this in the deadly force cases too as well. Some paragraphs were cut to prevent duplication, but there are places where things should be cross-referenced so everybody understands.
 understands what their responsibilities are. So if you're the professional standards director and you go to that section, there's nothing in there about compelling testimony or protecting the information that's compelled that's spread out throughout the rest of the document. So it would be good to also see section blah, blah, blah for your other duties. So it's just so it's clear. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, counsel. And be kind to the translator, please. I'll do my best. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and counsel. My name is Juan Chavez. I'm here testifying on behalf of the National Lawyers Guild Portland chapter. First, the NLG would like to thank the mayor and the city council for continuing to listen to the public in developing its deadly force directive. The proposal before you today is a great improvement that just needs a few amendments made.
 First, the NLG's greatest concern centers around the interviews of involved members and witnesses. The city has provided no reason why involved members are not required to submit to an interview promptly after a deadly force incident. The community has asked for compelled testimony by the end of the shift or, at the very least, within 24 hours.
 But the directive still allows up to 48 hours for involved member interviews. The directive also does not provide an outer time limit for when witnesses, witness members, must be interviewed. Lastly, the directive allows discretion in some circumstances to not audio record interviews with involved witnesses and witness members. Thank you.
 Prompt recorded interviews are necessary. We recommend you take a look at the U.S. Department of Justice's report titled Standards and Guidelines for Internal Affairs, Recommendations from a Community of Practice, which is available online, and I believe we also provide the link in our written testimony. It says that the process of investigating an agency's member's use of lethal force requires an extraordinary degree of attention to capturing and recording the statements of each participant and witness involved.
 independently, accurately, and as soon as conditions allow. It recommends that officers be compelled to submit to comprehensive, electronically recorded interviews as soon as is practical and reasonable, after an opportunity to consult for a reasonable amount of time with an attorney or a labor representative. It defines a reasonable amount of time to be as much as three to five hours or more.
 The guidelines state that all interviews with officers should be recorded. When discussing on-scene walkthroughs, the guidelines note that the practice of some investigators to conduct unrecorded pre-interviews of officers or witnesses prior to formal electronically recorded interviews should be discouraged. According to these guidelines, 24 hours is plenty of time to reasonably and practically interview an officer and all interviewees, including on-scene walkthroughs, and these should be recorded.
 With respect to the proposed amendments to the settlement agreement and to the PSAP plan, the NLG defers to the seasoned judgment and expertise of the AMA coalition. So we encourage the city to adopt those amendments. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Lisa Wright. I am the co-chair of the Political Action Committee for the NAACP Portland Branch, and I'll be reading our statement, the letter from Joanne Hardesty today. The NAACP Portland Branch appreciates the Council's giving such serious consideration to the rules on investigating deadly force incidents and community involvement in the administration of the settlement agreement. We really do. It's clear that you guys are really dedicated to making sure this is done
 Good outcome. Well, we appreciate the city's efforts to approve the proposed amendments We continue to have grave concerns about two key issues first the timing of administrative interviews in the case of post incident of Use of force cases and second the elimination of the community oversight advisory board the Coab
 First, on the proposed changes to the post-deadly force procedures for the Police Bureau. We are pleased that the City has incorporated the guidance of the ACLU and the National Lawyers Guild to ensure separate administrative investigations with compelled testimony from the involved officer. However, we agree with Rev. Bethel and Haynes, who testified on August 3rd for the AMAC that the time period should be within 24 hours, if not by the end of shift.
 It is in the best interest of the community and the investigation to receive a statement as soon as possible. Second, regarding Section 9 of the settlement agreement, we are disappointed that the city continues to pursue the PSIP and the elimination of the COAB.
 This change has been opposed by the NAACP, AMAC, the Oregonian Editorial Board, Portland Cop Watch, and Kathleen Sadat, the former COCL, in addition to hours of testimony by Portland residents. Although it is evident that the city has attempted to incorporate feedback from the community, it has still failed to articulate its case for the elimination of the COAB instead of repairing the structural and leadership problems from the city and the police bureau.
 The proposed ordinance goes to great lengths to outline the timelines and culpability and the details of negotiations, but it fails to address the conclusion that the community should no longer have independent oversight of the settlement agreement. None of the findings outlined in the ordinance justify this change. In short, you have not made your case. The NAACP Portland branch asserts, as we did on August 3rd, that the proper course of action is for the city to implement the necessary fixes for the co-op. Can you slow down a little bit, please? I'm sorry. Oh, okay. Apologies. Apologies.
 I'm told I talk fast. The NAACP Portland branch asserts, as we did on August 3rd, that the proper course of action for the city is to implement the necessary fixes for the COAB, training administrative and budgetary support, showing up the requirements for participation by the city and the PBB, and making it easier to appoint and dismiss board members. That is what is required to repair the damage that the city caused by failing to support the COAB sufficiently to begin with and then letting it wither.
 Given the proposed structure, the PSAP is a pale substitute for what was originally promised in the settlement agreement. We did outline some specific concerns about the PSAP document. There's one in particular that I will mention, and you have the rest in written form for the sake of time. On page two, there's mention of available tools and resources, which are to provide the mechanism for PSAP to independently assess the settlement agreement. This section appears to be missing, or it's not clearly labeled in the document.
 but it appears that it should appear between city's responsibilities and members' responsibilities. I could not find it. There are two other things that I would like, or well, let me skip here.
 We urge the City Council member to reject the creation of the PSAP given the errors and omissions in the current draft. We also encourage City Council to withhold a vote until the document can be further amended and distributed with adequate time for review. And there are just a couple things that I'd like to address that you've talked about in your comments today. Can you do it relatively quickly? Yes. Thank you. Just the word implied and optional. Implied, there's a lot of implied, and you all are not always going to be here. Okay.
 So your optional participation in the forming of the board is of concern because you are not always going to be the ones who are motivated to participate. And then I think there's a lot more that needs to be explicit in the proposal. Okay, and I will ask legal counsel about that later because I believe by putting it on the record, we're giving legislative intent, but I'll clarify that later. I've committed a faux pas. Ordinarily, we ask.
 if we have more than a few people signed up, if there are people with children or disabilities who would like to come up. So if you would, thank you all for your testimony. We appreciate it, as always. I want to give preference to folks who may have small children or disabilities. Or elder care responsibilities too. Or, sorry? Elder care. Or elder care, yes. Very well said. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Joe Walsh, for the record.
 I represent individuals for justice. One of the things that we're concerned about as we read through 946 was all of the mays, could-bes, recommendations. You're creating a committee that has no power. And why would you do that? You're going to replace the COAB.
 who actually was the only one in the whole system that was created that was doing their job. They offered a hundred recommendations to you and to the Department of Justice. And how many did you respond to? One. So how can you blame the COAB? There's something else wrong.
 Here's one of the things that was wrong. You had a chairperson being paid $100,000, and you had co-op volunteers working 40, 60 hours a week with no stipends. Nothing. They couldn't even get reimbursed. You worked their butts off. It was worse than a full-time job. And you're creating the same thing here. You're giving so much for them to do.
 And to recommend it to you, who ignored it last time. You and the Justice Department. And God, we have a Justice Department now that's not going to push this. You know that. It's up to you. We have to trust you, who ignored it. It's outrageous. Absolutely outrageous that you would do this. Why not keep the COAB?
 And you had eight to ten people on there that struggled for years. And I was part of the protest against it. I wanted to disband it because you would not listen to them. They had no power. It's just like the IPA. Let me say something about the 48 hours. The Lawyers Guild come up with a great suggestion and none of you have mentioned it.
 I was a chief union steward in the federal sector. They ran dual investigations all the time. Every time we represented somebody, we had a criminal investigation that went out to a point. Sometimes they threw it out. Sometimes they didn't. It's the law that's important. You cannot exchange information. If you let the police department...
 Do the administrative investigation and the criminal you're asking for trouble. Think about this. They go to parties. They go to social. They talk about their cases. And if they exchange information and it goes to trial, the DA is right. Out it goes.
 You have to figure out a wall. And the Lawyers Guild have given you a choice. It's a good choice. Give it to the auditor. It's completely separate from you guys. Let them do the administrative and let the cops do the criminal. You have to learn our trust first. And you haven't learned that. You keep doing all these things thinking that we will trust you, and we don't.
 You have to learn it. You have to earn it. So thank you for taking the person with disabilities. I like the idea of Amanda also with the children. I have to remind you a lot about that. I don't know how we do this. Maybe I have a sign. I'm disabled. Let me go. Because it's a serious concern with me about the level of oxygen. If I'm here for a long time,
 And I want to testify, there were times that I had to leave. There are people in wheelchairs that are in pain. There are people that are in crutches that are in pain. They shouldn't have to sit here for hours. So I acknowledge that you finally acknowledge it, that I had to go through your assistance to get the word to you. And I don't understand why there's this confusion of not doing it. If there's more than 10 people, do it.
 Thank you very much. Yeah, thank you, Mr. Walsh, and please accept my apology. I did neglect to do that, and it was an oversight on my part. Next three are Debbie Iona, Regina Hannon, and Barbara Boschinski. Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. Would you like to start? Why don't you go ahead and start? Thank you. Okay. I'm Debbie Iona, representing the League of Women Voters of Portland. Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the PSAP.
 The League strongly recommends that all PSET meetings be open to the public. We agree with Open Oregon, a statewide freedom of information coalition, that citizens benefit by, quote, having access to the process of deliberation and government officials gain credibility by permitting the public to observe their information gathering and decision-making processes.
 Officials who keep their deliberations hidden from public scrutiny create cynicism and erode public trust. Close quote. In light of the high degree of community concern about policing in Portland, greater transparency and participation are essential.
 We encourage clarifying the language around PCEP terms. It currently appears that committee members will serve only one two-year term. Ms. Grant explained in her email to me earlier today that's not the case.
 Because the PSAP will be dealing with complex issues and its members will require extensive training, we were pleased to learn members can apply to renew if they wish. We think it is important to tailor term limits policies to each volunteer committee's function and responsibilities. Thank you.
 The community will look to PSAP to assess the city's compliance with the settlement agreement, including implementation. The city will build trust and confidence because PSAP has the authority to offer its evaluation of the city's progress and report to the court at status conferences.
 We support including PSEP in the universal directive review process and, over the years, have recommended consultation with the Citizen Review Committee as well. The CRC, through appeals of police misconduct cases, experiences firsthand how directives are applied to interactions between the police and community members. The Bureau would benefit from including CRC's perspective in the review process.
 Furthermore, the PSAP should be given the authority to also recommend to the Mayor off-schedule review of directives that are in the settlement agreement when necessary. Finally, we appreciate the efforts Commissioner Fish and the Mayor's Office devoted to the 48-hour rule. Keep in mind, however, that OIR, the independent experts that review Portland's police shootings,
 recommends interviewing involved officers contemporaneously. In other words, they should be interviewed the very day or evening the shooting occurred. The city should be striving to adhere to best practices in post-shooting administrative investigations.
 Thank you for listening to the community, and you have been just, you know, I was gone for the first round, and I've just been so impressed to see how responsive you've been to the concerns that you've heard from the community. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and members of the Council. My name is Regina Hannon, and I'm with Portland Copwatch.
 We want to note up front that Council was able to make some changes to the settlement agreement, apparently without pushback from the DOJ.
 But we have asked repeatedly that two items in the definition section of the agreement be removed to make it easier for the city to improve its oversight system. One is paragraph 61, which defines supported by the evidence by restating the CRC deferential reasonable person standard of review.
 Copwatch understands council is not ready to change that standard today, but removing the definition will free the city up to make that change without involving the federal government and the court. The other is paragraph 43, which prohibits appeals on deadly force cases. Okay.
 We still have serious concerns about the reworking of the COAB, including the word oversight is being dropped from the proposed name. The only change being made to the name is changing the word commission to the word committee. It seems a commission would have more authority than a committee, so this minor change indicates further disempowering of the COAB.
 While the new draft is far better than the original proposal, the continuation of encouraging behind-closed-door meetings, lack of broad community input into the membership, and unclear mandates mean this is still not an adequate replacement.
 Our key concern is the deliverable number six that says PSAP will spend the first year gathering information from the public and compiling recommendations for the Bureau's community engagement plan. If this means that it is the PSAP's only charge for that first year, this is not something Portland Copwatch would support.
 The Mayor's Office assured us that the plan would only be one part of PCEP's first year of work, but we would like to see this in writing so there is no confusion. New language says PCEP will independently assess the settlement agreement.
 which taken literally means they may not be able to comment on the implementation of the agreement, which was the number one charge for COAB as written in the agreement, paragraph 141.
 If the intent is for the committee to assess how the Bureau is implementing the agreement in a way that meets community expectations, this founding document should say so clearly. Similar unclear language appears in the footnotes suggesting once the agreement is over, there will be no COCL anymore.
 PSAP should make recommendations about progress generally and on community engagement. It should specify progress towards stated goals of the agreement and enacting PSAP's recommendation.
 Only one of PCEP's two monthly meetings is required to be public, even though Portland Copwatch and many others believe all the meetings should be public. At most, an executive committee that sets agendas might meet out of the public eye, but should be required to report on all deliberations at the public meetings. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. At the end, Mayor, I am interested in the question of should we delete that standard of evidence from the definitions? Is it necessary to have this in there? I think that was a very good point. The other comment I have for both of you is that these are going to be Portlanders who are going to be appointed to this committee, and so I think they will share your desire for open public meetings as much as possible. The way we have it worded now really means they can occasionally have a retreat or something –
 that they would just discuss within themselves? Well, I think there have been too many behind closed doors meetings going on in the city for a number of years. And I think that's a very serious mistake that needs to be rectified.
 Very good. A couple of things. What my office stated earlier today is correct. That is not the only thing we expect the committee to do in the first year, and I will ask legal counsel if we need to clarify that. I'm certainly happy to do that if that's necessary. I will also ask the same question Commissioner Fritz asked, which is the question about the language about –
 the reasonable standard. And I don't have a problem with that. It sounds like you're probably finding a pathway for us that we want to go towards anyway. And whether or not we need to clarify the term limits statement. I don't know if it's, it seems like a lot of people are tripping over it. I want to make sure that what we have written in plain English is easy for people to understand. So I appreciate that.
 And the intention, obviously, with regard to the public meetings is we do believe it is reasonable for a group to have time to strategize and think about how they want to plan public meetings without the public necessarily noticing.
 being there for that strategic session. But if my colleagues say no, that's fine. Keep in mind there is a balance there in terms of also attracting people who want to participate in the process. So we're trying to find a good balance that with the community meetings, with the quarterly forums, with the monthly meeting, and the discretion they have if they want to have all their meetings be in public, we think we've reached a reasonable placement.
 So that's just so you know where we're coming from. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council Members. My name is Barbara Boshinsky with Portland Cop Watch. Okay, the new plan explicitly calls for PSAP to review Bureau directives and make recommendations as well as requiring the Bureau to tailor its policy reviews to allow PSAP to have meaningful input.
 PCW supports this change, but we are concerned that the new language makes it seem as if the recommendations about standard operating procedures, training, bureau culture, or other aspects not captured by the directives will not be allowed. And I personally consider that very important.
 The new document also allows – I'm sorry. Could we stop the time? Because I'm not sure I followed that. Could you just restate that so I understand? This isn't taking your time. I just want to make sure I understand. Yeah. The idea is that we want to make sure that any recommendations about standard operating procedures, training, bureau culture, or other aspects that are not captured by the directives will be allowed so that we're not –
 And I've been thinking about this myself, you know, well, it's all well and good to find out what happens after somebody gets shot, but what can we do on the preventive? Okay. Thank you for that clarification. I appreciate it. Yeah.
 The new document also allows PSAP to kick a directive up for review outside its normal review schedule, but only if it's not part of the agreement's scope. In other words, had PSAP found that the deadly force directive was allowing involved officers to wait until after the grand jury to speak to investigators after that policy had been adopted, they would have had to wait two years to ask for it to be fixed.
 PCW appreciates the example of the crowd control directive, which moved up in importance because of the on-ground clashes between police and the public. However, any existing directive or the need to create a new one should be included in this authority. And that PCW strongly supports that the council will hold a hearing on the community outreach plan and order amendments if needed.
 Instead of just three people picked by the mayor, the interview panel for prospective PSIP members will be made up of five people picked by all five council members. While this is an improvement, bear in mind that the original proposal to pick members of the COAB in the agreement was to have community meetings where people voted. There must be some way to have broader community involvement in doing outreach for and selecting members.
 The document states that selection may begin before the judge approves the agreement and holds a fairness hearing. This makes sense in terms of wanting to speed things up, but if for some reason the process is not found to fit the agreement, the city will have to unselect everyone and start yet again. Obviously, this would not be as much of an issue if the PSIP were simply called the COAB, in which case it would mostly still be within the scope of the agreement. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. We appreciate it.
 The next three are Mr. W.G. Barnett, Lightning, and Phillip J. Wolf. Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council people. I'm Mr. Barnett, member of Copwatch, and will read a statement that I understand has already been provided from Copwatch. It is not clear that the problem of... Sorry...
 of only dealing with certain classes of Portlanders is fixed by changing the requirement to participate in neighborhood association meetings, to consult with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement and or district coalitions, Coalition of Communities of Color, and ONI's diverse civic leadership partners. There are no organizations of houseless persons on that list,
 or even advocates. Next, the desired effect of the PCCEP making informed recommendations will be better served by requiring meetings with members of the bodies now outlined in Deliverable No. 7 as optional. BHUAC, TAC, CRC, PRB, as PCCEP,
 EP is required in the new document to meet with the Human Rights Commission, the Portland Commission on Disabilities, and the new Portlander Policy Commission. Third, we earlier raised a question about the requirement for officers to attend roundtables and town halls.
 The new document clarifies that the Portland Police Bureau presence is required at quarterly town halls. However, this leaves a lot of questions, including will officers be in uniform?
 Could this language be interpreted as the Police Bureau acting as security at such meetings, rather than attending to listen and answer questions if called upon? Fourth, Portland Cop Watch appreciates several minor but important changes, such as swapping out the desired outcome of policing which exceeds the constitutional requirements.
 ahead of meaningful community engagement and adding improved outcomes to the list of goals. Similarly, the purpose of community engagement is now defined as quote, leading to bias-free policing and community trust, unquote. It is appropriate
 given the COCL's disconnect with this community for PCCEP to coordinate the COCL's town hall meetings. Thank you. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. I almost feel I should be a legal scholar to be discussing some of these issues, so I'll just make representation. I am not an attorney. My position is that I believe that
 DA Underhill, his position that he is taking is the appropriate direction to take. I believe that we should not compel statements from officers who have used deadly force until after the DA has concluded the criminal investigation. I believe that you cannot create that firewall between administrative investigations and also criminal investigations. There's too much risk pertaining to the Soriano case
 There's too much risk to the DA. Let the DA proceed forward in the direction he wants to go and understand. If everything begins to fall apart, we'll be pointing in electing a new prosecutor. If everything begins to fall apart with what you're proposing from your side, I'll be pointing at the police commissioner, the mayor, and the commissioners. If you look in Chicago right now in the LaQuinn McDonald case,
 We're talking possibly up to six to ten officers are going to be fired. Police chiefs are going to be fired. They want the mayor removed. And if you look at the compelled statements, understand it's the same thing we're discussing here. D.A. Underhill wanted to put this up in front of a grand jury. He wanted to transcribe the testimony and make that witness testimony transparent to the public.
 And the reality is that I think you're going against somebody that knows what he's doing, and it's going to jeopardize the overall outcome. And in my opinion, for you to put in a policy where you don't have nearly the experience that he does or the knowledge and act like you do, as a police commissioner going against the prosecutor, I think that's a conflict of interest, and I'm going to ask you to recuse yourself on this vote.
 And a reason why I think you should do that is that if these cases do begin to fall apart, like other cases have shown, you've stepped back and there's still four votes, and they can vote it in. And then each and every one of you will be not voted for on your re-election. And that's something you should take in consideration. And also on this pay increase, if we go in the direction of D.A. Underhill,
 That $6.8 million should not be paid to the Portland police. We should look at that close and understanding we're not removing the 48-hour rule if we go with D.A. Underhill. So I'm asking to go with D.A. Underhill. I'm asking for you to recuse yourself. And I'm asking for that pay increase to be null and void, taken away. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Philip Wolfe. I'm representing COAB, and I would like to thank the commissioners here for inviting me here to give this testimony, but I also want to make sure that you're awake and aware. Hello, not nodding off while I'm doing my testimony. Okay. First, I would like to say that I want to recognize the efforts that you've included in trying to improve the document. I've seen all the work that you've put into it. It's not perfected as we know, but there is a lot of effort, and I just want to be aware of recognizing that.
 Also, there's a few things that I would like to address related to the police in the 48-hour rule that I'm impressed that that's going to be removed or that's the intention. I think after our use of deadly force and after they finish the response to respond to the end of their shift, they should have the...
 within 24 hours, that conversation, I don't know that that's the best recommendation. I try to envision that in terms of suppose it was me and I had done deadly force, and then I still have to continue working for another 24 hours. That I feel would be something that could have an impact on me moving forward in my activities and that it's a risk for community safety. So I feel like immediately if deadly force happens, that person should be removed, sort of given a break, suspended, taken home, whatever.
 I feel that needs to be a very quick action. Related with reporting to the use of deadly force, I don't know actually if it applies specifically, and if it doesn't apply. I still feel that when people look at it, there's a concern about using deadly force. Suppose a person experiences a horrible experience, it's tragic, and the police needs to be documented as quickly as possible by the police. It needs to actually put it down that this was done, you know,
 Hmm? Suicide. Not a suicide. Okay, thanks. So I think that, thank you. I just wanted to say, I don't know if it's possible to apply to this, to the 48-hour rule, but I wanted to emphasize my concern about how that might be happening when there's a use of deadly force, how that could create a suicide situation. Plus also, we already just yesterday, I think we've had a discussion during a meeting where I felt like the goal for police reform is heading on the right path.
 But I do have some still concerns and doubts about that, how that path is going. And I feel like, you know, we need to be able to work together so that we can come to agreement to follow the appropriate path. One thing I would like to say is I would want to make sure that there are accommodations that are provided. There's nothing in here that mentions anything about accommodations in this document, in the budget, so, and how that would be budgeted. Related with the selection process for the new committee, I do have a question, sort of a general question.
 How are the people who are going to be responsible for the selection, who is going to pick those specific people who will be making the selections for the new committee? I think, you know, I agree with pretty much everything that other people have commented about relating to that process previous to my testimony. So I think that's all I have to say today. It is currently police bureau policy that was served. Okay. Oh, there was one little thing that I forgot to add. Sure. It was connected with the deadly force in a shooting incident.
 I'm curious how you can make sure you can divide the criminal investigation, separate it from the administrative investigation. So I'm curious what's already in place right now to make sure that happens, and I think that needs to be documented in the proposed document. Thank you. Thank you. That's a really good point, isn't it, that the 48 hours is a number, but right now there has to be separation between the administrative process and the criminal one.
 So it's gotta be possible. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Pat Adams,
 Thomas Etienne and Miralav Viani Perez-River. And then there are two more after them. Very good. And to those of you waiting for item 947, which is an historic review, a Historic Landmarks Commission decision, I apologize. We're obviously running a little bit over on a different matter, but I would ask for your patience. We will get to you, I promise. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Thanks for this opportunity. I followed COAB for a few years, and I went to meetings. Oh, my name is Pat Adams. Thank you. And I attended the Accountability Subcommittee and the Mental Health. And these are my observations, my advice, if you will, for the committee going forward. First of all, there's no natural conflict between the police and the community.
 The community needs the police, and the police are part of the community. So if there is a conflict, it comes from outside of that natural relationship. Secondly, we can't make the community safer by making the police less safe. Any solution must improve safety for both. Three, we cannot be seeking increased police accountability without also seeking increased community safety.
 accountability. Our concern about racism in the police department cannot be our only focus. After all, racism in the police department is also a mirror for racism in the community. I doubt that there has ever been an officer who never abused his or her power. Police, like all people, bring their prejudices, their stresses, and their humanness to work every day.
 There must be a restorative justice process to heal both real and imagined transgressions against community members. Punishment is not justice, and getting rid of bad apples is a tactic, not a strategy. Lastly, officers must have a forum for their own stories of abuse at the hands of community members, for witnessing the endless abuses of the community against itself.
 Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. Thanks for having us again. I'm glad I made it this time. I was almost not able to. But my name is Thomas Etienne. I spoke on August 3rd. Came back to the city, military veteran, former officer. So I was able to tap away and thank you to Stacey Brewster in your office. And I forget who from Commissioner Udalli's office.
 And I got something from your iPhone, Mr. Mayor, just saying. So I appreciate that being received. I'll just reiterate one portion of what I wrote, paragraph number six. With regards to the proposal to amend the role of the existing COAB in favor of a more independent PSAP, but with less authority, I argue that constructing yet another government-designed intervention that extends no meaningful power to an engaged community will likely fail.
 This view is informed not only by my past military experience, but also with due awareness and appreciation for the political landscape of America in 2017. Irrespective of party affiliation, the systemic crisis of our domestic politics is being extensively fueled by the retrenchment of public and private institutions that are failing to deliver functional services and protections for a growing number of Americans. Thank you.
 I believe this pattern has evolved over several decades, so it's not on the shoulders of everyone in this room, but we do have some responsibility. But we're also at a point where citizens are justifiably correct in demanding reforms that specifically encode accountability mechanisms into their processes. So by my understanding, the now dormant COAB did include a meaningful degree of accountability in the form of having authority to report.
 Portland residents' evaluations of police reform that was being implemented under the settlement agreement. It still appears that the proposed PSAP will diminish that specific oversight capacity from the only component under the settlement agreement that guaranteed a degree of accountability to the community.
 So other than that, I really included a few questions. And the thing that brought me back here specifically when I thought about it was like to just consider what was the risk that you had perceived that motivated you, all right, we have to change from COAB to PCIP. What was the risk to the city for doing, for justifying that? And I tried to think, you know, I didn't really hear a convincing or persuasive explanation on that part.
 And in my own world, I would also ask, like, what risk do you perceive for the city if the community loses faith in police reform? And that's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioner Saltzman, Fritz, and Udalli. I'm so glad you're there. Thank you for your service. I was fortunate, blessed, and honored to be a part of the COAB process for the full term. And what was so exciting about it is that I was actually born and raised in Portland. I'm a Portlander through and through. And I just want to say, first of all, to Amanda Fritz, because of you and your humanity—
 It allowed me to remain on the Co-Ab when it was difficult. I appreciate you. I appreciate your leadership. It's what compelled me to be a part of the Disability Leadership Academy, which was a transformative experience for me in terms of my trust with local government. And that means something deeply to me. When I was on the Co-Ab, I got a little bit of pushback, but that's okay, because I love Portland. I love Portland.
 And I'm going to be here until the day I die. During that process, I was able to go up to the old Columbia Villa and talk to people who have been leaders in their own neighborhoods since the 80s. And they've seen a lot of things happen. I collected over eight full-on boxes.
 I felt like a lawyer after a while. You know how they have to store their stuff. I mean, I was like, oh, my gosh, I have to do something with this. But today I come not as the chair of the accountability subcommittee or a community leader or anything like that. I come to say thank you.
 this piece up or piece squared up or whatever you want to call it, right? Something else. Really, yeah. It really captures fair process, you know, right out of, you know, what that means. It really captures that. And I appreciate everybody's team that was involved in that and the vision that it took to do that.
 And I'm sure the guff that some of you have taken from who knows how many sides, because that's the deal in living in a community. There's a spectrum of people living there. And I'm so glad that this new council is moving forward with a cornerstone of accountability, transparency, and vision. Thank you so much.
 Thank you. Appreciate it. V, I just have to say thank you for all you taught me and for you and your mom for your stickability. I mean, it was very difficult at times. And you have been, along with Philip Wolf and others,
 dedicated to the long term that we need to get a police force that everybody can trust, a police community partnership. And your diligence in showing up and your ability to represent various communities in the community was very valuable and is valuable. Thank you for coming today. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. And there's two more, is that correct? Correct. Kenner Swain and Pastor J.W. Matt Hennessy.
 Good afternoon. Kenner Swain, Portland resident. Good afternoon. And I'm not a lifelong Portlander, but I'll do my best to say a couple things. I'll be brief in any case. So I agree that, well, I should say first, I think you all have done, you've made a good faith effort to step forward toward the 21st century and maybe end of the 21st century.
 And you do take a lot of guff and maybe don't get paid enough. And I hope that this is a step forward. I agree with the ordinance 1, 2, and 3, trust, procedural justice, effective and transparent accountability. And I agree with the United States and the city of Portland recognizing the vast majority of the city's police officers are honorable law enforcement professionals.
 who risk their physical safety and well-being for the public good. I was never a police officer. I did teach in Chicago Teachers Union for four years, as close as I got. I also agree it's not in the ordinance that Reinhold Niebuhr said the only empirically verifiable doctrine of Christian faith is original sin. It's not my time yet. And...
 I just have a... So I don't want to quibble with anything that you are doing, except one thing, procedural justice. I think really the goal is the substance of justice, which is not to disparage procedural justice or procedural due process. But having said that, and I haven't lived here long enough to... I just don't know the answer to this question, but I know that Philomath...
 and other places have police body cameras. And I hope that the first thing you do once you get through with... I assume you're going to pass something. Once you've passed something, the next step... You know, Carthage was not destroyed as soon as the guy started saying Carthage must be destroyed. It had to be said over and over and over to get to the point. So there are pros and cons. I will say Portland does not have...
 to suffer under the first mover mistakes and the first mover stumbles. Portland is not first to do body cameras, for better or worse. And just as a citizen who maybe has some privilege, but trying to stay out of trouble, but in any case, really for everybody whom you're acting on behalf of, think about body cameras.
 Yes, sir. And for the record, we've committed to those. And this year's budget actually had the first outlay to begin that process. The first outlay to do what? To begin the process of implementing body cams.
 And also that they will be warned by police officers here in the city of Portland. I haven't read it. I mean, I've read a little bit, maybe not enough to know what's really happening. The good news is I don't write the news. I'm terrible at it. What we've heard, though, is it's a lot more complicated than it might think because there's privacy issues that people in the public do not want that to be used as surveillance. So there's a lot of it's a big issue.
 Oh, the panopticon and surveillance is a big issue. It's going to get worse. And, you know, the Master and Servant Act is the way this society is going, too, which is big issues. Lots of work to do there, sir. You bet. Thank you. And last but not least. About that original sin. No, I'm kidding.
 Mr. Mayor, members of the City Commission, my name is, for the record, is Pastor J.W. Matt Hennessey, the pastor of the historic Vancouver Avenue First Baptist Church here in Portland. I also serve as a convener for the Interfaith Peace and Action Collaborative, which meets every other Friday, bringing police and community and faith leaders together.
 And so today my remarks are specifically talking about the changes that are recommended, rather, to you about the Committee on Community Engaged Policing. So my formal remarks are before you. I'll try to get through this in the time that I have left. It's always an honor and a pleasure to come before you to give input and voice.
 to matters that you are grappling with in the public square. As a person who's lived here for 28 years, I respect the grist it takes to create innovative and sustainable results for one of America's greatest cities. I'm convinced that community engagement was birthed in Portland and have had many great opportunities myself to be so involved.
 As I talk about the changes that are before you, it's important that I say from the bottom of my heart how much I respect and appreciate the great work of this community and each of you, the AMA and several other civil and human rights organizations, the Portland Police Bureau, and every citizen who has lent their name and time to help us comply with the Department of Justice's settlement agreement.
 As a result of my years in public administration, I have been on the side of administering and creating success for a consent decree from the Department of Justice in Saginaw, Michigan, when I was the Assistant City Manager of Police and Fire. And in that regard, I was dealing with the very difficult stuff as it relates to race and hiring and the need or the consent for every one white firefighter, four non-whites had to be hired.
 I also served as a settlement agreement monitor for the EEOC, overseeing the implementation of policies and practices of the Thomason Auto Group for three years. So for eight years of my life, I've done this kind of work, and I respect that.
 how very difficult it is to do. It's against that backdrop that I acknowledge the work of the COAB and Kathleen Sadat and all who worked with her. I salute the great work of Nicole Grant and those who are working with her and the changes that you are considering today and the weeks to come.
 Specifically, I am grateful to see the onboarding efforts made for those who will serve on the committee, the terms of office, the ability to meet and work with the public present, as well as opportunities to meet privately for considerations that are so important which lend itself to thoughtful and reflective discussion.
 I'm also grateful for the recommendations of the input into the directives considered by the Portland Police Bureau and, of course, their input in the progress meetings before Honorable Federal Judge Mike Simon. What I go on to say is just to remind you that I think that it's important that they meet with the COCL, that they also make time to meet with the various community groups so that the work that they're doing can also be done not just when they're meeting
 but also in ways that they might have intimate conversation and understand together as well. The rest of that's in my testimony. Thank you. Thank you both for your testimony. Thank you for your leadership, Pastor Henson. Thank you so much. We appreciate it. All right, colleagues, should we invite staff back up? That would be useful. Tracy, could we get you to come up? And Nicole, I know you're hiding here somewhere. There she is.
 Great. So, colleagues, we currently have three amendments on the table. The one around the removal of the word compelled in the first ordinance, 945. We have the one around the PSAF amendments on 946. We've added AMAC to the list on page 7 under 946. Okay.
 I had a couple of questions that I will just quickly jump into while we're organizing here. Do we need to clarify the term limits? I looked at the, Mr. Mayor, Tracy Reeves, City Attorney, I looked at the language in the Exhibit 4-1 as appropriate.
 has been presented with some amendments, and I do not believe it's legally necessary. I see perhaps some of the confusion is that it says some members will serve a two-year maximum term, and people may be reading that as...
 A maximum of two terms, but it's just specifying that the longest term is a two-year term and that there's also one-year terms, and it is not imposing a term limit. Does the word maximum need to be in that sentence? Because I assume it's the word maximum that's tripping people up. I think it would be fine to just say a two-year term. Is that a Scribner's error, or does it – Nicole looks like she has something else to say. I think it would be fine to add language that simply says there's no term limit. Okay.
 Why didn't I think of that? You're so good. I would entertain a motion. So moved. That's good. Second. Okay. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Udaly seconds. We'll call that Fish 1, and that's adding the sentence around term 2.
 limits. Phillip had mentioned the question of accommodations, and that was not explicitly called out. Should that be explicitly called out? Obviously, we want accommodations. So, Mr. Mayor, I know we have not been perfect in our implementation, but we have a legal obligation to provide accommodations, and we strive to provide accommodations, and we, under
 Title VI and under the ADA, we have an obligation to do that in all of our public activities and boards and commissions. So I do not believe it is legally necessary to specifically call that out. Is that requirement in code or is that a state or a federal requirement? It is certainly federal law requirements. There are also state analogs. Okay. Commissioner Fritz? Thanks, Mayor. Sorry to butt in. Not at all.
 As we've had in the past, it's really a funding issue, a budget issue, and there has been various proposals on how to fund accommodations citywide as well as on this particular body. So since you'll be proposing the budget, that's one way to make sure that it gets done. Okay, very good. The question was raised around the CRC and what would happen if we simply removed the CRC from...
 the document. So I would really urge... I understand that Council would like to have further discussion... Commissioner Fritz thinks I may have misinterpreted that. What I heard was to remove paragraph 61, which is on page 15 of the settlement agreements, and it wasn't removing the CRC. It was removing a definition of supported by the evidence as the standard of review. Right, and I guess what I would say is I understand that there's a desire to address that. That is something I would...
 all of the proposed amendments that are before you, we have worked extensively over a very lengthy period of time with the Department of Justice, the Portland Police Association, the AMAC, to a lesser extent. And I would, that is not something that
 My office has had the opportunity to look at, let alone to talk with our partners about, and I would really urge you not to make additional amendments to the settlement agreement that we've had no opportunity to collaborate or to have discussions on. Certainly you could direct staff to explore how to look at and to come back to you and to report on the appropriate standard for the CRC, but I think it's an issue that
 merits thoughtful consideration on its own. And I would urge you not to make substantive amendments to the settlement agreement language that we have not had any discussions with our partners about. The point was just removing that definition. Right.
 so that in the future we can have that? Because I understand that it's in the police contract, so it's maybe a bargaining issue. We may not be able to do it right away. But why do we have to have a definition of it in the settlement agreement? Because it's a definition that we negotiated with the Department of Justice in the first place that governs our accountability system, and so we have not had any discussions with them about whether they have any objections or see any further problems.
 I'll be honest, today is the first time that I've heard that raised. I've not had any time to look at it or consider it. I don't know what the materiality is to the Department of Justice on other areas, but I would...
 It would be a substantive change to the settlement agreement of a definition that was negotiated back in 2011-2012, and we've had no discussions with them about that. Okay. And then with regard to there was some confusion about whether we were limiting the work of the committee during its first year based on the comments.
 that were made. I understand. I've heard the testimony. I do not believe there's anything in the plan that limits the work to that. It is one element of the work, but it is not limited to that. And Nicole, I think, could speak better to the policy intention. So to clarify items, one through... Nicole, could you state your name for the record, please? Okay.
 Nicole Grant, Senior Policy Advisor for the Mayor. Thank you. To clarify, items 1 through 7 on pages 9 and 10 of the PSEP plan specifically lay out the steps that PSEP is to take in making recommendations on the community engagement plan for the Bureau. And that's one element. That's one charge. Nothing in that section precludes work on any of the other items laid out in this document. And if I might add on to that,
 We had a lot of discussion at the first chairing about they should do this, they should do that, and we had a number of things that we were going to put in there. When Christina Nieves, one of my policy advisors, tried to calendar out what would these volunteers be required to do, it was way more than even 20 hours a week. It was a full-time job, and even then we didn't think you could get it done. So that's why it's permissive, right? There's a few things that have to happen, but...
 not giving these volunteers so much that nobody will volunteer to do it. And the one year time frame was expanded from what was discussed on April, or April, August 3rd. And the intention was to kind of give PSAP the ability to actually get this work done. And in hiring a consultant, an organizational development consultant, we hope to have kind of assistance in developing that work plan.
 And I understand that to respond to Kathleen Sadat's suggestion, there's going to also be an internal police organisational evaluation with the new chiefs?
 The strategic plan? Or... Just how to create organizational changes. That was one of Ms. Sadat's recommendations. Right. And that's separate from the settlement agreement and the PSET plan. But as I understand, there has been substantial community outreach by the Bureau with respect to the development of a strategic plan and contracting with, I believe... Actually, I don't know if that's been determined yet. But they're contracting with a company to help the Bureau do that. Thank you.
 So similarly then, this doesn't say everything that we're doing with regards to police. There's other things that don't need to be in settlement agreement, right? Commissioner Saltzman. Yeah, I was impressed or struck by the testimony of Dan Handelman on Copwatch about the need to better define incapacitation as a reason not to give testimony within 48 hours of an officer-involved shooting.
 I do think we should add the definition, and I would propose it on Section 2.2.51, where it reads that a captain or designee shall ensure that the involved member provides a compelled statement as soon as practicable, but no later than within 48 hours of the event, unless the member is incapacitated and unable to provide a statement. I would add a sentence after that. The emotional state of the officer after a shooting.
 does not constitute incapacitation. That would be my amendment. I'm concerned that, just as I was concerned and support removing the exception to the 48-hour rule, because I think the exception becomes the rule, I do think having sort of this blanket incapacitation standard without saying that the emotional trauma of a shooting does not constitute incapacitation of itself. Otherwise, I think we're creating another potential loophole. So, Commissioner, I think incapacitation probably would –
 have a legal definition that would be something more than the normal expected upset. I would have some concern about on the fly adding a definition that says emotional – could you – I'm sorry, read your language. The emotional trauma –
 in of itself does not constitute incapacitation. Emotional trauma from the shooting does not in of itself constitute incapacitation under this section. So as we all sit here, that sounds fine, but there might be situations where an actual medical provider would believe that someone was actually incapacitated as a result of that. And my concern, again, is that as if...
 We're making those kind of amendments here without the benefit of reviewing any of that kind of information and without the benefit of hearing what the Portland Police Association has to say about it, that we might do something that could cause difficulties or that might contravene, and I don't know that it would. Well, I mean, just in defense of myself here, we're sitting here tossing amendments back and forth. Why does this one suddenly...
 upset the apple cart so much? I mean... It's just one that I see potentially having...
 I'm not a medical... This is the first time I've heard you say that the Portland Police Association should be in the loop to review what they're doing. Well, excuse me. I didn't mean to interrupt. The Portland Police Association has been part of the review process throughout. That is the way it works with the Department of Justice settlement agreement amendments. We are in a process. They're a party to the settlement agreement process. We have meetings where they participate as well. I get it.
 So it's no greater role, but they are a party and they do participate at the table. I guess my hesitation is I just have kind of a gut check that that could be –
 a medical situation that we have, I don't know the line of where that, where incapacitation would be judged by, say, a medical provider, and if we put in that, I mean, perhaps if it said something like, you know, normal, the normal trauma, but I guess my concern is just what if we put a definition like that in there and someone truly is incapacitated, they're not physically incapacitated, but they're,
 I would say, I would suggest, and the reason I suggested we remove, and Commissioner Fish and the mayor put this in their revised amendment to do away with practically all exceptions to the 48-hour rule, is if it's clear in the minds of the interrogators and the investigators that this person is truly incapacitated, then all they have to do is ask what the person's name and rank and serial number is. And then they can say, that's it. You met the 48-hour requirement. We'll talk to you later. Thank you.
 And I'd say the same thing would apply in this situation as well. And, you know, I'm concerned about it. Can I just make a comment? I'm just curious. I really just don't feel comfortable taking advice from the city attorney on this one and from the police. I think actually really...
 Okay. Philip, that's our judgment to make. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, and then I have a comment. May I just have a friendly suggestion, Commissioner Salsamo? How about just saying physically incapacitated? Instead of having another definition about what incapacitated is with mental just have it unless the officer is physically incapacitated. That would also be my suggestion. Okay. Could we say something like,
 physically incapacitated and unable to provide an oral or written statement? Well, physical incapacitation could include something like being so traumatized that it becomes cathatonic. So I think actually that just saying physically incapacitated. I would be comfortable with the physical incapacitation. I also think we have a pretty robust record here of the intent of the council. Okay. I could modify the amendment to simply insert the word physical in front of
 Incapacitated. Physically incapacitated. I'll second that amendment. Okay. So Commissioner Saltzman moves. Commissioner Fish seconds that amendment. And just a quick process check here. So we are obviously voting on Ordinance 945 today and its amendments. And it's my understanding we'll be voting on the amendments for 946 and then moving that to second reading. So there is actually more time left.
 for discussion of these issues or no? So the one that, I'm sorry, now I've lost, which is. So 945 is an emergency ordinance. 946 appears not to be. So my understanding is we'll be taking the vote on 45, but not 46?
 9.45 is 10-10-10? Correct. 46, I believe, you're voting on today. It's not listed as an emergency. If we agree, we could add an emergency clause. Okay. Does somebody want to propose that? Well, Mayor, let's find out if we have any more amendments, because if not, I would urge us to go through the amendments to both and then see if there's a proposal to slap an emergency clause on 9-4-6 and then take them both up subsequently. Great suggestion. Any further questions?
 Amendments to those? Very good. So why don't we do this? Why don't we first vote on the amendments to 945, then we'll take the votes on the amendments to 946, and then we'll see if somebody wants to make a motion on 946. First of all, Saltzman, number one, with regard to compelled, could you please call the roll? This is amendment number one, Commissioner Saltzman.
 With regard to Ordinance 945. Oh, thank you. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment is adopted. Could you please call the roll on Saltzman number two, which relates to the definition of incapacitation?
 Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Amendment 2 is adopted with regard to Ordinance 946, Fritz Amendment No. 1, relating to the package of amendments related to PSAP. Please call the roll.
 Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment is adopted. Wheeler number one, which refers to adding AMAC to the list of organizations on page seven. Please call the roll. Thank you.
 Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Fish number one, amendment number one, which relates to term limits. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Colleagues, I'll entertain a motion on item 946 for an emergency clause. So moved. I'll second. Commissioner Fritz moves. Commissioner Udaly seconds. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. And the reason for the emergency clause is because it's in the public benefit to be sending this to the Department of Justice and the judge as quickly as possible.
 Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Colleagues, any further discussion before I call the main motions on these ordinances? Please call the roll on item 945. Saltzman. Well, I'm very pleased to support this ordinance as amended. I want to thank Commissioner Fish and Mayor Wheeler for providing some changes to further almost remove, actually, the 48-hour rule exceptions. I really was concerned about any exceptions to that rule.
 because that often becomes the norm. The exceptions become the norm. So I think we have a tighter ordinance 10-10-10, and I think the changes in the hearings and what we heard today will even make it better. So I'm pleased to support it. Aye. Udaly? I'd also like to thank Commissioner Fish and the mayor's office for moving on this. This is one of our primary concerns with this ordinance, and I'm pleased with the results. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz. Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fish and I got a lot of grief for supporting the police contract last year. And this is one of the reasons. That's what we were paying for. And I really salute Mayor Wheeler for meaning what she said during the campaign and making sure that it happens. And Commissioner Fish for giving your legal expertise to getting the details right. And thank you to the entire community also. Aye. Fish.
 Colleagues, today we're taking decisive action to protect the hard-fought reform, the elimination of the 48-hour rule. And we're not picking a fight with the district attorney. We have a respectful disagreement, and we believe we can maintain that firewall and protect constitutional rights while also ensuring that we act in a timely manner as an employer to enforce our rules. Mayor, I want to thank you for your partnership in working on this. I want to thank the community for...
 Really thoughtful testimony that helped guide this process, including the amendments offered today. I actually think this has gotten stronger with each hearing, and I'm proud to vote aye. Wheeler. So this has been better than a college education and a master's degree and a Ph.D. all wrapped into one.
 And I want to thank, first and foremost, people in the community who took the time and many, many hours to participate in hearings, discussions, meetings. Those who took the time to write us, call us, send us flowers.
 I'm very appreciative of that, and I believe it has greatly strengthened this ordinance. I want to thank my colleagues. Commissioner Fish, again, I really appreciate the hard work you and your team did on the 48-hour rule issue. That was very, very complicated, but it's important that we get it right. Commissioner Fritz, thank you for your tireless work on the PSAP.
 Soon I hope to be renamed. And I just want to thank all my colleagues. I'm really appreciative of this. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Please call the roll on item 946. Saltzman. Well, I think the PSIP, or whatever we end up calling it, certainly has some challenges. But I do believe we need to try something different than the COAB model. And I think that there's no getting it right.
 Everybody's going to have different opinions on various aspects of involvement, community involvement, public involvement. And so I think this is an evolution, evolutionary process. I think we've got something here that does represent an improvement. And I do thank the mayor for taking this on. And we will see. And we can always revisit this issue if we have to. But I do think that this is a definite improvement over what we had.
 And regardless of whose fault it was, the city, the community, or whatever, it's an improvement. Please just support it. Aye. Hugh Daly? Aye.
 Well, first and foremost, I want to thank the community for hanging in with us on this conversation, continuing to be engaged and involved. On August 3rd, I came to council and introduced five amendments that were a direct response to the input that we got, my office received from the community, and they were specifically about...
 wanting oversight of PSAP by the full council, the size of the committee, transparency and accountability, and community engagement. However, primarily based on public testimony on the 3rd, by the end of that hearing, I had really lost confidence in the plan as it was written, and I could not have...
 supported it as is. So with that said, I want to thank the mayor and Commissioner Fritz and all of my colleagues and their staff for continuing to work on this and to take into account feedback from the community. I really think we have a much stronger plan. And as has been acknowledged, there may still be some fine-tuning. It's essential that we move forward with this. Thank you.
 This is what happens when you have good community engagement. And I'm thinking back to when Mayor Sam Adams negotiated the settlement agreement with the city attorney and also with U.S. Marshal...
 U.S. Attorney Amanda Marshall. And in that, we weren't allowed to have a community conversation because it was all legalese and we just weren't allowed to talk about it. And so I had some input into it, on some parts of it, and not into others. And I think everybody did the best they could with what we put forward. And there were some huge successes, as Mayor Wheeler mentioned at the last hearing, that the Community Oversight Advisory Board...
 worked diligently far harder than anybody had a right to expect them to, came up with some very, very good products, and also had their fair share of anger directed at them by other community members who wanted to see more changes quicker. So I want to start first of all by thanking Barbara Bueno and Nicole Grant in the Mayor's Office and Christina Nieves in mine, because their
 their part of the village too that has helped make this better. I'm thankful to Ellen Osenach and Judy Prosper and Tracy Reeve who from the city attorney's office have really gone above and beyond and I can't count the number of times somebody's come into my office saying, what about this? We just thought about this. We'd all think about it a bit more and then we would get community input and Mayor Wheeler, I
 so honour you for allowing the process to unfold, engaging with people, listening to everybody inside City Hall and outside. And again, we've picked the best we can for right now. I don't think any of us is claiming this is going to be perfect, but it's been a good process. And there does seem to have been, through allowing this process to happen, there's some more confidence than before in our police's ability to keep everybody in our community safe.
 I want to particularly thank advocates in the mental health communities who have sometimes not been the loudest voices. And I am mindful that that continues to be part of my role to make sure that we remember that the settlement agreement is important.
 about a lot of different things, including mental illness and the disproportionate impact of police actions on people experiencing mental health crises. So there's a lot more that we have to do in that regard. I'm pleased with the progress so far, and I know we have more to do, and I'm very committed to doing it. Hi. Fish? I just have a few things to add to my colleagues' eloquent remarks. I want to thank Amira Streeter and Sonia Schmansky on my team who have done such great work.
 And I want to acknowledge, as my colleagues have, the great work of the city attorney's office. And we really have a fantastic city attorney's office and highly principled and dedicated folks who guide us. So, Tracy, to you and your team, thank you. And I want to thank my colleagues and the staff people that they have had involved in this thing. I also want to thank Dr. Haynes and Dr. Bethel. They've been talking about this with me since 2002.
 And they still come here, and they still advocate, and when necessary, they pray. And we're just grateful for their steadfast leadership. I want to just say something about our new mayor. Everyone knows that Ted Wheeler ran for mayor and staked his mayoralty on this issue. So we have no confusion about that. He said, judge me on the kind of progress I make on police reform and accountability.
 And he came forward with a proposal that got mixed reviews, to put it politely. And so one of the things that I want to just acknowledge. That was very charitable, Commissioner Fitch. One thing I want to acknowledge about Ted's leadership is the word humility. I've served with four different mayors. And when you put a proposal forward and you get a lot of pushback, there's a lot of different ways you can respond.
 And the way he responded was to step back, recast his proposal, engage the community, and engage all of his colleagues. And that is why he is poised to get a 5-0 vote on yet another really complex issue that's come before this council. And while, you know, there's lore around here that you only need three votes to get anything done,
 I think it's a mark of a different kind of leadership that you can bring the whole council along. And this is a very independent-minded council. We have an exceptionally bright group of people here, and we disagree on lots of things. And this is the third or fourth major issue in the last month where the mayor has got to five and has worked it until he's gotten consensus. And to me, that's a hallmark of being a good leader. Thanks, Nick. Thank you.
 I also want to acknowledge that we have some momentum. And for people that are looking at this more broadly, Philip Wolf said, you know, he used the term, we're heading in the right path. Well, how do we know that? He didn't say we're heading down the perfect path. He didn't say anything here is perfect. He said we're heading down the right path.
 And perhaps what he meant was we have a new police chief who's been selected following a national search, and the mayor and this young woman have made a big commitment to what they're going to bring here in terms of 21st century policing. We have reaffirmed our –
 commitment to eliminating the 48-hour rule and maintaining our prerogative as an employer to enforce our rules in a timely manner. And today we're adopting a new approach to oversight that, while it has its critics in this room, I think, as Dan said, the old approach did not work very well, and we need to try something different.
 And time will tell whether this approach is a better approach, but I think the mayor is entitled to the benefit of the doubt. I'm very proud to work with my colleagues in this manner in a public setting to move important public policy. And on this, I'm pleased to vote aye.
 Wheeler? I can't even begin to follow that. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. I appreciate it. Tracy, thank you. Nicole, thank you. Barbara, I know you're here somewhere. There you are. Thank you. Michael, who asked to explain everything. Thank you. Sometimes you have to explain the inexplicable, and you're pretty good at that, too. I definitely want to thank my colleagues. Again, it's been interesting. It's been fun.
 This finishes the easy part. Now the hard work begins. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you. For those of you who have been waiting patiently for 947, we're going to take a five-minute break, and then we'll be right back. Thank you for your patience on that. So we're taking a recess five minutes. All right. We're back in session. Clerk, please read Carla. Please read the item. Sorry, I was reading a script. That's rather abrupt.
 Item 947, appeal of Erica Cedar, DLR Group, and appeal of Peter Major, DLR Group.
 Peter Major Architect, PC, against the Historic Landmarks Commission's decision of approval with conditions of historic resource review of exterior alterations and rehabilitation of the Portland building in the central city at 1120 Southwest Fifth Avenue, LU 17153413HRMAD.
 Well, first of all, I want to thank everybody for their patience. We're an hour and a half late, and you were sitting here very patiently, and I want to acknowledge that and thank you for that, and I want to personally apologize. We just had a lot of public input and interest in the last item. Our first order of business today is for the city attorney to give us some information and make some announcements about today's hearing.
 Good afternoon. This is an on-the-record hearing. This means that you must limit your testimony to the material and issues in the record. We will begin with a staff report by the Bureau of Development Services staff for approximately 10 minutes. There are two appellants of the Landmarks Commission's decision, so following the staff report, the City Council will hear from interested persons in the following order. Appellant 1, which is Erica Seder with the DLR Group, will go first, and will have 10 minutes to present her case.
 Appellant 2, Peter Meyer, architect, will go next and will have 10 minutes to present his case. Following the appellants, counsel will hear public testimony. Each person will have three minutes. After public testimony, each appellant will have 10 minutes to respond to the testimony with appellant 1 going first and then appellant 2. Finally, each appellant will have five minutes to rebut the presentation of the other appellant with appellant 1 going first and then appellant 2. Thank you.
 The council may then close the hearing deliberate and take a vote on the appeal. If the vote is a tentative vote, council will set a future date for the adoption of the findings and a final vote on the appeal. If council takes a vote today, that will conclude the matter before the council. For on-the-record hearings, I'd like to announce several guidelines for those who will be addressing city council today. The evidentiary record is closed.
 This hearing is to decide only if the Landmarks Commission made the correct decision based on the evidence that was presented to it. This means you must limit your testimony to remarks.
 to arguments based on the record compiled by the Landmarks Commission. You may refer to evidence that was previously submitted to the Landmarks Commission. You may not submit new evidence today that was not submitted to the Landmarks Commission. If your argument includes new evidence or issues, you may be interrupted and reminded that you must limit your testimony to the record. The Council will not consider the new information, and it will be rejected in the City Council's final decision.
 If you believe a person who has addressed City Council today improperly presented new evidence or presented a legal argument that relies on evidence that is not in the record, you may object to that argument. And finally, under state law, only issues that were raised before the Landmarks Commission may be raised in this appeal to City Council. If you believe another person has raised issues today that were not raised before the Landmarks Commission, you may object to the City Council's consideration of that issue.
 Lastly, the applicant must identify any constitutional challenges to the conditions of approval. If the applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues related to the proposed condition of approval with enough specificity to allow the council to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing an action for damages in circuit court. All right. Very good. Thank you. Do any members of the council wish to declare a conflict of interest?
 No member of the council has declared a conflict of interest. Do any members of the council have an ex parte contact to declare information gathered outside of this hearing that they would like to disclose? I know I've had many meetings about the Portland voting, but I think there was one meeting where there was a discussion of some of the issues related to the design with staff of the city of Portland and their consultants.
 Very good. Commissioner Udaly, did you have anything you'd like to declare? Similarly, I was briefed on the Portland building renovation two or more times prior to the council passing the budget. I meet with Tom Reinhart regularly, but we have not further discussed this issue. And I work next to the Portland building, obviously, but have not seen or...
 or taken action on anything related to this matter. And I have certainly been briefed particularly, not so much on the design elements. It's more in my nature to be concerned about the fiscal aspects of the project, so I've spent a considerable amount of time digging into the financial details of this project. Okay.
 Commissioner Fritz? I have been briefed by staff, obviously been to the building hundreds of times, see it on a daily basis, but nothing pertinent to either of these appeals. Very good. Does anybody in the council chambers present today wish to ask any of the commissioners about their ex parte contacts or information that any of us have disclosed?
 Nobody is looking to ask questions. And I realize I'm stating the obvious. This is a formal process, so I have to say that. Have any members of the council made any visits to the site involved in this matter? I will take it that all of us are a yes to that. Does anyone present in the council chamber wish to ask any of the commissioners about observations on the site?
 It appears that nobody is interested in that. Do council members have any other matters that need to be discussed before we weigh in on this particular hearing? No.
 It's the one thing that's just come to mind is, I understand part of the appeal is about the HVAC. And I did have a conversation a while ago about the ventilation system with respect to the restaurant areas that are currently on the ground floor and whether or not those would be carried over to the new building. I don't know whether that's pertinent or not, but I just wanted to put that on the record. Thank you.
 Does anybody present in the council chamber wish to ask Commissioner Fritz about her knowledge of the HVAC system as it pertains to this hearing? It does not look like it. Very good. Then it's time for testimony. First, we'll take the staff report, approximately 10 minutes. And again, if people could just state their name for the record, we'd appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners, Hillary Adam, Bureau of Development Services. Thank you.
 I'm going to try to go through this as quickly as I can, but it is fairly dense because of the two separate appeals. So this is the staff presentation, and at the bottom you can see how it will be laid out, and each of those sections will be highlighted so you can see where we are in the process of the presentation. Regarding the regulatory framework, I want to call your attention to the approval criteria.
 I asked the council clerk to pass that out in written form so you could have it in front of you at all times. There have been questions about what is and is not the approval criteria. This is the list of the approval criteria and so is that in front of you. So it is section 33-846-060-G, other approval criteria of the Portland City, Portland Zoning Code.
 The Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines, modification criteria found in 33-846-070 of the Portland Zoning Code, and adjustment approval criteria in 33-805-040 in the Zoning Code. Some background on the history of this project. We had a first design advice request with the Historic Landmarks Commission in January of 2016,
 That was the first point where the commission got some good information about the state of the building envelope at the Portland building and its failure. The commission recognized the challenges of postmodern buildings at the time. A lot of them were being built with new untested materials, which have often failed historically.
 Because of that, they indicated an openness to an idea that was floated at the time of wrapping the building in a new skin, a rain screen system. I'll get into that a little bit later. They were also open to changes to the windows, replacement tile, partial enclosure of the loja at the north and south ends.
 at the ground floor and they were strongly in favor of removal of the parking entrance on the 4th Avenue side. We had a second DAR in December of 2016. They affirmed their previous direction and there was general support for the rain screen strategy at that time. They noted the quality of the materials was critical to their ultimate approval of that proposal. They also indicated support for new storefront glazing at the ground level.
 We had a pre-application conference in November of 2016. That's a required step before a type 3 historic resource review can be submitted. And then our first hearing was held on June 26th of this year. There was general support for the treatment, the rain screen treatment. But there was concern about the cumulative effect of the
 of the changes that I'll get into a little bit. One, just the idea of a rain screen system is something that's not really done in the preservation world.
 in combination with some proposed modifications of that system, such as enlarging the size of the tiles at the ground level and at the upper levels, that and rooftop mechanical. Those three things in combination were noted as concerns. The commission requested more information and some revisions.
 Public testimony was taken at that hearing. There was concerns noted about the changes in the material and the potential future delisting from the National Register of Historic Places due to the proposed treatment. The record was requested to be held open by a member of the public, and we returned about four weeks later on July 24th.
 On that day, the commission voted for nothing to support or to approve with conditions. The decision was issued a few days later, and then two appeals came in. The first by Erica Seder on behalf of Kristen Walls at the Office of Management and Finance, and the second from Peter Meijer. So this is the building in context. You've seen it. I won't dwell on the context.
 But this is the proposal. It is a rehabilitation of the existing building that includes the following items. On the right, I will read them. A new exterior rain screen at the upper levels. That material will be metal. At the lower levels, that will be terracotta. Currently it's concrete at the upper levels and ceramic tile.
 replacement of existing formed decorative elements at upper levels with new. Those would be made of metal. Replacement of all dark windows with clear enclosure of the two loge bays I mentioned. Reconfiguration of ground level storefront footprints and revision to floor to ceiling glazing. Removal of the existing vehicle area opening on the east and enclosure with an enlarged curtain wall.
 and replacement of the existing mechanical systems at the second floor and the roof with new rooftop mechanical. They're also requesting two modifications. One is to reduce the amount of ground floor windows on the north facade and on the east facade, and to reduce the depth of ground floor active uses at the loggia from
 the required 25-foot depth to approximately 16 to 20 feet. Those two modifications are requested because this is considered a major remodel. Anytime you have a building that is undergoing a major remodel, they have to meet these two standards. So they're requesting to not have to meet them because that may have required significant changes to the outside of the building.
 in terms of their openings and the ground floor spaces. They're also requesting an adjustment to reduce the number of required loading spaces to zero by removing the two existing substandard loading spaces on site in the basement. And that is for the purpose of closing off that entrance on 4th Avenue. So this here is...
 This is basically what a rain screen system, just in case you don't know. This is what the existing building is here. It's a concrete skin. All of this beige color and these red columns are concrete. They're proposing to basically put an outside layer of metal rain screen on the outside with insulation in between. And that is for the purpose of protecting it from water infiltration.
 Also these elements, these formed elements, they're proposing to replace these with metal so that they would be integrated with the rain screen system. And then all of these windows that are currently essentially black glass here and here, those would be replaced with clear. The mirrored glass here is a character defining element so that it will stay as mirrored.
 Here is where the two loja bays on the north and south will be infield with floor area. That's this area here and this area here. And then the images at the bottom show how the ground floor storefronts are proposed to change with existing on the left. This image speaks to the closure of this parking entrance here. And this is what it would look like behind this glazing here would be...
 some community seating areas that offer views out to the park. This area is, or this line right here is basically a floor line, so everything below it would be back of house or basement level. So that would be obscured by, they're proposing a fritted glass.
 And then also here on this slide, well, this actually also speaks to the adjustment. If they're enclosing a space with habitable area, you have to remove the loading spaces, so that's what they're requesting to do. This image on the bottom speaks to the mechanical systems that they're proposing.
 This is what's existing now at the roof level. They're proposing a number more of mechanical units here and then two large air handling units on the west. This slide speaks to the modifications. For your information, this blue line, I don't know how well you can read it, but basically we count ground floor windows starting if they have a sill or
 that is four feet or lower, between zero and four feet from the sidewalk. If the sill is not between that area, it doesn't get counted at all. So even if you have windows, I'm really running over time. Even if you have windows that... So I want to be clear, you can run over time. Okay, thank you. We'll give the...
 Do we give the appellants the same amount, or how does that work? No, you do not need to. But she can go over 10? She is a staff, yes. Okay, very good. Thank you. I apologize. No worries. If the windows do not start below that blue line, you can't count them towards the required window area. So because basically none of the windows start below that blue line, the modification is to 0%. And then here for ground floor active use –
 In order to, the ground floor active use has to start from the exterior building wall, which is the outside of the blue pedestal wall back. So either you meet that 25 feet with infilled floor area or consider the loggia floor area. They are modifying the location of that wall and requesting a modification to be less than 25. Okay.
 So the zoning for the site is central commercial with a design and historic resource protection overlay. They are meeting the FAR and height requirements. Some quick background history on the building. It was initiated through a design competition. City picked this proposal. A big part of that was the budget. It is fairly well known that the budget for this building was relatively...
 low, which has participated in part of the issues that we're experiencing today. The image on the bottom left, that is building basically without any makeup or clothing on. And you can see how the concrete walls, which are its skin and structure, kind of contribute to the darkness that you often hear about the inside of that building. Okay.
 On the right, that is the finished product when it was built. These are some images just of the building challenges, some of the water infiltration issues. Water basically seeps through the concrete walls and also comes in through the window sealants. That's a constant maintenance and repair issue that the city is hoping to address with this proposal. So the decision for the Landmarks Commission...
 was to approve with conditions. I've abridged the conditions that were part of that decision here, but I highlighted condition G, which is verbatim, because it is the condition most at issue with appellant number one, and it is the proposed air handling units shall either be located at the interior of the building or be significantly, meaning at least 50%, reduced in scale and not increased in number.
 I also just wanted to highlight condition I, which is that the city offered to place a covenant on the building that would require demolition review if demolition by some future owner or the city itself was someday desired and that local landmark listing would be pursued if the National Register status were to be removed.
 So Appellant No. 1's issue, as I highlighted, they are concerned with Condition G, and they request that it be stricken from the approval. They state that all approval criteria are met without the inclusion of Condition G, and that there is no viable alternative.
 The Landmarks Commission felt that Central City Guideline C11 was not met by the proposal, noting concerns with the size of the units and their visibility from the street. This is a sightline study, which shows across the street you won't see it, but from about a block away or two blocks away you will see it, particularly from the south.
 Appellant 2 has a number, a lot more issues that I want to go through for you. Appellant 2 is requesting that City Council reverse the decision of the Historic Landmarks Commission. They note that approval criteria are not met by the proposal. They have highlighted these criteria that they believe are not met at the top and also noted some other issues, and I'm going to address those other issues first.
 They state that the comprehensive plan 2035 policies are not met. I would note that comprehensive plan 2035 is not yet in effect. Therefore, these policies are not applicable to this project. They state that the project goals related to interior spaces are not met. The project goals were determined before the land use application was submitted, and they are not applicable approval criteria either.
 The proposed encroachment was not reviewed via standard methods and is not necessary. This is also not relevant to the approval criteria. The PBOT response to the land use review noted an approved encroachment permit, and encroachment permits are reviewed through a separate process. Kurt Kruger from PBOT is here if you have PBOT-related questions. The proposed overcladding design is overly expensive, but...
 The cost of the project is only a matter of consideration in determining the proper land use procedure type, and project cost is not an approval criterion. And that the new design does not meet the standards of preservation. As I indicated, this is not a typical preservation treatment for a historic building.
 But the commission recognized that the proposed treatment was reasonable to ensure the continued life of the building while retaining Michael Graves' vision. So I'll go back to the approval criteria that are actually applicable regarding Appellant 2's concerns. I'll try to do these quickly. With regard to 060G, number one, historic character.
 The commission felt that the general failure of the building envelope and removal of original materials was unavoidable in order to ensure that this building would be able to function in a practical and humane way. The proposed approach was reasonable in order to ensure Graves' vision. A record of its time. Again, the new skin will serve as an allegory of the building's time, 1982-1980.
 as well as this time, and will serve to tell the story of how this project, how the building first came to be, its challenges, and what the response was. And the commission added a condition that interpretive materials should be installed and the historic teal tiles at the Fifth Avenue entry should remain so that visitors to the building would be able to easily understand the changes from the historic condition to the
 proposed condition. Historic changes. The commission stated that there have been alterations to the building since its construction, but none of those have acquired significance. So that did not apply. Historic features. I want to read this one just because it is sort of the overarching idea behind how the commission got to yes.
 Due to the extensive deterioration of the existing building envelope and repeated past attempts to address these issues, the Commission acknowledged that a traditional restoration of the building, whereby existing materials are preserved to the greatest extent possible, is not practical.
 Therefore, the Commission finds that the proposed rain screen system is the proper approach to ensure the building's longevity. Preserving some original building materials and integrating them into the new system is relatively impractical and would lead to additional maintenance issues in the future. The Commission finds that the proposed replacement of all major features of the building is warranted in order to rehabilitate the building as a unified whole.
 Historic materials, no chemical or physical treatments such as sandblasting would be used. Seven, the proposed treatment will be differentiated from the old, that will be plainly clear, I believe.
 architectural compatibility and hierarchy of compatibility. While the exterior of the building will be completely new, the applicant has made significant effort to match his grades, his design as much as possible and to follow his design principles. Central city fundamental design guidelines. The proposal will result in the building encroaching into the right of way, five inches on the North and South and seven inches,
 into the right-of-way on the east. This is because of the rain screen system. The building is essentially at the property line now, so you add that rain screen system, it's going to encroach. However, because the building is set back so far on the west, the relative ratio of building to open space is relatively negligible.
 Um, demolition was considered by city council, um, previously. And this bill, this proposal seeks to rehabilitate the building. Therefore a six is met, uh, promote quality and permanence. He too, uh, this is a quality rain screen system. The proposed materials are high quality materials and they will permanently resolve the water infiltration issues, respect to architectural integrity. this again, uh,
 With the proposed design, the applicant has made significant efforts to replicate Graves' vision. Complement the context of existing buildings. The Portland building will continue to complement its neighbors. Design for coherency. The proposed rain screen will be composed of interlocking parts. Therefore, it is intrinsically coherent and it will replicate the original design.
 Integrate encroachments. Sorry, I know you're getting tired, so am I. The proposed encroachments will slightly reduce the sidewalk. However, the materials at the sidewalk level will be higher quality than they currently are. So that will enhance the pedestrian environment. Integrate roofs and use rooftop C11. Again, this is where condition G was added. So...
 because the commission felt that the proposed units on the west side were too large. Lastly, with modification to ground floor windows, the modification approval criteria allow for modification to be granted if meeting the standard would destroy the historic character, where you find that the historic character is more important than meeting the standard. You can approve that modification.
 So, last slide. These are your options. You can deny the appeals and uphold the Historic Landmarks Commission's decision to approve with conditions as written. Two, you can grant appellant number one's appeal striking condition G that would uphold the decision but remove condition G related to rooftop mechanical equipment.
 Three, you can grant Appellant 2's appeal overturning the Historic Landmarks Commission decision that would deny the project. And that's it. I'm sorry for taking so long. No problem. It was very well done. Thank you. So that is the staff report. Any immediate questions for staff? Then let's move to Appellant 1, the Office of Management and Finance. You have ten minutes. Sorry, they all look alike.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Erica Seder. I'm an architect with DLR Group, and I'm going to figure out how to get this into presentation mode. Just one minute. High five. Thank you. Sorry. Sorry.
 There we go. Ta-da. Thank you. What was it? Control L? Is that the answer? It was Alt-798. No. Control L. Control L. Yes. Okay, very good. All right. I'm here on behalf of the Office of Management and Finance to present our appeal requesting that you uphold the Historic Landmark Commission's approval of the proposed modifications to the Portland building and to remove condition G relating to rooftop mechanical equipment.
 The Portland building is an iconic part of downtown Portland and an important piece of architectural history. However, during its initial construction, many decisions were made that favored low cost over other considerations, such as performance, durability, or the realization of Michael Graves' original vision. Thank you.
 As a result, the building has been plagued with issues including water infiltration that began soon after its completion. After 30 years of repairs that failed to remedy the existing envelope, the city selected DLR Group and Howard S. Wright to lead a design-build team. One of the primary charges to this team was to develop a holistic solution to the existing facade that would respect the historic design.
 Our team has developed a proposal that balances the many programmatic, technical, and aspirational goals for the city and provides for the Portland building a lasting, high-performance enclosure, a better interior environment, improved daylight and thermal comfort, and improved interaction with the pedestrian experience. I would like to take a moment to recognize the efforts of both BDS staff and the Historic Landmarks Commission.
 We are grateful for their willingness to listen and work with us throughout the process. Through two design advice requests and two hearings, we were able to discuss the challenges and possible solutions, as well as demonstrate how much thought and diligence went into developing the final proposal. Ultimately, the Commission unanimously approved the proposal with a list of conditions. All of these proposed conditions can be met without compromising the project with the exception of Condition G.
 Hilary already had this in her presentation, but Condition G states that the proposed air handling units shall either be located on the interior or be reduced by 50%. So the two units that are in question are outlined in red and located on the left side of the plan that you see there. Okay.
 Unfortunately, there is no viable technical solution that meets the conditions stated without creating significant negative impacts to the project. I want to very quickly explain that air handlers are the part of an HVAC system that tempers and circulates air through the building. In order to function, these units need to take in fresh air, and the best source for high-quality outside air is at the roof level.
 Drawing air from lower elevations would result in reduced air quality for the building occupants and would require large louvers to be placed somewhere within the historic facade. The addition of these louvers would not only disrupt the historic design, but potentially reduce valuable existing window area.
 Drawing air from the roof to air handlers located in the basement would require significant structural changes in order to accommodate new vertical shafts, would significantly reduce the usable square footage of floor area, and would result in a significant drop in the efficiency and lifespan of the air handling equipment. The scenario would also add significant cost to the project.
 Reducing the equipment size by 50% is also not technically feasible. The Portland building is a 15-story building. Reducing the equipment size would result in insufficient air distribution for the building occupants and would not meet code or the city's green building policy. The approval criteria that is the basis of the condition is from the Central City Fundamental Guidelines, item C11.
 We intend to show how we meet the condition as follows. The first part of that condition says integrate roof function, shape, surface materials with the building's original design concept. The roof is primarily occupied by mechanical units. It has been since the building was built. And the proposal maintains this existing function. The equipment is rectilinear and symmetrical, and
 and ties in well with the building's overall design concept. And finally, the air handling units are proposed to be covered with a housing that basically provides a clean, uncluttered appearance, so no fans or pipes or anything everywhere. They really just look like very plain beige boxes. This part of the criteria relates to the size and placement of rooftop mechanical to minimize views.
 As I've already stated, the mechanical units have been sized appropriately to the building. The placement of the mechanical units has been done in a way to make them symmetrical and clean and as far away from the roof edges as possible to minimize visibility.
 In terms of view, as Hillary noted, we provided what are called sightline diagrams that are basically a diagram that little arrows point from a person of average height standing on the sidewalk and what they would be able to see from that vantage point. We have provided these sightline diagrams that prove that from
 Any location around the building's adjacent sidewalks or in this one even across the street and across Chapman Park in front of the Justice Center, you would not be able to see any of the proposed mechanical units. The final portion of the guideline deals with developing rooftop terraces and promotes using landscaped roof areas.
 The Portland building currently has an eco roof on the main roof of the tower as well as the roof of the penthouse that functions as one of the building's primary stormwater management tools and that is proposed to remain.
 So for the reasons stated, we believe that the proposed mechanical equipment meets the intent of the C11 guideline, and we request that you uphold the Landmarks Commission's decision, but remove item G from the conditions of approval. Very good. Commissioner Fritz. How is the building ventilated now? I'm going to go back to an exterior photograph. The mechanical units actually take up the majority of the second floor, and you can see...
 The second floor area that may look like windows, those are all louvers. So all of the air is being taken from essentially adjacent to the bus mall. Okay. And that penthouse, what's the penthouse used for? It currently houses mechanical equipment. And will it be needed for that in the future?
 Yeah, it contains most of the machinery that runs the elevators. Some additional HVAC equipment is being located inside of that penthouse, but unfortunately there's not enough room for these air handler units within that. And the elevator mechanical equipment can't go somewhere else?
 The elevators are not proposed to be replaced as part of this project, so all of that equipment is existing to remain. Thank you. One final question, sorry. You mentioned the view from the other sidewalk on the opposite side of Fifth Avenue. Yes. What's about the view from the next level up? Because I've seen a lot of tours taking visitors on the first floor rather than the ground floor.
 I'm sorry, the first level up from where? From street level. From street level. Actually, this photograph that you see on your screen right now was taken from the second floor terrace of the, I think it's the standard insurance building, Kitty Corner. So as you can see, you can't even see the penthouse at this point.
 vantage point. So with the proposed placement of the HVAC, from that second floor of the standard building, you wouldn't still be able to see it? You should not be able to, no. Thank you. Could you go back to that early slide? There was an illustration of the original design. It had some architectural detail. Yes. Details on the roof that don't exist, right? Correct. Was there any conversation about adding those back to perhaps kind of disguise the
 There were multiple conversations about this, and I think as...
 One of the issues that we ran into is that throughout the design competition, Michael Graves' office altered their proposal many, many times, and this sketch sort of represents one iteration of that. So it would be very difficult to kind of pick which iteration would be the appropriate one to go back to. Sure. Okay. Thank you.
 That's all I had. That's it. Okay. Very good. I'm sorry. I'm sitting there waiting for some grand finale. Any further questions at this point? Very good. We'll move on now to appellant number two. Peter, I should know how to pronounce you. Is it Meijer? Meijer. Thank you. Peter Meijer, come on up. What did we decide? It was Control-L? Control-L is what I heard. Okay. It's a PDA. It's a Control-5 control.
 And, again, I'll just ask legal counsel to make sure if there's anything that isn't supposed to be introduced, you'll call that out for us or help call that out. Good. Thank you. Mayor, commissioners, I'm Peter Meijer, Peter Meijer Architect. One question you may have for me is why am I alone in the opposition to this project? And the short answer is I'm not. The Portland building has always been controversial. Okay.
 And in essence, it's been the view of local versus the view of those outside of Portland on the national and international levels. Locally, at best, the building's ignored, and probably if you took a vote, most people would not like it. Outside, it's revered as a historic icon and very important both internationally and nationally.
 I'm not alone locally. You've gotten letters from Restore Oregon, Docomomo Oregon chapter, and I have received calls, emails, and stopped on the street from people who are supportive of a person who would stand up and say, this is a public project. Are we doing the right thing? And it takes personal and professional courage as a previous member of the team to step back
 and say, this project is going the wrong direction. I am, in essence, a whistleblower. I'm also not alone on the international level. You've received letters from Docomomo, U.S. You've received letters from Historic Trusts for National Preservation and, most importantly, from the National Park Service. I'm going to bring up in the appeal document that we wrote
 did go through all the relevant review criteria and we itemized the positions, but I'm going to bring up four of the proposals that I think the city isn't meeting from their own goals. Those include additional daylight on the upper floors, meeting community needs, and by that I mean the public realm, the sidewalk, demonstrating fiscal responsibility, and maintaining the historic and iconic status of this building.
 Undoubtedly, you have heard the number one complaint of those who work in this building is the lack of sufficient daylight. So much so that the primary signs of success for your project team are light, light, light, and more light. And so as an architect, looking at a proposal that essentially would put a new wall in front of the building
 up to 11 inches away, we had to ask our question, with such a small existing window, would you really get more light? So we ran those daylight studies on the 11th floor. We could have easily picked the 10th, the 11th, the 12th, the 13th, or the 14th floor that coincided with those small punched openings in the concrete that you saw that won't be changed.
 We're not asking you to understand the software that goes into this. You can step back and ask yourself, if you have a window and you're putting a new, and you're essentially making the depth of that 10 inches further away, are you really getting more light? Right.
 The reason this is into the negative, the one feature you are gaining is you're going from a dark glass to a light glass. Otherwise, this would show a reduced amount of light. We also don't think the proposal enhances the public realm. The city has a zero tolerance for encroachment. And in fact, you can't put a door swing of an inch, two inches, three inches, and certainly seven inches into the public right-of-way.
 The city goes further and tells the building owners, if you have a previous encroachment, perhaps it was a utility company that put bollards around a gas meter, you, the owner, under a major project, has to remove that previous encroachment. You have to repair sidewalks that used to be driveways. The city has a zero tolerance level. The Portland building's encroachment doesn't even meet this written city policy for encroachment.
 And we think this issue alone raises serious, substantive, and procedural due process. Graphic for you. Graphic on the left, existing building, two inches. Graphic on the right, the new proposal, seven inches at the sidewalk level. The project is also bad urban design. Two criteria that you often hear on the 4th Avenue side is a garage opening onto the parkway
 The second one is the lack of pedestrian friendliness. This project does neither to improve that. And, in fact, the Urban Design Panel has written a letter in that regard. The project moves from substandard window openings, as shown by staff, to 0%. It goes the wrong way in regards to the public realm. The proposal design is fiscally irresponsible.
 By that, the relevant review criteria is what is the responsibility of a public agency. I'm not asking you to prioritize preservation over other social equity issues. I'm not asking you to weigh in on houselessness versus preservation. But I am asking you to look at the total project dollars associated with this and ask if there are other ways to approach this project, fix what's broken, and save money so it can go elsewhere.
 You can also look at the other city-owned properties of a historic landmark status, Benner's Memorial Coliseum, Piddick Mansion, this building, that could benefit from even some savings on a renovation project. The city early on rejected $250,000 for this project from the Getty Foundation. I have two questions for that. Whoever turns down $250,000 of money, and what happens?
 jurisdiction would ever turn down the Getty Foundation. These are highly competitive. That is unheard of. And I get it. This project is a line of credit, but at some point those banks are going to be asking for that money to be repaid, and that repayment is coming out of public funds. So I'm raising the issue of full faith and credit plus bonded indebtedness as being subjective to voter approval.
 The Portland Building's own community oversight also raised the issue on the budget, particularly on one item alone, that over and above the stated $195 million, there's a $3.5 million increase by the skin alone of this building. And this project certainly fails on meeting the basic standards of preservation.
 We have zoning codes, we explain to the public, we tell other property owners, we deny them demolition rights under the Historic Resource Committee, and we go at length to explain ourselves why we do this. On this project, those standards aren't even met. There's only two ways to remove a building from the National Register listing. One, by God, meaning earthquake, flood, fire, and the other is man-made.
 and man-made is you do such egregious changes that the building is delisted or you demolish it. In essence, this project is demolishing its own historic resource. The city trivializes itself in the argument by saying it's not the built work, but it's obviously the design intent of Michael Graves. It also goes further by undermining historic significance,
 and devaluating the original means and methods of construction by complaining about it instead of fixing. There are numerous professionals in this city that will tell you how to fix the problems. And sadly, the Portland Historic Landmarks failed to evaluate the project on these basic guidelines. And we believe that the Oregon Supreme Court will uphold these basic tenets of preservation. In closing...
 I'm asking city council, as I'm sure the rest of the public is asking, for transparency, for accountability, and to uphold our own city codes. So I am asking you to reverse the Landmarks Commission's approval, but also to have the courage to go back to your design team and have them start over, because this is the wrong approach to this project. Thank you.
 Thank you, sir. And legal counsel, could I get a clarification? We have a second. So ordinarily, when we just have one appellant, we take testimony in support, testimony in opposition. It looks like in this case, because we have two separate appellants and a staff report, we can just open it up to public testimony. But it would be helpful if people could say if they're responding specifically to one of the appellants to say so.
 and to clarify whether you support or are in opposition, just so we understand where you are with regard to this hearing. If you'd like to sign up, you can do so with Carla over there. She has the sign-up list. How many do we have currently signed up? Five. We have five people. Okay, three minutes each. If you could just state your name for the record. If you are a paid lobbyist, we need to know that for council rules. Are council rules suspended for a hearing? No.
 Sorry, I apologize. Do council rules typically dictate that paid lobbyists need to tell us if they're a lobbyist? Is this separate? No, they should still tell you that. They should still do that. Thank you. I appreciate that. Please call the first three. Our Matthew Roman, Patrick Burke, and Bob Matheson. Come on up. Thank you for being here, and thank you again for your patience. Why don't we start down on this end?
 Thank you. Good evening. My name is Bob Matheson. I'm a senior superintendent for Howard S. Wright, the contractor leading the design build team for the Portland building. I'm here to read a letter into the record on behalf of Troy Dixon, the senior vice president, Oregon manager, who is unable to be here today. One of the most important decisions facing Howard S. Wright and DLR Group during the design phase of the Portland building was to
 was how to meet the city's primary objective of solving the ongoing weathering problems associated with the building enclosure. Much of the enclosure is cast in place concrete, which is a category of enclosure technology referred to as a face seal system. This type of enclosure is generally one used on buildings when budget is the primary driver, not quality. Face seal systems are not resilient and require significant maintenance and renewal to perform.
 To renew the existing system and put new elastomeric paint on the building would not be an improvement of systems, but rather a maintenance activity, which would require continued maintenance to address concrete cracking for the life of the building. There are additional measures that are technical attempts to address the technical issues with face seal systems. However, each has limitations and do not solve the underlying problems.
 Howard S. Wright and DLR Group have studied many options to solve the weathering issues associated with the concrete enclosure and have elected to use a rain screen design to ensure the long-term weathering performance of the Portland building. The rain screen unitized curtain wall is the best overall solution for the project for the following reasons. Performance. The rain screen design is the highest performing system technology available. Performance.
 Warranty. The owner will get a manufacturer's warranty on the overall system, five years. Additionally, the owner will get all extended warranties from the component manufacturers, which is 10 to 20 years. Quality. The unitized curtain wall will be built in a factory under controlled environmental conditions with an in-house quality assurance team to inspect and sign off on all components and application of sealants and coatings.
 cost certainty. The unitized curtain wall will have fewer variables on the installation, thereby providing an installation with less risk and more cost certainty. The elastomeric paint sealant and flashings enclosure system is more difficult to install in the field and does not have a secondary line of moisture intrusion engineered into the system. It is an assembly of parts and not an overall engineered system.
 With that, you have a warranty that is one to two years from the installers, which would be multiple trades. You would also have a warranty from the manufacturer on the paint and the sealants, usually five to ten years. This is on the material only. Maintenance. The concrete and elastomeric paint requires continual inspection and maintenance. Maintenance.
 There's a condensation risk. The painted concrete solution has an inherent risk of condensation occurring inside the walls of the building. Constructability issues, you'd have to remove the existing paint in order to perform the application of the new paint. Thank you. And could I just get real clarification here? Where are you in terms of support or not support? I'm in favor. Very good. I just wanted to make that clear. I didn't want to infer that. Supposing the appeal or supporting...
 Pardon me? You support the appeal, and there's two appeals. I support the appeal one and the removal of the condition of the HVAC system. So you agree with appellant one? That is correct. Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you. I'm speaking in support of appellant number one, and my name is Patrick Burke.
 I am an architect and a principal at Michael Graves Architecture and Design in Princeton, New Jersey. I have been an architect in the office for 35 years and started there in early 1982, which happened to be the last year of construction for the Portland building. I am here today to represent our office and what I know were Michael Graves' hopes. Over the years, the state of the Portland building would come up now and again, and Michael would ask some of the firm's senior staff if we had any ideas for ways to improve the performance of the facades.
 Before his last trip to Portland in October 2014, Michael spoke with two of us and asked us, if you could do anything to the Portland building, what would you do? What Michael had in mind were two facade projects we built where the original facades were completely removed and we designed new facades. Michael's suggestion was to pull off the existing facades of the Portland building, like those projects we had done before, and rebuild it with a new and better performing facade system.
 We had to remind Michael that the facades were concrete and that that was part of the structural system and therefore could not be removed. Other than replacing the black glass with clear glass, we had no other good practical ideas in that conversation. My partners and I were all very impressed to see how comprehensive the current renovation proposal is for the Portland building. It provides a better performing office building for its users while respectfully following the original design intent.
 The original design that was built included the concept, the colors, the forms, the symbols. However, the final facade materials used were not what was intended in the design at all. Michael Graves did not want to see the Portland building demolished, but he also never understood having to keep the facades concrete simply because that was what was originally built. He did not see why one had to continue to accept the penalties that resulted from a construction budget that was way too low. Treating poor details and executions as sacred is ridiculous."
 The original facade material intent was using a larger-sized Gladding's McMean glazed terracotta tile. The contractors backed Michael into using concrete as a facade material as the only solution to get within the budget. Michael was acutely aware that he would not win the design competition if he blew the budget, so he conceded. The Portland building is the only building we have ever built with poured concrete facades.
 The local architect responsible for the construction phase changed the glass to black glass, claiming that they needed it to do this for energy reasons. Michael was not happy about this. When we toured the Portland building at the open in October 1982, Michael told us that the black glass was a big mistake and that we were never to let that happen again. The Portland building was the only building we ever built using black glass. The original design had large-sized tiles. Smaller tiles were substituted for budget reasons.
 We see nothing sacred in the low-budget materials and details used on the Portland building facades. We fully support this responsible and well-thought-through renovation proposal, and I know Michael Graves would have too. Thank you. Perfect timing. You had two extra seconds.
 Thank you for taking the time and the trouble to come all the way to tell us that. I appreciate it. Well, we care deeply about the building. It sort of was our first real important building. We were pretty passionate about it. I think looking back later, we were a little bit sad to see it was so poorly built because the budget was so low. But we feel responsible for it still. It's one of our kids. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and city commissioners. My name is Matthew Roman. I'm a member of the Historic Landmarks Commission, and I'm here on behalf of the commission today to defend our decision and hopefully solicit your support for that.
 I would agree with Peter Meijer that this is an iconic building. Whether Portlanders love it or not, it's internationally known. It's probably one of the few Portland buildings you'll find in every American history, architectural history book. And so the commission did not take lightly its responsibilities and also did not –
 did not look at the building as anything other than every other historic building that we would review. Even though the Commission ultimately voted unanimously for the decision before today, it was not an easy decision. We are used to looking at buildings that are at least 50 years old, in most cases closer to 100 years old,
 And we typically apply preservation standards that were developed to protect aesthetic value and historic fabric. In this case, the building is more about an idea. Michael Graves was in a conversation with the architecture of the world at the time. This building represents a dialogue between postmodernism and modern international style architecture.
 It afforded the opportunity to reintroduce decorative elements into architecture and to kind of overcome the austerity that some perceived or brutal nature of some of the international buildings.
 That being said, I think Michael Graves would acknowledge that he was taking symbolism from the past, reincorporating it into these buildings and giving it new meaning. The materials that that iconography is built out of are really immaterial to what the message that was being conveyed. We didn't see the materiality of the building as being its most character-defining feature. Okay.
 So I think, you know, despite the dispute that might be perceived among preservationists, it's in part that we're grappling with the idea of modern era buildings becoming historic and the very nature of those buildings being built out of technologies that have not been around for thousands of years, like materials we're used to working with,
 wood, steel, stone, brick. So it is a unique situation. The building has been controversial from the beginning, and I think it's maybe appropriate that that controversy continues on to this day. We believe the proposed approval best balances the desire to preserve the integrity of the building's design while correcting inherent deficiencies in the building and construction type.
 And for modern buildings where the source of building's value is only marginally related to materials or construction method, a strict adherence to historic accuracy and building preservation may not be appropriate. Good luck. Very good. Can I ask you a question, please? So appellate number one seems to agree with –
 the conditions, except they've also asked us to remove condition G related to the HVAC unit. What say you to that? Well, in preparation for the testimony today, I reread some of the history of the building. And the rooftop was actually part of the original design program. So consideration for views of neighboring buildings...
 And that sort of dialogue that the Portland building would have with those buildings was an important consideration. I think some of the sketches that show the sort of Acropolis or different arrangements of smaller buildings on the roof suggest that the architect was responding to that program requirement. We were not shown a lot of mechanical system analysis and how big equipment has to be. But...
 We did feel that that large of a mass on the roof would have an impact on the view of the building from a distance. And so I can't offer any technical expertise as to what is required from an HVAC standpoint, but we felt to stay true to what our goal was to protect the integrity of the design. Okay, and if you're—
 That that roof needed to be looked at more carefully. Your conversations were really focused on the aesthetics and the design as opposed to engineering. Absolutely, 100%. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a... Just as a follow-up question to that, if it can't be done, do you think they should go back to the beginning and start all over again? No. So are we looking maybe to an alternative condition to meet what you and the Landmarks Commission were going for? No.
 Weighing the two appeals before you today, if I had to pick a side, I certainly would take the side of removing criteria G. It was not my most important element, but in defense of my fellow commissioners who did feel strongly that the overall look of the building was being significantly changed by that proposal, we agreed with the staff's recommendation to go that route. Just...
 Just to address one more item, you know, I think everyone here agrees that the 35-year-old building materials have failed. Even Peter Meijer's proposals, you know, basically replaced all the materials on the building with the exception of the concrete and a few other elements. With that came the introduction of flashings and gaskets and caulking that would become, in our opinion, unsightly and actually...
 give the building a worse appearance. It would also become, in our opinion, a nightmare maintenance where you're constantly trying to put a Band-Aid on what is an inherent design flaw. So we realize that this is potentially a precedent-setting historic preservation case. It is being applied to a building that's only 35 years old, and so we hope for some understanding that we are not entirely...
 The preservation community hasn't come to a consensus on how to deal with some of these issues, so it's before you. Well, thank you for your time on the commission and also for taking the time to come and explain today. I really appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you all three of you. We appreciate it. I'm sorry, you said there's two more? Yes. Two more. Cindy Nickel and Tom Walsh. Come on up. Good afternoon. Thank you for your patience. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and commissioners. It's great to be before you again.
 I'm Cindy Nickel, a resident of Portland, and I'm Chief Financial Officer of the Port of Portland. For the past several years, I've served on the Oversight Committee for the Portland building, and I appreciate that in establishing the Oversight Committee, City Council sought transparency and input from the broader Portland community. We take seriously our responsibility to meet monthly with the project team,
 advise on project scope, budget, schedule, sustainability, and social equity, and ask questions, which we ask a lot of. Report to the city's chief administrative officer on the health of each of these aspects of the project. Our reports are published online and are available to you and the public. I wanted to speak with you today about the integrity of the Portland Building Reconstruction Project. The Oversight Committee has been clear from the outset that the project must be accomplished within the $195 million budget.
 and by the end of 2020, and that any give would have to be in project scope.
 The project team has been proactive in looking at best practices elsewhere, thinking deeply about options about how best to meet the project goals. As a result, some of the key features of the project which you're aware of include using a progressive design-build approach to enhance efficiency, moving all employees to temporary locations to expedite the project, and being strategic in focusing on the biggest risks of the project and taking them off the table as soon as practicable.
 I've been involved in many such projects in my 30-year career, and this has been one of the best management that I've ever seen. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I would add only two points. One, in support of what you just said, this project has been superbly managed. Number two, it is an incredibly difficult project. I've only been in the construction world for 55 years, and this is the most complicated project I've ever been associated with. Okay.
 The directions that we have strongly recommended and fully support are not easy to come by. They could be easily criticized. But if somebody says we have two paramount objectives here, one is to maintain the
 the historically preserved building, and two, for 1,600 very valuable and very critical employees of the city of Portland to make this a place where they not only want to work but can work very effectively. That is a demanding challenge. If the goal was only to preserve the building, for instance, maybe create a storage facility somewhere,
 things would become much easier. But when this is the primary working place for 1,600 critically important city employees, things become much more complex. The combination of all those factors come together with a recommendation that I most strongly support and would hope that you would also. Thank you, Mr. Walsh. We appreciate it. Thank you.
 All right, so if the appellant so chooses, they have up to 10 minutes to respond. Appellant 1. Mayor and commissioners, good afternoon. For the record, my name is Tom Reinhart, Chief Administrative Officer for the City of Portland, and we are here to request that you deny the appeal by Peter Meijer Architects and uphold the Historic Landmark Commission's 4-0 decision to approve the proposal we put forth for the Portland Building reconstruction. Could I ask legal counsel a question? Sure.
 Are they allowed to bring up new issues, or is this specifically to respond to testimony? This is to respond to testimony. Okay, so no new stuff. This is to respond. No new evidence in the record, but the testimony includes written testimony that's been received as well. Very good. So, yeah, and at the end, I'll kind of remind you what might have been new. I've been alerted to a few things.
 Okay, I just know Mr. Reinhart's a very cagey individual, so I wanted to make sure we kept him honest. I'm keeping a list. Okay, very good. Mr. Reinhart, continue. Sorry for the interruption. Mr. Mayor, it's the nicest thing I've been called all day, but I will follow the rules. We firmly believe the proposed design meets all the historic criteria and is the best approach to long-term asset management for the city.
 And since a lot of what I was prepared to say has already been mentioned, I will spare the tired counsel any repetition. I'm going to jump around a little bit. The Office of Management and Finance established a team of expert professionals to grapple with the best approach from a technical as well as a historic standpoint. I want you to know that. The team is confident that the proposal is the best approach to ensure that all the goals are achieved.
 In the historic approval criteria, the Portland Zoning Code, including the request of modifications and all the design guidelines from the Central City Fundamental Design stuff, it was all taken into account. With the one exception that the project is appealing, all the other conditions were mutually agreed upon as ways to further enhance and support the historic integrity of the building and show a commitment to support the best long-term solution for the city. Thank you.
 Now Mr. Meiser's appeal asserts that we do not meet eight out of the ten historic approval criteria and the Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines. Now the Historic Landmarks Commission, it's important to point out, is a body of experts appointed by you, the City Council, experts whose primary charge is to ensure that when historic resources are proposed for alteration, that the approval criteria are met.
 We brought forth a project that we believe meets these criteria, and after thorough vetting, as you heard the long timeline earlier, the Commission unanimously agreed as well with a couple of conditions. Today, we are asking for your support. Mr. Meijer's appeal also raises concerns that are outside of the Landmark Commission's purview, and therefore outside of the land use review process before you today. However, as a project sponsor, I want to assure you we are meeting the intent set forth by Council today,
 from the initiation of this project and are meeting all the goals within the project's charter. For example, the project team has conducted extensive light studies using our proposed design, which show a significant increase in daylight within the building. These were produced in April of this year as part of our whole building energy analysis, and the summary was previously submitted into the record. Thank you.
 While the construction cost is also outside the scope of the Historic Landmarks Review and the land use case before you today, we would also like to respond to Mr. Miser's statements regarding the costs on this project. Again, as the project sponsor, I assure you that the team fully understands the scope and total budget.
 and is being vigilant about both initial construction costs as well as the cost long term of operations and maintenance, which we as a city have not historically been as good at as we need to. We appreciate your careful consideration of the proposal, and we respectfully ask you to deny Mr. Miser's appeal and allow the project to continue on a path that will create a building which will effectively serve our community both at completion and well into the future.
 I'm here with my colleagues to answer any questions that you have. Thank you. Any further questions? Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Having heard, Director, Mr. Chair, the architects, having heard the concerns of the Landmarks Commission about the rooftop design,
 Is there any other condition of approval that could lead to minimizing the size and location? Is there anything else that you could do with that rooftop equipment that would make it respond to their concerns? Yes.
 You know, they had voiced their concerns at our initial hearing, and we did actually, as part of that, look into some potential items such as screening the units and providing a visual barrier around them that would be potentially problematic
 more pleasing to look at and one of the issues that we ran into there is that it ended up with space constraints being more visible than the units themselves. We agreed at our follow-up hearing that that was actually exacerbating the problem. That's
 that the units are large, but as I pointed out, this is a 15-story building, and we've actually made considerable efforts considering that the current mechanical equipment takes up half of the entire second floor. I think getting the mechanical air handling down to two discrete units is actually a pretty noteworthy feat. So,
 Although it might seem like we're stonewalling or not making concessions, as I said previously, we put a lot of effort into presenting something that was well thought out. And being an architecture team and having consultants who do historic projects all the time, we know what the issues are going to be and...
 Therefore, we try not to put things in front of the Landmarks Commission that we know are just outright unapprovable and could be done a better way. Is there, I know this is about approval criteria, but I'm getting to my revised condition. Is there going to be any kind of eco-route treatment of the top?
 I don't know if that's a potential or not. Unfortunately, we don't have our mechanical engineers present. But the...
 As I mentioned in my previous presentation, we are actually maintaining the existing eco-roof, and we're using a design that's actually part of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability's recommendations to put our mechanical equipment on platforms, which allows the eco-roof to function underneath them.
 And we can use low-light shaded plantings. But underneath all of that mechanical equipment you see, the eco-roof is actually able to remain in place. So the equipment then is higher than it absolutely needs to be because it's saving the eco-roof. Yes. Why didn't you put the eco-roof on top of it?
 I can't actually say whether or not that's feasible. I don't know if it's feasible to put an eco-roof on top of an air handler without creating additional issues. Well, I was just thinking of Commissioner Udeli's question earlier about the original design and one of the kind of patterned top, which seemed like a good suggestion, but then that was...
 explain why that couldn't happen. And I'm thinking in other situations where you want to mask something, you use landscaping. So if you could just keep thinking, is there anything else that could be done to address the issue of the rooftop treatments? Yes. Thank you. Very good. Anything else? Any other questions? All right. Thank you. We appreciate it. Appellant number two's response, should they wish, they have up to 10 minutes.
 Hello again. Hello again. And as I understand this procedure, I am asked if I have any comments in regards to appellant number one. And since we are appealing the whole project. Or testimony, because weirdly enough, then appellant one gets to rebut what you have said, and appellant two, being you, get to rebut. I understand. It's like a tennis match or something. So really this is your chance to rebut testimony, I think. Is that right?
 Respond to testimony. To respond, yeah. Okay, very good. I will keep this simple for counsel. We have spelled out our applicable review criteria and our appeal. I find it difficult to talk about the what-ifs of this project, what if there was more money, what if the original design was different. I find it difficult to project the ideas of a project
 very famous architect who is no longer with us, sadly. And I will not pretend to rebut or refute what Michael might have said to our office in the conversations we had during the National Register nomination, other than to reiterate that he loved this project.
 Up until the controversy of this project started to hit the press, the Portland building was still on Michael Graves' website front and center. That should tell you very much how he revered that building. His time in town was very much about the changes of the glass, but not this wholesale project that you are seeing before us. So he was concerned about the ground floor.
 and how it met the pedestrian realm, mostly the arcade side. But in no ways did he project onto his project a significant change that would remove it from the National Register nomination. And I'm here for questions. Colleagues? All right, none so far. Thank you. Appellant number one, you have the opportunity to rebut for up to five minutes.
 By the way, we did not invent this process. I have never been in a process like this. I'm hoping to come up again. Is it ever going to end? I only have a few closing comments in terms of the rebuttal. I only expect somebody just to concede at some point. Before the council is truly beaten down.
 Do I have to state my name again for the record? Yes, please. Tom Reinhart, Chief Administrative Officer. In closing, the Portland building is a unique and technically complicated structure, as we all know. Developing a strategy for its renovation has been a terrific challenge for the team. It's taken it very seriously and worked diligently for over a year to find the best solution. As you've heard, the proposed solution was developed and vetted by a highly qualified team of multiple professionals, firms, and our excellent Portland Building Oversight Committee, a couple of whom you heard from today. Thank you.
 Additionally, I want to restate that the team presented to Landmarks Commission on four separate occasions to get input, feedback, and reach an agreeable resolution, which was approved with some conditions on a 4-0 vote. Unfortunately, due to the process, the project team was unable to clarify the technical challenges with the mechanical condition that we've talked about that has been placed on the project. So to be clear, we're asking you today to uphold the commission's decision to approve
 deny Mr. Meijer's appeal in full, and grant us a removal of Condition G to allow the air handling equipment to remain as shown in the proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. All right. Appellant number two, you get the last word if you so choose. All right. Very good. So that brings us to council discussion. Colleagues? I have one question to ask of staff, if I may. Very good. Could staff please return the microphone?
 Commissioner Fritz, anybody in particular? Very good. Thank you. BDS, thank you. My question is, if the historic review approval criteria conflicts with the central city plan design goals, which prevails? The historic review criteria? So 060G1 through 10 would supersede central city plan design goals?
 central city. So to the concern about ground floor windows and enlivening the public space, we wouldn't be able to do that because the historic nature was that it didn't have those windows on the 4th Avenue side. In theory, yes. But also the modification approval criteria allow us that to
 Even greater focus on the historic character. Okay. Besides the guidelines. Thank you. That's my main question. Anything else? Unless you can think of a good substitute for the condition G. I can. Thank you. Very good. Colleagues, further questions or I'll entertain a motion.
 I would move to... Yes. Can I just jump in really quick? Yes, you're the legal counsel always. Yes. So just as a friendly reminder, you have in front of you a handout with the applicable criteria. So there's been a number of things discussed that are not applicable criteria. I just want to remind you what the applicable criteria are. I have also been alerted to a couple of pieces of testimony that are new evidence that...
 Council should not consider. This was information that was not brought to the Landmarks Commission, so it's new evidence here before you. And that includes the Getty Institute grant. That was not information that the Landmarks Commission received, as well as a PBCOC report. That was also not placed before the Landmarks Commission.
 Commission. And finally, a fact or a statement that the PBOT has a zero tolerance approach regarding encroachment. Okay. Very good. So as they say on TV, disregard that. Commissioner Saltzman? Yeah. Well, I would make a motion to uphold the Landmarks Commission approval with the removal of Condition G.
 and to overturn the appeal of Peter Meijer. I'll second. So we have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman to uphold the Historic Landmark Commission's findings removing condition G, seconded by Commissioner Udailey. Any further discussion? I want to remind people this is a tentative vote, correct? Yes.
 Yes, so council would make a tentative vote today and then return to adopt findings. And I believe the 13th and the 14th have been flagged as potential dates that would work for staff to come back with findings. Do we need to specify a date here? Yes. Let's specify a date, please. Carla, how does the council schedule? Usually the 13th or 14th of September for return date. That's my understanding. The 11-15 in the morning. On which date? I'm sorry, the 13th for time certain. Okay.
 Thank you. Very good. Any further discussion, colleagues? Call the roll. Saltzman. Well, I appreciate the discussion of all sides to this issue, and I do want to thank our oversight committee for their great work as well, and I vote aye. Hugh Daly.
 I also want to appreciate and thank everyone who came to participate today. No one undertakes this lightly. It's expensive. It's time-consuming. I love how passionate Portlanders are about our built environment, and I especially appreciated the comments of Mr. Burke. I grew up with this building, so I take this endeavor seriously. And we just can't justify...
 This kind of investment in the building without making huge improvements to the health and humaneness of the working environment for our public employees. Some of the offices in the building feel like prison cells. And it's known, it's regarded as a sick building.
 I don't see any viable alternatives to the HVAC system. It seems that we've really come up with the best plan possible. So my vote, aye. Well, I want to acknowledge, to start off with, this is
 kind of our project. So it's odd and been a challenge to act in a quasi-judicial manner on this particular application since it's really the city applying to do what the city wants to do and being blessed by the city's
 Historic Landmarks Commission. And so that's why it's particularly important that we know it has to go on the approval criteria. You have to see, does it match the approval criteria? If it didn't, then as much as we might want the project to happen, we would have to vote against it. But it does match, it does meet the approval criteria. I actually am one of those who loves this building. I've been enamoured of it ever since I got here in 86. And...
 I don't know if Michael Graves called it the birthday cake building, but I have. Yes? It's been called that. Well, I just think that's how I'd describe one of the chaperoning children around downtown in...
 horrendous school trips, which I prefer to forget, I always do then refer to it as that, and it helps people remember. So I think it's a very special building, and Mr. Major, I appreciate your concern for it, your concern for the public money. Many of the issues you raised may indeed be issues. They're not, however, connected with the approval criteria, and so I think there may be other avenues to look into them.
 I believe this project does meet the approval criteria, and for that reason, I vote aye. Wheeler. I'm one of those people who have always been critical of this building. And it's a building, frankly, I've loved to hate.
 And in that regard, I think it's been a raging success. It's like one of those artworks that sparks a lot of conversation and a lot of debate. And frankly, I love listening to the tour groups that are there almost every single day. And I like hearing different tour guides' interpretations of what they think of the building. And in that regard, I think it's a highly successful building.
 But it is in great need of being saved. And as people know, I've spent a lot of time discussing mostly the fiscal issues of this particular project. But I've enjoyed this hearing, and frankly, I've enjoyed this process, because it's great to hear from national experts and local experts and architects and legislators
 the folks on the Landmarks Commission and historians and people who are involved in architecture and construction and all manner of this project. And it's helped me develop a deeper appreciation for the significance of this iconic building in our city. I'm not sure it's grown on me yet.
 But I love the fact that it's here, and I love the fact that it generates as much interest, enthusiasm, commentary, both positive and negative as it does. I think it's great. I am compelled as well by the testimony today that we heard. I applaud the Historic Landmarks Commission for their hard work on this. I know they deliberated this long and hard.
 It would be my preference that we not have to put large HVAC units on the roof, but I also understand why we are doing it, and I think every attempt has been made to minimize the impact of that in terms of the overall integrity of the design and what Mr. Graves and his firm had intended when they came forward with their original plan. So I support Commissioner Saltzman's motion.
 That means it is adopted. We have tentatively approved it. We will make a formal vote on the 13th of September at 1115 a.m. at City Council Chambers here at Portland City Hall for those who wish to be here. Thank you, and we are adjourned. And again, thanks everybody for your patience today.