Yes. All right. Good morning everyone. This is the Wednesday, August 21st morning session of the Portland City Council. Carlo, please call the roll. Hardesty? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Wheeler? Here. Now we'll hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you're a lobbyist. If you're representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Thanks. First up, communications, Carla. Thank you. Item 777, request of Peter Mag to address council regarding the increase of violence, open air drug use, and theft at the Southwest 14th and Montgomery intersection and surrounding areas. Is Mr. Mag here? Very good. I know he had at least one conversation with Robert King from my office, so maybe that addressed his concerns. Next up, 778, please. Thank you. Request of Marissa Jacobs to address council regarding St. John's transitional housing and buffer zones within neighborhoods. We're here on the right day, aren't we? Next person, please. Item 779, request of Art Llewellyn to address council regarding various transportation projects and public concerns. Excellent. Thank you for being here. That's okay. It's a little imposing. I'd like it to be on the camera if folks... I want to have a look at it. They'll show it. We don't control the camera from here. Thank you. If I put it on the seat here, would that work? That would be even better, wouldn't it? Great. Thank you for being here. Morning, counsel. I have documentation with me today that I've submitted only one copy. I want to take your time and read it. I have my written testimony I hope to get through today. I have, beside me here, copies of a subway proposal, which I've already submitted to the city, but you've cited that I have asked for a review, but haven't been able to do that. I have notes on that new subway plan and notes on my concern about Barbara Boulevard Light Rail, which I oppose. I have an essay about the folly of self-driving car and more transit designs and a copy of my designs for the post office site. So now I'll read my statement. I have been an advocate for light rail, streetcar, and better buses for Portland and our nation since 1992. I had an epiphany that year in which cars and trucks were impossibly overwhelming, not just cities, streets, and freeways, but the entire planet with air and water pollution, with insensibly unjust costs, and wars for oil. Mass transit then, and still today, seems the only solution. Between 1995 and 1998, transit advocates like me argued before city council that the North-South MAX project then should go back to the drawing board. Voters wisely rejected it, and Trammett's yellow, green, and orange lines were acceptable replacements with less impact, less cost, and have served more transit riders. Today's southwest corridor max proposal on Barber Boulevard, just like the north-south max, should be rejected and go back to the drawing board. The alternate max route to Tigerton to Alton is an extension of the red line from Beaverton via the west corridor. The undeniably ideal alternative for Barber Boulevard is bus rapid transit, especially on fast routes like Barber where old style buses are suitable. I believe the City Council and Metro and TriMet do not want the public to know about these alternatives. They don't want to inform the public about dreadful impacts, about the taking of properties, about the clear cutting of barber treescape, about how widening barber makes crossing more hazardous for pedestrians and motorists. Here are drawings of these plans. Viewers with DVR who can record this hearing, please make a copy, push pause, and take photos to study and learn what City Council and Metro do not want you to know. They have refused a formal review of my 14-page pamphlet and related documents. Therefore, I am forced to pursue legal means to bring the Barber Boulevard Max project to a halt. If a class action lawsuit is necessary, so be it. I am, however... Please let me finish. offering a face-saving means to call this terrible mistake a learning experience if city council will formally authorize independent studies How much time do you need? and max route via the west can i ask how much time you need obligation to do The public will be thrilled and alive. I'm willing to let you finish. Okay. I'm willing to let you finish I just need to know how much more time would you like? How much do you need to finish it? One sentence left. Very good. Go for it. Thank you. Dutifully filled. Lawsuit hopefully avoided. I thought you were going to just shut me off. A bus stop at Transit for Barbara, Maxford, along the west corner. Either way, I'm calling for the immediate resignation of Trimate Director Doug Kelsey. Thank you. Good morning. And you left copies for the clerk so we can get copies. Yes, they did. Thank you. Appreciate that. Next individual, please, Carla. Item 780, a request of Terry Parker to address council regarding the civic life code changes. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. My name is Terry Parker. I'm a fourth generation Portlander. Portland is a city of neighborhoods. With the current commission form of government, neighborhood associations and coalitions are the only geographical representation within the civic engagement process. Local residents are the people that have the everyday first hand knowledge of neighborhood livability issues. The 2016 auditor's report supported by the 2008 Community Connect report, recommends that Portland civic engagement framework of neighborhood associations needs to be strengthened and expanded. This includes updating the code and standards to give formal recognition to other community groups, allowing them to receive the benefits and notifications the NAs receive. City council resolution 37373 was the vehicle to create the committee to implement those recommendations. The hand-picked code change committee was deficient of both Notification 2 and Representation 4, Portland's nationally renowned 90-plus neighborhood association system. Along with negligible representation for over 53% of Portland households that pay property taxes and live in owner-occupied homes, the committee took a totally opposite direction by removing official N.A. recognition, the organizational standards, and their functions. Moreover, the proposed new language includes references to colonialism, white supremacy, native sovereignty, economic exploitation, and the striving for self-determination that can all be interpreted as hate language. Such divisive, hostile, and offensive language divides communities rather than bringing them together. Statements in the city's ethics code include citizens have a fair and equal opportunity to express their views to city officials. City officials avoid bias or favoritism and respect cultural differences as part of decision making. And leadership facilitates rather than blocks open discussion. With a handpicked committee lacking balanced representation and a director of civic life demonizing neighborhood associations by calling them devastating to Portland and obvious detest towards the NAs. And the inclusion of unprofessional performance language that can be interpreted as hate language. Has Civic Life also rewritten an unpublished version of the city's ethics code? Civic engagement must not come from special interests in closed door back rooms or become a hand picked administrative tax under the control of a czar-like bureau director. The all inclusive leadership role belongs with the city council. Instead of throwing the neighborhood associations off the recognition train and eliminating their functions and mandated standards, with an increased budget, any community organization that demonstrates non-discriminatory practices conducts accessible open meetings and provides transparent minutes should be welcomed aboard and recognized. In closing, the entire code change process was equity deficient. It needs a complete do-over, replacing the fantasized language with transparent code updates that are in detail, aligned with the auditor's recommendations. Keep Portland neighborly. Thank you. Next individual, please, Carla. Thank you. Item 781, request of Lightning Superhumanity Evolution to address counsel regarding racketeer, influenced, and corrupt organizations at- Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superhumanity Evolution. Again, as I've always stated, I don't think the mayor of the city should also be the police commissioner. There needs to be complete separation in the event there's problems with the police commissioner, you're fired. And then we do a national search for somebody with experience as high level as the police chief or other high ranking positions in law enforcement. They need to be very experienced to be the police commissioner. On July 23rd, 2019, a member at Washington DC of the Senate Committee on Judiciary sent a letter to Attorney General William Barr, FBI Director Christopher Vuey, calling for an investigation of Portland Mayor Ted Wheeler, which is also the police commissioner, under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization Act, RICO. Excerpts from the letter, federal investigation required to guarantee citizens' constitutional rights. Urge you to investigate, Mayor, for official positions violating Oregonians and civil rights. As serious as it gets, when you go into the RICO Act, that's 35 different crimes. They can find two. If you're convicted, you could do 20-year terms on each crime. Very serious situation here. Again, I'm asking Mayor Wheeler, the police commissioner, to step down immediately. Now, pertaining to labeling Antifa a domestic terrorist group, absolutely not. They're in rallies, it's free speech, free expression, wear your mask. As far as I'm concerned, Antifa, you're all artists. Do what you need to do out there, but do not commit violence. And again, that's a broad stroke across all of Antifa and that should be the small minority are the people that do that will be held accountable now. Another issue I have is that we need to start paying the police commissioner a reasonable salary. I'm looking at an average salary of $200,000 per year. We need to have that police commissioner have the experience, which Mayor Wheeler, you do not. You do not have the experience and I'm asking you to step down as a police commissioner. You brought in 700 law enforcement officials on the 17th and I want to know who's going to pay that? The public? We're talking millions and millions of dollars. Can you show me any other rally where there were a thousand people there that we brought in 700 law enforcement officials anywhere in the United States? I want to see that rally. Who's going to pay that amount of money? That falls on you, police commissioner, on you, Mayor Wheeler, and again, You're going to be dealing with William Barr on this. And let me tell you something, Mayor. You may laugh at the D.C. administration and the Trump administration. Thank you. They've got you locked in, my friend. Get ready to retire. Thank you, as always. Politically, you're finished, Mayor. No, it doesn't warrant a response. Carla, are any items pulled off the consent agenda? Yes, both items have been pulled, 782 and 783. 782, 783, that is the consent agenda. So first item on the regular agenda, it's a second reading, 784, please. amend original art murals code to expand the location where murals are allowed. Colleagues, this is a second reading, so we've already heard testimony and we've received a presentation. Is there any further business on this? Very good. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? I'd just like to thank BDS, the mayor's staff, RAC, Street Art Alliance, and PBOT for their work on this item. I vote aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. This was a fantastic presentation and I appreciated both the presentation as well as the vision that was offered and the testimony that was provided. I thought it was just a really great opportunity for us and I'm proud to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 785. authorized contract with Biomed Testing Inc for drug, alcohol, and steroid testing services for an amount not to exceed $1,244,150. Colleagues, Biomed has been a trusted business partner with the city of Portland for approximately five years. During this time, we've built an effective working relationship that allows the city to focus on the management of the drug testing program. Biomed operates with integrity, compassion and respect for the city as their client, intends to exceed the expectations of their contractual obligations. Senior Labor Relations Analyst Marky Fudge is here with us today to go over the details of the contract. Good morning and welcome. Thanks for being here. Of course. Okay, Mayor, Council. So, uh, biomed, we have, we, our current contract. Could you introduce yourself? I'm sorry. I'm Marquise Fudge, senior labor relations analyst. Thank you, sir. Sorry about that. Um, so our current contract with biomed, uh, expires, uh, September 30th of this year, um, which is why you see it before you now as a, uh, extension of that, of that contract. And, um. City employees that perform safety sensitive functions as defined by the federal government are subject to pre-employment and random drug testing. And I have a list of all of those classifications within the city structure if you all need that or want that. And so also as a matter of city policy, our police officers, sergeants, detectives, and lieutenants are also subject to random drug testing. So, and Biomed plays a really critical role in the city's relationship with Legacy Labs, who performs the drug test, who administers the actual test itself. And Legacy is critical in this machine of drug testing program that we have because of their central location and their services are available 24-7 for us, which is much, much needed. So, I bring this ordinance in front of you to see if we can get this passed and extend the biomed contract. Very good. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. And thank you so much for providing additional information to my office. I had a question about I noticed that the random drug testing, it has 29 at the top like for every month. There's like 29. Does that mean that there are 29 employees that are randomly tested every month? Okay. Or does that mean? Is it processed? Mm-hmm. So the part of the report that you were looking at was the PPCOA. Okay. So they have 20. PPCOA. Portland Police Commanding Officers Association. Okay. They have 29 people in their pool. Okay. And so the PPA has, it fluctuates, but it's roughly 750 to 800 members in their pool. And so two are selected randomly from the PPCLA pool and 55 are selected monthly, randomly for the PPA side of things. And then you also have the CDL side of things. where we have, it's changed over the last five years, but anywhere from 13 to 22 of those folks selected for random tests each month. And what has been the results of steroid testing? Very good. Very good. I believe in my five years, I think we've had two positive results for steroids in five years. So it's been very well. Very good. Thank you so much. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions? Any public testimony on this item? Carla. Yes. We have four people signed up. Very good. The first three, please come on up. Our Lightning, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and Diana. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Humanity Evolution. One of the questions I used to have a lot is I used to see on the non-consent agenda where we'd have car crashes of say police officers in an accident. And what I wanted to make sure is that upon those type of accidents, which would be, I would think, a reason to test. And I haven't seen any type of results provided on that. Because that's not like a random test. You've been in an accident. We've been seeing a lot of different accidents and certain amounts of numbers being paid out. And what's the follow-up past that point? Are they being tested? I think it's almost mandatory that they are. Because if we begin to pay out money, we want to make sure that if there's a drug issue... that they get the proper treatment. That's all. I'm not saying fire them. I'm saying you get into a treatment program and we'll go from there. So I'm not looking at firing anybody. It's just more or less a treatment program. So I want to make sure that those tests are being done because when we're seeing payouts, which a lot of times the public has to pay out of the general fund or maybe insurance if we're lucky, That's a big concern and those numbers are pretty high and I've seen a lot of different car accidents on a lot of different resolutions that have been presented in front of the commissioners and the mayor. So issue number two, the steroids is a real concern to me and I'd like to have more research done on the steroids. And the problem I have is anybody that's taking a certain type of drug, I don't want them to have access to a weapon. Now, that's a strong statement to make toward the police, but I think they could understand my position, too, is that I want to have you clear mind. I don't want to have you under the influence of anything while you're doing your job, plain and simple. And— What do you do past the point of the test failing? Do you say okay? You can't have your weapon at that time until we go through proper testing to make sure there's not an issue. These are very serious things that I think should be done because Anyone on drugs? I don't want you touching a weapon plain and simple. I don't want you near a gun I don't care who it is if you're the police you're the fire I Are anyone in here? And I want the proper test done, especially if we're paying those employees from our tax dollars. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Diana. I feel that this agenda item specifically relating to biomed and the drug testing is actually very important for a city. I see that it can provide a lot of positive things for private citizens who are wanting to feel protected in their own cities. And so I see this being a good thing. I do have a couple questions in regards to... what the follow-up is when a person does test positive. What are going to be the steps in order to you know, make sure they get the help that they need and also make sure that someone is able to step in when that person has tested positive. Who is going to take that person's position? position, either permanently or temporarily, depending on the severity of the individual who tested positive. I think that's something that should be looked into because we don't want to take away from the city. We don't want to take away protection from the city and when someone is out of the game for a time, there's a gap and that gap does need to be filled so we should have measures set in place to fill those gaps. The other thing is I do agree in the fact that should there be accidents with people that are in these powerful positions, I think that it is important to make sure that they get first 100% care and have that care be drug testing because some people can respond in a way that they are a functional person. everyday person, but if you are doing steroids, if you are doing drugs that are going to impair your judgment, you should not be able to hold a firearm. You should not be able to have possession of a weapon. So I think that is something to really consider and look at and figure out what steps can be taken and what measures can be implemented. So thank you so much for your time. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Diana, very good questions. In fact, I was asking very similar ones yesterday, and I am going to be pulling together a working group, council offices, and appropriate city staff to look at the whole issue of city employees who use substances when they shouldn't. And then, you know, what are the steps we take to make sure that they get the help that they need and also that the public remains safe. So thank you for asking the questions. Yes, thank you, Commissioner. It's very important, so thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Hi, Maggie, Portland Homeless Town Hall. I just want to echo Lightning and the gentlelady over here for speaking out about drug testing and people carrying weapons or driving a car, which begs the question, what about running a city as commissioners or a county as commissioners and drug testing? Thank you. for commissioners. Something to think about. Also, I would like to say, what about LGBTQ? You know, certain LGBTQ folk may be taking a steroid for a medical reason. Are you going to make sure that that person is not discriminated against when there's a valid reason for taking it and because I think people in the city are prone LGBTQ no matter where they are, they're prone to discrimination and if they've got a medical reason for taking a steroid. Just want to mention that. Thank you. Good morning, council. My name is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. It's hard to believe that just a week ago we were all mostly gathered in Pioneer Square wondering how many bullies and hate groups would descend on our city. Fortunately, that turned out not to be the worst for some of us. Actually, pretty good. Although this item comes with like 19 pages of electronic PDF, I really think I'll just focus on the idea of best practices and transparency for the city when you present these issues to the public. In just the first two pages, the findings, it's not really clear that this $1.2 million is another full five-year scope. So it would have been better if that page one of the findings had started with five years in the first point. And I really think, especially now that we've taken the state treasurer and made him our that it's not unreasonable for the people to ask you to do the math and tell us the average cost per drug test. And also, I'm not sure it's a good practice for the city to only do, it turns out we're only going to be doing RFP on this every 10 years. We did one five years ago and we just said, oh, that was so nice. Let's just give the $1.2 million back to the same people. There's also nothing in here about minority small business inclusion to know if there are other contractors out there that might be more in line with the city's goals. So it's not a huge chunk of money. It's 1.2 million max divided over five years. But I think we could do better in those ways. It was interesting. I appreciate Councillor Hardesty's questions. After seeing the conduct of some uniformed people, it's hard to believe only two in five years are void-raging steroid junkies. But I appreciate all the officers that are coloring with Inside the Lines about using those things to maintain their donut-based physiques. But I don't think that this measures up. to the best practices for the City of Portland to renew based on a five-year-old application where there were two other losers and not give those people a chance to go through what's supposed to be the City of Portland a thoughtful RFP process where we look at getting money out to women and minority small led businesses that may or may not have a role in this. I'm not an expert by all means at who the other two players with this group are in the drug testing area, but I really think that when you look at those two pages of findings, you could have reported to the citizens the average and maximum costs per test and maybe should have considered RFP again through the Bureau of Human Resources and contrast that information Obviously, PBOT or some other bureaus must be covered by this DOT requirement to drug test when people are operating equipment. So there should be some comparison data between bureaus about who's getting the best value for drug testing. Thank you. Yeah. Very good. And if I could just quickly respond to a couple of those. Thank you, please. First of all, there was a selection committee and there was a uniform scoring process and BioMed scored the highest. in the eyes of the selection committee, so there were other considerations. Besides 2014, there was a repeat more recently? Yes. Okay, thank you. Number two, page nine actually illustrates the cost per test, and it breaks it down by type of test as well. Thank you very much for being more attentive than me. You bet. No worries. Thank you. Thanks for your testimony, all three of you. Carla, was there anybody else? That's all who signed up. Colleagues, any further questions of staff before I move this one along? No. This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, Markey, for your presentation. Next up is item 786, a second reading. Authorize water revenue bonds to finance water system capital improvements and refund water revenue bonds. Colleagues, again, this is a second reading. We've already had a presentation and taken public testimony. Any further business on this item? Please call the roll, Carla. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Well, we had the hearing. I'm really proud of this item. It's a good example of the city thinking ahead financially. Thank you to the Office of Management and Finance for their coordination, Christina Nieves on my staff, Cecilia Hewn, the Director of Finance and Support Services for the Portland Water Bureau, and Director Mike Sturran, Deputy Director Gabriel Solmer. This measure... Saves the city $6.1 million. Saves rate pay $6.1 million. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted 787. Also a second reading. vacate portions of Southeast 106th Avenue, Southeast 108th Avenue, Southeast 110th Avenue, Southeast Bybee Boulevard, and Southeast Duke Street south of Southeast Foster Road subject to certain conditions and reservations. Any further discussion on these items, colleagues? Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 788, also a second reading. amend contract with AECOM Technical Services Inc. to provide $1 million in additional funding for the engineer of record services required to complete the reservoir structure for the Washington Park Reservoirs Improvement Project. Colleagues, any further business on this item? Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? For this and the other the next two thanks to Water Bureau Director Mike Sturr, Deputy Director Gabriel Salma, Teresa Elliott the Chief Engineer and Christina Nieves on my staff. Aye.
 Wiener? I thought this was a great presentation it was very very interesting and I appreciate the work that's going on and I appreciated the update aye vote aye. The ordinance is adopted 789 also a second reading. amend contract with Comforth Consultants Inc. for geotechnical design services for the Washington Park Reservoir Improvements Project in the amount of eight hundred and thirty thousand dollars. Any further business? Call the roll please Carla. Hardesty. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted 790 second reading. authorize a contract with West Yost Associates for construction support services for the Washington Park Reservoir's improvements project in the amount of $6,199,300 using a sole source procurement. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Ordinance is adopted. 791, second reading. Thank you. amend ordinance to authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of Northeast Broadway and 94th Pump Station upgrade, project number E10783, in the amount of $1,799,126. Any further discussion? Please call the roll, Carla. Hardesty? Hardesty. You daily. Aye. Flitz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Coordinances adopted back to the consent agenda. First pulled item was 782. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University Institute on Aging for tasks related to startup of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability's Age-Friendly Cities Program in the amount of $20,000. And Lightning, you pulled this, is that correct? Okay, very good. So, and do we have anybody from staff to discuss this? Do you want to come on up? Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Joe Zender with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. The item in front of you today is an intergovernmental agreement for funding of research from the Portland State University Institute on Aging that we're doing is sort of the prelim to a hire that we're also in the process of doing to bring on a person to develop for the city an age-friendly program. The research is going to be reaching out actually to the bureau's leaderships, program leaderships to explore their understanding of age-friendly policy and how that might be relevant. Second is to understand inventory, the comp plan policies relevant to age-friendly so that we have sort of a place to start the work. Very good. Thank you. Public testimony. I know Lightning pulled this. Good morning. Lightning, you pulled it. We'll let you go first. Okay. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Humanity Evolution. One of the things I like when we're talking age-friendly policies and going in that direction is that I want a little more, I guess, studies also done in the neurogenesis area. And I really want to have an understanding that, you know, when we begin to age, we also can... produce more neurons and we need to really have some study on neurogenesis on Understanding that with today's technology There are so many advances that we're seeing that when we're talking Age-friendly city is that we need to be looking at really on the well-being and the brain health of aging individuals and why that's so important is when we're talking Alzheimer's and different type of things that you normally look at pertaining to aging, is that when you begin to look many years before, we can begin doing things that might have an effect in the future as far as when you're aging that will really be beneficial. And again, my position is really from a neuroscience perspective and really beginning to work with the neuroscientists on aging itself and understanding the synaptic conditions connections, the neuron genesis as far as adding more neurons and really understanding that we are with 86 billion neurons possibly, we have the potential on really benefiting people when they are aging, when we begin to understand how to really begin to take care of yourself from the brain health perspective. And really understanding on just treating people in a reasonable manner has an effect on your neurons and how many neurons you produce and how many neurons do a synaptic connection and actually go into the memory mode. And when you start really analyzing that and understanding just by what you say to somebody. has an effect on them. And it's really important to understand and start to look at this on an overall basis from the standpoint of aging and understanding the real technological advances that they have now and to study this and to really improve people's lives. So that's my position. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Lightning, some days you just absolutely fascinate me. Okay. Were you here when we did the presentation from the coalition that's been created around Aging Friendly? Were you in the city council that day? I believe I was. I was here at a few of them, yes. And so, you know, the city... Even though we want to do a whole bunch of stuff, we have a very limited lane for the things that we can actually invest resources and time and energy in. And so our goal, at least from what I've been able to understand in my short time here, We ensure that people as they age can continue to do the things that bring them joy. Absolutely. They can continue to travel around the city. They can continue to go to plays. They can continue to do all the things that today bring them joy. Right? And we also know that people are living a lot longer. Yes. And people are basically a lot healthier today than they were say in my parents' time. Yes. So what advice based on just that very narrow, because I wish we could go and talk about brain syntax and all that good stuff. Based on that, What's the best investment of the $20,000 that we're going to contribute to this coalition who's really looking at a whole host of other stuff? Right. I guess for the $20,000, I think, and I'll be honest with you, I think it might be a little bit on the low side on how important this issue is. They do too. Yes, and I'm sure that the aging-friendly people do also. But really, I guess from my position, I think really getting the neuroscientists more involved and having some of them step up to the table such as in having them in the discussions and really showing the advancements on MRIs and imaging and just healthy foods and exercise as you know is so important. on your neurons and the synapses that take place and just those type of areas because it really falls back on like you were saying, living healthy, living longer and that's what it's really about at the end of the day and if the neuroscientists I think have made great steps and gains in this area that we've never seen before except really in the last three to five years in my opinion. So that's kind of where I'm at, bringing in the neuroscientists and people in that field. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record again, Charles Bridge, Crane Johnson. Once upon a time in Portland, we didn't have a city councilor, Commissioner Joanne Hardesty. She was just a private citizen. And she came to 540 Southeast 73rd, and Nancy Wigmore was born in 1937. She's since moved to assisted living from living up there on the sides of Mount Tabor over in the Oddfellows. But when we're talking about this $20,000 and the Institute on Aging, I hope that even though you're sort of letting this money go and trusting it to work well with the other $200,000 you've invested, that you'll ask about how much contact there was with people who are experiencing the process of late life aging. Those are the only answers. Somebody that's 50 or 30 or 20, if their research isn't directly rooted in contact with people that are living within the variety of conditions we have in the city limits than we might be buying research that may not actually have the best impact on people's lives. So I hope that as commissioners concerned about your older constituents, you'll maybe pencil in a note to review or engage off the record with the IOA. This money is actually going to the Institute on Aging at Portland State. And maybe it's even anecdotally appropriate that we get a report to poll some of these senior citizens, as seems to be the still acceptable phrase, and have them come and engage. I think this morning, two out of five communication slots went unused. And this actually is a good investment to diversify beyond myself. You know, we don't get to put – it takes now – if I signed up last week, I won't get to testify until the last week of October. But the absences should be filled with robust interjections from high school youth. Maybe just concentrate on the ends of the spectrum and the margin. High school youth and elderly people. Hopefully there will be some outreach. Also, the program does barely mention Multnomah County. But as Joanne alluded to, the city's lane is narrow. many wider lanes of aging and disability services over at the county. And so we want to make sure that these $20,000 and the previous $200,000 robustly engage those professional staff and especially with the elderly people they're in contact with. Thank you very much. Thank you. Is there any further public testimony on this item, Carla? That's all signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. Artistry. Artistry. Aye. I think this is a really excellent investment in working with our population as people age. I'm certainly aging myself and I hope the city gets better and better so that I can age as well as I would like. I vote aye. Udaylee? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? I'm glad this one got pulled. We already supported this obviously in the 2019-2020 budget. We included $200,000 to fund the age-friendly city pilot program through the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. But this is a very important issue for our community. One thing we all, all of us, have in common from the time we're born, we all are aging. This, of course, discussion today represents just a small portion of the $200,000 that we allocated. So this is an authorization for an intergovernmental agreement for $20,000 to PSU's Institute on Aging to continue the work across bureaus and with Portlanders to make sure that our city is a city that's friendly for people of all ages. all ages. This is a pilot program that is not new. It builds on a platform that is at least 12 years old. There's been a lot of hard work during that decade plus on this program. I want to acknowledge this work by thanking Our advisory council who laid the strong foundation for the pilot program that we're funding, our staff and our partners who conducted the baseline age-friendly research so we can measure future progress. And I also want to give a shout out to the Multnomah County Commissioners who in 2014 passed a resolution to join in our age-friendly network. I also want to thank all of my colleagues for investing in this pilot program. I want to particularly acknowledge Commissioner Fish and express my gratitude to him and to his office for his vision and his leadership and his collaborative approach to our city's effort to make sure that our city is inclusive and accessible that promotes active aging and encourages enablement and focuses on uniting generations together. This is, you know, Nick has been a partner with me going all the way back to 2007 when I convened the Vital Aging Task Force at Multnomah County. with co-chair then Commissioner Maria Rojo-DeStefani. Nick was very, very active on behalf of the City of Portland to begin the process of laying the foundation for vital aging and working for generations to focus on uniting generations. Oddly enough, I'm going to give a shout out to somebody I have never given a shout out to in this chamber to the best of my knowledge. She's deserving of it. That is my mother who sent me a lengthy letter this week. And it was on this very subject, talking about the real opportunity that exists by uniting generations rather than separating them. And we know that the science that PSU and others have done backs this. When older adults are engaged with youth, that gives older adults a sense of belonging and a sense of purpose. And we know it is good for their brain and it is good for their health. Alternatively, we know that when young people have an active, engaged older adult in their life, it helps them develop and helps them thrive as well to know that there is somebody who is older who is looking out for them and interested in what they're doing. So mom, this is to you. Thank you. You were right, as always. I look forward to learning more from BPS and PSU's Institute on Aging and the strategic ways that we're going to continue to make progress. I'm very proud about I. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Thank you, mom. Next up, 783. Revoke franchise granted to Lucid Energy Inc. for a renewal energy project in conjunction with the Water Bureau for a period of 20 years. Director Perez, good morning. Lightning, did you pull this one? Okay, very good. Come on up and go ahead and give a presentation. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. A little background on this ordinance, on March 27th, 2013, the city of Portland granted a franchise to Lucid Energy to install, operate, and maintain a renewable energy system with all the necessary facilities located within the streets for a period of 20 years. This was done in conjunction with the Water Bureau. The franchise was effective May 26th, 2013. On December 19th of 2018, Lucid Energy filed authorization for dissolution with the state of Oregon. Section 13.1, Part F of Lucid's franchise states that the city may revoke the franchise after Lucid's insolvency or other similar action or proceeding. Lucid has already removed all of its facilities and equipment from the right-of-way. On April 9th, 2019, the city provided written notice to Lucid of the city's intent to revoke Lucid's franchise. We received no objections. Staff anticipate a loss of previously anticipated general fund revenue of $1,000 per year. This is really a housekeeping measure. It helps us to clean up our books. It helps us to... work with PBOT as we issue the franchise. They're the ones that issue permits. So as long as we can get rid of the franchise, there is no risk of some company coming in as Lucid trying to open up our streets. So any further questions? Not at the moment. Very good. We'll take public testimony. You're good?
 Yeah. Heard your question answered. Very good. This is a first reading. Commissioner Fritz. My Wards Bureau staff gave us some additional information that I thought was interesting, so I'll just share it. Sure. So this was a study to measure the amount of energy savings of putting the turbines in the water pipes. And the conclusion was that the turbines didn't produce enough energy savings when weighed against the cost of the maintenance and the decreased in head pressure in the water system due to the turbines. And that other mechanisms of renewable energy such as hydro and solar power are more likely to be beneficial in the long run. Very good. Thanks for sharing that. And nobody else signed up, Carla? I didn't have a sign-up sheet. Very good. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. We are adjourned.