Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the August 27th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Gossman? Novick? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hales? Here. I think we're going to be joined by one or more of our colleagues, but three of us are enough to make a quorum. So welcome, everyone. We have a single item on the council calendar this afternoon. I'll get our clerks.
 I'll ask the clerk to read it in a moment. I just want to welcome you here. This is an appeal hearing, so there's a structure to it in which certain times are allocated for the staff report and for the appellant and for supporters and opponents of the appellant. If you've been here before, you know the rules, which you can testify by signing up and letting us know that you want to speak on the item. We typically allow two minutes for each person who's speaking, again, other than the appellant themselves.
 and if you do want to testify you need only give us your name you don't need to give us your address if you're a registered lobbyist under the city's code you need to let us know that
 We also practice common sense decorum in this room, which is we want to make sure we hear everybody's point of view. So if you agree with someone and want to indicate that, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the fingers or some other positive sign of encouragement that's nonverbal and likewise to the negative. If you disagree with someone, please employ a polite hand gesture, but let's not have vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view so everybody gets heard. Thank you.
 It's not much more complicated than that, so welcome, everyone. Please, would you read the item, Sue, and we'll proceed. Item 902, appeal of Paul Stanford against Portland Parks and Recreation decision to deny a permit application to hold the Portland Hempstock Festival at Waterfront Park in 2015. Okay.
 Okay, so here's the procedure as I have it. I'm going to have an introduction from Commissioner Fritz. We'll have a staff report from the Parks Bureau. The appellant then gets a 10-minute time period to make the case about the appeal. Individual supporters of the appellant will then get called on to support that position. And then if there are opponents of the appeal who are individuals, again, likewise, we'll hear them one at a time at two minutes each.
 give the Parks Bureau a couple of minutes for a closing statement and the appellant an opportunity for rebuttal, and then we decide.
 So with that, Commissioner Fritz, any other comments from you before we begin? Thank you. I'd just like to remind everybody that we do have a town hall this evening about the city's recreational marijuana program. It's at 6 o'clock at Emanuel Hospital in North Portland. So if folks are here to comment generally about management of marijuana in our city, that's the appropriate forum. This is strictly about the festival and whether the permit should be issued or not.
 Okay, thank you. With that, let's call on the Parks Bureau for a staff report, please. Thank you, Bob. Thank you, Bob. Mm-hmm. All right, well, thank you, Mayor Hales, members of the council. I'm Harry Auerbach from the City Attorney's Office. I'm just going to give you a quick background as to where we are, and then Sean Rogers, who's the manager of the Customer Service Center, will run through the –
 the decision making and why the permit was denied. Under our code, people who want to hold events in Portland parks are required to obtain permits. And the code sets forth a list of things for which you need to have a permit in a park. Any event that is going to involve 150 or more people at one time requires a permit. So an event like this falls within that category.
 Because we recognize the nature of parks as public forums where people typically gather to express their views, we have written a code, you have adopted a code, that entitles people to have permits for events as long as they meet the listed criteria in the code. And the code lists seven of them. I won't go through all seven of them unless you have questions about them.
 But one of them is that the applicant not have failed to comply with conditions of permits previously issued by Parks. So we have had a fairly lengthy history, which Sean will describe to you, of this event in the parks over the years and have had persistent problems since.
 getting them to comply with provisions of their permit, primarily around controlling the use and distribution of controlled substances at the event. So following the 2013 event at Kelly Point Park, the Parks Bureau determined to deny the permit for 2014.
 And that permit was appealed to this council. The council upheld the denial of the permit, excuse me, but requested that parks work with Hempstock to try to accommodate the event at Waterfront Park at the end of last season. And so they did that, and they worked to get a plan to try to address the concerns that had led to the denial of the permit. And they issued the permit for the 2014 event.
 Based on the occurrences at the 2014 event, which Sean and others will describe to you, when the applicant came in to apply for the 2015 permit, that permit was denied on the basis that the applicant had failed to comply with the conditions of the permit for 2014. Next.
 The applicant then appealed to this counsel and at the same time filed in circuit court a petition for a writ of review of Sean's decision denying the permit. And so the hearing on this appeal has been delayed pursuant to a stay issued by the circuit court while that process played out. We obtained a decision from the circuit court upholding the denial of the permit.
 And so now we're back for the applicant's opportunity to make his appeal to you directly. And that's all I've got at this point, unless you have questions. I just had one question. You said you used the term controlled substance and you defined it as a law.
 Well, marijuana. The reports were that there was rampant use of marijuana. There were vendors selling marijuana, and Sean and the police representatives and others who were there can describe to you what they observed. Mayor and commissioners, hemp stock, we have a long history with them.
 They have been with us quite a while. They've been producing events in our parks for 10 years. They started in Waterfront Park back in 2005 and 2006. We moved them to Selwood Riverfront Park in 2007. From there, we moved them to the East Bank Festival Plaza, then to Kelly Point Park from 2009 to 2013.
 During that time, they began to expand in their numbers, their attendance grew. At the same time, Kelly Point Park is a great distance away from very many neighbors. So it was relatively a perfect place to have an event that might be challenging. It, however, in 2013 became very challenging for some of our neighbors.
 and raised several questions that questioned whether or not we should continue the event. Then they had their event following counsel, their appeal, to Waterfront Park last year. During this period, Hempstock has shown a consistent failure to comply to the conditions of their permit, failure to prevent illegal drug use at their event,
 A lack of administrative capabilities to complete the permit application process without extensive park assistance each and every year. Lack of skills and management capabilities to run an event of this size. And it has gotten relatively big. During Hempstock's last event at Kelly Point Park in 2013, the number and degree of issues, challenges, and violations became too numerous to accept.
 And for those reasons, Hempstock's 2014 application was denied. As you know, Hempstock appealed the decision to city council. Council provided Hempstock one last opportunity to appeal or to apply and receive a permit to hold their event. With that opportunity came council's expectation that Hempstock would meet the conditions required of all events.
 Contract a professional event manager to run their event. Contract with an experienced security company to secure the event. And lastly, to assure that all conditions of use are met, including prohibiting the consumption of illegal and controlled substances during their event. During the 2014 event just last year, the following issues and violations continued to occur.
 Ongoing unrestricted use of illegal and controlled substances by organizers and their patrons. Unwillingness by the organizers to enforce state and federal laws required in the conditions of use of that permit. Organizers directing or instructing participants where to use illegal substances on park property. The event took place just last year on the 27th and 28th.
 September and is well documented both in the following two Portland Police After Action Report as well as Park Rangers observations and documentation. I'd like to introduce for you Sergeant Heidi Brockman with Portland Police's event coordinator position as well as Galena Burley the security manager for Portland Parks and Recreation.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Halelson, commissioners. As he said, I am Sergeant Heidi Brockman with the Portland Police Bureau, and I've taken over the special events position for the police bureau for Sergeant Craig Dobson. He was actually a significant and important integral part of planning this event last year, and he is unable to attend today to give you the firsthand account of what happened last year.
 the day of the event. I was part of the planning portion in working with the applicant and the organizers for this event, and so I will explain a little bit about that process as far as working with them as...
 Sean mentioned about giving them clear instructions about the expectations, specifically about lawful behaviors and event management and substances that would or would not be allowed. We worked extensively with them on having to develop a very specific security plan,
 which was a lengthy process. They were frequently not able to provide specific details for their event. It was basically a cut-and-paste type document initially. But when we got into the nuts and bolts of it, they finally did agree to and presented a safety and security plan
 as well as having verbal assurances that they would abide by this plan, which specifically addresses no illegal activities or substances, including cannabis use at this event, no alcohol, illegal drugs, or paraphernalia at the event, and no usage, consumption, sales, display, or other presence of any such items at the event. And this is all in their security plan that they agreed to.
 There was also discussion about clear messaging on their websites as well as at the venue itself about not using these events, sorry, substances. But from that website, there is one line in there about...
 that illegal substances would not be used. But as far as vendors, which we had lengthy discussions about, making sure that such things as edibles, which is consumable, eaten marijuana substances, would not be used or sold. There was nothing in there.
 open source or on their website about restricting that or not being allowed. In fact, from Sergeant Dobson's report about the event, there was a vendor that came up or a patron that came up and said that they didn't know that they couldn't consume these things. They've been to these events before and they've been able to use them and to purchase these items. Other vendors claim that they were not able to
 They never knew that they couldn't sell these things, and it was not in their materials on their website as they said that they would provide for this event. So it was many, many violations of the safety and security plan as well as just the event management itself, which had issues. I'm now going to turn it over to Galena Burley to talk about the parks.
 Thank you so much. Myself and the rangers were out in the field for the event. And I just want to go to the slide where our report, maybe a half hour from the night of September 27th. So a few things that were reported by the ranger team included teenagers smoking a bong at the police memorial,
 Adults passing a joint under the Hawthorne Bridge. Multiple groups of teenagers passing a pipe under the Hawthorne Bridge. Multiple individuals carrying bongs, pipes, and bags of marijuana. Groups of teens smoking out of a bong. Six groups smoking marijuana on the grass north of the Hawthorne Bridge. Six groups smoking marijuana on the grass north of the Hawthorne Bridge.
 two individuals smoking marijuana in a breached stairwell, two groups of teens smoking out of a bong, and a small container of crystal meth found at the police memorial. This is just a half hour that we were on our patrol. Our job is to observe and provide positive presence. If you have any questions, I was also there that night. Certainly would be more than happy to elaborate. Questions? Yes.
 For any of our staff. I also have officers, I'm sorry, that were present at the event. I was not able to be there, but there are also officers that were at the event that can also testify to specifics. Okay. I guess one question I have, just trying to look at the record, maybe you can recap this a little bit for me, and that is, aside from...
 There's this, if you will, bilateral discussion between the city and the organizers about whether they met the conditions of the event or not. That's why we're here. That's why we're having this hearing. But what about everybody else? Were there a lot of complaints from neighboring property owners, from citizens, from people that were otherwise in the area? What did we hear from the community other than, again, city bureaus on one side and the event organizers on the other?
 Do you want to talk to the Coast Guard Service? You can. Yeah. So Sean and I, he and his customer service has a call taker who takes all of our security reports. We didn't bring that information with us for this particular meeting, but we'll be more than happy to provide it. I think that would be useful, maybe even from the officers who were there that day, to give us some sense of that. In talking with Sergeant Dobson from that event is –
 People were not able to pretty much walk through the park. The organizers had agreed to taking care of not only the area or securing the area inside the fenced area, but they had agreed to all of that park land geography adjacent to the areas that they had asked for in the permit. They were not kept clear of all of these items as described by Ms. Burley.
 I'm not sure if I understood you. So they're responsible for the area inside the permitted area. I assume it was fenced. I didn't actually see the event, but I assume it was fenced. So they're responsible for that.
 for the event taking, the event is inside the fence, but there were also conditions about managing conditions outside of the fence? Correct. Just in the park itself along the walkways and so forth that the security was supposed to take patrols through there and make sure that the area was also not being used, having illegal substances used out there. That was part of the contract with the security team.
 and that the messaging also from the stage itself would be clear in that sense.
 the substance was not supposed to be used inside the event, nor was it to be used outside the event, but that was not the case. They basically said, don't use it in the event, but if you use it outside, that's not on us, which is not what they agreed to in our negotiations. When we issue a permit for an event that is fenced with controlled entry, specifically that was part of the security plan,
 So we could check to make sure that illegal substances did not get into the event.
 But the fact that there is a fence does not set a delineation between where the event actually impacts. Obviously, when you are lining up outside the event, you have to have your participants somewhere, and they're outside that fence. The event really is the entire area that stages to come into the event as well as around. Okay.
 And is that normal, like for the Blues Festival? Is it the same kind of thing? Certainly. Yes, it is. We typically require permittees to provide security services beyond the permitted area? Yes. Okay.
 Because you are on park property. Where you put your fence does not define the fact that your event individuals that are coming to your event, your vendors, they are entering park property. Right. Well, they didn't have a permit for the entirety of Waterfront Park. No. They had it for Section E, which is the bowl area. Correct. So were we explicit in the permit about how far beyond the –
 boundaries of the event we expected them to maintain order? We only defined the area that they are reserving, which was the bowl area, which is the entirety from the Hawthorne Bridge to the hotel, Nato Parkway to the river. Okay. All right. Well, we may need to talk with you more about that after the hearing, or later in the hearing. Sure. Okay. Any other questions for staff at this point?
 Again, we may have questions later on, but we should move on to the appeal. And unless you have anything else you need to present now, we'll move on to the appeal and get you back up later. Okay, thank you. So now let's hear from the appellant, please. Come on up. Thank you. Well, I'd first like to say that...
 I am amazed at some of the statements made by the city council here today. Okay, well, hang on. Let her get you set up and then start your presentation. And you just need to give us your name in each case of your panel. Are you ready to start? Just click right there. Very good. Thank you.
 Go ahead, Paul. I'm Ann Witte. I'm Paul Stanford's attorney. And have a seat. We're not that formal. We did not receive any guidance on the format of this event until 1.30 this afternoon.
 There was an apology with it, but nevertheless, we have a kind of a format. We'd like to ask two speakers to speak first, and then since I didn't go to this event and you didn't, we have a 13-minute video of clips of things out of that format.
 Hempstock 2014 that we think show why this is an extremely valuable event for the city and which also demonstrates that we complied in every possible way as we promised with The strictures that were put upon us you saw the beginning of it there you have here of every single vendor who had a contract and
 was required to sign the promise that they would not have any sales, that nothing would be sold, that nothing illegal would take place, and that they would be excluded from the park if they didn't follow that. And it's written on every one of their contracts. So everybody was told that. Those signs were there for everybody that entered the park to see. There were many of them all over everywhere. Oh, yeah.
 Well, I guess they're not but they were that big that's what they were for Sure, but go ahead and go ahead and put on your present Later on just so we can see what was done. Okay, so and again, we don't have to be that formal about it But I'm not sure if we'll have time to see a whole 13 minute video but important most important that we hear from you about how you believe the event went and why you believe these criteria were met
 That's what we will show you in the video. But also, it's important, I think, for you to know that this is not some hippie gathering to have a smoke out. No prejudice here. We're just trying to get – we know there's two sides to this story. That's why it's an appeal hearing. Could I ask Paul Loney to speak? He has been a sponsor of the event for many years. And then Lee Berger. Oh, Lee's here. Go first, Lee. So we have a series of attorneys. Okay.
 I want to address the City Council about how we did comply with this requirement. We did not allow smoking. There was not smoking at this event. We stopped it. We did everything in our power to do that. We had every single vendor sign a contract that there would be no marijuana sales, no marijuana vending, no marijuana smoking at the event. And we made...
 that announcement from the stage every 15 minutes. Several of the people who made those announcements are going to be here to verify that. And we have many videos. The 13-minute video is just part of that. I'll show you the vendor contracts that we had signed by every vendor as well. Okay.
 Go ahead, Lee. My name is Leland Berger. I live at 3427 Northeast 11th on the stretch of Northeast 11th. It's both in the Irvington and Sabin neighborhood. And I look forward to seeing you, Commissioner Fritz, tonight at the hospital, Emmanuel Hospital. I spoke at this event. I've spoken at previous events both here and in Seattle at the Seattle Hemp Fest.
 over the years. I've been practicing for 32 years and I've been focusing my practice on cannabis related issues for about the last 20. I spoke at this event and I spoke about what I always spoke about. I spoke about the importance of registering to vote. I spoke about the importance of being actively involved in the political process.
 I spoke about how marijuana was not going to legalize itself and that it was incumbent on everybody present to do that. And I told them when I spoke, and everybody I heard speak said that there was no use allowed and that that was the condition placed on the event by the city. And that's what I saw. I didn't know there was a prohibition against edibles. That seems, I mean, by consumption, I mean, if you're not supposed to actively use and you're a consumer,
 then what are you supposed to do? I'm a little confused by that.
 I did want to set the scene for you if I could to Mayor Hales. It was in the bowl, and, you know, there's that path that goes down from Front Avenue, Nato Parkway, I guess now, down to the Hawthorne Bridge. So there were two fenced areas, and there were these two narrow gates where admission was allowed, and that caused a lot of clogging and a lot of, you know, inability to control what would be happening because the city required that kind of access.
 I guess just the last thing I wanted to say is, you know, I don't know that you're going to be able to reach a definitive resolution about what happened or didn't happen. But I can tell you that I saw Mr. Stanford during the event. I know that he was trying his hardest to comply with all of the conditions. I know that people complied with it. But I have to disagree with you, Commissioner Fritz, that the status of the law now doesn't affect –
 whether a permit should be issued or not. On last November, the people of the state of Oregon decided that the public use of marijuana would be a Class B violation. As best I can tell, the city's police department views enforcement of that law as a low priority and not a public safety matter.
 So even if it were true, these allegations, I'm not sure that the city wants to not license this event. And I'll tell you why. Vivian McPeak is here. He's with the Seattle Hemp Fest. I've been blessed to be asked as a speaker there over the last decade. And I asked him what...
 the financial impact was for the city of Seattle, because every time I go up, I have to be in a $250 hotel room, and I eat out at restaurants. And he said for 2014, in Seattle, the financial impact was over $7 million. So it's something to think about, I think, in terms of whether to continue the denial of the permit for this event. I guess the last thing I really want to tell you is I did – I hope you received –
 Ms. McCullough's letter from the ACLU. This really is, more than anything else, about both here and in Seattle, later next month in Boston at their Freedom Rally, and elsewhere around the country, an opportunity for cannabis advocates to gather and advocate peaceably, as is allowed under the Constitution, both of the United States under the First Amendment and Article 18.
 one section eight of the Oregon constitution. And again,
 I have to tell you that within the cannabis community, it feels like, even just the nature of the allegation in this, that the permittee has not, or the license he hasn't followed through with what he said he would do, that this is a personal thing concerning Mr. Stanford. And I don't know whether that's what the city's intent is or those who are enforcing this believe, but I do want the council to know that that's the impression that it's left in the cannabis community, and that's an awful, awful thing.
 And for these reasons, I urge the council to reverse the decision and allow the permit for this year. Thank you very much. Thank you. While Paul Loney is coming up, I'd like to say that we...
 had people searching at the gate, and 75% of the people coming to the gate turned back, maybe as many as 90%. We were held to standards never before given for a permit application. We've looked at the other permits for the Blues Festival. Ours is much more extensive, and the accusation that we don't have the managerial experience to handle this is –
 false. You know, I run a $4 million a year business helping tens of thousands Oregonians with physician services. And at one point, the city said you have to hire a professional organizer for $12,000. You have to have 40 security people there full time for $25 an hour each. And
 We met all the requirements, but we felt, you know, we had no control over the event at that point. We were merely sponsors. They wouldn't talk to us. They would just talk to the event organizer. And they listed six event organizers we could hire, and once we talked to them, they told them not to work for us. And so we called, I talked to the city, I'm not going to work for you. They listed a half dozen security companies.
 They were very interested in the project. Once they talked to the city, they said, no, we're not going to work for you because of what the city says. So that walkway through the middle of the park, no other event in that bowl has to fence in a walkway and restrict access from one side of the park to the other. We were held to standards never before held in this city. I'm going to go ahead, Paul. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, commissioners. My name is Paul Loney. I'm an attorney here, state of Oregon. I live at 2945 Southeast 65th, South Tabor neighborhood. I recognize the mayor from back in my days as a Southeast Uplift volunteer. I'm here to ask you to issue a permit for this year to overturn the park
 Bureau's decision. I will reiterate what Mr. Berger just said. Every year I go up on the stage and we talk about advocating, talk about change. This is our opportunity to change. We have to be the voice. And I've been a sponsor for this for at least four years now.
 And running a business with my professional license at risk, I'm not going to be a sponsor of an event where there's open and notorious law breaking as the park bureaus wants to believe. As a lawyer, it's kind of their letter, their three examples, they're pretty sad. They're extremely vague.
 lots of hearsay and they let, according to this I found this part kind of laughable I would fire the police officer they said one day they bought something undercover officer bought something and the next day they went back and he was still there again why didn't they arrest the person? why didn't they give him a ban, exclusion from the park like to do everybody else again, they seem to be looking for ways to paint this with a bad paintbrush to say that this was not a good event
 And as I think, as I heard the mayor talking about asking the right questions, nobody else out there in the public, in the city of Oregon, very few people complained about this. If anybody, you think if the Parks Bureau had a long list of complaints, they would have brought it here today. They didn't. The only people who are opposed to this event ongoing are the Parks Bureau and some members of the Portland Police Bureau.
 Those are the only ones. It's time for them to realize this is 2015, the voters voted last year, and we have legal marijuana in the state of Oregon. And we should be able to come together and celebrate, just like the Brew Festival.
 That's a huge event every year. There's wine festivals. There's barbecue festivals, neighborhood festivals. All these events happen. The police don't go to those events and sit there and scrutinize and look for minute little failings. As Mr. Stanford just talked about with the fence, you could see it was a six-foot sidewalk fence.
 It was very obnoxious the way they did it. You went from one area, even though you're walking directly across, and they saw you walking next area, they still wanted you to check your bag.
 I mean, nowhere else would they do that. When they could see you coming from one area where you already were checked in, walking across the sidewalk, checking your bag again, they were just doing that to make people feel uncomfortable, to turn down the attendance, to make the vendors unhappy at the Hempstock. They did everything in their power to make this a bad event. But they didn't succeed.
 People were very happy there. It was a family-friendly event. Parents always feel comfortable bringing their children. They don't feel comfortable going to the Brewer Fest with their children many times, but they tell me, I feel comfortable going to this. There's nobody going to be obnoxious. And I think that, again, everybody I heard spoke from the stage, including myself. We all talked about we have to follow the law, the old saying.
 you know, follow the law but change the law. That's what this was all about, you know. And, again, the Parks Bureau seemed to bring up events that took place outside the permitted area. How far does that little area that they want the organizers to go? If I'm getting on my bicycle in South Tabor, am I then all of a sudden go to the event? Am I all of a sudden part of the event because I'm getting on my bicycle at my house? That's kind of what the Parks Bureau is thinking here is it's...
 It's just not, you know, 2015 to them. And again, you know, I think it is possible, you know, it is out there. I'll just reiterate again what Mr. Berger said. This does seem to be a personal vendetta against Mr. Stanford by the Parks Bureau and certain members of the police force. You know, there's been events since July 1st here in the city of Portland. Open and notorious smoking happened.
 Nobody said anything, and there's been no move to stop it, tell the organizers not to do it again. It's ongoing, and for some reason, this event, which is a very popular event, which brings people from all over the state of Oregon and Washington to it, is being held to a different standard, and that's not acceptable.
 So let's ask, I think you've used your main block of time, but I want to ask some questions that might help illuminate some things. And then I don't think we want to see a 13-minute video. Can we show two? It might be useful to see a couple of minutes of that. But first, questions. The total attendance both days? This year, the people who came into the event, I think we never had more than about 5,000 people there at a maximum. Usually it was more around 1,000 to 2,000 people.
 I would say between 75 and 95% of the people who came to the gate did not come in because of the level of security and the statements. And during the walkway, if someone was given a free lighter by one of the vendors or they purchased a pipe, when they were made to go outside the event and back through security, security took the pipes or lighters that they had purchased or been given for free by vendors. So, yeah.
 They weren't allowed to carry a drink from one side of the event to the other side of the event. No other event has to fence in that sidewalk. And they closed down the sidewalk after halfway through the first day and said that no longer could they go from one side of the event to the other. They had to go outside the event and back through the main gate again to go from one side of the event to the other. Other questions?
 Can I give you these letters from our vendors? Certainly. Let me have those letters. Just give them to Sue, and she'll distribute them for us. But let's get other questions on the table. During the course of the weekend, like I said, 75% to 90% of the people turned away, and we had at most about 10,000. Okay. Commissioner Salter. Here are these letters. I probably should have asked this at the beginning, but is Hempstock a music festival? Yes.
 Okay, so basically a music festival. Yeah, I'm at a disadvantage there, too, because I was out of town that weekend. I didn't see the event. I would have gone by if I was here. Sure, either way. Yeah, point of point, it's music and activism. You know, every speaker said register to vote, especially with the election coming up last year. Yeah. And educating people on other candidates. We had candidates for office come up on stage and speaking. Yeah.
 at the Libertarian Party nominee and the Green Party nominee speak at Arvin in the past. Jill Stein and Gary Johnson, who would...
 The nominees for those respective parties have come spoken in our event, along with vice presidential nominees. And another dumb question, since I wasn't there, did you have a permit for serving beer or wine? No, we did not serve beer or wine. Okay, I just wasn't sure. Once through the years we had one permit. We didn't like it. We're not going to do that again. Okay.
 Other questions? And then, again, I want to give you a chance to just show us a couple minutes of the video rather than all 13. But I think it would be good, at least for me, since I didn't get a chance to see it. We'll get an opportunity to see some of the things that were said from the stage. Sure. Should I go ahead with that? Please. And I just want to say finally, again, that I am dismayed at the presentation from the city. And it's just not true. Thank you. What's our argument?
 That this year we are a non-smoking, drug-free, family-friendly event. Remember, we are doing a non-smoking, family-friendly event. This is a drug-free, smoke-free, family-friendly event. I remind you to not smoke marijuana on the hip-stock grounds. Don't smoke marijuana!
 This is not national offer a couple of days. All right. Thank you. I remind you, this is no smoking, no drugs, family friendly. Who we have? This is a smoke free, drug free, family friendly environment. Like I said before, free. You know, this event right here is the smoke free event.
 It's a family-friendly event, and we appreciate that, and we appreciate all you guys respecting those rules. Can you jump ahead and just show us a portion of the video that kind of gives us a view of the event? All right. Now I want to remind you that marijuana is harmful because it's not. I look forward to the day when we can openly use cannabis in this park, just like we do in Seattle. Thank you.
 If you can, they have part of it that just shows the crowd. We've accomplished a new industry here in this town. Well, I'm wrong. So they're always in Ann Arbor when we used to have free concerts. John Sinclair. John Lennon wrote a song about John Sinclair. We used to have to pay off the police to not come onto the site. They had to stay in the parking lot and take care of the parking. And they'd be walking around with their helmets.
 Keep them outside. But today, this is a new low for me when the hemp stock organization has to pay these guys to come in here and hassle us. I don't get it. I think once you legalize it, you get that over with.
 I'm all due respect to these guys. I know they serve an important role as security guards in our society, but, hey, I feel secure as a motherfucker out here. You know what I'm saying? I feel really unsafe with this kind of environment. Okay, that's good. That gives us a vignette. Thank you. Other questions, follow-up?
 yeah mr stanford just given your uh excerpt on the film there where you said that you know unlike seattle we can't smoke here in the park so if we'd grant you the the festival permit i mean it's even going to be more impossible than ever to and make sure people don't smoke isn't it given legalization
 I don't think so. I think we can just as easily ask people not to smoke at the event. You know, tobacco has been legal for a long time and we say there's no smoking. And, you know, I didn't see smoking in the park. I did not smell smoke in the park. So I'm just amazed that the city can come in here with a straight face and say what they've said, the people from the Parks Department and the police. And so Seattle's...
 Does it allow smoking in the parks?
 Why were so many of the speakers reminding people not to smoke if people weren't smoking? Because that's what we were told we would do. We would make announcements periodically, and so we did. And we wanted to make certain that we followed our rules and make certain that people didn't smoke in the park. Thank you. Other questions? We may have more for you later when you come back up for rebuttal, but let's give individual folks a chance to speak. Thank you for that.
 Thank you very much. Okay, so now individual supporters of the appellant. Just, Sue, why don't you start down the list, and if we've got you mislabeled as a supporter of the appeal and you oppose it, just wait, and we'll make sure we call you then. How many do we have signed up? We have about 30. Okay, again, two minutes each. And, Commissioner Fritz, I'll let you run this part of the agenda, please. And the first three are Leah Flynn. Luke Zimmerman.
 Vivian McPete and last name Bealum, B-E-A-L-U-M. Come on up. They'll be followed by Steve Wessing, Michael Baccarat, and Michael LeRiviere. You'll know your name. Thanks. Go ahead. Hello. My name is Luke Zimmerman. I'm an attorney. I've been practicing in the area for cannabis law for about the last two years.
 Last year was my first year attending Hempstock, and I have been attending cannabis events from San Bernardino up to Seattle. And I will say this was the most smoke-free event that I've ever attended. I was very impressed with how regulated and how controlled the event was. I think for the statements of saying that there was drug use surrounding the event outside in the park –
 For having walked downtown on any weekend night, I've seen open drug use in the city of Portland. That I don't think this was unique to this event, if that's what you're trying to target it as. I think that's a very unfair label. I found it to be actually a very family friendly event.
 I think this is a unique opportunity for Portland to embrace the changed laws that have occurred for the state. And I think this event, especially for this year, is really important for showing how Portland is embracing and accepting the paradigm shift that's going on in the state right now. I hope the city will issue this permit. Thank you. Okay, sir.
 My name is Vivian McPeak. I'm the executive director of Seattle Hemp Fest. I live at 6911 12th Avenue Northeast in Seattle, Washington. This is the 25th year of the Seattle Hemp Fest in Washington State. We get in excess of 100,000 people every day to our three-day annual special event.
 It is true that we worked with the city in the last couple of years to develop some 21 and over areas which were out of public view. People's IDs were checked. It had a fire retardant stuff on the fence that you couldn't see through. Anticipating that in the future of large public events in states that have legalized recreational marijuana that just like there are beer gardens at many events that adults go to consume alcohol.
 out of the hands of children that there would eventually be events with places set aside for adults to consume marijuana legally out of public view. You know, it just really feels to me, I've been to Hempstock many times, I've emceed the event several times, it feels like issue-based discrimination to some degree that
 I couldn't imagine a football game being denied a permit because somebody might be in the parking lot drinking beer. It seems like the same kind of justification. And if the organizers are clearly using their free speech, their time up on that stage, using that public land to get their political message out, it seems to me that you would need more of the anticipated misconduct of a small percentage of attendees to deny them that free speech. It seems like an overreach to me. Seattle Hemp Fest.
 Did work with a professor at the University of Washington last year for the 2014 event. And the economic impact study said that HempFest all in all in the greater King County area generated $7.1 million of economic impact in the area. It was responsible for about 154 jobs.
 in the area. So there's a lot of potential, especially with the kind of changing political landscape, a lot of potential for these large public events to give back to the community while certainly putting a laser focus on community values, which is very important. We certainly don't want children exposed to cannabis smoke, secondhand smoke, cigarette smoke either.
 I think there's every reason to believe that Hempstock can achieve that. Thank you. Thank you. A question, if I can, before we move on, and that is I haven't attended the Seattle HempFest either. Where is that event held? Is it in a park? Is it in some other venue? It's a great question. It's 1.5 miles long on the Seattle waterfront right under the Space Needle on three city parks that are conjoined on city park property. Okay. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Ungayo. I live in California, but I'm up here in Portland all the time, six to ten times a year as a performer and as a host of the Hempstalk for the past nine or ten years. I've got to say, I do a lot of events. I've been to the Hempfest, I've been to the Hempstalk, I've been to Boise, I've been to Madison, I've been to a lot of places.
 The Portland Hempstalk is really the one that goes out of their way to make sure that all the rules are followed. Like, I was surprised when I showed up and they were like, you can't bring marijuana to a Hempstalk. It's like you can't bring beer to Oktoberfest. I didn't really get it. But that's part of the permit, and people go out of their way to do that. And they informed us and reminded us to make sure everybody knew. New people are coming in. You've got to let them know the new rules. Everybody's coming in. And so...
 Think it would be great if you guys could see fit to approve This permit and we can continue to come up and all our friends can come up and we can spend money and eat your delicious Food and have your nice micro brews and coffees. Thank you Next three, please Steve Wessing Michael Baccarat Michael la Riviere followed by Victoria Harwood John Cornett and Judy Thank You counsel
 My name is Michael Beccara. I live at 1103 Southwest Ivory Loop. Our Hempstalk 2015 application for the 11th annual event was denied on November 5, 2014. I am asking for your decision to stand with us in our appeal. In solidarity with the ACLU of Oregon and in honor of the late great activists Jack Herrer and Larry L.K. Kirk,
 After whom the Hempstock Memorial Stages are named after, I am asking for our freedom of speech rights to be honored and that the city issue the permit to peacefully assemble for the annual Portland Hempstock Festival.
 Hempstalk worked diligently with a sustainable program at PSU to ensure a clean atmosphere. We had on map and on site over 70 garbage locations complete with recycling throughout the entire park. We left the entire park cleaner than we found it. We even cleaned hypodermic needles. Thank you.
 Our festival takes safety seriously and worked hard to comply with everything that had been addressed. Again, TAC-1 handled the crowd management. Per the contract, they did what they were hired to do. The Portland police were aware of the protocol in place to report any illegal activities. They did not do so to us. They were to be working with the security company. We were demoted.
 As for safety, we hired Ron Forbes and Event Medical Services, the same team used as Blues Fest. They were on site the entire event. They can verify and summarize there was not an abundance of issues, and the event was, in fact, a success.
 In 2015, during the Buddy Guy and Greg Allman Blues Fest performance, hundreds of people were observed smoking publicly. Some security members would ask people to stop. However, most did nothing. This was not protocol. My question is, how many photos would need to be submitted to have Blues Fest, Music Fest, or Beer Fest shut down for the use of cannabis? Thank you for your testimony. Okay. My name is Michael. Hello.
 la revere and i'm an activist for the rights for hemp stock as well as used for marijuana for recreational use and i believe we should have hemp stock this year because um following the lead learning from seattle from the hemp fest in seattle this month we can learn a lot from the hemp fest according to seattle so so we i believe we should have hemp stock this year and when um
 I believe within city limits or, okay. And my other question is, or sorry, my other advocate is it's safer than alcohol. Marijuana is absolutely safer than alcohol. I am a daily user, daily user, and I believe, yeah, okay. And I'll pass it on. Thank you. Yep. Okay.
 Mr. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Steve Wessing. I'm an OMMP patient. I have been a volunteer stage manager for Hempstock since its inception in 2005. I've provided you with a copy of my statement. If it goes a little long, you can read it later.
 Let me begin by saying that I was once proud to live in Portland. I believed that the police and the city departments were honorable in working in the interest of the citizens. In recent years, I've lost that pride. In past years, the city was helpful and worked in good faith to set reasonable limits and to assist us in providing a safe and enjoyable venue for our free speech event. When the current administration took office, that changed dramatically.
 This is Portland. 72% of our neighbors approved legalization of cannabis. Yet, as the public and the law have become more tolerant of cannabis, our police and department, our parks department policies have become less tolerant. This is no longer the city I used to love.
 You pretend to embrace equality, yet you treat us unequally. You allow commercial alcohol events by the dozens where alcohol use is encouraged and celebrated, but you obstruct a free speech event with a 10-year history of successful growth and massive local support because you disagree with our message. It is my opinion that these actions are a violation of our rights under the United States Constitution."
 In 2014, we complied with your unreasonable restrictions in an attempt to convince you of our sincere intent to provide a safe event, even to the point of allowing you to influence the content of our speech. Our efforts toward cooperation were met with continued confrontational behavior by Portland police, who interfered repeatedly with our stage operations and false accusations.
 accusations that we ignored your illegal restrictions of our speech and allowed public consumption of cannabis. By these actions, you have abridged the rights of dozens of dedicated volunteers who have acted in good faith to navigate your impossible restrictions, hundreds of performers and speakers, and thousands of participants. We do have the rest of your testimony in writing. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Just a question, though, if I might. Yes. Yes.
 This is an interesting hearing already in that we're hearing pretty disparate views of the same event from city staff and the folks that were testifying. We'll continue and we'll learn more. And, again, I'm sorry that I wasn't in town because I would have liked to have seen this myself because it's always better to have your own eyes on a situation like this. So in the future I'll do that. But, yeah.
 Tell me more about the police bureau because you talked about them interfering with stage operations. Yes, we had an agreement that our stage crew and volunteers who were wearing visible passes would be able to use the entrance adjacent to the stage for, you know, to bring the bands in, to bring equipment in, to get speakers to and from the stage.
 We were told halfway through the event that we were no longer allowed to do that, that we had to send all of our equipment and people all the way around through the main front entrance, that they would no longer be able to enter through the stage, even if they were wearing our identification. And they sprung this on us halfway through the second day.
 the event that to me is there's no purpose to it there was there wasn't a large crowd to be controlled there was no reason to do it except to be obstructionist and try and disrupt our event okay thank you thank you and the next three Victoria Harwood John Cornett Judy Cornett they'll be followed by Justin Bridges Scott Gordon Nikki Gatos
 Victoria? Oh, me. Yeah, Mayor Hales. He's gone. Where'd he go? He's gone. He'll be back. Huh? He'll be back? I wanted to speak to him. Anyway, and committee members, my name is Victoria Hagwood, and I've volunteered for over 10 years for HempSTOT, and I'm here to ... I was there last year, too. I saw both days, everything that went on.
 I'm in due to support of hemp stock. The city sets rules and regulations that must be met to obtain a permit. I'm here to testify that Paul Stanford has always done the best to comply with those requests. Therefore, I feel the city of Portland is being unfair to hemp stock.
 That's all I have to say for now. Thank you for listening. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm Judy Cornett. I live in Forest Grove. I'm one of the people in this room that looks a whole lot more like you, and I have a background much more like yours as a businesswoman. I did not come to cannabis easily late in life, but out of medical necessity. Last year, I worked part-time as a volunteer at Hamstock.
 The efforts that were made to comply with the outrageous rules that were set for this event
 We're paramount. Everybody chipped in. Nobody smoking. Nobody using. Everybody talking about it. Everywhere. I worked the northeast gate for the park entrance, for the main park entrance at the beginning of the event when people were trying to pour in when they normally would have, when we had the security taking everything away from people. Cigarette lighters? You're not allowed to have a cigarette lighter? This is illegal.
 You know, I'm not the person that puts on the event, and I'm not an attorney. And so I feel a little bit freer to say things than they might not, not that I'm speaking for anyone. But as a businesswoman, as an entrepreneur for a number of years, you know, I had a lot of occasion to learn something about business law and to have to look at the variety of people, the variety of my employees in a different way.
 This is an informational event. This is about learning. This is also about freedom of speech. And what I saw, what I experienced was a gargantuan effort that prevented, from what I saw, any smoking or drug use. I did not see any. What I was a party to was...
 I don't know, hundreds of people turning away from the event. Number one, because they got held up so long at security trying to get into it. And number two, being so offended and in some cases having medical patients having their prescription drugs taken away from them. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon, Honorable Commissioners. My name is John William Cornett, and I am a street-level activist and advocate. Did you guys know that cannabis heals cancer?
 This is cutting into his time. I'm sorry. I just think it's important for people to know the reason I'm an activist. I'm a USAF veteran, Vietnam era veteran. I spent eight years in the United States Air Force, honorably. And I know how to obey rules. I know how to follow policies and procedures. I know how to be a good citizen. And I know how to be an advocate to help people. I care about people. Every person in here is a real human being today.
 We care about people. That's why we're putting so much of ourselves into this to let people know that there's healing here. This is not about getting high. Some people are stuck on stupid, and they think it's about getting high. It's not about getting high. It's about getting well. And we're just trying to share that information with people so that they know they don't have to go kill themselves with chemo and radiation. They can use cannabis. 60 grams in 90 days heals most serious cancers. Okay? Okay?
 That's my message. I'm a musician, too. I like to tell people that. And if you're going to take that opportunity away from me, that's going to hurt. And I think there's somebody up above here that's going to think about that, too. And he might want to ask you a question about what kind of heart you have that you would say that people who are real human beings can't carry a message of healing to our fellow humans, please. Just because some idiot down the road or Hawthorne Bridge. Really? Come on now.
 Why did they even say that? Waste my time in this important meeting. This is a beautiful place with people thinking and speaking positive and real things about what we need to survive and coexist. This is not right. It's not fair. I beg you, please, to consider approving this for us. We need it, please. Thank you very much. Humanity needs it. Thank you very much. Oregon needs it. Thank you. Next are Justin Bridges, Scott Gordon, Nikki Gates.
 Followed by Eric Llewellyn, Don Skakey, and Jesse Sponberg. My name is Justin James Bridges. I'm a professional musician and performer at Hempstock. Also an activist. I've also been involved in the organizing and planning of the event. I was one of the personal musicians that was on stage telling people they weren't allowed to smoke at the event. I've walked around in this town and seen, on other days, and seen that park full of people smoking.
 seeing police in that park with people smoking, and they do nothing. If it's really a public safety issue, they would be doing things. When you have brew fest, you have fights that break out. There's been muggings. People, it's a violent, violence comes from that event. Violence comes from the alcohol events. Y'all do nothing to stop that. Y'all have no problems allowing those events to go on. It's really, it's really disgusting to sit here and hear some of the things that they're saying. So, yeah.
 You're saying that we have a permanent area and now we're in charge of securing outside of that area as well, whereas no other event has to do that. You're not going to shut down Blues Fest or Brew Fest for people smoking outside of their event. There was nobody smoking in our event. And you want to talk about failures? Look about the failure of this police department. Y'all were supposed to be securing the property. We were paying to have y'all help secure the property and watch the property overnight. Right?
 And yet they left their post. And what happened? A bunch of our vendors got robbed. It's absolutely disgusting to hear y'all talk about public safety issues when your police force is so laughable. Honestly, you have someone trying to put Nazi memorabilia as a police force. I'm sorry. Thank you for your testimony. You need to stick to the topic. That's fine. I think your time is up. Thank you very much. It's absolutely laughable. Hello. Hello.
 Mayor Hales and the council, this is my second year doing this with you folks. I'm Nikki, and I'm the hospitality manager for Hempstock. I have been since 2009. They created the position for me. They couldn't figure out what I was, so I guess that's what I was, so that's what they named me. I am also a patient here in the state.
 for numerous reasons, and I'll keep those private to myself, thank you. But I was born and raised here in Oregon by a golf pro mother and a stepfather that was a judge, the Honorable Jerry K. McAllister, that is deceased now.
 They raised me to be very respectful, to mean what I say, say what I mean, and do what I mean, and do what I say. So as those things growing up here in Portland, I was very disheartened by showing up there after 27 days in the hospital.
 because of diverticulitis and major surgeries to get me out for the last day of hemstock so I could speak and at least be part of it. When I got there, I had to release my Gatorade six different times and get new ones. And for a person that just comes out of the hospital, that can be detrimental to you when you're being pushed around in a wheelchair all day long. You can't have dehydration.
 And so taking those from me with my badges that I've worn since 2009, it's not a very respectful thing to do to somebody in my state on that day. And I thought that that was very inappropriate, and I talked about it on stage.
 I'm a mother and a grandmother, like I said last year. I take my children with me. I take my grandchildren with me. I do not take them to this event to smoke. I take them to this event so they can be educated by freedom of speech. It's their right as humans in this world to be educated by other things and a wide array of things. We give our children goals and standards.
 I give my children high goals. They try to meet them the best they can. But I never give them standards like the ones that this city has given Mr. Stanford and all of us to meet. There's no possible way we can do that. And I thank you all so very, very much for your time. Thank you. Next, please come up. Eric Llewellyn, Don Skakey, Jesse Spomberg. Is Courtney Marar? Oh, Jesse's. Good.
 How y'all doing today? My name is Eric Llewellyn. I was a Hempstock patron for four or five years and then within the past two years I started volunteering my services and helping out and I am the volunteer coordinator for Hempstock. We coordinate about 200 staffing members to run gates, water distribution and everything for all of our staffing members that we have. There were no
 with any smoking on the facility grounds. We had everybody looking out with radios, for if there were anybody caught, we would all be there to remove them from the grounds without any complications. Now, to say that we are reliable to...
 take on the grounds around what we took on. That's like saying if somebody got drunk at Brewfest and they go to another town and they do something stupid, Brewfest is responsible for that. We handled our rights inside the grounds where we were at. No complications. Any smoking, even cigarettes were lit, and we would see that smoke, and we would...
 not necessarily a pack of wolves, but all of our crew would go to those cigarette smokers and say this can't be happening either because of the thought of what if it was marijuana. Well, there's no smoking period. So that came up many times. I'd just like to say that I hope you guys change the process and allow us to do hemp stock this year. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Don Skake. I'm a cannabis reform activist. I'd like you to think about freedom.
 free speech, personal responsibility, and the ability of any individual to control the actions of another and how far that responsibility goes. In fact, that is why we have law enforcement and police department is to enforce the laws that we all pass as a society to live under.
 At this event, I had a signature gathering for a petition in Washington State. We got quite a few people from Vancouver area, southwestern Washington, come down to this event. In previous years, we've done substantially higher numbers of signatures than we did at this event last year. The booth space was at the north end by the gate, right literally adjacent to the gate.
 And I could not believe what I was seeing. It was, they were taking people's lighters away, sealed bottles of water. Just, you couldn't bring anything into the park. And as has been previously said, this intense focus on each person and what they were possessing caused quite a backup and was quite discouraging to other people. I'm disappointed to hear that the law enforcement that was in place that day
 seemed to relegate their responsibilities to either the event staff. You know, we've heard about, well, we saw this go on. Was any warning given? I mean, did they go, the Parks Department, I believe, said they were there for positive presence. Did they go engage these people and say, hey, I'm glad you're having a good time at the event, but this isn't allowed, would you please not do that? Did they have serious offenses there? No.
 And as you said, Mayor, did they have complaints from the citizens, neighboring businesses, passers-by? What were the complaints specifically? So I would ask that you do give yourself the opportunity to attend HenFest this year, Mayor, and see for yourself. I would ask that whatever rules are put in place for this event,
 It should be a blanket policy for every event, whether it's a veg fest or a beer fest or a health fest. Thank you very much. Appreciate your testimony. Thank you. Hey, guys. My name is Jesse Spomberg. And this feels kind of weird today because usually I show up mad at you guys. But today I show up full of hope.
 We're in a brave new world right now where we are setting the groundwork for legislation and policy that will affect people for years after you guys are gone. This is an opportunity to really craft sensible legislation that other municipalities can adopt.
 Right. You guys, not you guys particularly, but the parks department, you OK, you guys are smart enough to see when somebody's testimonies is sincere and polite as these people's here. And you can see when some testimony is really flimsy and transparent and when people are shaking, when they're talking about the evil weed. Right. You guys know these people are so sincere. I love you guys so much.
 And I'm sorry that you are all patients and that you rely on this medicine that needs to be advertised. You know, you're a nurse. You know that cancer is horrible. What I want from you guys is not to make it hard, not to make it so that the smallest offenses, like sneaking candy into a theater, will get something shut down. I want you guys to take ownership with us. Don't work against us.
 You should be running this, Mayor. You should be running this, Commissioner Fish. Why are we working against the Parks Department? We have wonderful, wonderful park rangers. Those guys do such a great job. And our only offense is smoking some pot? That's like shutting down a theater because somebody snuck in their own soda pop. Please, I ask you guys, take a leadership role. It's an election year.
 You know, the marijuana community is a big constituency. We see in other cities or in other states like Washington and Colorado how much money is made. You guys don't want to turn away from that money. That's just simply bad business. Thank you guys so much for your time. Thank you. We are reasonable, rational, and mainstream. Next I have Courtney Marar, Sean Vassar. Paul Lonnie is on the list. I believe you've already spoken. Yes.
 Yes, you did. And then it would be Mary Haddock. Hi, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. I'm Courtney Moran and I am a cannabis attorney. I have a Master of Laws in Environmental Natural Resources Law with an emphasis in industrial hemp law from Lewis and Clark. And I speak at cannabis conferences throughout the country. And HempStock is truly a unique community event.
 Not only does this event bring people from all over Oregon together and from the Pacific Northwest together, but it is not an event that focuses only on marijuana, but it focuses on the cannabis genus and industrial hemp as well. I was one of the first speakers at the event last year, and I spoke about industrial hemp history and the current status of the laws and how the laws are changing throughout the country and on the federal level. And I think it's very important for all of us to have a safe place and for the public to have a safe place to come to learn about cannabis.
 I can honestly tell you that I did not see anyone smoking cannabis at the event last year. There was very strict security as has already been mentioned. I got my bag checked twice when I went through each level of the gates when I was there. And I saw everyone that actually did come into the festival being very cooperative with security. And it was a peaceful event. You know, one booth even had a scavenger hunt encouraging the community to come together and to meet one another.
 This event is an excellent union between marijuana and industrial hemp. There were booths that had industrial hemp products for sale, including clothing and shoes and different bags, like purses, that kind of stuff. So I urge you to please approve the permit for this year's Hemp Stock. This is a very important, peaceful, educational family event that we need to continue to have here in Portland. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Sean. I run a nonprofit called Pangea. I'm a member of EPAP, which I believe some of the commissioners are also involved in.
 I have a real simple message. It's about community, and I believe this brings many different communities together and gives them an opportunity to cross-pollinate. Also, the economy. I believe that it's a strong move for the Portland economy, and our summers benefit largely from big events, and this event is growing, and we'll only add to it.
 Hi, Commissioners. My name is Mary Haddock. I am a cannabis business owner. I am also the coordinator for the State of Oregon Parents for Pot Chapter. I, as a mother, I was also part of the core staff of Hempstock last year. As someone who ran from one gate to the other gate, from one end of the park to the other end of the park, I would say possibly a thousand times over the event period last year. I was checked numerous times without even having a bag.
 It was the very first time that I had ever been to Hempstock, so I couldn't compare it to anything else except for the stories that I've heard. It was confusing for the staff. We weren't treated at all with any kind of care of our feelings, of anything we were talked down to, we were talked at instead of with. Nobody was working with us.
 As part of the medical team, it was extremely confusing for me. I'd get called from one end of the park to the other end of the park, and there would be nothing there. And then I would be told by security that it was a mistake, that there was an error, that they didn't mean to call me. I can tell you that it was extremely, extremely confusing.
 for anybody who was core staff last year, anybody who was trying to make that and comply with everything that was put in front of us. It was extremely hard for us to even appear to do our jobs and appear to work with the security that was there. And that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you all. And next we have Clay Pierce, Aaron Purchase, Astarte Rainbow, followed by Bruce Knight and Danelle Malloy. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I can only echo the sentiments of all the other people here that have come up and said. Just give us your name first. I'm sorry. My name is Clay Pierce. I'm an activist for cannabis and hemp regulation and reintroduction into the society of ours so that we can all profit from this.
 I have been at every hemp stock event since the first one we had in 2005. And this last year was absolutely the most trying and difficult one I've ever been to. I was only there for about 20 minutes. I was checked twice. On the way in, I was checked twice. And I was checked at the halfway point between the two. And I felt like I was in Germany at Checkpoint Charlie. It was insane. We were already inside the event, and we're still being checked for contraband or just whatever. Like Paul said, for cigarette lighters and cigarettes.
 pipes that we had bought at the other part of the venue. It was ludicrous. It made no sense at all for the people to even go there because they were having their items taken from them as they bought them. So why would they go there? It was completely prejudicial on the securities of person to treat us that way. It was crazy. I could not stand it. I had to leave. I appreciate the time to talk. I'm too upset to even form my words properly. It was a very trying event. Thank you.
 to try to enjoy it. Thank you for your testimony. Hi, my name is Erin Purchase. Thank you for having me here today. I am an internationally known cannabis activist. I have spoken at several cannabis festivals throughout the United States and also Canada. I visited Toronto last year and was invited to speak there. I love the Hempstock because it's in my home state. I do a lot of work outside of even our country.
 But this is cool, because this is where I'm from. I'm speaking on behalf of myself and my 10-year-old daughter, brave Michaela Comstock. This will be her third year speaking at Hempstock. When she was seven years old, she was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia here in Portland.
 Cannabis oil was able to allow her to go through two and a half years of chemo without a single Tylenol and minimal extra treatments from the doctors. Her oncologist at Legacy Emanuel referred to her as the star patient and they send kids to Paul Stanford's clinic to get their CARTS.
 Mckayla loves speaking at HEMS talk. When I told her I was here this morning to have to, or here this afternoon to speak on behalf of begging the city to allow it to come, she was confused on why. Why again is she being discriminated against based on the medicine she uses? She's a child. She's who you're worried about it being out of the hands of. I educate parents on cannabis oil, taking medicine in capsules.
 I help them get their children on the legal Oregon medical marijuana program. This is what I talk about at this festival. I got my lighter taken right out of my purse from security. That's the only festival I've ever had that happen to.
 I didn't see many people smoking. I didn't even see many people there last year compared to every other year. And that's detrimental to the city of Portland because I used to travel here from eastern Oregon to visit this festival and spend my money here in your city. And I want other people to spend their money here too. Thank you for having me here today. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Estarte Rainbow and I'm here to speak on two things. Number one, next year I'm hoping to bring my great-granddaughter to the festival, so you know I'm no spring chicken. But I came off of opioids with, personally, with Paul's help to get me through the loops to do it legally.
 I don't have to use them anymore. My health is improving dramatically. And also, I'm a big hemp fan. I don't know if any of you have gotten any, but those hemp clothes last forever. I would like to see this continue because people need to understand marijuana, cannabis, whatever you want to call it, is not an evil. It's going to be legal in another month and a half.
 Hemp is such an important industry. Oregon has always been green. We can use hemp to replace so many wood products and things like that and to save lives. Hemp is, of course, a high-protein seed. It's wonderful. I don't understand why you're doing this. I went to Waterfront Blues Festival. There were people right outside the fence shooting up drugs. Yes.
 Yeah, there were people outside the fence getting drunk. You never talked about shutting them down. Why? This is prejudicial. I can only, and I've never been to HempFest. I'm going to go this year. I'm taking my great grandkid. God is willing and you let us have it. It just seems that you're picking on him, and he has done more good for medical patients in this state than any other individual human being.
 You guys need to be real. It's going to be legal. What are you going to do? Thank you. Thanks very much. And the last two are Bruce Knight and Danelle Malloy. And if there's anybody else wanting to testify who didn't sign up, you're welcome to come and join. Yeah. I am Bruce Alexander Knight. I live in southeast Portland. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, there is a reason why so many people call our city Potland, Oregon, along with it.
 Oh, I'm sure quite a few other people. I moved here in part because of Oregon's more liberal marijuana laws. This was in the 1970s after six years in the U.S. Army. I've been here pretty much ever since and intend to stay here the rest of my life. As I understand what this hearing about is, the Park Department has denied a permit for the next hemp stock because they say that Mr. Stanford and his staff did not comply with their conditions –
 And that would include rampant use of marijuana, in quotes, and, quote, failure to prevent illegal drug use. Well, I'll tell you something. The Pope could talk in Waterfront Park, and there'd be people in the crowd smoking reefers. You are never going to prevent all of it. I went to Hempstock this year for the first time, and I was frankly surprised. I saw no one smoking anything. Well, except when I left the park to go up on the overpass to have a cigarette and, uh...
 There were some other tobacco smokers up there, along with several Portland police, who apparently had nothing better to do than to stare down at the crowd. I don't know what they were enforcing. They didn't do anything. Maybe they were taking pictures. Seems to me these conditions are impossible to meet, and it's unfair to hold anyone accountable to impossible conditions. Get real, folks. Give them the permit. Overturn the Park Department's ruling. Thanks. Thank you.
 Hi, my name's Stenelle Malloy, better known in the community as Pixie Pan. I'm a patient activist.
 and a mom and a member of Parents for Portland chapter. I take my son every single year. He'll be four in November. This year I only took him on the second day for the, I think he was there an hour, so I could perform in my show and move on. It was too, we use the word in the community, sketchy. It was too weird. All the checkpoints that he had to go through for a three-year-old is quite overwhelming, and I'm in and out of all the gates.
 behind stage everywhere all day long and with my son it just would have been crazy in and out they checked a 12 year old's lunch that he got from craft services a 12 year old's lunch for illegal drugs he's 12 his parents were right there and it came from craft services so he shouldn't have been checked again the second time to get back to where his family was
 I hope this year that you do grant us the permit and that it is a lot more family friendly on the part of the Portland Police and the security measures that were put out there this year. Thank you. Hi, my name is Scott Hall. I'm a very dedicated volunteer at both Hempstock and HempFest in Seattle. I just want to come and ask you, please grant us this. As a dedicated volunteer, I promise to do my part to follow the rules and the regulations that it's going to take.
 I know that all of our volunteer staff is right with me. We need this. A lot of the volunteers that have come and helped, they don't have anything else going in their lives. They get this one week at HempFest or three or four days here. It changes them sometimes. The city needs it. It helps everybody involved. Thank you.
 Hi, Mayor and members of the committee. My name is Mitchell Goldman, and I just have a quick thing to say. You were talking about Waterfront Park and what goes on there. If you go to Waterfront Park any day of the week, you're going to see everything that you're accusing us of.
 A couple of months ago, a friend of mine and his girlfriend were in the park and sat down at a bench there. And were approached by some drug dealers in the bench that told them that was their bench. They needed to get up and move. And repeatedly got attacked by skateboards. His girlfriend got knocked out cold by a skateboard, got hit in the back of the head with it. He was up there defending against four or five different guys that were attacking him because that was their drug dealing bench. So where are your police taking care of that?
 I'd like to know that. I mean, that's an everyday occurrence. That isn't something that's a weekend thing that HempFest creates. That's an ongoing problem that you people need to address, and you can't blame us for that. That's an existing problem that existed way before Hempstock. It will probably exist way after Hempstock. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I've never done one of these, so bear with me. I'm on active chemotherapy also, and two grams of full whole plant cannabis oil, however anybody wants to pronounce it. But I'm here today because of that. What's your name, though?
 Oh, I'm sorry, Stacey Marie George, and I moved here in February of this year from Melbourne, Florida, 3,700 miles for your wonderful medical program. I am alive today because of your cannabis medical program. I am a direct result. I have a 9-year-old daughter that lives in my home full-time.
 I make my own medication every morning to keep me alive with the chemo. My daughter is not infected by it. She's not affected by it. I bring her to cannabis-inspired events around. She has not blown smoke in her face. She is not partaking of cannabis. I want her to be able to go to an event like Hempstock because everything I believe in is represented at that event.
 the education alone for hemp, industrial use, medical alone. I not only juice cannabis, I eat a clean, pure, organic diet as much as possible. I represent what I believe in, medical, modern, and homeopathic. I believe the two can work together. Unfortunately, I could not rapidly cure my cancer with cannabis. I had to go on chemotherapy as well.
 But I am one of the prominent examples of the patients in this community who will get out and who will speak about the realistic implications of what we're asking. A family-friendly community.
 event that can be realistically monitored to allow people to come together for what they believe in and pass on the education to people who do not have it. I believe that's what everybody is here for today. At least I am. I thank you so much, every single one of you, that I have not had the pleasure of meeting and all of the work you have done in the great state of Oregon. Thank you for allowing a place for me to come and live with my children. Thank you so much. Thank you. We're glad you're here.
 Come on up, and then I think we'll also call to see if there are anyone here that wants to speak on the opposite side. But I'll give you the chance first, please. My name is Jennifer Valley. I live in Happy Valley. And I think what we want here really is just equal protection under the law. We want to be able to peaceably assemble and exercise our right to free speech without unwarranted searches of our persons and papers and belongings.
 I went to the Hempstock last year. As a member of a third-generation military family that's left their blood in the mud for our Constitution for the last three generations, I was deeply offended at having my bag searched over and over, the level of security that we were—it looked like Nazi Germany. It was out of control. And I cannot believe that this is where we are.
 Now that marijuana is legal, we're going to go back and be so far from what we practiced before marijuana became legal. Because let me tell you, marijuana was legal for 40 years, and you didn't stop me from smoking any place I wanted to, any time I wanted to. Right.
 It's time for change. We've had enough of this war on drugs, which has done nothing but destroyed our country, turned us into the number one incarceration nation in the country. It's a devastating racial inequality. 70% of the people arrested for marijuana in Oregon are young black men or young men of color, and the other 30% are poor white men. It's used as a...
 a tool of oppression, and it's time to remove that tool of oppression and allow us, citizens of this country, to have the same civil rights as every other citizen of this country without having someone yell marijuana and suddenly none of the rules apply. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Let's move to, is there anyone here who wants to speak in opposition to the appeal?
 individual speakers all right then it now comes to the point where we need to bring the parks bureau back up for closing statements and further counsel questions I think I'd also like to call the police bureau back up in a minute but let's hear from the parks bureau first so I wanted to specifically address two things specifically regarding the question of the perimeter and the event area
 I believe you've been handed maps of the actual event area that is in the permit. And within the security plan, which is officially a part of their permit, and on page 8 of the security plan at the bottom, we describe in detail the event perimeter and what must the event do to manage it. Would you like me to read that? No, I see it.
 Page 8. So is this boilerplate language that typically appears in event permits? This is very similar, yes. How similar? If I were to say it was boilerplate, we have had similar, but this is not out of the norm of any event that we have.
 The only reason why I'm not saying it's not boilerplate is because I have not spent any time staring at multiple others before this event. Okay. Okay, so I'm sorry, continue. Yeah. So this specifically details how we want you to address where your event impacts within park property. It clearly defines roaming.
 It defines where the security guards for your event, which you hire, which you contract with, to maintain your event. It's clearly not within a restrictive fence. It is clearly the entirety of the park space, which is defined in that map quite clearly. The other issue that I wanted to point to...
 was that there were multiple individual sightings, visual observations of activity, not only outside, which we have defined, but also within the event. And those are by the actual officers that were on site, and we have them here with us today, and we have their documentation and their observations. I'd like to turn this over to them. Heidi. Thank you.
 Sure, that would be helpful. Good afternoon. I'll have Officer Payton testify. She is to be across the street also. Okay. So about her observations at the event. And do we have documentation? Because what I have in the record is from the 2014, a 13 event. So for whatever reason, what appeared in my packet for this hearing is the police record from the 2013 event. There are two. There's one at the very beginning as well.
 We kept the entire history of both years so you could have some continuity of the observations and the continuance and the consistency of the issues that we had, both in 2013 as well as in 2014. Okay. So why don't you detail a little more for us the number and type of incidents or problems that you encountered, give us a sense. Again, there's typically about 5,000 people involved.
 there at the peak of the event, how many incidents were you dealing with at the peak of attendance? All right. Mayor and city council members, I apologize. I have grand jury here in about 20 minutes, so I'm going to try to make this quick. We won't need you for 20 minutes. I apologize. So I was assigned to work clean clothes during the hemp festival. Okay.
 While walking into the interior, and I also work downtown, patrol officer, so while driving by, I would often have to roll my windows up during the festival because it smelled of marijuana, and I don't want to smell that in my car. And then sign is plainclothes, before I even walked into the interior, I could smell burning marijuana right away.
 And several times walking throughout for about an hour and a half, I could also pass by booths and smell a very small, strong smell of marijuana, not just your typical burning marijuana, but as if it was sitting there for some time. I smell that on a daily basis in parks and around downtown, too.
 Also, I was able to approach a group of people that were selling baked goods, loaf of bread, and cookies. And I was able to actually buy a loaf of bread and was offered cookies for buying the loaf of bread for about $5 in my report. And it specifically stated it had marijuana in the baked goods. I also watched a...
 a drug dogo down at one of the vendors.
 The vendor, one of the vendors of two vendors, was handing a baggie of marijuana to another person who was giving him cash. I approached that vendor and asked if I could also have, buy some marijuana. And he specifically said, well, technically we're not supposed to do that. And I said, well, I have some cash. And he exchanged cash and gave me a baggie of marijuana for the cash. Okay.
 Okay. Any further information about the scale of the problem?
 yes good morning or good afternoon um mr mayor and council members my name is dave mccorm police officer with the city of portland been so for about 18 years i've been around the block once or twice so i was assigned to hemstock as a uniform patrol officer with my partner officer mike bledsoe and our job essentially was to just maintain a presence within the uh the event um
 As we were patrolling on foot inside the perimeter of the event, we began to notice the constant whiff or odor or passing odor of marijuana. I contacted Sergeant Dobson, the person who couldn't be here today, and informed him of that, and he said, let's begin to document those on a more formal basis. So I actually took the event map,
 And I began to note we did any time that we smelled the strong odor, not a passing or just a whiff, but a strong odor of burning marijuana. And so over a period of about three hours, I documented 16 individual events, unique events within the perimeter.
 And I documented those on the map I have before me here. And those were, as I said again, strong odor. So we track it. We try to see if we can follow up. And of those 16 events, one particular individual was found. He was lighting a marijuana cigarette under a ball cap, kind of sitting down isolated by himself, easier to find than most because the crowd was moderately dense. And so we asked him, what's up? And so he surrendered the cigarette, and we asked him to leave the event.
 Thank you. Back to my earlier question, do we have any record of either 911 calls or non-emergency number calls from citizens or adjacent property owners during the event? I did make the call to the Bureau of Emergency Communications to research that information. That usually takes a little bit more time. She is researching it now. She is attempting. She'll email me that if she. Do you remember any calls coming in from dispatch based on 911 calls?
 As for myself, I was focused on the event, and so I wasn't listening to dispatch with regular 911 calls. I worked patrol during that time period, and we did receive calls. They were not 911 calls. Most were non-emergency calls. I don't remember how many, though. That was too long ago. I apologize. Okay. I have a few questions if I could. And I apologize if you've already put this in the record. Okay.
 I want to focus you on the most recent event. So were there any arrests during the event? I did not make an arrest. I was plainclothes. We don't make arrests as plainclothes. Folks, in the back, please. If you're testifying and people were hissing and making noise, the mayor would stop the proceeding and ask that you be treated with respect. So please let these folks do their job. It does not help us make an informed decision to have all the background commentary. Please, let's be respectful to everybody who has a voice in this.
 So I'm asking generally, were there any arrests during the last Hemp's Talk? I made no arrests. Any observation? Not specifically. So it's more helpful for me to know, did the police bureau document any arrests during the festival? Folks, please. All right, you can get back to us, but you don't know of any offhand, obviously. Where we're checking that fact, were there any calls from medical service that
 during the festival? Someone that had a medical emergency, excessive use of drugs, something to do with the weather, heat, or anything else. Were there any medical calls for service that were aware of? I don't know yet. Were there any citations for impaired driving in the immediate vicinity of the festival?
 Again, that would have to be something that I would have to research through the traffic division and traffic bureau to find that out, and I don't have specific information regarding that. Well, and the reason I'm asking these questions is that I'm looking at the code, and –
 To me, there's two parts of the code that we're going to get some instruction from council on and we have to make a judgment on, I think. This is my first hearing of this kind, so we're all learning as we go along. It's our second, actually. Huh? It's our second. We did this last year. Yeah. I mean, I said it's my first. I wasn't here for that one. So I'm trying to figure out where the goalposts are, what the rules are, and what evidence we're supposed to weigh. So the conditions...
 that are listed in the materials we have is that one of them is the proposed activity does not pose an unreasonable risk to public health or safety. That's a very specific standard. It doesn't say does not pose a risk to public health or safety. It says an unreasonable risk to health and safety. So in fairness, I want to ask you, what did you document at the event
 that you believe could constitute an unreasonable risk to public health or safety that we should consider as part of this appeal? Well, I believe based on what we have discussed earlier about the amount of marijuana just simply being consumed as walking through the park itself, that if you're just there as a consumer to be exercising or enjoying the park, that that could have an effect on you as well. As well as, like I said, the...
 documentation that we don't have as far as what happens after the event, leaving the event, driving, and so forth, the effect on your ability to drive. And in fairness, I think one of the things I'm learning about marijuana and driving, distracted driving, is technology hasn't really caught up. We don't have great tools to measure that the same way we do, let's say, with alcohol. I mean...
 I have a zero tolerance for impaired driving, but apparently with marijuana we don't have the same tools to evaluate it. It's not the same type of tool. You're correct. There isn't a machine that you can just blow into, but there is a separate process. The other question I was going to ask you is, in light of what you've observed and the recommendation you're making,
 Is there anything that you would recommend, if the council's inclination was to grant the appeal and allow this to go forward, are there any additional conditions which you think we should consider which would address any of the concerns you have about the behavior that you document? Other than what was stated before about it just being very difficult to be able to maintain the conditions of the council,
 The safety and security plan that they had agreed to before as far as non-consumption or distribution or sales of at the event it's not preventing anything about the message itself, it's just The concerns about all of the other stuff that surrounds it. I may have some more questions I think Dan wants to jump in on something here. Well, I was I mean you just said that you didn't really have any evidence at your fingertips about
 any off-site impaired driving or impaired behavior. And I guess I felt the proponents bring up a good point about the Blues Festival or Music Fest Northwest where you could make the same conclusion that people are leaving those events impaired. So why... I guess I feel like there is...
 somewhat of a double standard. Maybe it's not a double standard. I just think that Please, please. Whether you agree or disagree. I don't think it's a double standard, but somewhere along the line the proponents of this event and the city folks have gotten off on the wrong foot. It seems like it's time to sort of, especially in light of the action of the voters in November, to start off on the right foot on this event and reduce some of the animosity that seems to exist between
 this event and parks and law enforcement and security and parks and ranges. So I guess that's what I'm looking for is how do we sort of move on. And I feel that there is somewhat of a double standard being held here to the types of conditions we're imposing on this event versus the types of conditions we impose on the blues festivals or Music Fest Northwest. And not just conditions, I guess it's the enforcement of the conditions. Okay.
 Just the one comment that I have about that that was brought up earlier is that I have worked with these other vendors, Rose Festival, Brewer's Fest and so forth, and Blues Festival. And something that is different in regards to those events is specifically about alcohol and so forth is that there are alcohol monitors there.
 specifically for that to be verifying and checking for that. Security does address those issues when they come up immediately, and they bring it to our attention. When we notice something also that is taking a wrong turn as part of the conditions of their permit, we bring it to their attention and they address it immediately, which was not seen at this event. The challenge that I think we have, parks, is that
 We, as managers of the public trust, the property that is our park system, we have very strict guidelines that we are instructed to follow. And unfortunately, one of those, in this case, is that we follow and we make sure all our events follow state and federal city law. In the permit, that's the main thing which we point out,
 is that that's the standard we apply to every event, not just this event, every event. We may push harder on this event because we have 10 years of experience of trying very hard, working very hard. We have met with this group more than any... I think I can safely say this, more than any other event attempting...
 to solve the issues that reoccur. And the main issue is that you are not legally allowed to smoke and consume marijuana in a public facility, a public park. And I have to say, since this is my first hearing on this, I appreciate that we give you the direction to enforce the law. So I'm not here to quibble about that.
 I guess what I'm trying to figure out is what's the threshold above which there's enough violation of the conditions that I feel comfortable sustaining the decision you made. Let me give you an analogy. We know that in some events in Tom McCall Waterfront Park in the past, there's been significant gang violence.
 So one way we've addressed that is put a lot more uniform officers, a lot more security people. But there is still a chance that there is going to be some gang-related activity. It's just inevitable. We've never had a conversation about canceling the event or denying a permit because a illegal activity occurs during the event, and that would certainly
 if there was gang violence, and then the question would be, was it encouraged or condoned by the applicant, or is it something that happened during the event? So the two questions that I'm struggling with is, what's a critical mass of activity that constitutes an unreasonable risk to public health and safety, because that's what's in the code? And the second is, do we have sufficient evidence that this behavior that has been documented by our officers was encouraged and promoted by,
 by the organizers, or is there just, do we have to accept the fact that these kinds of events
 Certain kinds of things are going to happen which we can't regulate. I know that, for example, I've been to events where we discourage people from having alcohol, and we don't check every picnic basket, and we don't check every flask, and people sometimes sneak in a cigarette or a drink, and it's not technically allowed. So that's what I'm struggling with. And I understand you have a difficult job, and I appreciate that your job is to enforce the rules, and I appreciate that the police's job is to document what they believe are violations of the law.
 I think we have a different sort of test we have to apply here. I guess I would like to ask, you know, again, given the fact the law has changed, I mean, would you expect, you know, given the days after the event in late September of this year, people can walk into any liquor store and as long as they're 21, purchase marijuana legally, do you still think there would be any need for anybody to sale to you under the table, over the table?
 to sell edibles to you? Things that are now within days would be available legally? Do you think you'd see the same sort of illegal behavior that you witness? Actually, that's not what's going to happen, but eventually that will be the case that it will be able to. And I think the difference is the use of the substances in the parks.
 No, I understand, but there was mention of a sale. I mean, you executed a sale. Somebody bought an edible. I'm just saying, would there be any motivation by anybody to need to go to the hemp stock to get their supplies when they can get it legally? Right. Within days. Lots of other locations. Yeah.
 Well, that's speculation, so we'll let him off the hook, but I appreciate the point. Other questions for our staff resources here? Anything else that you want to add before we bring the appellant up for rebuttal? Nope. Okay. Stand by in case we have any other questions for you, but let's give the appellant a chance to come up and take five minutes if you need them for any rebuttal or closing points you'd like to make before the council discusses this. Come on up, please. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
 I think it's clear that there was an active attempt on our part to curtail the use of cannabis in this park. And we did everything in our power, as Mr. Llewellyn said, to identify marijuana smoking and to stop it. And I was at one time on Sunday afternoon, the last second day of the event, told there was a vendor who was selling marijuana.
 marijuana at his booth. I had no evidence of that, but I was told that, and based on that report, I immediately said, eject that person from the park, and the security people went immediately to do that. But I also want to point out that we weren't in charge here. We were forced to hire a $12,000 manager of this, and Sean Rogers says he's not talking to us anymore.
 We don't know why. He said, we can't talk to him anymore. We have to hire this guy for $12,000. We're all volunteers, by the way, who are paying to play. And that he was in charge and that he was the one that the security people were responsible to, the hired security people. We were not. We were cut out of that loop. It was very clear that we could not do it.
 manage this event. We were told we couldn't, and so we had to hire these other people to do that. Even given that, our volunteers went out of our way to make certain that every person there knew they were not allowed to smoke marijuana or anything else, and that vendors, as you could see, the police said that we did nothing. The Parks Department, Mr. Rogers, not the friendly one with a sweater, who taught my kids, but I
 Mr. Rogers said that there was nothing that we did to inform people not to smoke in the park. You can see these signs right here in front of you. They said we didn't tell vendors not to sell marijuana. We gave you a pack of over 100 papers. Every single vendor signed an agreement that they would not sell or smoke marijuana in or around the park. We did patrol along the sidewalks outside. We were held to a standard that had never been held before.
 Mr. Rogers said he did not look over other permits. Well, we did. And no other permit that's ever safety plan, standard operating procedures that's ever been submitted to this city that was more stringent, more detailed than the one that we submitted. Also, events within that bowl had never before been required to fence off that fence area and stop people from going from one section of the park to the other section of the park.
 So we had two separate areas within our event that were completely separate and required separate security clearances and searches each time people passed from one part of the park to the other.
 You know, we didn't really want to go into the bowl anyway. It's not good for sick people to be in that bowl. It hurts my knees. I'm a disabled U.S. veteran based on knee injuries, and we'd rather be in the flat area of the park, a little bit farther down. That's our preference, where there aren't sidewalks between there.
 But we made every effort to comply. We did comply. I'm still dismayed at these statements that we did not comply, and I'll be happy to answer any of your questions. I have a couple of questions, sir, and appreciate your testimony. So I'm just looking through the record we have. Did you or the event organizers encourage or allow people to use controlled substances? No, sir. We discouraged and stopped people. Okay.
 There is a police report that documents, according to the report, rampant drug use, including use by minors. What is, as an organizer of the event, what is your position about...
 that allegation. Actually, Nick, be careful because there is a 2013 report in here that I read that had that in it, and I'm not sure if I saw a 2014 report that had that in it. You're right. I'm referring to the 2013. But I want to get, as an organizer...
 I want to understand his philosophy and commitment to the event. Fair enough. Certainly. We attempted to stop all smoking, whether tobacco, cannabis, or anything else within the park. And that's what our volunteers did. We approached people and told them they couldn't do that. And we announced it for the stage numerous times. You know, people come in and they leave. You don't always have the same group of people there. So we made statements four times an hour. Okay.
 And if there are some people that still aren't getting the message and are putting you at risk of losing your permit, what is a reasonable step that we should be taking to address that? We ejected them from the park. We asked them to leave. And do you draw a distinction between smoking cannabis or consuming an edible? We don't allow the sale of edibles. Edibles aren't produced in a...
 secure environment. We have no idea the cleanliness. So we discourage the sale of edibles even more strongly than we do the sale of cannabis because of the health risks concerning the production of food products. In the police report on page 4, it says in the second paragraph,
 I also told him that the announcement from the stage were encouraging people not to smoke marijuana inside the fences of the event, but to go just outside the fence.
 That's not true. We never said to go outside the fence. And, in fact, one of our volunteers told me that the security people that we had no control over had directed them to go outside the fence to smoke marijuana. So this volunteer of ours was told that he should go outside by the security people that we hired but could not supervise, that he should go outside the fence to smoke marijuana. But he didn't do that.
 So the police officer's lying in the report? It wasn't the, yes, yeah. And I think there are a lot of untruths spoken here today by the city representatives. I think all of our volunteers here are well aware of that. Further down on this page, it says that officers assigned to the detail kicked out 14 separate groups of individuals in the park between Salmon and Morrison Bridge for smoking marijuana. Those all just happened to be there.
 You know, I did not see that, and I can't speak to the veracity of it, but if we had seen it, we would have ejected them, and we did not see it.
 We will follow any rules you give us. We're good citizens. Our intent is to put on a peaceful public protest to teach people about hemp for fuel. I really believe that's the reason that marijuana, the whole marijuana myth was created, was because when we can grow hemp without regard to its THC level and we can grow it with regard to its most productive seed and fiber production capacities –
 And high THC produces 20 times more seed and more than twice as much fiber as low THC hemp does. When we can grow hemp without regard to its THC content, we will replace petroleum and change the economic and environmental paradigm that our whole world lives under. And that's our goal here, is to replace petroleum.
 appreciate that what we're talking about is whether or not you complied with the permit and last year when we had this discussion the parks of you after that the parks we have tried very hard and we appreciate that you have also tried very hard to comply with the permit and it's documented in several places that the permit was not complied with
 So that's the question before us today is whether or not you have the capability to comply with the permit. I understand that it's very difficult to get people to, for instance, stop smoking in parks. We have a blanket exemption. Prohibition. Prohibition, thank you, of smoking anything in parks now. We also have state law that says no marijuana consumption in public is allowed.
 So if we were to grant this permit, how would you envision those two rules being enforced at your next event?
 We do exactly what we did last year, which was make frequent announcements, put signs like this. We'd have our vendors guarantee, as we did in writing, that they would not sell marijuana if we found them in violation. We would evict them, as I did the one time it was brought to my attention. And as Mr. Llewellyn said, we looked for smoking. If we saw it, we approached them and told them to stop. And if they wouldn't, we told them to leave. And we'd do that again if so mandated.
 So we would expect to have sales of medibles? No, no, we would not allow that. Well, you did this year, so. Well, he. So this officer that testified here was lying? She said she was, I don't think that that's true. I don't think that's true. If they did, they should have arrested that person.
 I would have been 100% in favor of arresting the person that endangers our ability. We're setting up the marijuana rules that you are advocating for us to arrest people for marijuana offenses. If they're violating our right to have this event and endangering our event to educate people about hemp and cannabis, then we would ask the police to enforce the law that is being violated, certainly. Okay. Other questions for Mr. Stanford?
 i'm ready to move to discussion okay let's move to discussion thank you very much thank you sir commissioner fish yeah so um as i said this is the first time that i've participated i believe in a hearing on this issue and um uh one of the concerns i have mayored generally about this is just and something i'd like to take up with the council at a future date is um is
 whether this is the appropriate body to hear these appeals and whether there's a different process for hearing these appeals because I have some concerns about the whole proceeding. But let's go to the specific issue in front of us. I have the highest respect and regard for the city professionals who are involved in this process and who have been before us today.
 And I've had it as the former commissioner in charge of the Parks Bureau. I've worked with the permitting people. They're hardworking. They get usually very, very good grades from the community. And I have no reason to doubt the veracity of any police officer coming forward with documentation and testifying to what he or she observed. The concern that I have in this proceeding, Mayor, is, number one, I don't think the record before us is where it should be.
 and you pointed out that it has stale information from a prior year but i think a number of the questions that we asked uh of the folks before us they're not unreasonable questions to get information about and i'm i'm concerned that the record before us was um is frankly a little spotty and a little thin and and in some instances not clear to me so that's a concern and we are bound by the record and i again i don't think we asked unreasonable questions about
 activities and documentation. I think the context for me in evaluating this starts with the fact that at an event like this, we're talking about a gathering where the primary purpose is protected under the First Amendment.
 And in order to make sure that we never apply our rules in a way that infringes on First Amendment rights, I think we have to be very rigorous in terms of the application of our rules. So I take very seriously our duty to go through the test and make sure that we're clear that there is a factual basis to support the action taken by the Bureau. Okay.
 I am also, along with Dan, frankly, a little concerned that there might be some inconsistencies in how we enforce these rules. And I'm not saying that's intentional. It may also be just catching up with new realities, the new legal climate. There has been a significant change in the law. So for me.
 Personally, it comes down to a question of is there an unreasonable risk? Has there been documented before us an unreasonable risk to public health and safety? And I can't honestly say that this record convinces me that we're at that point. And then the second question we have to ask is have they failed to comply with the conditions? Yes.
 In addressing a failure to comply with the conditions, I think it's important to evaluate whether someone took reasonable efforts and precautions and there were still violations of the conditions or whether someone actively participated in undermining the reasonable conditions that were set.
 I am conflicted on that point because we've had compelling testimony on both sides, and I don't have a history with Mr. Stanford or the other folks that are involved here. I take people at their word when they testify. I think people are in good faith setting forth what they observed or what they believe happened. So at some point today we're going to have to make a decision, and I will tell you that
 Again, while I have the utmost respect for the team that brought this matter before us, I'm not persuaded that we have met the very specific conditions to uphold this, excuse me, to deny this appeal. And what I'm more inclined, as one commissioner, and I'm only one vote, what I'm more inclined to do is to grant the appeal.
 but have an agreement that have a discussion about putting in place additional protocols to document any violations that occur. And I would like to have those documented in a way that's more rigorous than the record before us, with a clear understanding by the organizers that this is the last time
 that we're sort of on a last chance agreement we we want you to be successful that the goal is for you and any other applicant to have a safe and peaceful event and to be successful in your event but that we have to have an understanding that that if this is allowed to go forward that we want to see some progress towards complying with the rules that we've established and i believe the rules that we've established are in fact the law of the land we're duty bound to enforce them particularly if they're minors at the event
 Let me expand a little bit and maybe affirm a couple things that you've said. You know, you raised the question of who should hear this appeal, and I think we've talked about that because we don't get to do very many appeals of parks permits, thank God. But, I mean, we don't. We get to hear contested case appeals. Some of you maybe haven't been through this process, but, you know, we went through this fairly quickly.
 choreographed process of appellant statements and rebuttal and all that, and that's because that's how the city council does contested case hearings, and we do them all the time for land use cases, and we used to do them all the time for liquor licenses, another blessing that we don't do those anymore. But there's a difference here, and that is, so therefore, actually, I think we should hear these appeals.
 And the reason we should is because in this case it's not the same kind of burden of proof as you have in a land use case. In a land use case, you have to prove that you've met the city's regulations. Well, obviously, we have permit conditions here, and those matter, and we want to make sure that they're complied with. But there are also big picture principles that are at work here in our decision, and I think, frankly, that's—
 We need to make sure our Parks Bureau is clear about those big picture principles. And one of them is that the parks system in Portland, I believe, should always have big shoulders. It should always try to accommodate lots of different kinds of recreational choices and community gatherings. It is, Mike Abate and I talk about this all the time, it is the public space.
 And we hold all kinds of events and activities, some of which I like and some of which I'm really happy to participate in, and others I don't really care about very much or don't even like. I don't particularly like carnival rides, but we have a whole bunch of them in the Waterfront Park during Rose Festival. And a bunch of people apparently really love carnival rides, so they come and enjoy those. But it's a big principle for us.
 that the park system ought to have big shoulders. Everything from bocce ball to soccer to, you know, all those recreation activities. And the same thing with community events. And in fact, when I was parks commissioner, we spent a whole bunch of money with the help of the Rose Festival Association to put a
 foot-deep sand base under Waterfront Park so we could beat it up again and again with thousands of people out there and then have the turf be able to recover quickly once it was reseeded and rewatered. And, again, that's a principle that we've tried to carry on. Well, that means there really should be a bias towards approval to the most reasonable extent possible.
 that if it's a legitimate community activity and it can work, we should try to make it work, rather than take that more strict regulatory approach. Let me say it a little differently. We also have a value of community over strict compliance. Yes.
 in lots of things that we do. When you think about it, I was transportation commissioner and got in some trouble because I went on a ride along with a group called Critical Mass that were trying to make the case that it should be legal to ride a bike on the street. And it wasn't quite as legal then as it is now. And so we valued community over strict compliance in that case and didn't arrest people because they were participating in Critical Mass.
 Maybe a more familiar example in recent days, it's actually not legal to ride your bike down the street naked. But we allow about 10,000 people to do it every year in the world naked bike ride, and the police bureau facilitates that even though it's technically not legal to do that.
 Now, that doesn't mean, again, don't misunderstand me. I'm not saying we should take a laissez-faire approach to permit conditions, including not allowing smoking, not allowing smoking marijuana in parks where neither is allowed. But, again, I think given the poor record that we have here documenting the scale of noncompliance by people attending this event,
 And the fact that we don't have any specific evidence that the organizers aided and abetted that noncompliance, it happened as it happens at other big community events. I don't think we have a good reason to deny this. Charlie, if I could just comment on the one point. Probably not. Hang on. Hang on. If I can just comment on the one point. When I expressed earlier to you and during this hearing a question about whether this should come to us.
 It's in part because it wasn't entirely clear what is coming to us. As you said, we have very prescriptive land use proceedings where the materials that come before us say, here's the legal standard, this is what it means, here's the evidence and the record, and it's very rigorous. I have found it much harder in this proceeding to understand what's before us, what's the standard, how that standard's been interpreted, what some of these words mean, and then what's the evidence, what's the...
 firm evidence in the record to support it. And so I'm happy to hear these things. I think this is a fascinating hearing. I think setting some clear expectations of what we want to come to council will be helpful for all the parties involved.
 Commissioner Fritz. I think it would be helpful to get the information that the Mayor asked for and that you asked for, Commissioner Fish. You asked for the 911 records and the calls to non-emergency. You asked for the incident reports from around the park. It would seem prudent before we get the go-ahead to an event which is being requested to happen in three weeks.
 that we find out what happened last year and that we get that determination. I would further point out that the council has not yet had a discussion of how we're going to manage use of marijuana in our city once it becomes legal. We have a big question about whether the police are going to enforce anything ever anywhere.
 Last year we had the... And maybe we're going to decide we haven't. We're not going to. But to have an event like this happening in three weeks without having that discussion seems a little imprudent to me. Last year the documentation is that four police were there on overtime. I...
 if it's a larger event this year and there may be more public expectation that indeed this is a place to come and use and buy. I think that gives significant challenges in terms of both park oversight and police oversight. I don't know if the organizers have already contracted with their $12,000 security manager this year. It seems like that would be...
 challenging to bring an event like this together in that amount of time. Commissioner Fritz, I appreciate what you just said. And I guess, again, it goes back to the question I have about this proceeding and our role. The questions that may remain open are answers to were there arrests, was there documented impaired driving, were there drug overdoses, these kinds of things.
 If the issue before us in this hearing is whether there's an unreasonable risk to public safety, I believe it's incumbent on the Bureau to present that evidence today. I mean, those are not – but those are central to us understanding whether there's an unreasonable risk. If –
 If the Bureau needs a few days to assemble that, and we still have an opportunity to rule on this, yay or nay, at a time when the organizers still have a go-no-go, I'm happy to receive that information. But I don't think that information –
 was irrelevant to this proceeding. The question is whether or not the permit was complied with. Last year, the discussion was whether or not Hempstall could provide a festival at which there would be no marijuana use. It's very clear that that didn't happen. And park staff did hear from the stage the admonition to not smoke within the festival and to go outside.
 OK. Well, Commissioner Saltzman, any other comments that you'd like to make before we see if we want to take a motion on this? I'm ready to make a motion to grant the appeal. OK. Is there a second? I'll second it. Any further discussion? Then we'll take a roll call vote on a motion to accept the appeal. I'm sorry, to grant the appeal and therefore overturn the parks bureau's denial of the permit. Saltzman.
 Well, in granting the appeal, I fully expect that the conditions that applied to the 2014 permit would be in effect for the 2015 event, that security and all that would be in place. I do think that with respect to any impetus to buy marijuana,
 at this event is soon to be history. There is no incentive or reason for people to buy illegally when they can buy it legally in a few days after the event. I do think that smoking is smoking, and
 You can go to the Blues Festival, you can go to Music Fest, you can go to Beer Fest, whatever. You'll find smoking going on there. And I think there's, you know, I think these sponsors, you know, I think everybody's acted in goodwill. I, you know, accept what the parks feel and the police have to say. I believe these people, too, though. I think they did take all efforts to try to eliminate smoking and marijuana. It's just not going to happen. And to set up a high bar and penalize only this event...
 for it not happening is an inconsistent, as I said earlier, sort of a double standard to me. So I think that while you could probably say that maybe the conditions of the 2014 event may have been violated, I think it's time to sort of let bygones be bygones, try to bring some goodwill between parks, hemp stock, and let's make this event work and work as well as it can for the public. And that's why I say let's give it another shot. All right. Go ahead.
 This is really making public policy on the fly. It is clear to me that the permit conditions were not complied with. That was the one chance to see if it could be done without the use of marijuana at the festival. That didn't happen.
 And I am really sorry for my park staff who are now going to be putting together an event at the same weekend as Dragon Boat Racing. And at the same time that we have rampant problems throughout our park system, in the North Park blocks, in Colonel Summers Park, in the East Portland Parks, where people are killing each other or certainly doing very dangerous behaviors, that to then be asked to dedicate resources to this event is...
 We'll have some interesting discussions over the next three weeks, Mayor, as to what the police are going to do to take care of illegal behavior because obviously our park staff are not – we don't have the capacity nor the authority to do that. No. Fish? Well, I appreciate this hearing and I appreciate the effort we're all putting into trying to find the right path forward.
 This is a very close call for me because I think there is evidence of the kind of conduct at this event which is inconsistent with the permit, and particularly if they're minors. And we've heard from a number of people that there are young people at this event. I think we have to bend over backwards to provide for the public health and safety. That said, I don't believe on the record before us I have a basis to sustain the action at the Bureau, so I'm going to vote to overturn the appeal.
 excuse me, to grant the appeal. So I'm going to support the motion to grant the appeal. But here's my plea to the organizers. This is not the first public hearing we've had on this. There's a lot of attention now on this event. And a number of organizers in the community have come forward and said, we are committed to running the event consistent with the city's rules and laws. And if the council decides
 decides to extend the privilege to you to hold this event, we expect you to honor the commitment that you have made in this hearing. And if, following this event, there is substantial evidence that is documented that the organizers, for whatever reason, have been unable to comply with the permit, it's going to be, I think, highly unlikely that this council decides
 acts favorably on the next time there is an appeal before us. So I urge you to go the extra mile to earn the trust that you have said that we can trust and to make sure this event is consistent with the rules that we've established and the expectations of the public in Portland. And I hope you take that very seriously because you're asking the council in this instance to take a little bit of a leap of faith.
 and you've made some very clear representations about your commitment to honoring the rules that the Parks Bureau has established. And I will grant this appeal with the clear understanding that we've established here today that you will do your utmost to comply with the conditions established by the city. Thank you.
 Well, thank you all, and thanks, Parks Bureau, for all the good work that you do in the community. Commissioner Fritz, under your leadership, this bureau is doing great things. I'm going to support this decision because, again, the park system ought to have big shoulders. It ought to accommodate lots of different activities and then hold people to reasonable standards for how those events are managed.
 And I think it's very important that our standards be consistent from one kind of event to another for what we expect in terms of public safety and the convenience of the public who may not be attending the event and other common sense criteria like that. And it sounds to me, and again, I didn't get a chance to go by this event myself last year. This year I will because it always helps to see it yourself.
 Sounds like this event was imperfect. Sounds like there were some people smoking marijuana there, even though the organizers were obviously consistently telling people not to do that. It sounds like there may have been some sales of marijuana or marijuana products at the event. That's not okay. And the organizers endeavored to not have that happen. That was imperfect. Some of it happened.
 I'm the police commissioner. I have not heard from the police bureau that there was a significant public safety risk posed by this event. I've heard no reports of 911 calls, no reports of medical emergencies, of somebody over consuming medibles for example, which is a concern that the police bureau is very worried about because people could do that and drive a motor vehicle and hurt somebody and I'm afraid that's going to become commonplace.
 But I'm not hearing that. I don't see any adjacent property owners in this room today saying, for God's sake, don't let this event come back because it was a terrible burden for the neighborhood. They're not here. So I have to assume from their absence that this was not a big problem for the neighboring property owners because they believe me, people show up when they have a complaint around here. Tonight's last Thursday.
 it will be imperfect. There will be laws broken at last Thursday. And we will have the police bureau there, and they will exercise good judgment and discretion. There are laws that we all need to make sure are strictly enforced, like you shouldn't have a gun and you shouldn't shoot at your fellow citizen. And that happened at a last Thursday. And yet last Thursday continues because it's a valid...
 public event and a much loved community gathering. So we have to exercise good judgment and a sense of scale and how big the problem is when we say yes and no to public activities, whether it's last Thursday or this one. So again, I know this was an imperfect hemp fest last year. It will probably still be imperfect this year, but we are going to hold you to a high standard. We are going to ask you to work.
 in cooperation with the Parks Bureau and the Police Bureau, and I'll make sure that is the police commissioner, and we'll ask them to work in cooperation with you so that this thing is a success. So we wish you well. We're holding you to high standards, and I'll come by myself and give it to Tim. Thank you very much, and we're adjourned.