Good morning everyone and welcome to the August 26th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Hales. Here. Morning everyone. We have five citizens signed up for communications. We'll take those first. And then we have our regular council calendar this morning. I have two requests to take things off of the consent calendar.
 Are there any other requests to remove items from the consent calendar besides 883 and 884? Okay, so we'll see if there are any others before we vote, but those are the two I have now.
 Excuse me. Welcome, everyone. We have, again, five citizens signed up. First for public communications, we'll take them in turn. They get three minutes each. We then have the regular agenda in front of us. If you're here to speak on one of those regular agenda items, just sign up on the sign-up sheet, and Sue will call you when we get to those.
 We typically allow three minutes per person if the calendar is not crowded, and that looks like the situation today. So if you're here to speak on one of those items, you need to only give your name unless you're a registered lobbyist, in which case you need to disclose that because it's required under the city's code.
 We typically maintain decorum. In fact, we try really hard to maintain decorum in this council chamber. So if you agree with someone and want to indicate that, please don't applaud or shout, but give them a thumbs up or a wave at the hand. And likewise, if you feel compelled to object to somebody else's point of view, give them a thumbs down or some other polite hand gesture. But we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view in this room so they can all be heard. And with that, thank you for coming. And let's take item 872. Thank you.
 Page 72, request of Colonel Moses Rosen to address council regarding the state of the city. Good morning. Good morning, commissioners. Welcome. I was here speaking to you a year ago in March, and I didn't know what I was going to say when I sat down, and I ended up giving you all quite a tongue-licking. That's not my intention today. I still don't exactly know what to say. I've spent a lot of time thinking about it.
 But I signed up to talk on the state of the city so that I could speak about pretty much anything I wanted to. That was after my friend Jose hosted a sleepover in front of City Hall because the police were doing more sweeps on the homeless. I'm sure you're familiar with the situation. But I would have to say that the state of the city is peril, somewhat like our global situation. We're up against some limitations.
 There's been some talk about climate action. It's a little too late for that. We need to take more aggressive action than having a 2030 plan, because 2030 is still 15 years away. And I don't know if you all drive cars around town, but you can tell traffic's changed quite a bit around here the last few years. There's a lot of lights you have to wait three or four times to get through. And...
 I don't know where I want to go with this. I know that blankets are still illegal. And that just breaks my heart. You know, when I set up that prayer vigil, my intention in that and what I wanted from all of that was a change in the wording of the ordinance or the code that says that blankets are illegal. That doesn't mean you have to spend any money on programs. It doesn't mean you have to change any of your behavior. But...
 It's a moral imperative that you make things like food, water, and sleep accessible to all citizens despite their economic condition. So winter's coming and people will be freezing again, being forced to use illegal blankets to keep themselves warm. All you have to do is change the wording of the statute, but that seems to be rather impossible. Anyway, the city is in peril.
 The homeless people can't seem to get a break and spend years of action and testifying. You're going to give $200,000 later on to Home Forward. And they may be an all right program, but at the same time, it's still giving money to landowners. It's not changing people's situation. It's just putting it off for another little while. It's $200,000 misspent, in my opinion.
 Anyway, you could take action. There's a bunch of people here about bikes and the 2030 plan. They've got a lot of good ideas. You want to restore the faith of this community in you all? Make a move. Take a chance. I know you got into this business to make a difference. I know you're real people, that you have feelings, that you're not hard-hearted and illogical. Although that's the way it sure seems sometimes because...
 I just don't know what to say. I'm done talking. I'm over my time. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming. Thank you. 873. Item 873, a request of Aaron A. to address counsel regarding homeless issues. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Aaron. I'm most right to drink here. Why don't you have a seat? We can hear you better if you're closer to that mic. Thanks. All right. Mine's not a long speech or anything. It's...
 Short one. I came to RTD2 in mid-December 2011, not knowing what to expect. There was four of us wanting a place to sleep that night. They let us all four in that night. As I remember, it was very cold and rainy. So I decided to become a member and give a helping hand. There has been many changes since that first night.
 They also give clothes, food, hygiene products if they have them. They also have given referrals plus give domestic violence victims a safe place to stay so they can get their head straight. A person also can learn many skills there at RTD2. They all learn how to do security.
 where you can excel or not. You can also learn public speaking, such as I'm doing now, consulting, computer work, and a few others I'm not really familiar with. Then back to the streets. Out there on the streets, I notice you guys have a lot of mental health issue problems. Places like R2-D2 will give these people a place to stay safe at night for up to 12 hours.
 I just also think you guys need to do something with all these mental people and keep more RTDTs going on. That's my speech. Thank you very much. Thank you for coming. 874. 874, a request of Mike Summers to address council regarding homeless issues. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Mike Summers, for the record. I stay at Right to Dream 2 myself on Portham Burnside.
 The line between housing and house, the housed and houseless is very thin. Many people in Portland are on the razor's edge of housing stability. If they lose their job, unexpected medical bills, or death in the family, these and many more things will result in losing housing. The city is expected to at least, to grow at least 250,000 more people in the next 20 years.
 How will we provide for those people and if we are not able to provide enough affordable housing for Portlanders now? Although the city has the power to change this story with development happening citywide. Right to Survive strongly supports all the anti-displacement measures that are added to the comprehensive plan by the Planning and Sustainability Commission.
 As part of an anti-displacement PDX, we worked with your staff and Planning Sustainability Commission to add 13 new proposals and strengthen 15 more. It is imperative that the City Council keep each and every one of these policies in the final comp plan.
 An important new anti-displacement measure in the comprehensive plan is for the city to provide protections for renters in order to prevent them from being displaced from the housing and to ensure that they have a safe, healthy place to call home. And we believe to live up to this commitment. City Council can address the growing problem of no-cause evictions happening around Portland.
 Even though that's not a specific part of the comp plan, we believe that something can be done in that area now so that the city can have another tool in their anti-displacement toolbox. A critical policy was added to the comp plan says that the city must adequately involve communities that could be adversely affected by planning and development decisions. This means that the houseless community will have a stronger voice
 Guiding how our city grows and develops with equity and inclusion is our ultimate goal. As part of a strong and growing group of 30 LA organizations, we are counting on City Council to keep all these important anti-displacement measures in the final plan.
 Rochester and I will continue to track the comp plan, working with broad base of community allies. We will look forward to seeing you again as public discussion opens up about the comp plan. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Item 875, please. 875, request of Jerry Chandler to address council regarding houseless issues. Chandler, you're here.
 All right, we'll have to give him another day, and then 876. 876, request of Sarah Carlstron to address council regarding homeless issues. Ms. Carlstron, are you here? Is she here?
 Okay, same there then all right then let's move on to the consent calendar again We have these two items that have been requested to pull 883 884 any others Then let's take a vote please on the balance of the consent calendar mayor who pulled 883 It was actually requested by the city attorney to carry it over to next week Saltzman Novick. Hi, it's I fish. Hi. Hey, I
 Okay. Time's certain. Almost. The two items that we pulled, the city attorney's requested that 883 be carried over to next week, so without objection, I will do that and put it on next week's calendar. 884. Commissioner Fritz, I think you wanted that pulled. Is that right? Do you want to deal with it now? I was hoping to have a presentation by your staff. Are they coming to do that?
 Let's know. I think the short answer is no. So let's hold it for later. And I think we're probably close enough to 877 that we could probably start. Is that right, Commissioner Novick? I believe so. Okay. Let's go ahead and take 877 then. 877, accept Portland's Neighborhood Greenways Assessment Report. Commissioner Novick.
 Mayor and colleagues, we want this to be a city where lots of people feel comfortable bicycling, because when people are bicycling, they're not using fossil fuels and contributing to global warming, and because they're also healthier and not contributing to rising health care costs as much as people who are more sedentary. There are some people, of course, who will bicycle whatever their conditions. They're daredevils. They don't care how many cars they're dealing with or how fast people are driving.
 There's a fair number of other people who would like to bicycle, but they are concerned about their safety. So they'll bicycle if conditions are conducive to that. Recognizing this, years ago we decided to establish greenways, stretches of street where the assumption was we will have relatively low vehicle speeds and not that many vehicles, and they will be especially conducive to bicycling and walking. And most of these greenways have worked extremely well.
 We have discovered that there's some of our greenways where the vehicle speeds and vehicle counts have sort of crept up beyond where people are still comfortable bicycling and walking. And PBOT has concluded that our staff need better direction as to what to do when that happens.
 So basically, this report and this resolution are about providing guidelines, not hard and fast rules, to our staff about what to do when you're dealing with the greenway where the speeds and the vehicle counts are higher than they should be.
 and essentially empowering our staff to take steps which will vary depending on the street and which will be made in consultation with everybody in the neighborhood to get those speeds down and those vehicle counts down. So that is the idea behind this report and this resolution, and I will now turn it over to Margie Bradway and Roger Geller, and they can tell me if what I said was wrong.
 Hi, good morning. That was a fabulous introduction, Commissioner Novick. Thank you. In fact, I think you just did my first slide. So we're here to talk about neighborhood greenways, as Commissioner Novick just explained. It's a low stress network.
 primarily for biking and facilitating walking. And I want to note that we were the first city in the nation to have a neighborhood greenway network. We started building our network over 30 years ago. We have people who come in from all over the nation who've copied our neighborhood greenway network. That's from St. Louis, just was in town, from Seattle to London.
 So we have the benefit of being leaders in neighborhood greenways as we do many things in biking. One of the advantages or disadvantages of being a leader in neighborhood greenways is that we have a very mature system. And when we put them a system in place starting 30 years ago, we couldn't –
 We couldn't realize the amount of population, the amount of growth that occurred in Portland. How do you keep the neighborhood greenways operating? How do you maintain them as the city grows? So a lot of this report is a data-driven approach to look at exactly what is happening on our neighborhood greenways. I'm going to spend a little bit of time talking again, just walking through what is a neighborhood greenway. Just quick.
 quick touch on the policy support for these neighborhood greenways, then I'm going to hand it over to Roger to dive into the data that we looked at, and then our recommendations both on performance guidelines and on policy moving forward. Before I dive in too much, I also want to recognize Scott Cohen, who is sitting in the front row, who acted as our managing editor for the report and did a great job. So thank you, Scott.
 Okay, so I think we've hit on this. There are streets with few automobiles traveling slowly and prioritizing biking and walking. So why are neighborhood greenways important? They're a foundational part of Portland's transportation system. They carry thousands of people every day, thousands of people on bikes. They create safe, comfortable places for people to walk and bike.
 And one thing about neighborhood greenways is they really provide connections between parks and schools. Not too many people know that the neighborhood greenway system also provides a huge part of our Safe Routes to School network. So we really focus on children when we're looking at expanding and building our network.
 The neighborhood greenways also create a sense of place. And Portland is known for its placemaking. You've seen a presentation recently on intersection repair. A lot of those projects happen on neighborhood greenways. A lot of our green streets stormwater happen on neighborhood greenways. Most of our Sunday Parkways events and Safe Routes to School events happen on neighborhood greenways. Again, these are safe streets that are good for placemaking, good for holding events.
 So I think Commissioner Novick said it best, that really the goal of Neighborhood Greenways is to create a place for people of all ages and all abilities to bike and walk. And in particular, I think you may be familiar with the breakdown of the types of cyclists. This has been before you and the bicycle plan. But really, we're aiming at the 60% interested and concerned in trying to provide a place for them to travel.
 So there's lots of policy support. I won't dive into each one of these for neighborhood greenways, but the Portland plan and the comprehensive plan are very clear that in order to meet our livability goals and our climate change goals,
 we need to aim for a 25% mode split for biking. The neighborhood greenways and biking in particular is also a key strategy as part of the climate action plan. In the city's recent growth scenarios analysis, which is comparing kind of future growth with our climate change goals, of the recommendations in the climate action plan, bicycle transportation is one that currently offers the most significant and measurable reductions in greenhouse gases.
 So we find that neighborhood greenways is very important for achieving climate stability as well. So here's a look at the overall Portland Bike Network. We have 325 riders.
 miles of bike network. Not all of those are what we consider low stress. Can you go to the next? This is a look at the low stress only. So the green in the middle is neighborhood greenways. The other low stress network, parts of the low stress network are trails or buffered bike lanes. So you can see in the middle there that the neighborhood greenways really are in the heart of the city and provide a lot of connectivity to other low stress corridors. Okay.
 Next slide. So here's an actual map of the existing neighborhood greenways, and you can see the dotted lines are the ones that are funded. These include the historical neighborhood greenways that started closer to the city, and as we build out the network, we get farther out to the north, to the east, and to the south.
 Next slide. So what is the intent of the report? Well, as Commissioner Novick said, we've heard a lot of concerns about neighborhood greenways. We've heard a lot of concerns about Clinton Street in particular. And we wanted to figure out what's working and what's not and take a data-driven approach.
 So we looked at all the data in terms of speed, volumes, and ridership, and we also looked at our existing policies. And we wanted to create an understanding of the role of the neighborhood greenway in the transportation system plan as well. So, again, as I said, we're going to offer our recommendations at the end of this slideshow. Excellent.
 So at this point, I'm going to hand it off to our bicycle coordinator, Roger Geller, to talk about the data. And the good news is, as Commissioner Novick said, many of our neighborhood greenways are working very well.
 Great. Thank you, Margie. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. As Margie mentioned, this has really been a data-driven approach. We looked at 1,500 data points to assess how our greenways are working. And generally, the news is good. They're working well in a lot of places. Ridership is high on greenways in the parts of the city where bike ridership is high. This map just shows the commute...
 mode split by bike by census tract, the darker the higher. And basically what this is showing, the circle's four miles from the Burnside Bridge, is that about half of Portland commuters live in areas where the average bike mode split is 13%.
 We've seen a 250% growth in bicycle use in the city since 2000. And here we superimpose greenway counts. And basically in the areas of the city where bike use is high, use of the greenways is correspondingly high. And the greenways that are the most heavily used tend to be in southeast and northeast Portland. Okay.
 So there's really three key factors that influence how well a greenway is operating. Automobile speeds are a big part of that. And we found that more than half of our greenways are operating at 23 miles or less for cars, which is good, but about 4% or 30 miles are over, and then there's this mid-range. This is what happens when you look at 1,500 data points, right?
 you map them out. And so basically, this is our Greenway network. Green is generally good on this map. Yellow is kind of in this nether area. And then once you start getting into orange, pink, and red, these are speeds that are generally considered to be too high for the effective operation of a Greenway. And generally, what we found was that Tillamook, Littler,
 Lincoln, Clinton, the Burnside Corridor, Sam and Taylor and the 40s Bikeway all had speeds that were generally too high, mostly our older greenways. So speeds of 25 miles per hour or greater on our greenways.
 So we also took a look at automobile volumes. And, you know, volumes are a key element for determining how comfortable a greenway is. We want both safety and comfort. Volumes, interestingly, are also a key factor for speed.
 We have the authority in the city of Portland to set low speed limits on our greenways as long as the traffic volumes are less than 2,000. Once they get above 2,000, we lose that ability to set a low and safe speed limit. So most of our greenways have – 2,000 per day or – 2,000 automobiles per day, yes. So –
 Almost three-quarters of our greenways have fewer than 1,000 cars on them. Again, in this slide, generally green is good. And about 85% of them are less than 1,500. But we see some key stretches of our neighborhood greenways, especially on ones that we consider especially important in our system that have much higher volumes, typically in northwest and southeast.
 But we're also, as we are delving into more detailed data, we're also seeing spikes in automobile use during the a.m. and p.m. peaks as cars are increasingly using some greenways as cut-through routes. And this just shows greenways where we have more than 1,500 cars a day, all of these that are listed on the left.
 And then when you combine cars that have screenways with more than 1,500 cars a day and speeds greater than 25 miles an hour, these are the ones that really pop out as problems. So this report includes some recommended performance guidelines. And what we're asking you to do today is to direct the Bureau of Transportation to incorporate these guidelines into our practice.
 And the development of these guidelines really begins with best national practices. It's also influenced by our 30 years of experience, as well as the fact that we're getting a lot of complaints from citizens that these greenways at certain levels of traffic, speed, and volume are not working well. And so what we're recommending for vehicle speeds is a 20-mile-per-hour speed.
 And this is really a safety measure. In a collision at 20 miles per hour, you're 90% likely to survive. If that increases even by 10 miles per hour, it's a 50-50 chance whether you would survive a collision. We're also looking for automobile volumes of ideally 1,000 cars a day with a maximum of 2,000.
 And what this does is it really minimizes the exposure that people biking on the greenways have to closely passing cars. The time that you're in the closest proximity to a car or somebody riding a bike is when they're passing you. At 1,000 cars a day on a 10-minute ride on a greenway, you're only going to get passed seven times. Once you jump that up to 3,000, you're up to about 23 times where you're being passed. And what we're seeing on some of our greenways is that as the automobile volumes increase,
 People driving are getting a little frustrated. They're finding it difficult to pass. And then we're seeing unsafe passing behaviors. We don't have that documented in data, but we're hearing that anecdotally, and we're observing it anecdotally ourselves on the streets. So we want to really create as few interactions between people biking and driving as possible, and also prevent the kind of conditions that lead to unsafe behaviors.
 And finally, the key for a greenway is crossing the busy streets. So we want to make sure that during the busiest times of the day, people have a minimum of 50 safe crossing opportunities per hour. Ideally, we'd like to have 100 safe crossing opportunities per hour. And how you do that depends on the condition of the roadway you're looking to cross. And so that's what we're asking you to direct us to do. And with that, I'll turn it back to Margie. Yes. Or Commissioner Novick, just a question.
 The resolution is titled, Accept the Portland Neighborhood Greenway Assessment Report. So we're used to accepting reports. But the resolve says, accept it and the recommendations contained therein. And then it directs PBOT to implement the recommendations. So, yes.
 I'm just a little unclear about – PBOT is asking us to direct them to do something, and I'm fine with that. But it also – the report also is replete with references to the fact that PBOT doesn't have adequate resources to meet the challenges in front of it. So are we, in effect, directing you to do something that is going to require you to –
 change your budget or seek additional general fund dollars or change any priorities in the queue. And because it is more than accepting a report. You're asking us to direct you to do something. And I'm not clear about how that relates to our budget process and our normal policy making.
 And I just want to be clear about what we're directing you to do. Commissioner, I'll take a stab at that. I think that looking at the – you're right. This is more than simply accepting a report. The specific language is direct PBOT to engage communities in implementing the project recommendations contained in the report, incorporate the operational guidelines into traffic operation practices, and pursue recommended policy suggestions through the transportation system plan update. And I think that basically boils down to –
 we will do what we can to implement these recommendations within the context of existing resources. I think two of the three cost nothing. Yeah, and I want to be – we really tried very hard in this report to have it outcome-based, right? So we're talking about streets that are not performing, but our guidelines today are outcome-based. Okay.
 And their guidelines, they're not engineering standards. So what your recommendation by accepting it and is kind of endorsing these guidelines, from that I think flows some type of prioritization for if and when funding is available. We will work on these streets that are not performing well. But there's nothing in the report that says thou shall then accept.
 work on these certain projects. We're setting the policy framework, and you are then going to prioritize sequence funding and other things. So we're not handcuffing you in that sense. Well, actually, we're both going to do that. I mean, you do make project recommendations on page 22, and that's fine. I would expect the commissioner and the bureau to propose those projects in our capital plan.
 planning process, right? And along with other projects coming from PBOT. So I guess I don't want us to be shy about that. The short answer to your question is, will this lead to expenditures? Yes. When those expenditures will happen depends on what the council does each time we do a
 Right. So that's up to us. And I – That's a distinction probably lost on most people in the public where it says we're going to implement the recommendations and they have a budget cast. I mean, I was thinking, as I was thinking about your resolution, of preparing a resolution that accepts a report on homelessness and sets the council directive that we reduce it by 50%.
 That would have a budget impact, and I'm happy to bring that resolution, but I want to make sure that we set expectations. So when we accept reports, we set policy, and we set priorities. How you implement it is still your business within the framework of your existing resources. Or additional resources as we approve them. In any case, I mean, I guess I'm not troubled by the fact that we have a bureau saying, here are some projects we'd like to do.
 or we plan to do as soon as they are funded. As long as we're separating the budget decisions from the policy decisions, Mayor, you're free to recommend any expenditure request. But I think we have to be clear with the public about what we're signing on for today. And the recommendations are aspirational. The policy you're asking clear direction on.
 Yeah, I think that's fair. I have a related question, which is you do have – I get the policy recommendations. I see the project recommendations. How would, given if the council accepts this report and we've incorporated these recommendations, how would these bike projects –
 would these bike projects be prioritized over others? I mean, there are other bike projects besides greenway projects. There are separated bikeway projects. There are additional bike lanes. There are projects like the 20s and the 50s. So how do these change ranking?
 on the Council's acceptance of this report. That's a great question, Mayor. So for clarification on how PBOT's budget works, we have our capital improvement budget project, and typically these are the
 Greenways are considered operational improvements and they live in a bucket in the CIP called the active transportation bucket. And they're the only flexible dollars really that PBOT has. Five years ago that bucket was 2 million, it's down to 400 and that also is the same bucket that we address Safe Routes to School and High Crash Corridors. So there's a lot of need for this very small, relatively small flexible bucket.
 So when we think about priorities going forward, we think about priorities within that small bucket of operational improvements that separate and distinct from our capital project. And I think we have to do, I think I'm looking at Roger, but we have to do both. We have to make travel on our priority corridors and particularly those that need say buffered bike lanes on high speed corridors.
 Those need to be a priority in certain places and it depends on the quadrant, depends on that community and in other places, neighborhood greenways is going to be what we need to prioritize. And as Roger's map shows, each neighborhood is different and the ridership is different.
 Roger, do you have anything to add? Yeah, I just think that the larger capital projects that we go after are typically through federal dollars that are funneled through the region. And those tend to be on a different scale than these type of projects that we're talking about here. And so the 20s Bikeway is a good example. So that's a long corridor project. It's multi-millions of dollars to do that whole project.
 some of the things that we're looking at here, for example, looking at Clinton Street, you know, the fix for some of these projects or for some of these issues that we've identified are not tremendously expensive. We would not go after federal dollars for those kind of fixes. So I think that's the distinction, that we continue to prioritize the large corridor projects with federal funds and look to improve our system with the flexible funding we have available. Roger, can I ask you about automobile volumes? Because in your...
 your chart you say over 2 000 triggers changes so the context for that is that as our roads become more congested and they clearly are and our neighborhood roads are more congested cars are being displaced onto the greenways and we can all attest to that there are more cars so that makes it less safe on the greenways so my sense is only going to get worse not better
 And where I live in inner northeast, you know, I just don't drive between 4 and 7 because I can't safely get anywhere. It's just complete congestion.
 What is the – when you say over 2,000 triggers changes, what are the kinds of things that you would consider by way of changes when you have that kind of level of congestion? So both, I think, both educational and engineering tools. So the standard engineering tools are some kind of physical barrier that prevents cut-through traffic on the neighborhood Greenway Street. It's a traffic diverter like we see at 16th and Tillamook and –
 Clinton and Chavez, Lincoln and Chavez. We have 21 locations around the city, I believe, with traffic diverters. And there's also operational diversion where you put up a sign that says, you know,
 We've done something like that at 52nd and Division Street where we allow buses through but not automotive traffic. Things like that are working well. But it generally is some type of barrier. It could also be improvements out on the main roads so that the main roads operate better and the desire to divert off of them and cut through neighborhood streets becomes less attractive. Okay.
 But I think that's the key. And I guess I would, being an optimist, I would take exception to the idea that things are only going to get worse. I think that if we actually realize our regional and local goals, there's a good chance that things could get better. Yes, all I'm commenting on is that let's take someone going from downtown east. The Banfield between 4 and 7 is not a great choice. Sandy is now backed up all the way to the river. Broadway is backed up.
 And what I observe, either on my bike or when I occasionally drive, is that out of frustration people are getting off those main roads and going into the neighborhood. And they're going at excessive speeds with a lot of frustration and sometimes anger.
 And that's exactly what we want to discourage. Absolutely. Yeah, that's exactly what we want to discourage. And, you know, the operation of our bikeway system is a key part of our strategies for accomplishing many goals. And just what you're describing is the kind of thing we need to prevent and protect so that the bikeway system continues to operate. Okay.
 This is a really excellent report and thank you for your work on it. I'm wondering, do we have any information on the demographics of the people who bike in greenways? Do we know if we're being successful in investing in these greenways and encouraging more women, families, communities of color to use them? We have some really good data at the regional level. Metro did an Oregon household activity survey back in 2011.
 And so at the broad level, at the regional level, what they found is that demographically, for example, a surprising finding was that people of color bike and walk at higher rates than do white people. And that's true throughout the region. So that's kind of at the broadest level. And also people at all income levels are well represented in terms of bicycling. Yeah.
 Things break down by gender generally. That in Portland we see a great gender disparity, more men bicycling than women. On the parts of town that we've identified as being the most comfortable, we're starting to see, and we've been seeing for years, the proportion of women climbing. And that's a very good kind of ready indicator that we can look at. So in parts of town, like on the Greenway system, even on streets like Williams and Vancouver, we see 40% of the people that we count are women.
 And in the far reaches where we recognize that conditions are not yet as comfortable for bicycling as they are in the inner city, we see women at 8%, 9%, 10%. So that kind of gives us a good idea of...
 you know, who we're appealing to. Okay, thank you. That leads in nicely to my next set of questions. Do you have a timeline for the three north-south greenways in East Portland that you've identified in the recommendations? Can you move forward to the slide? So we've got a slide on the... Which one? To the ones that are the last slide, yeah.
 So as Roger mentioned, the future projects are typically we pursue grants, and we have been successful in pursuing grants. And so the Rodney project is almost complete. The 20s bikeway is currently underway. It's about 50%.
 The 100s is also underway and 130s is underway. The 100 and the 150s will be going under the kickoff process next construction season in the summer. So they're about a year out, but they're all happening within a year window or kicking off in a year window. And what's the planned public engagement for the ones in East Portland? Yeah.
 So I'm not the project manager. There's project manager for each of these, but we will have a lot of public...
 dialogue about these greenways, it was important to us that the recommendations today are guidelines and not standards because we want project managers to go out to the neighborhood, have a conversation about these guidelines, have the ability to make tweaks to get public input on how they function and go from there. So Clinton Street project has actually already kicked off, and we have an open house situation
 scheduled for September 12th, and we'll get input on our proposed design. I imagine we would do the same for the ones in East Portland. And why is there no Greenway connection from East Portland to downtown? So going back to the Portland plan and the bike plan, typically when the neighborhood Greenway system started, and Roger has a lot of this historical context, he focused on the three-mile trip, and so it was –
 A lot of the neighborhood greenways really focused on that three-mile circumference around downtown, and we know now that we need to serve the entire city, and we have a lot of work to build it out. So we are concentrating a lot of effort on East Portland, but it's going to take a while to build our system out. Do you have any? I think the other key is that, you know, greenways, you can only develop that type of a facility on certain types of streets. Yes.
 And so our system also relies on having good, low-stress bikeways on the major streets. So there are techniques that also create something that's better than bike lanes, be it a buffered bike lane or a physically protected cycle track. So those have got to be part of the system that works well. And as you get closer to the main center part of the city where the traffic intensity increases, those are increasingly the types of facilities that have to be incorporated. Well, I am concerned, though, that there isn't an east-west connection system
 on Greenway, you can't do it. One of our top priority projects is also the 4M project, which is Mill Market, Maine, that basically runs from the boundary with Gresham, and it runs into the Lincoln Bikeway, which will then go all the way in. I didn't see that on there. It's not funded.
 That's because it's not yet funded. It's one of our highest priorities for seeking funding. There is an aspirational right there. Yes, there is. So then my last questions are about Southwest. What's the plan for improving Southwest? So Southwest, and the report notes this, that Southwest,
 Greenways in Southwest will not have the type of prominence that they do in sort of the old streetcar grid neighborhoods, as well as even East Portland. Even though it's discontinuous, you can still make it work. The topography creates very few continuous streets in Southwest.
 And those streets that are continuous tend to be the flat ones tend to be the busiest ones. And so the bicycling strategy for Southwest is really to make those larger streets work for bicycling, like a street like Barber, for example, needs to have a protected bikeway on it.
 We've seen examples of that on Southwest Multnomah where we built a cycle track. We've seen examples on BH Highway where we've built buffered bike lanes. It's really the strategy for Southwest because of the topography out there and the street pattern is really to make the larger streets work. Greenways will still have a role out there, principally as connectors to those larger streets, but they won't be the types of long corridors that you see in other parts of the city. Roger, following up on what Commissioner Fritz asked, what?
 What's the status of the big vision we talked about a couple years ago linking Gateway Green to a trail along the Banfield to downtown? Also one of our highest priorities that we – it's now called – part of a project called T-Hop, which is – T-Hop. T-Hop or Thop, if you want. It is a connector between Tillamook –
 It then builds that piece under the I-205, connecting into the I-205 pathway and Gateway Green, and then continues out further east along Holiday, Oregon, and Pacific. So it's creating a greenway corridor that links across I-205. And is the continuing challenge figuring out how to coexist with the railroad?
 Not there. It's ODOT right-of-way. It's mostly just gaining the funding at the regional level to do that project. But, again, in terms of East-West Connector, isn't that project potentially very beneficial and linking? Oh, absolutely. Yeah, that's why it is also, you know, it was identified by the Bike Advisory Committee as a top priority. It's one of our agency's top priorities to seek funding in the federal funding rounds.
 So this November. I think that was your resolution many years ago to say keep hammering after the. I think parks and transportation were looking at it, but there was also a tremendous opportunity to do some housing development along that corridor and get people out of their cars and into bikes. But there's a railroad. The railroad piece is complicated. As you go further west, yes, we've identified the segment that's only ODOT right-of-way, and we believe we can deal with that.
 Going back to Commissioner Fish's initial questions about funding and priorities, I understand the difference between the major grants and the operational. If we're looking through an equity lens, we ought to be thinking about how to provide safe bike facilities for people who have nothing over improving the ones that we already have, which might not be ideal.
 So how is Peabody managing that challenge? So the projects that Roger's talking about have come up through our TSP process, and I'm not the lead planner. That's the transportation system plan, and we have criteria for that, and there's an equity criteria that we look at.
 And so we look at equity, safety, other connectivity, other goals. And going into the next funding round, so the next funding opportunity at the state level, ODOT enhances in November. And then at the regional level, regional flex funds this spring will be taking those projects that meet our transportation system goals.
 plan criteria and commissioner i think it's important to note that there as roger was saying there are things that we can do to improve the functioning of existing greenways that are really quite low cost putting in some diverters and some speed bumps so i don't
 don't think that it would make sense to say we are going to do nothing to improve the performance of our existing greenways until we've made major new investments throughout the city anymore that would make sense for parks to decide it's not going to do anything for parks in the inner part of the city before we build a bunch more parks in the outer east side.
 That's a nice strongman argument. I actually wasn't suggesting that. I was suggesting that if there are funding requests going to be coming to the council in the next budget, that we look at where can we provide some safe bike facilities, for instance, on Powell, on Barber, elsewhere. I would be more inclined to support that over funding for additional greenway in areas that already have them. Understood. Thank you.
 So are you finished with presentation? Because I have a question about Appendix C, so I wasn't sure how far down. I think we did skip over one slide, so if we can backtrack, we've bounced quickly. We've talked about this. So just quickly on the recommendations regarding policy, as you're –
 may be aware we're going through the process of updating both the comp plan and the transportation system plan. We had an ongoing conversation with the planners at PBOT about how to best address the neighborhood greenways in the TSP, but this report is not the place to do that, so I want to be clear to your community
 to your question, Commissioner Fish, about what we're asking you to do today. We are not updating the TSP. What we do is we're recommending that our planning staff, working with Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, evaluate and replace conflicting policies to make it clear that neighborhood greenways are not...
 allow diversion and allow a low-stress network. And so I can walk you through the different objectives in TSP Policy 6.13 if you want, but today we're just recommending that that's taken care of as part of a different process. That's all I wanted to hit on.
 Other questions about that? So my question about Appendix C, and we have a lot of people that want to speak on this item, so I don't want you to go on a great length. Appendix C? That's the tools and designs. Yes. So you mentioned sort of this in passing in that this is an opportunity to look at what's working and what's not working.
 And, you know, I think it's fair to say that over this 30 years, Portland has tried a lot of things. We've been experimental in the ways we've tried to incorporate bikes into an existing street system and then make it safer and better and more convenient over time.
 I think it's also fair to say that some of those design tools have worked better than others. Without getting all the way down into the weeds of this kind of diverter versus that width of a lane, Roger particularly, but both of you, so what have we learned in terms of our toolkit? Are there too many tools in the kit? Are there still some more things that we're not using that are being used elsewhere in the world that we should be using? Yeah.
 I'm just curious about sort of the state of the toolkit. Are we using the right tools? Are we using so many that we're confusing people, or can we use more? And which ones didn't work, and why are we not using them anymore? Just at least a summary view of that I think would be helpful to everybody. Sure. And I'm interested, so.
 Well, what we found, we've done research over the years and found that speed bumps, a regular pattern of speed bumps rather than traffic circles, are much better at creating a consistent low speed on a roadway. I think we know that physical diversion, barrier diversion, works really well, especially if you do it in conjunction with some green paint that lets make sure that people biking go to the head of the line.
 at signals. I think that there's some tools like pinch points that we've employed once or twice that probably aren't working that well.
 We haven't really used chicaning as a tool to slow cars on streets. Chicaning is where you make the street just kind of weave a little bit, and there's ways to do it with barriers or with parked cars sometimes. And so cars just don't have a straight shot where they can just kind of speed down. They have to...
 you know, pay attention basically and drive a little bit slower. That's something that we haven't really done, I think, in part because it's very expensive. Seattle has an example where they spent millions of dollars to do something like that. Our streets are a little bit narrower, so we haven't really tried that. I think generally we're satisfied with the toolkit that we have, and we do a lot of evaluation. Our engineers are very good at evaluating what we do. Are there more tools out there? I think we just started experimenting with –
 operational diversion where we just put up a sign that says, you know, don't go this way unless you're a bus. And I think we were pleased with how that worked at 52nd and Division. It may not be the thing that we'd use everywhere. We're looking at creating streets. Other jurisdictions around the world sometimes do
 one-way streets for segments on neighborhood streets. That's something that we really haven't done very much of yet. That would be an inexpensive and perhaps effective way to create diversion as well. What they do in England is to have a...
 jet out of the sidewalks to create a one lane and have a yield or a stop so that you have to slow down at that particular pinch point. And I think that works really well. And it's not that expensive either. Right. Yeah, there's things like that. Roger, we used to hear from the Fire Bureau that they had a little bit of concerns about speed bumps in terms of response times. Have we found some kind of detente on that issue? No.
 Oh, yes. I mean, we always work with the Fire Bureau. They're good partners with us. And I think it was our putting in a lot of speed bumps that first brought us together, and they developed an emergency route system that we agreed not to touch, basically. And now we're working with them to develop and employ fire-friendly speed bumps.
 So these are speed bumps that don't go across the entire street. Instead, they're on one side of the street, then stair-step down to another side of the street, and so on. And we're working with them on that, and that allows them to kind of weave through the speed bumps without going over them and being unduly slowed down. So, yeah, I think it's a very good relationship we have with the Fire Bureau in working this stuff out. We don't put stuff down that they don't want. Great. Other questions?
 Thank you both very much. Do you have some invited testimony, Commissioner, or are we just going straight to the sign-up sheet? We're going straight to the sign-up sheet, yes. Thank you very much. Let's do that. We have 16 people signed up. Well, the first three come up, and that is Terry Pablinski, Terry Parker, Alex Reed, and they'll be followed by Chris Anderson, Amy Subak, and Isabel McTeague.
 Good morning. Please try to be brief. Obviously, we have a lot of people signed up, but make your point. So welcome. Go ahead. Okay. I'm Terry Dublinski-Milton. I'm on the Board of Southeast Uplift and Transportation Land Use Chair for North Tabor. I would like to specifically speak on three points of the report. First of all, the peak vehicles per hour. One of the main ways I've been doing outreach on greenway safety for at least four years, and I've spoken at dozens of neighborhood associations, is to make sure that we're doing it in a way that's safe for the community.
 And this is the big area where we really need help is the commute time because a lot of our greenways will work mostly and then will fail at the a.m. or p.m. peak hours. Sometimes it's just one direction. But for a full network to work, if you really want your children to safely get to school, it's all about the pinch point, the one bad block. Okay.
 Because you have a parent that will say, that block is way too busy because all the communities are speeding to Providence. We will not let you go. And so they drive their kids to school.
 The number of pedestrian and bike crossings per hour, this is the second point, where it says you should have a minimum of 50 crossings per hour, but a preferred 100 per hour. Again, you have to look at the weakest link. And if you have one arterial on this route on your way to school and it is too dangerous and you can't get across, your parent is going to say, no, you cannot ride to school.
 And then I'd like to talk about urban form for just a couple of seconds and what goes on outside of the 85th percentile. Speed bumps are great for most people.
 people. But you get that one red truck that speeds down the greenway and hops all the speed bumps. And that's why as part of an urban form, a lot of outreach I've heard is that you should have diversion at regular intervals every five to seven blocks. So you know that that red truck that's hopping the speed bumps will be turned off. Then those trucks won't be on the greenway. There we are. That's what I wanted to say.
 Thank you very much. Good morning. Who would like to be next? Good morning. I'm wearing my own hat again today. My name is Terry Parker. It is only equitable that if cars are restricted from using greenway streets, gas tax revenues and other motorist-paid taxes and fees also need to be restricted from paying for them. Likewise, if motor vehicles are restricted on greenways, bicycling needs to be discouraged on high-volume trains.
 High traffic volume streets such as Hawthorne, Sandy Boulevard, and streets such as Lower Division and Halsey where parallel bike routes are only a few blocks away. If motor vehicle travel lanes can be removed on Foster, thereby adding a combined 1,180 daily hours of engine running time, then bicycle lanes can be removed from streets like Southeast 26 where they create a safety hazard on such a narrow right-of-way.
 The boisterous and unruly squeaky wheel of the bicycle lobby has infiltrated and, for the most part, taken over control of PBOT and is unethically city subsidized. The public process is broken. PBOT citizen and advisory committees have become stacked decks dominated by special interest and alternative mode advocates with little or no seats at the table for the primary financial stakeholders.
 Approximately 80% of the trips in Portland, the metro area, are by car. Nearly 10% of the jobs nationwide are tied to the auto industry. Most of them family wage jobs. City streets are getting more congested with road diets and traffic diverters. PBOT is continuing to make the overall situation even worse. What will it take to end the discrimination towards drivers, reverse the city's prejudice and automobile policies, and create more family wage jobs?
 What will it take to stop profiling motorists as the origin for all safety issues? I'm going to defer from my written testimony here for a minute because, Commissioner Fish, you were exactly right. The PBOT is not doing anything to accommodate the increased automobile traffic, and that's what's causing the cut-through traffic. We have to have better roads and less diets, less road diets and that sort of thing.
 Finally, the bottom line here is that adult bicyclists' paid license and user fees need to be implemented as the primary source of funding for bike lanes, greenways, and other specialized bicycle infrastructure. And motorists must have an equitable representation on PBOT committees that is proportionally linked to the mode split and who supplies the funding. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Alex Reed. I am a southeast Portland resident and I'm adopting an infant daughter in a few months. So safety and getting around is top on my mind. I'm also part of Bike Cloud PDX.
 I encourage you to accept this report and adopt the recommendations and view it as something that will help fix an urgent problem but won't do everything. So there's streets where people get around with their kids, there are greenways that people don't feel safe on, and this will help with that, with too many cars going too fast. Yeah.
 There's other things with greenways that many of which you all have touched on that this won't fix. And I just want to remind you of some of those. One is that a couple years ago when the city was facing budget cuts, part of the cuts to PBOT were of city funding to new greenways. We used to put in city money towards creating new greenways. Now we're not.
 My understanding is that we fund somebody to apply for federal grants, and that's the only money that goes into constructing new greenways. So just wanted to remind of that reality that if we want more connections in East Portland and Southwest Portland, we need to figure out a way to get more funding towards transportation for that. Yeah.
 And lastly, that there are more problems on the greenways that weren't even touched on this report. There are some that existing that have stop signs every two blocks. And if we want people to get around by bike, then convenience is something that matters in how people choose how to get around. So that's something that we're going to advocate at Bike Loud that...
 the portland bureau of transportation address at a future time it's not as high as safety but if you want people to get around by bike it needs to be fast to some extent um yes thank you very much thank you thanks very much next three uh chris anderson amy subak isabelle mctye they will be followed by jerick kransky gerald fitipaldi and paul jeffrey good morning good morning
 We've been trying to be not too distracting. Just give us your name and anybody else's name you want to mention. My name is Amy Suback, and this is Isaac Suback, my son. And this is Irma, my daughter. I wanted to testify in support of this Greenway plan for a number of reasons, one of which is that my family has a severe history of heart disease, and being able to use a bicycle as my primary form of getting around.
 means that I'm able to be healthy and I'll be able to live to see my children grow up. That's very important to me. Another thing is it's just a lot more fun to ride my bike to take her to school than it is to have a kid screaming in a car seat, as many parents know. And the other thing is it's very important that Portland continues to be sustainable. Thank you.
 and equitable, and livable. And as we increase our population over the next 15, 20 years, the more people we have riding bikes, the easier it is for us to ride bikes, the fewer people will be driving, and we'll be able to keep traffic lower and easier, and it'll be better for everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Well said, despite the distraction. Table pounding is permitted when you testify here. I think he objects to this. I'm not sure. She's been riding her bike to school since how old? Since she was three. And I really like it. It's tough. I would have loved to do it myself.
 And what I'd like to say, I'm Chris Anderson, and thanks for your attention. I think that safety versus maintenance was a losing frame last year in the funding stuff. I think we all know that. The problem is that it divides Portlanders instead of uniting us around stuff that we can all agree on, which is sustainability and a healthy city. Yeah.
 So I'm an entrepreneur, and the question, what I'm wondering, what I'm asking myself is the return on investment for Greenways and other bike infrastructure is just so staggering. It's hard for me to see how any other posture than all in is reasonable.
 So hopefully we're all in. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. And Irma, we like your sign. We all love Portland, too. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Isabel McTighe. I'm a junior at Cleveland High School on Southeast 26th and Powell. First of all, thank you for all of your work in regards to supporting bicycling in Portland.
 I've been biking here since I was four years old. I've grown up biking everywhere. Our family never had a car. And neighborhood greenways were a big part of what helped me feel safe and confident as a bicyclist, especially as a young person where you can feel more threatened by cars.
 and I'm hoping that the adoption of this report will encourage more of my peers to also feel safe and confident on the roads, on their bikes, instead of just opting to drive right away when they get their license. So, yes, I'm in strong support of the adoption of this report, and thank you again. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Next, please. Thank you.
 And the next three are Ethan Frager, Doug Klotz, Emily Guise, followed by Ted Buehler, Glenn Trigger, and Reza Farhudi. Good morning. Hello. My name is Ethan Frager, and I'm 12 years old, and I attend Hawthorne Middle School. I believe that we should have more diverters on greenways and speed bumps and things like that, all the forms.
 I don't feel safe riding on them anymore, frankly. And they connect me to school. And so I have aggressive drivers that have been quite aggressive towards me, like screaming at me, throwing things at me, actually. So, yeah, I'd like to feel safer riding on them. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Hi, I'm Doug Klotz. I live in the Richmond neighborhood. We've been talking about bikes a lot out there. I look forward to this greenway assessment report being adopted by council. This will give the PBOT staff some much better tools to use in the maintaining and improving greenways and building new greenways.
 we're looking forward to the improvements planned for Clinton Street this year, and I hope this report will be useful in making those improvements. Thank you.
 Good morning. Emily Geiss, Co-Chair, BikeLoud PDX, Good morning. My name is Emily Geiss. I'm one of the co-chairs of the group BikeLoud PDX, and we are the people wearing green and holding up the signs in here. So I wanted to come and say that I love the greenways. I think they're an essential part of our transportation system. And because I'm able to go where I need to on the greenways, I don't need to own a car.
 And because I don't need to own a car, I'm free from the burden of car payments, insurance, gas. And because I don't need to spend thousands of dollars a year maintaining a car, I was able to save that money and I used it to go back to school. I got a degree as a graphic designer and I was able to graduate with no debt. Because I had that degree and I had no debt, I was able to start a new career and land a great job that I love.
 And so please, please approve this report. And most importantly, please direct funding to improve our greenways and expand them so that other people can enjoy the same benefits that I have. Thank you. Thank you. Great story. Thank you very much. And the next three, please come up. Ted Buehler, Glenn Traeger, Reza Farhudi, and they will be followed by Barry Jo Stahl.
 Good morning. Thank you very much for having us here. My name is Ted Buehler and my favorite neighborhood greenway is Rodney. I own a house on Rodney and I'm two blocks away from a diverter that keeps cars off it south of me and I'm very happy about that. I just want to say thank you very much for putting together this document. I've read most of it. I haven't read all of it. I intend to read it all. I think it's great stuff.
 For years, I've been working with different advocacy groups trying to encourage Portland to improve the neighborhood greenways, and I've been very pleased with the results so far. But a year ago – oh, I'm also co-chair of Bi-Cloud PDX, the other one, and I'm on the Boise Neighborhood Association Board.
 So we've been working with PBOT, we've been asking PBOT and you guys for traffic control on these neighborhood greenways, and I think that this document is what we need to deliver it. I'm fully supportive of all of the policies and procedures in it. I just want to tell you the story of when we were encouraging Portland residents to sign postcards to Mr. Novick over here, asking for better diverters on Clinton.
 myself and some others put up a card table on Clinton around 34th or 31st or something on the on the grass of course not on the street and we could look down the street and we could just see a whole line of cars in the middle of the street and all these poor bicycle riders cowering in the door zone because uh there were there were aggressive drivers and and and people
 People on bicycles tend to be sort of modest, meek folk. They don't tend to try to put themselves in the middle of the road like they're actually supposed to. And all these people looked kind of hunted, and they all looked a bit harrowed, and we asked them if they wanted to sign a postcard. A lot of them were in a hurry to pick up their kids at daycare, but a lot of them were like, oh, yeah, I do. Let me tell you why. And they said, in the past, this was a great street for bicycling, but because the city has increased population worldwide,
 without increasing bicycle mode share and any number of other things. There's just lots more cars on the road, and they no longer felt safe. They had anecdotal stories about other parents who wouldn't let their kids ride, and they didn't feel comfortable taking their kids in trailers on Clinton Street. All those people are not riding their bikes for their kids to get places right now. They're either driving cars or staying home or taking the bus. My guess is a lot of them are driving cars.
 Today, you guys have the opportunity to pass this and to make the improvement in quality of infrastructure that's necessary whenever you increase the density population. I encourage you to pass it and to inquire regularly of Roger and Margie and Scott. How's it going? Are we there yet? Yeah.
 Thank you. Thank you. Yes, I'm here to support the greenways. I think it's an important thing for the city council once in a while to look at how our streets are being used and to reallocate use depending on how conditions change. It is important to realize that,
 In order for us to be a sustainable city, we have to encourage bikeways and greenways. I live in northwest Portland, and I'm right now somewhat concerned about all the new development that's going up. If you just see all the cranes and stuff, it's probably the fastest-growing area in the city. But our bike infrastructure is lagging much, much behind.
 I don't think there's an easy way to get from northwest Portland to downtown or a safe way. I think the green ways is one way to...
 solve this problem, you know, without spending a lot of money in new roadways, bridges, and infrastructure. So I think it is important for the council, for the Department of Transportation, to look at ways that they move the people in northwest Portland, not just the people that live there right now, but the people that will be moving in in the next five, ten years, in order for them to get safely, you know, to their work downtown.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and members of City Council. Thank you for allowing me the time to speak. The short notice of this agenda item prevented many of my neighbors from testifying today, but I'm here on their behalf to support the assessment findings, policy updates, and recommended performance guidelines. Put your name into the record. Oh, I'm sorry. My name is Raza Farhoudi. I am on the Pearl District Neighborhood Association Board, and I'm a member of the Bicycle Advisory Committee.
 And we want to support this plan, the PD&A does, because developing a city that is friendly and accommodating to bicycle riders of all ages and abilities is incredibly important if the city wants to meet its longstanding mode split and carbon emission reduction goals. For Northwest in particular, building out a better greenway network would help not only people who live here, but also the significant populations of those who commute here or visit for medical appointments, shopping, recreation, other activities.
 The well-connected street grid and high-density urban form in northwest Portland create a dynamic, walkable environment, but...
 Unfortunately, our bicycle infrastructure has been much lagging compared to parts of inner northeast and southeast Portland. The biggest problem we have is that without better volume management in the form of automobile diversion, Northwest Greenway has consistently experienced the highest traffic volumes in the entire city, with every Greenway seeing more than the maximum recommended volume of 1,000 vehicles per day.
 Therefore, they are relatively high-stress locations to ride a bike, particularly for families with children and the elderly.
 As the report indicated, there has been a notable lack of investment in northwest Portland, and the disconnected nature of our bicycle network has led to stagnant mode share compared to the rest of inner Portland. Bike lanes are few and far between, and where they exist, they're narrow. They can drop without warning. I-405, Burnside, the railroad create major barriers to connectivity, and the neighborhood greenways lack almost any form of traffic calming or crossing treatments and are, in fact, greenways in name only with just signage and sharrows.
 So Northwest Portland has some great projects in the pipeline for bicycling, including the Green Loop, which will create a safer north-south route through downtown, and the Northwest Flanders Greenway project, which will hopefully create a new crossing at I-405 and a safe crossing at Nato Parkway at the Steel Bridge. But these are long-term projects that will take five to ten years to come to fruition.
 Our neighborhood desperately needs more immediate relief with our bikeway network and has several projects in mind that can be done for relatively cheaply, including installing temporary diversion on Northwest Johnson Street, creating a safe and clearly marked route between Nato Parkway and our numerous east-west greenways, and implementing traffic calming on Northwest Overton Street by Fields Park where there's been concerns about speeding traffic through there, and also implementing some of the recommendations from the Pearl Access and Circulation Plan that this body adopted in 2010.
 2012. In summary, our neighborhood urges the City Council to accept the plan as recommended by PBOT and seek additional funding that could be used towards building out both our short-term and our long-term needs for the health, safety, and livability of our neighborhoods. Instead of being an afterthought, Northwest Portland could be one of the best places in Portland to ride a bike, as long as bicycle travel is encouraged and promoted by implementing PBOT's recommended tools, policies, and performance guidelines. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. And Barry Jo Stull.
 It's our last speaker. Okay, anyone else? Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Barry Joe Stoll, and I'm a bike nut. I have my bike out front right now. And I think it's pretty rotten that our city has kids trying to ride their bike to school. As we heard this morning, having your citizens, Mayor, acting aggressive towards them.
 I think the thing that we have to really celebrate is leaders set the tone. I personally, sitting back here looking at the scar on my leg when a teacher on his way to work ran a stop sign and hit me in the bike lane. That was over 10 years ago. I'm still bearing the scar and we're still having bicyclists dying on our streets. And it's because no matter how much green paint you put down on the surface of the street,
 If somebody's going 30 miles an hour, that doubles the chances of them killing the person they run into. So we can either accept the fact that we have people discouraged from bicycling, which my experience otherwise has shown is quite a healthy and enjoyable activity. We've got to stop killing people, folks. That's what it's about.
 Killing people who ride bicycles. As we could see, there was a ghost bike down in the caddy corner down here one block away. I was out front protesting, not bike safety, but I was out protesting the night that that happened. And there was nothing about that night that's any different than today. That little strip of paint isn't going to stop the car from running over the person.
 The little icon on the street surface is not going to stop the car from running over the person. What stops the car from running over the person is one, our leaders say that you don't threaten our children on their way to school for any reason, especially if they're riding a bicycle, but for any reason. And that we stop killing people by simply separating the bicyclists from the cars.
 Now, my friend Moses Rosen wrote a great poem over 20 years ago, which means that our past is someday perhaps going to be your future, and we promised a candy bar in your tank. No, we said we wanted one out of every ten streets to be reserved for bicyclists. We should do that more than Sunday parkways. We can do this, folks. Leaders set the tone. Stop killing us.
 Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. We all want a sweeter PDX, especially sweeter for bicycle riders. If you go on Facebook.com slash sweeter PDX altogether, you'll find a video dated Friday, the 21st of August, where a driver assaults a bicyclist with his car and with his body.
 The driver of a Lexus, license plate number 864-GMC, which is being investigated by the police right now, at the corner of Yam Hill and 76, not accidentally tried to kill somebody, but road raged, chased a woman and accosted her. So I hope that the police commissioner will look into that.
 And I hope that people in the Portland Bureau of Transportation will look at this video on Jody Cullen's Facebook page and make sure that in all neighborhoods, strangely enough, as you know, Yamhill in the 70s and the 60s is Mount Tabor Park. I don't cross any streets with green paint on them there, but lots of people bicycle with children there.
 So I hope that you will not just accept this report, but you will use it as a tool to invigorize your action to create safer spaces for bicyclists and get more people out of their cars and into bicycles, and especially see that the victim of this assault that I mentioned gets good victim support services from the police department. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. So are there further questions for staff before we take action on the report?
 If not, then I'd like to hear a motion to adopt it. So moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call, please. Solzman. Well, thank you for this excellent report, and I fully support all the recommendations. And I guess my only words of advice are that, you know, I'm not an avid bicyclist. And I think part of the problem between bicyclists and motorists is,
 there exists a vocabulary that the bicycle community knows and understands, but your average motorist does not understand what the green stripe means. How do you behave when...
 I had to ask this years ago. How do you behave when you turn onto Southwest Stark and half the street is a green shade? I'm not sure what the right behavior is. I also understand that we have the signage just looking through Appendix C is extremely complicated. And, you know, motorists are not going to understand these signs. I think the bicycle community gets it. They understand them.
 But we've got to make sure that the motorists do to make sure that people are safe. So I think there needs to be dramatic simplification of our signage and the way we communicate how we want people to behave, motorists to behave, on greenways and on other streets.
 And I do wonder, I mean, do we have simple signs saying you are on a neighborhood Greenway Street as opposed to Sheroes? Again, Sheroes, I don't think people really fully understand, you know, a simple sign saying these next three blocks, you know, the priority is for safe bicycle commuting. Right.
 I think that would go a long way. I think people want to behave safely. They want to know how to behave correctly, but it can be confusing. And on top of that, 30% of drivers at any given time, from recent evidence from our law enforcement, are busy texting or talking on the phone. So they're distracted, or they may have a kid in the back seat crying.
 so i think we've got to go you know i fully i'm a strong supporter of grade separated bike paths i mean i think that's that's what we need to have in this city and that's where we should be putting more of our resources i realize it can't be done everywhere but we need to put more emphasis on that because that to me is really what's going to get those people who that 60 of the people who
 just aren't going to do it unless they feel safe make them feel safe so again good report keep it up and thanks for the testimony today aye no
 Thank you, Margie. Thank you, Roger. Everybody else at PBOT have worked on this. Thanks, everybody, for coming here to testify. And I want to thank my colleagues for not stirring daggers at me over the fact that we only reserved half an hour for this item when we should have guessed it was going to take longer. Commissioner Fish, thanks for noting that the resolution isn't simply about accepting the report but also giving policy direction. I think actually one point that I want to make is that, as I said,
 significant fact of the of the idea that Council is adopting this report and giving a policy direction is that we will be put up some more diverters I think we will have some more speed bumps and we might all get calls from people saying wait a minute my commute's gotten even longer because there's used to be the street I cut through and now it's slower and now we can say well actually that's a neighborhood Greenway and we actually have given direction to pbot
 to take steps to ensure that it's used as a greenway so thanks again everybody and I really pleased to adopt this report and again we don't have the resources to do everything that we would like to do but in this issue there's some steps that we can take that aren't as expensive as a lot of the other stuff that we were desperately need to do in the city hi Ritz
 Thank you very much, everybody, for being here and for the staff for the great report. Also, the committee's working on this. You know, we are becoming denser. There's a lot more people living in Portland. There's a lot more people driving in Portland. There's a lot more people biking in Portland and walking and taking the bus. And so we all need to share. You know, I love that the bumper sticker, share the road. And we have to all remember that there's more of us, and it's going to take longer to get from A to B. So, yeah.
 And in fact, the getting from A to B is often not the main point of the journey. Yes, you want to get from A to B safely, but you also want to have an experience while traveling, whether it's walking, driving, or biking, which is safe and allows you to converse with families or interact in a friendly manner with your fellow citizens, our fellow citizens. So I have been taken to starting off a little earlier because I know it's going to take longer and longer.
 evaluating my choices in terms of transportation. I do have to just brag that my sister, who is two years younger than I, just cycled for four days straight to get from the Irish Sea to the North Sea, cross-country in England, along with her partner and their 13-year-old twins. It
 It was interesting, I was just in the United Kingdom for an extended vacation, and to see the strategies used there in little tiny streets, well, you wouldn't dream of going 30 miles an hour because you can't get around the corner at that speed. So there's some structural things that we can do, and I appreciate Commissioner Novick emphasizing those.
 we embrace the vision zero concept that we are going to work towards no fatalities, no crashes on any of our streets for any of our modes. And we all need to take responsibility for that, whether it means all of us stopping properly at stop signs, whether we're walking, driving, or cycling, all of us respecting the rules of the road and thinking about each other. That's part of this strategy, and it's something that I certainly embrace, and I commend Commissioner Novick.
 for doing so also. We do need to prioritize funding for places that have nothing and for people who have nothing. And so I'm hoping that we can, as we start thinking right away about setting our legislative agenda for next year, thinking about how can we get the state to step up to their obligations to provide safe routes
 on the state highways that are some of the main arterials. And some of them don't have sidewalks or bike paths. And so we need to all work together on that. So as with most of the things that we do here in this chamber, this is another milestone and a great opportunity
 of this particular – accepting of this particular report, it's also the start of the next phase of the work. And it's continually continuing to work. So I thank everybody for your patience, your diligence, your willingness to engage. We're all in this together. Hi. Bish? I want to first thank Leah, Margie, and Roger for the good work and the presentation and outstanding report.
 And I want to thank Steve for the leadership he has given us on a whole range of issues. Already this year, we've taken up Vision Zero. Sunday Parkways continues to be a great success. And soon we'll be taking up Bike Share, which I strongly support. And each of these is another marker along the way to fulfilling a commitment we made as a council to be a bike-friendly city.
 A couple of comments we heard today I just want to reflect on. One was the gentleman who talked about the return on investment. And I'm really glad, Mayor, that increasingly we are bringing that into these conversations. For example, in our utilities, we used to shy away from talking about return on investment when we did Green Streets.
 And as a result, we neglected to tell people that it costs less money to move away from gray and move towards green. So whether you are an environmentalist or not, if you make the case that it's a more cost-effective approach, it seems to me you're going to get more support than if you frame it just in terms of an ideological proposition. And so when we talk about return on investment, limited amount of money with a big return, including a safety dividend,
 That should bring all of us together because that's what we should be focused on. I also appreciated the gentleman who talked about not feeling safe. And, you know, whether you've lost a member of your own family, as Commissioner Fritz and I have, to a traffic fatality, or whether you know someone who has suffered in a traffic fatality, you never want to have that happen to someone that you know and love.
 And the basic buttressing of Vision Zero is that people would start being more considerate and change their behavior on the roads. And to the young woman I saw this morning texting while speeding down Broadway, slow down. To the gentleman I saw yesterday on Sandy weaving in and out of traffic so he could get a 15-second advantage, slow down. To people in my neighborhood who treat a red stop sign as discretionary, please stop.
 I talked to the chief yesterday, Mayor. He came to brief me, as he does monthly, and he said that citations are up and distracted driving, but frankly we just don't have the resources to be everywhere at once. But I hope the Bureau continues to do intensive enforcement actions in various places because apparently some people are not going to get the message until they have to pay a steep fine, and then they can actually balance whether it's worth texting
 and being distracted and being on their phone and risking other people's lives, whether it's worth incurring all those fines. But the fundamental piece of Vision Zero is changing behavior, and I think we have a lot of work to do to get that message out because I think a lot of our neighbors, a lot of our fellow citizens, are frankly behaving in an irresponsible and selfish way on our roads, and we have to call that out. We have to stigmatize that behavior. Finally, having...
 you know, join the mayor and others on Sunday at Sunday Parkways, it is exhilarating to be on these low-impact streets and be able to ride safely. I mean, it's transformational. And, you know, a Sunday with all the precautions we take is not exactly how it works during a normal workday, but it sort of reminds us what it is to be on a dedicated bike pathway that's safe.
 And that ought to be the goal. We can't shut down the city every day like Sunday Parkway, but we can build in the technology to make it as safe as possible. My comment earlier about my sense about things getting worse is not meant to be an indictment of any particular policy. It's just that we have a lot of capacity. We have limited roadways. And my sense is that people's behavior is not heading in the positive direction. That's all I know.
 People are cutting corners, creating routes through parking lots, through dry cleaning spaces. All of a sudden, because everyone's in such a damn rush, they're putting everyone else at risk. And Vision Zero was supposed to remind us.
 to slow down and stop being so selfish and not set a goal every day of gaining a minute on our commutes, but remembering that our behavior has impacts on people. So I fully support both the policy changes and the recommendations. I think this is an outstanding report. And, again, I want to thank Commissioner Novick for his steady leadership in this area. Hi. Niels.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Novick and PBOT, for bringing this report to us today. Just reflecting on what we've heard, not only from all of you from the Bureau and from the community that have testified, but also from the Council, it seems to me that we approach the challenge of making Portland a better, safer bicycle city from strength.
 We have a lot of work to do. We have a lot of problems to solve, but we approach this challenge with strength. One, we have policymakers, elected policymakers, who believe in Vision Zero. You've heard my colleagues talking about that this morning. We believe in that goal, and we will work towards that goal, and that is the right goal. And we have...
 administrative leadership in the Portland Bureau of Transportation that passionately believes in that goal to just talk to Leah treat for a minute or two about vision zero and you'll see what I mean and it's not just Leah and
 That goes back, actually, some years. I was thinking about that a bit, Roger. You and I have worked on these issues for more than a year or two. Next month, we will mourn the passing of Vic Rhodes, who was our PBOT director, one of Leah's predecessors. I had to sign travel authorizations for him to go to a really exotic location.
 because he went to Omaha, I believe, six times in order to negotiate with the Union Pacific Railroad so that we could have a bikeway on the steel bridge. And he got it done, among many other things. Vera Katz used to call him our counterculture city engineer. And that leadership in the Bureau has been consistent about making Portland a city of all modes and a city of safety. And that work continues. So we value you as professionals here
 telling us how to make this work. And then we have advocates in the community. We have the Bicycle Transportation Alliance and Bike Loud and individual citizens who come here and make the case or who serve on our committees again and again, Doug, because they care about these issues and they're passionate about it and they live it in their own lives. In fact...
 I remember when we made the radical decision to make it legal to ride a skateboard on city streets, our chief financial officer's son, Tim Grew's son, came to the hearing and helped make the case for that. And that was pretty transformational, I think, for a lot of us.
 to hear that advocacy. So I want to thank you all as advocates because that helps keep us moving forward as well. So I am optimistic. I believe we will be that city, and we will be that city because we do have elected leaders who share the vision. We have a bureau that gets it and knows how to get it done, needs more resources to get it done, but knows how to do it, and we have citizens that expect this work to be done.
 As the police commissioner, I get these wonderful and terrible text messages when our police bureau almost every night successfully de-escalates a situation involving someone with mental illness. I know we're making progress against our goal of being a better bureau in that way. And, of course, I get the tragic reports when we lose someone.
 And I know that we are in this year in the worst year ever for gang violence. And yet, despite that, we've lost more Portlanders to traffic violence than we have to homicidal violence. So that's how serious this problem is for our fellow citizens who are at risk until we achieve Vision Zero.
 So this is important work. I want to thank you all for doing it. I enjoyed Sunday Parkways as well. I'm going to start doing some commute rides because I went on the policymakers ride and a number of citizens said, hey, you should do that more often. So actually on Monday I'm going to commute by bike and start out at the Clinton Street Coffee House at 26th and Clinton and ride in with folks that take that trip and try to take some more of those kinds of commutes with, again, advocates who know the situation on the ground.
 Once again, our neighborhood associations are so critical in this because neighborhood volunteers and folks that know exactly what needs to be done in each neighborhood to make this work are critical as well. So there's a lot of work to do. I think this report is an excellent map. Let's go make it real. Thank you all very much. Aye. Thank you. Let's take a momentary break, and then we'll go back to the rest of the calendar.
 Just a housekeeping announcement. I think some people might be here looking for a LID informational meeting, which is actually happening in a few minutes downstairs in the atrium. Andrew Abbey should be there in a few minutes. So if you're here for an LID informational meeting, go downstairs. Thank you. All right. Thanks.
 Thank you all very much. Let's return to the calendar. Since Jeff Baer is here, I think we will move to item six.
 884, which we pulled from the consent calendar. Could you read that item, and we'll bring Jeff up to answer questions. 884, accept recommendation and reaffirm city's commitment to responsible, sustainable procurement by considering the presence of conflict minerals when purchasing cellular devices and radio subscriber units. Thank you.
 Thank you very much to staff for being here. I pulled this off consent because I want to make sure that the Portland citizens understand the issues and how you're addressing them. So thank you very much for being here. Good morning, Mayor Hales, members of City Council, Jeff Baer with Bureau of Technology Services.
 And just to reiterate what this is, it's a resolution to continue to affirm our support for responsible practices where we influence the materials in the supply chain, especially when it comes to devices that have
 these conflict minerals in them. And just to also emphasize that this has been a very collaborative effort between the Oregon Coalition of Humanity, Bureau of Technology Services, and also Procurement Services with Christine and her team. And just to talk about some of the things that we're doing, we purchased... Before you do that, I'm not sure that everybody at home knows what conflict minerals are. Very good.
 So the way this works is that where we buy products and where manufacturers source their materials, this in particular is about what they call three TGs. So it's tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold. So those products are in a lot of electronic devices. And so where those manufacturers source that from,
 we want to make sure that they are in conflict-free zones. And so the federal requirements have provided that they have to declare where those sources of materials are. And from what I'm being told is that all of our current cellular and radio providers are in compliance with those current regulations and with this resolution. And from the resolution, it talks about...
 It says the United States Senate and the House of Representatives have found that armed groups bear responsibility for mass atrocities in the Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. The International Rescue Committee has found that more than 5.4 million civilians have died and countless more remain at risk as a result of attacks conducted by armed groups in the Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo.
 And these armed groups generate hundreds of millions of dollars each year by trading in conflict minerals and operate with little accountability for perpetuating economic crimes, war crimes, and crimes against humanity, including sexual violence and the recruitment of child soldiers. So this is something that the United States government has been addressing and that you have been working to make sure that our supply chain doesn't include these metals from the Democratic group. Thank you. I just wanted to –
 And Jeff, just to follow up on that, so the federal government makes the certification
 And then we follow that or is there some independent judgment we have to make? Maybe Amanda might be able to speak to that. Well, for the ‑‑ Can you tell us who you are? Yes. My name is Amanda Ulrich and I am the coordinator for the conflict mineral movement in Portland with Oregon Coalition for Humanity and also a volunteer ambassador with Women for Women International specifically working on their program in eastern Congo.
 And so for publicly traded companies, they are required under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act to turn into the Securities and Exchange Commission. If they have identified that anywhere in their supply chain they are sourcing minerals that may be from the Congo, and further if they are, where those particular minerals are coming from in their supply chain. And so there's systems...
 already in place for those companies to audit their supply chains, and some companies do so independently and separate and apart from that requirement. And so for any company that's publicly traded, you can verify through the EDGAR system on the Securities and Exchange Commission the paperwork that they turned in. Okay, and how do we know if another country has been put on the watch list?
 You said Dodd-Frank focuses on the Congo. It focuses on the Congo and the surrounding areas. And so you mean how do we know if there's another country? Like, can you clarify what you mean? Well, you said Dodd-Frank was very specific in identifying a particular region. But if we're going to comply with this directive, how do we know when another country or region is in play?
 You mean like another part of the world? Yeah, another country has some of the issues that the Congo has or something like that. How would that get lofted up onto the screen here for people to see? Well – State Department under Dodd-Frank makes some kind of certification. I see nodding heads. Yeah, I see what you're saying. No, this is focusing on this region of the world because they have some of the largest supplies of these minerals, and also it's the largest death toll since World War II, and it's –
 and basically it was a grassroots movement that started the awareness. So I suppose to answer your question, if there was another region of the world that had this concentration of minerals and egregious things like this happening, I suppose you would have your non-profits of the world that would raise the attention of it. But that particular piece of the Dodd-Frank legislation is specifically addressing this region of the world because it's such a huge humanitarian crisis.
 Thank you. And thanks for raising the profile message. Yeah, that's great. Thank you. Other questions? How does the average consumer know whether their product that they might purchase is conflict-free? Well, one resource you can utilize is the Enough Project. They're based in Washington, D.C. They're a nonprofit. We actually work with them on this. This is a nationwide movement, conflict-free. There's been other cities that have passed similar regulations.
 resolutions and universities across the country that have, and the first United Kingdom city recently as well. And they have ranked the top publicly traded electronics companies in terms of how conflict-free they are. And you can go to their website and you can look and see how those top companies rank. And then beyond that, the ENF project is available to talk about any companies that might not be
 the top traded or they're more private, they have resources where they can help to inform you as a consumer where the company that you're looking at falls. So if somebody's watching and wants to find out more about this, could you give us a website that they could go to? If you Google the Enough Project, it will pop up. I can't remember their exact URL, but it's like www.enoughproject.org or something like that. Thank you.
 Enough.org. Enough.org. Thank you very much. Jeff, are there particular companies that are essentially on a do not buy list that you would then have to follow that list? I don't think that there currently are. I'm looking to Christine to see if that's the case.
 But I do know that the ones that we are buying from today are in compliance. Are in compliance. Yes. And just Commissioner Fish, Christine Moody, Procurement Services. This resolution is really our first step forward as far as complying with the federal requirements and supporting those federal requirements for documentation and supporting that documentation to the city so that we can review that
 and see if there's some changes that we need to make in the future for our buying decisions. As Jeff said, currently where we're buying all of our cellular devices and radio devices, they are in compliance. But this is kind of an ongoing effort of making sure that those companies that we are doing business are providing that information publicly so that we can use that to inform our buying decisions. Well, I'm pleased that Commissioner Fritz pulled this because I, for one, have a better understanding now of what we're talking about. So thank you.
 And I do think that this does set the stage for future evaluation for other microprocessor-based electronics because there are other areas aside from cellular and radios that we could look at, and we'll continue to look at our supply chain.
 I will add, so Intel, they actually began offering the first conflict-free microprocessor in 2014. Their CEO is really committed to issues in the Congo, and I've been in touch with their conflict mineral team at Intel, and they actually also invest in a conflict-free mine in eastern Congo because they also believe in supporting mines that are conflict-free to also be supporting the people that live in the Congo that are affected.
 by the mining in their country. And so this resolution couples nicely with our area in general being a leader on this issue.
 Thank you for reminding me about that. I think when I met with you several years ago, Beaverton was considering passing something like this. Did they do so? No, they were waiting for Portland. Oh, yay. Yeah. You love it when that happens. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. Other questions for this team? Thank you very much. Appreciate you coming to illuminate this. Thanks. Thank you. And is there anyone else that wants to speak on this item? Please come on up.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. My name is Ann Shannon, and my daughter and I were our co-founders of Run for Congo Women, A Thousand Sisters, Outcry for Congo. We were instrumental in advocating for the original legislation for conflict minerals. My daughter is an author of two books on Congo, and both my daughter and I have traveled to DR Congo.
 and have met extensively with victims of the violence there.
 And first, I do really want to thank the Procurement Office and the Technical Services Bureau for their responsiveness. And just it's so gratifying to live in Portland and have a government that is responsive to the deep concerns of the citizens and that we do have an impact. And to me, this resolution really is an example of that.
 So first, I do want to note that there is a very broad base of awareness and support for policies that we take that can stop the violence in Congo.
 My daughter, as founder of the Run for Congo Women, we have had yearly events and actually some more than yearly events that were 100 to 500 women and children and men show up and they reach out to the community asking for donations to support the victims of violence there.
 Oregon Episcopal School has raised $38,000 for women in Congo. St. Mary's has had several events here.
 asking for or educating their students about the conditions in Congo. So, and my daughter, when she speaks here in Portland, draws from 200 to 800 very enthusiastic supporters. So there are literally tens of thousands of Portlanders who are very concerned that we do everything we can to stop this violence here.
 And I will say that when the conflict minerals legislation was first passed, within a month,
 Within a month, I was at a barbecue, and Congolese nationals were coming up to me so grateful for the work that we had done because all of their families had been affected, and we do have a Congolese community of expats here. And my daughter's second book is about the family of one... It's about one family and a friend of ours who she's the cheese...
 Stewart at Fred Meyers, and she's lost 28 family members to this carnage, and plus six children have been abducted. And so we have a lot of people in our community who are vitally concerned about
 And I do want to say that, you know, the support of Intel and the leadership that they have exercised in relationship to this, to me, this resolution, you know,
 you know, in a way supports that kind of leadership in industry. Because Intel wasn't always for this legislation. But they heard, they heard how much, and they really got how much Americans do not want Congolese blood and sufferings in the products that we carry in our pockets and that we use every day for hours on our computers.
 and so, oh, I'm out of time. I'm sorry. Oh, thank you very much. Appreciate it. Okay, thank you so much. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Rob Hadley. I'm a local educator, and I'm also a co-founder of the Oregon Coalition for Humanity. We started this process about two and a half years ago, and it's been quite an education for us both in working with the city, and, again, I want to echo previous comments about –
 the great work that's gone into this from a number of people at a number of levels and working with you as city commissioners and the mayor's office to help make this happen. I believe strongly in my work as a Holocaust educator that a budget is a moral document and how we spend our money says something about who we are as a city and I think as a city
 Making this first initial step really and that's what I believe this is Is an important first step? To really stating who we are as a people who we are as a city and what we value and how we spend our money On these resources you asked the question about how do we know how does the public know what a conflict-free? phone is the answer is there isn't one and that's that's the truth and
 We haven't got there yet, but that's the push that we, I think, as citizens, as cities, as universities across this country are pushing to help companies like Intel, you talked about earlier, to really make that happen, and it is having an impact. And I hope that today's action by the City of Portland will be the next in that domino effect to help other companies realize we have a responsibility. Thank you.
 to know what's in our products and to help our consumers know what they're consuming. Thank you very much. Thank you. Would it be too much to ask for me to be able to say one more thing? Sure, go ahead, please. Okay. Now I'm going blank. Oh, dear. God, I'm sorry. You're so surprised that we agreed to it? Yeah. Okay.
 I'm sorry. That's okay. I'm sorry. No, we appreciate you being here. Thank you. Thanks. Anyone else wants to speak on this item? Good morning. I'm Alicia Atma, the executive director of the Atma Foundation, and we worked with Congolese for four to five years in Eastern Congo, so definitely understood and heard the stories on ground and how these mines affected the families.
 I am up here just to clarify your questions, Commissioner Fish. If there is another country or another community, perhaps, that is dealing with the same issue, then yes, it's going to be the State Department that you would find out if that was added to the list. And they already certify human rights abuses generally under other laws, so that makes sense. Yeah. And second to that is...
 How do you know if something is conflict free or going in that direction? The Enough Project is a great website. But also corporate responsibility in different companies should be addressing it as well. So if you're Googling Samsung or something like that, they should be able to address it in their corporate responsibilities.
 And eventually, hopefully in the near future, we will have actual conflict-free stickers that will be on phones or computers or things like that. Right now, the safest approach is looking for the Intel microprocessor. That's how you're going to know that you're much closer to conflict-free than otherwise. So I just want to clarify those questions.
 okay thank you very much thank you have a good day okay then let's please take a vote on the resolution well thank you for uh pulling this commissioner fritz it's i'd sort of forgotten about this i know we did that several years ago and it's nice to see that it's come to fruition and a great plug for oregon's largest private employer intel thank you hi novick
 Jeff and Christina really appreciate your work on this Amanda I appreciate your and everybody else's work and thank you Commissioner Fritz for pulling this item I actually noticed a few weeks ago when I emailed Jill Island at Intel about this there was an article that said that
 More than 80 percent of the 1,262 companies that filed compliance reports with the SEC last year said they couldn't identify whether their products contained conflict-free minerals. But Intel was one of the companies with the highest compliance scores. So the 80 percent figure is unfortunate, but it's good to know that one of the biggest employers in the region is a leader on this issue. And it's good to know that the city is as well. Okay.
 Ritz. Well, thank you to the advocates for bringing this to my attention, and it was several years ago. I apologize that it kind of dropped off my to-do list with various bureau reassignments and other things happening like election campaigns and such.
 which took a lot of my time. I'm really grateful to the staff, especially Christine Moody, who didn't need my continual asking about it to continue working on it, Jeff and your predecessor, Ben Burial. So he's obviously paying attention and cares as much as we do about these egregious issues in the Congo. And so I appreciate being able to talk about it today. Dora Perry on my staff had done some great work on it. Christina Nieves has now taken up the mantle of that.
 and it's really important. So I'm back, and I have more free time. So if you would like me to help work with Beaverton or other jurisdictions, obviously, one of the reasons I pulled this to the regular agenda is I want people watching at home to know about it, and it was certainly news when you brought it to me. We're growing in awareness. We need to continue to publicize it, so count me in. Hi. Hi.
 Commissioner Fritz, thank you for pulling this to regular agenda. Thanks to everyone who came out and testified. I had the misfortune the other night of watching a presidential debate
 And it seemed like the only thing that unified all the candidates is that they wanted to either repeal just about everything that I agree with, or they were against almost everything that I support. And in the mix of anti, on the anti side, in addition to wanting to repeal Obamacare, there were people saying we should repeal Dodd-Frank. This is a part of Dodd-Frank that probably the public doesn't know as much about.
 And I'm delighted that you've brought this to our attention, and thank you. And to the gentleman who said the budget is a moral document, I am going to shamelessly borrow that line as we go into our new budget season. Thank you very much. And thank you for shining a light on this issue of corporate responsibility.
 Aye. Ailes. Well, thank you. This was a great discussion and an opportunity to illuminate this issue. And thank you, Commissioner Fritz, and to our professional staff for once again making Portland a leader in doing the right thing. I like that we are in that place.
 and the fact that we have a prominent local business that is a leader as well is a great example, and we should hold up that example and encourage every other Oregon business that has anything to do with technology to follow Intel's good example. It's obviously possible to be profitable and responsible at the same time.
 So let's have others follow that lead as well. So there are lots of ways in which budgets can be moral documents and in which we can exercise social responsibility in how we spend money and how we invest money. And this is an important piece of that. So I really appreciate this discussion and your eloquent advocacy here today and around the world. Thank you. Bye.
 Wonderful. Thanks. All right, let's move on to the regular agenda. We have a half a dozen or so items there to deal with, starting with 894. 894, amend contract with Rosenbaum and Watson LLP in the amount of $458,000 per year for a five-year total, not to exceed amount of $2,243,888.
 $34 for the independent compliance officer and community liaison for the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement. Thank you. This is a second reading. Unless there are any council questions, we'll proceed to a vote. Roll call. Saltzman? Well, last week, Ms. Sadat and I got into a little exchange about the types of focus groups that are going to be funded under this effort, and I was sort of questioning, you know,
 for instance, why we have an LGBT focus group for a consent degree that focuses largely on those with mental health challenges. Somebody approached me afterwards and said, how about a focus group for those with mental health challenges? So I hope that's part of the list, and I look forward to an update on that. Great. Hi. Novick. Hi. Ritz. We do have to dedicate the resources necessary to support both the staff and volunteers who are working on the program.
 settlement agreement and its resolution. I greatly appreciate the work that's being done, and I also am committed to continuing to work hard on it. Hi. Fish. When I asked Senator Gordly to be my representative to this process, I made a commitment to her that she would have the resources and the support to make this a successful enterprise. Thank you.
 And she continues to devote a considerable amount of time and energy to the success of this process, which is incredibly important to the city and obviously to honoring our obligations under the DOJ settlement. And I think this is a reasonable request. Hi. Hales. Hales.
 Well, thank you. And Ms. Sadat, to you and your team, you have our full confidence, and that's why we're here today, to make sure that you have the resources to do the work. There's a lot of work to do here in building public understanding and understanding
 building confidence in how we do this work, as well as making sure that we fully and completely comply with this mandate to change how we police our city. All of us are fully committed to that, and that's why this is a unanimous vote, and I'm very pleased to say that. Aye. Thank you. 895. 895. Aye.
 Amend contract with Moore, Iofocano, Goldsman, Inc. to increase contract amount by $29,215 to provide additional consultant services to include the Portland Five Centers for the Arts facilities in the city's ADA Title II transition plan.
 Good morning. Great. Good morning. Carl Lyle with the Spectators Facilities Program at OMF and with me, Danielle Brooks, ADA Program Manager for the city. So this is an item with a simple contract amendment to add an ADA assessment of the Portland Five facilities. And the context for this item is that...
 the new spectator facilities and venues activities fund description, which was established with this year's budget, really which clearly now explicitly includes oversight of the city-owned performing arts facilities as well as the other spectator venues. So that's kind of the context for this amendment, and this is some of our sort of early work in trying to bring those facilities into kind of our understanding and managing that portfolio of assets.
 So just in context, the city owns the three facilities operated by the Portland Five Centers for the Arts, the Keller Auditorium, the Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall, and the Antoinette Hatfield Hall, which, of course, contains three theaters within it. So they're all operated by Portland Five under the guidance of Merck,
 the Metro MERC committee, but they are city-owned facilities, so there is a city responsibility to bring them into our own Title II transition plan work under the ADA. So this contract amendment will allow the original consultant team that assessed the other 30-some buildings in the city's portfolio for ADA barriers. It will allow the same team to sort of bring into those reports the same kind of information about those five
 five theaters in three facilities. And we anticipate that work will be done early next year, so after the holidays, with a lot of the same consultant team members performing that work for efficiency and consistency. It will cost $29,215. And then following that assessment, we'll be able to work with our partners at Portland 5 and in the Office of Equity.
 human rights to begin to put together a multi-year program, solicit some public input on the barriers and the work done, and then put together a multi-year work program to begin addressing them. And some of those barriers are likely to be pretty easy things to address through routine maintenance and other things, and others are likely to be longer-term, bigger issues that we'll have to talk to Portland Five about how they might get addressed in the future.
 So as the council liaison to Portland 5, I just want to compliment you for a very succinct statement because you hit all the questions that we had, and that's why I fully support what you're doing today. Great. Thank you. Other questions or requests? Thank you both very much. Anyone want to testify on this item? If not, then it passes the second reading next week. Thank you. 896. Thank you.
 896 accept a grant in the amount of ninety five thousand two hundred thirty nine dollars from the federal emergency management agency for the fiscal year 2014 fire prevention and safety grant Thank You Commissioner Salter good morning I'm Kim Kozma with Portland Fire and Rescue I'm here for the hopeful acceptance of this grant
 Okay. Any questions? I do. So this grant is for education of people who are deaf and hard of hearing on the importance of smoke alarms and other assistive devices. How will it be implemented? Well, we have some plans that we are working on putting in place. We will be working with the Oregon Association of the Deaf,
 and also with the Public Utility Commission of Oregon, which will have the telecommunication devices access program. We'll be able to do some outreach, depending on what they say is the best way to outreach to that community.
 The Tdap program with the Public Utility Commission of Oregon they rent those devices out to individuals that are hard of hearing And so we would be able to do outreach by having pamphlets to put in with those along with other Things that we will be able to have as handouts and other avenues to reach those individuals and do it correctly
 because I know that it is very sensitive with this community as to how they are reached. So will the fire bureau be doing the outreach or will these community groups? Yes. No, we're just bringing them as stakeholders in to discuss what we're going to be doing and what the best route would be to take to do that. And have you had any conversations with the Commission on Disability? No, not that I'm aware of at this time.
 So I would suggest that should be at their next meeting to get on their agenda because they will certainly have some suggestions for how to do that outreach. And how are you planning to decide who gets the assistive devices? Because obviously this is a nice amount of money, but it's not enough for everybody who needs one to get one. Well, and that's where in the stakeholder meeting that we will be doing a litmus test
 just to determine what items or things we should be looking for, what questions to ask as to who will actually qualify to get these devices for smoke alarms.
 So, again, I would encourage you to talk with the Office of Equity and Human Rights and to have some conversations about how to make sure that those who are most in need are the ones rather than the ones who are most connected to being able to ask. Yes, I totally agree. Good suggestions. Thank you. Thank you. Other requests or questions for Kim? Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then let's take a vote, please. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz, I appreciate very much the answers to the questions and applying for and getting the grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. I do believe it's important to – I'm surprised that the Commission on Disability hasn't been involved in designing the project, and I want to make sure that as it's implemented –
 There's an opportunity, obviously, I would think, for Portland Fire and Rescue staff to be continuing education on equity issues and in particular their service to people who may be deaf or hard of hearing in the regular course of their work as well as in this program. Hi.
 If I could share a piece of information is that both Karen Brooks and Deborah Harrison have been one of the two of the key players in putting this grant together. And so they have made contact with a lot of these groups, and we will be definitely making sure we check all the right boxes and do it correctly. Okay. Fish. Hi. Hi. Thanks very much. Appreciate that discussion. Okay. Let's move on to 897. Okay.
 897, authorized contract with Sargent's Towing for abandoned vehicle towing and storage. And I believe you want this returned? Exactly, Mayor. So without objection, I'll refer this back to Commissioner Novick's office. And 898. 898.
 898, amend contract with Starfish Aquatics Institute, LLC, to provide lifeguard certification and auditing services at multiple Portland Parks and Recreation locations from the original contract amount of $100,000 to $220,000. Mr. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I'm quite excited about this. I've been assigned a speech by my staff. Usually I just toss it over to staff, but I'm going to also ask Eileen Argentina to come forward just in case there are any questions. Okay.
 So, pay attention. This is the presentation. All right. We're in. This is an ordinance to amend an existing contract. It involves ongoing budgeted work in Parks Aquatic Program. Specifically, it's a contract for lifeguard certification and safety auditing, two cornerstones of our safety program.
 This contractor provides safety audits that are conducted without advanced scheduling and follow-up evaluation of our safety responses to ensure continuous improvement. The firm also certifies our lifeguard training program, and I would have to say I'm very proud of our services that we've provided to the families of Portland all summer, including some pretty amazing activities and rescues by our lifeguarding staff. Thank you.
 The emergency ordinance is on the regular agenda because it involves amending a contract for more than 25% of the original amount.
 It was originally awarded pursuant to an open and competitive request for proposals process. Later in that process, the Bureau discovered the successful proposal would not meet our insurance requirements, and then the next and only other proposal was selected. However, at that point, the Bureau needed to make the transition as quickly as possible in order to minimize any gap in these critical services. And so I guess reading between the lines, we may have underestimated in the first place the summary of this.
 The request for proposals anticipated a three-year contract with an option to extend for two years for a total of five years. The unexpected delay during insurance caused the Bureau to have to execute the contract for two years at a cost of $100,000. The three-year amount would have exceeded $100,000 and would have required extra staff time associated with getting to the council agenda. The vendor has performed well, and this ordinance will fulfill the original intent to contract with this vendor for a total of five years by adding three more years. Did I get that right?
 Okay. Questions for either Commissioner Fritz or Eileen. Just a comment, Mayor. When I had the honor of being the Parks Commissioner, we had, I forget what summer it was, Eileen, but we had a near miss in a very crowded pool. And it's because of the training that the lifeguards received that they were able to save a life
 And we did a debrief afterwards, and I learned a lot about the extensive training and also the role that Starfish Aquatics plays in doing the annual training. And the Bureau has an enviable record of keeping our pools and our aquatic programs safe. It's a very difficult job, and it's in part because of the quality of people, Commissioner Fritz, that you hire and who provide services, but it's also because of this training. And so thank you.
 We are literally saving lives because of it, and I'm very grateful that we're making that investment. Okay. Saltzman. Does anybody want to testify? Are we ready? I'm sorry. Yeah, no, I got myself confused in thinking that we were already voting, but we'll see if anyone wants to speak on this item. Got ahead of myself. Okay. There is none, so now we'll take a vote. Roll call. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Congratulations on a successful summer. Aye. Fish. Aye. Okay.
 Hills a very busy summer. Yeah, and these lifeguards do amazing work and having them properly trained means we have lots of great safe days out in pools. So thank you work well done. I okay, two more items in their second readings 899 899 authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the sewer level remote telemetry monitoring demolition and installation
 okay roll call please thank you salesman hi novik hi fritz hi fish hi pails all right and 900 900 authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the skidmore pump station upgrade for an estimated 731 thousand dollars project number salesman hi
 Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? I'm going to vote aye, but I also want to thank both the BES and the Water Bureau for participating in two events recently, Mayor. One was the night market, and having Bull Run Water there was a big hit with people that were hot. And also for both teams participating in Sunday Parkways.
 and providing information to the public through tents and also fresh bull run water. So appreciate their efforts on that. Aye. Me too. Thank you. Aye. And we're recessed until 2 p.m. Sure. 32 signed up. We'll see if they're all here. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the afternoon session of the August 26th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Saltzman. Here. Here.
 Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome everyone. We have a single item on the council calendar. I'll have our clerk read it in a moment, but just some basics first before we get started. This will actually be the continuation of a previous hearing from a week ago. There are people who are signed up to speak from that hearing who didn't get a chance to be heard, so the purpose of today's hearing is to hear them and then to give the council a chance to deliberate and discuss the report that's in front of us.
 If you're here and signed up to speak, I think we'll be trying to allow each person two minutes just because of the number of people, assuming that most of them showed up.
 You don't need to give us your address, just your name if you're here to speak. Obviously, we'll maintain the rules of decorum here in the council chambers as we always do, and that is if you agree with someone and want to show your support for their position, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand and vice versa. If you disagree with someone and really want to demonstrate that, give them a thumbs down or some other polite hand gesture. But we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view in here so that this council gets to hear them.
 So that's the situation. I'll ask our clerk to read the item, since we haven't done that yet. Item number 901. 901.
 Accept the private for hire transportation innovation task force recommendations on taxis and transportation network companies final report. And Commissioner Novick, do you have any comments or suggestions before we start hearing folks? Just that this is an opportunity, of course, to hear from people who didn't get a chance to testify last week.
 and also for the council to identify any questions that they'd like the task force to continue to explore. The task force has done tons of work, and at some point they're going to have to close up shop, and maybe it will not be that they have the capacity to explore every question people might be interested in having them answer, but they're willing to entertain taking a further look at some additional questions.
 We've got a number of people here who are available to answer questions of various kinds. I believe that we have Kenton Brine, Assistant Vice President of Property Casualty Insurers Association, to give us that industry's perspective on insurance questions people might have, take us into the briny deep of those questions, as it were.
 We have Brooke Steger and Kaitlin O'Neill available from Uber to talk about TNC questions. Unfortunately, we don't have a lift representative today. We've got Jody Yates and Ken McGeer to address Private Fire Program questions. Also, just want to say a bit about the timeline. We received the Task Force's report on August 20th. We're going to have a more complete status report on October 7th.
 I expect to have a council work session on a draft final regulatory proposal late October, early November, and the pilot expires on December 19th, so our deadline for having final regulations would be before that.
 That's very helpful. Thank you. Mayor, can I just make a comment? Please. At the last hearing, I noted that the technical issue before us today is whether we accept a report. And in my view, accepting a report is a ministerial action. There's a report. We accept it. It doesn't mean that we are accepting all the recommendations. It means the report goes from the committee to the council for further action.
 As the commissioner in charge just noted, we are not today taking up final regulations. So I just want to signal for people that are testifying, what is helpful for this commissioner and potentially my other colleagues is not having 30 people all say the same thing, because there's no extra credit for just having cumulative testimony. It's having people identify specific issues of concern and educate us about your point of view.
 But 30 people singing off the same hymnal doesn't get us as far as very surgical comments that allow us then, once the testimony is over, to discuss what are our next steps. And I think there's going to be some discussion about directing staff to do some things over the next 120 days. I'd hate you to miss an opportunity to frame your concern by just singing off the same hymnal for the next two hours. So please don't feel you need to repeat.
 a common theme in the testimony. If there's something very specific you want us to understand, please take advantage of the time to educate us. Thank you, Mayor. CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. Thank you. Any other comments or suggestions? All right. Thank you. Let's go to the sign-up sheet of those that, again, signed up but didn't get a chance to speak before. Again, our apologies for that, and thanks for being able to be here if you are here today. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. And we have about 13 I've counted signed up. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. First, Mokhtar Abdu. COMMISSIONER MOKHTAR ABDU.
 Guy Auker and Matt Consola. Okay. Come on up, please. And then they'll be followed by Blake Carson, Wind, Durr, Dyer, thank you, and Delilah Jones. All right. Thanks very much. I think you're on first. Go ahead. Age before beauty. Go ahead. All right.
 i want to thank you for taking the time to do this um just give us your name again i'm sorry my name is matthew consola thanks beth i'm speaking on behalf of the ride share companies um i wanted to start off saying you know i was very frustrated after last week's meeting um you know a lot of things were thrown around that just wasn't true um by by people just making conjecture so i'm hoping that you know you're able to take a lot of this with a grain of salt
 because it really doesn't matter what I, as an Uber driver, think about this and what the cab drivers think. It really depends on what the customer thinks. They wouldn't be choosing to use the rideshare companies if there wasn't a problem and if they didn't want to use them. And the reason the numbers are up is because they like the service better. In the Portland Tribune on January 2nd, a report –
 A report was made that over 1 million people are moving to Portland because we are the number one destination. One million people in the next five years. Last week, we heard that there wasn't enough rides going around and that the rideshare companies were taking all the business. Yet the majority of people using the rideshare apps are people from out of town.
 And with a million more people coming, we have horrible freeways here right now where it's bumper-to-bumper traffic at 2.30 in the afternoon. We need to get these people off the road. And with two or three more cab companies coming on board, obviously there must be enough work to go around if there's all these cab companies coming around. I personally work mostly the 12 midnight to about 5 a.m.
 I know Commissioner Fritz was concerned about surge pricing, and I can say that most of the time that I'm working those hours it's not surge pricing, but there is some because the surge pricing is there to let us know that more cars are needed. And I try to go out in areas like Hillsboro or Lake Oswego where more cars are needed, and I don't concentrate in downtown. Great. Well, thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Hello, everybody. My name is Mukhtar Abdo. First, I want to thank you, our commissioners, our mayor, everybody here to let us to work Portland. And Portland is a great city for everybody. It's not for a particular company. It's not particular. Like what we see now when we're driving Uber, especially radio cab drivers is the one who, wherever they see us,
 they do something bad action, but I want to tell them this town belongs to everybody. It's not belong to one particular person or to any person. And I was here last two weeks, they were talking like false statement. That's not the truth. We Somali, we say the sunshine nobody hold a hand. Uber bring good thing. People like it. The customer, they treat them bad or the driver is,
 who they treat bad is run away from them. They went to the Uber to get a better service, better service to everybody, like the world changing every day. Now we can use...
 The old equipment we use in Telegraph right now, it's not working. You bring that idea, it's not working. This is smart wall and smart phone. So we need it. So all our customers, they happy. I never seen any rude customer, but they happy. They say the selfies is like we happy, whatever we needed. We see where you're going. We see everything. So it's two, three minutes. We picking up the customer. Plus...
 They're saying, if it is a fair, so you charge me same money, I will pick up tomorrow in front of the hotel. I will sit and people raising hand, I will pick up and I will pay same amount of the money you guys saying, but we give you all this opportunity. You don't see what we give you, what we let you, but it's our town. It's not your town. It's for everybody. So I want to tell them if it is fair.
 Fair, fair, fair. The town let's serve our people. It's our own town, our own people. We want to change. We don't want to stay with their own net. That's why we come out and God bring Uber. One of our customers told me Uber good for everything. That means they like it 100%. There is not like 90%. They are like 50% or 25% less everything. They don't do good service. People need it.
 The second thing, our life changed right now. So whatever we needed is whatever we do it. The town will be changed. And I want to tell, it's not the time you're forcing by people's choice. It's the time people follow their own choice and whatever they like. Here, there is too many shops. There is a Dollar Tree shop.
 There is too many shops. One expensive one is this. Let's serve our people. The one who has small money, let him get a ride. The one who has big money, let him get his own ride. It's not you saying, this is my way, this is my rule, this is only me. The world right now changing is with electronic and with internet service. So I want to say thank you for you guys, your vote. We need it. The change of Portland is your vote.
 If you don't do your vote today or tomorrow, our young generation, they don't have best future. They're going to stay like a telegraph.
 Tomorrow, the world will never change. We know in the world there are people who never want to change in the world. Only they want their own interest. They don't look at the interest for the society. Only they look in their pathway. So that's not the answer. The answer is look every side and let the people do their own choice. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you very much.
 Welcome. Hello. My name is Guy Auker. A-U-K-E-R is my last name. First I want to say is I'm a driver for Uber, by the way. And what's nice as a writer, I like the convenience of just pulling out my app and getting a ride. I've used it numerous times in Portland. Number two, as a driver, I just want to say I like being a driver because I am a single father.
 And I like the extra income and the flexibility that as an Uber driver that gives me. And it's nice that anyone with a good driving record and a clean criminal history could just do this. It's a really nice extra income. I do want to say that. The third thing I want to say is, first, Mayor Hills, you're in charge of the police bureau, correct? Yes, correct. One thing I'm curious to see is once we started this, I believe on April 22nd,
 Have we had less drunk driving crashes? And I'm just making sure I'm saying this right. Less drunk driving crashes and less deaths due to drunk driving. And also I would like to know, have we had less drunk driving arrests? Yes.
 I'm very curious to see that number. Good question. I don't know that answer at the moment, but my impression is that it might be better than it was at this time last year. Okay. I will call your office to see if we get that information. We can pull apart those numbers. We know how many traffic deaths and accidents there are. I would love to know that answer. Thank you. That's all I have. Good point. Thank you all. Thanks very much.
 The next three are Blake Carson, Wynn Dwyer, Delilah Jones, and they'll be followed by David Holmquist, Lightning, and Peter Mordasher. My name is Blake Carson. I own a radio cab. It seems that things are finally moving along, and that's almost good. But it's just the question is, what good is four more months going to do? It's not going to buy more time.
 For a proper background check, it's not going to buy more time for them to prove proper insurance. It's not going to do anything but buy them time to have a tragedy in the streets of Portland. And that seems to be the only way that somebody is going to pay any attention. Watching the video from last week, it was brought up, a third-party audit. One of their drivers was removed. And the question should be is how many trips did he give before he was removed?
 You're right, no system is perfect, but you kind of hope that your system will catch a convicted murderer. There was one of those. Thank God that he wasn't here. It's kind of hard to sit and find new things to argue about because we were kind of specific on what our expectations were. It's kind of hard to beat the dead horse, but sometimes the horse needs to get beat. We want a proper background check. One, that a man...
 was convicted of exploitation of a 13-year-old girl, gives 5,700 trips. Do you want your kid in that car if she's 18? That's the only way you can get an Uber ride is if you're 18. It's tick-tock. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Wendy Dyer with Green Transportation. I had plans to come here and say meaningful things to you all, but...
 Quite frankly, I'm sick of talking and you're sick of listening. I would have said those meaningful things anyway had I not found out about an hour before this meeting. We lost one of our taxi drivers last week. C.G. George of Portland Taxi Company, who is maybe in her early 50s, passed away of a heart attack. Down in L.A. this weekend, they found a middle-aged woman slumped over in the back of her Uber vehicle, dead in a parking lot.
 People are literally dying to make 50 cents an hour with their cars or 250 a mile for taxi drivers. You have a city here that is rapidly gentrifying. People of low income with low mobility are rapidly being displaced. Right.
 There are so many people on the freeways trying to get to and from the menial jobs that they can work. Traffic is deplorable. Yeah, I know there's all the port union stuff too, but whatever the case, putting 10,000 other cars on the street isn't going to help anyone make a better living or get anywhere faster or do anything about the income equality and transportation equality gaps we have here between the rich and the poor and the inner city and the outer city. And so...
 I'm just going to ask you, what can you do about this? Because I know you can't bring CE back and whatever happened in L.A. is what happened in L.A. And we like to pretend that those things will never happen here, but they will.
 I want you to do this. Figure out some sort of cap solution that works for both industries. It can be flexible on Uber's part. It can be firm on ours. I don't care. We all need to make a living wage job. And right now, Uber's a shiny new toy. Its gloss is already wearing back. They're coming back to us. Those drivers are going to be hurting just as bad as we are, like they are everywhere else in this nation. Put cameras in the cars. Make them accessible only by your police force.
 We need to protect our drivers and our passengers. We need car-based GPS tracking. We need visible branding, both for enforcement and for safety purposes on the TNC cars. It can be removable. There are such things as magnets. They use them elsewhere. They should use them here.
 We need insurance, full insurance, when those cars are on the road operating commercially, and that includes period one. We also need accidental occupational insurance like we cab drivers have. Uber drivers need those, too.
 And last but not least, my personal pet peeve, the fire extinguishers. Dan Saltzman, please don't back down on that one. They got these little keychain fire extinguishers that they were given out at the not ASE inspections. Make them at least have the keychain fire extinguishers. They're really important. If you do the research with your fire department, you'll realize that they're not a thing of the past. And if cab drivers have to have them, Uber drivers have to have them, too. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. You're welcome. Thank you.
 My name is Delilah Jones and I am an owner at Radio Cab. I've been driving for seven years. I do want to, like you were saying, Nick Fish, I want to make this an educational opportunity for you guys. I'm not sure if you're familiar with the permitting process, so I'm going to walk you through it pretty briefly. Basically, when you first want to be a taxi driver, you go to the City of Portland, I guess it's now the Bureau of Transportation dealing with it, and you show your face.
 You take a test. It's not very hard. I passed it in eight minutes with 100%. Granted, I'm a native Portlander, but it checks that you know your way around a little bit. You get a background check. You get a driving record check. You pay them $100. You get your picture taken, and then you get this piece of plastic with a sticker on it. Every year you go back, you give them another $100. That $100 goes to pay for your background check and the staffing in this office.
 and your driving record check again every year. So this year was different because of the short-term fix that you guys did where I got a free sticker for three months or four months, and then I just got this one in the mail that's good for a year. It's good until May 2016, as it would have been. But I didn't have to pay for it, so that means the city is. The city is paying for my background check. My question is, I've read the recommendations of the –
 task force and they suggest that the permitting process should be shifted from the public to the private sector and I don't really understand why this is not an onerous difficult thing to do it takes about 45 minutes it costs a hundred dollars I looked on Craigslist today Uber is advertising that you can make seven hundred and sixty eight dollars a week which is a really arbitrary number
 So one day of work for the entire year, right?
 And you're covered. And the fact is, at this office, you know, you know that every person who has one of these pieces of plastic has been vetted by a very good background check. You know the background check. You know that the driver has done it. You can also at that point check that they have the proper commercial insurance unless you – I would love to see what California has done is to require that from the point that the app is turned on to the point that the app is turned off, the Uber driver is covered completely.
 primarily by Uber. But if you guys can't mandate that or the state can't mandate that, then this is an opportunity. The city can check that they have the proper commercial insurance and that nobody's going to fall through the cracks.
 Thank you very much. That's very helpful. Is that the annual check? Is it your understanding that there's an annual background check? Yes, there is. I actually called the PBOT today and verified that. In fact, they did do a background check. They will do background checks. New drivers at this point don't have to pay anything. So this is a great opportunity since we're not charging for the next 12 months, apparently. Any Uber driver in this room can go and get one of these and be covered and have no questions about it.
 We haven't decided that yet. Okay, well... And we're also going to be working on the insurance issue. I appreciate that. Now, last week there was mention of a $600 a year. That's a separate issue. That's the plate that's on the back of my cab. I actually thought about bringing it in, but I didn't have the proper tools to remove it. So that is an annual renewal fee, $600 per plate. So I pay $300. My business partner who drives during the day pays $300. And...
 What's that for? That is supposedly it's for enforcement, although I have never heard of it. I mean, I've been driving for seven years. Nobody's ever taken a look at this. Does your car have to be re-inspected for that $600? It does, yeah. My car is inspected twice a year, once by the city and once by my company. And it's a mechanical inspection as well as making sure that I have my fire extinguisher, my first aid kit, my...
 You know, my camera's in good working order. The meter is clicking at the right rate, all that sort of stuff. And presumably if you showed up and tried to take your cab out and it had a cracked windshield, your supervisor would see that and say, no, you can't drive this. Yes.
 Yeah, that's happened. Thank you. That's very helpful. So if I could just beg your indulgence for a second. On the primary insurance question for commercial insurance, my understanding is there's consensus up here that it will be primary during all the periods. So I appreciate you, but that's my understanding. But the insurance issue, there's a wrinkle, and I'd like to get your opinion on this. Someone gave me a chart because they know that I visualize things better than read things.
 So in period one, TNCs offer less insurance than cabs. In periods two and three, TNCs typically offer more commercial insurance. Well, just hang on. And so whether you accept or reject the premise of the question, we're going to have to grapple with something nonetheless, which is do we mandate –
 for cabs and TNCs at a specific level for all purposes? And if so, what should the amount be? So what should the amount be? I think a mandated minimum would be sufficient. Because Radio Cab exceeds the mandated minimum. I don't know what those numbers are. I'm not an insurance person. I think what we're hearing is cabs are at a half million, and
 and T&Cs are below that in period one, potentially above it. So one option is to mandate parity at the level of, say, a million, a million dollars for all purposes. I'm not asking you to bind everybody here, but do you have a view on that?
 That seems sufficient to me. That's what Radio Cab covers, is a million at all. You could say there should be parity. But parity, absolutely. Whatever it is, it should apply equally to both. Absolutely. And the argument that I heard last week was that during period one, the Uber driver could be sitting in a coffee shop watching YouTube videos. I don't know why that distinction. Well, and the fact is that then it's lowered risk and they'll get a lower premium. So what?
 Yeah, I personally don't accept that distinction, so you've persuaded me of that. So primary insurance, parity for all providers, and now the question is, what's the middle?
 A million dollars seems reasonable to me, but I'm not, you know. Industry standard. Industry standard. I think some have, with medical accounts, have two million, the cab companies. So, you know, that's for specialized accounts. But across the board, one million. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks very much. And the next three, please. David Holmquist, Lightning, and Peter Mordasher. They'll be followed by Paul Lascones, Mike McDermott, and Rochelle Manaschi. Afternoon.
 Afternoon. Who would like to be first? Go ahead. Okay, Lightning, go ahead. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. In my opinion, the pilot program's over. I think Uber and Lyft should leave the city. And let me state why. The cab companies during this pilot program have lost a tremendous amount of profits. They've invested a lot of money over the years, many, many years, and they're still here today.
 They're also losing a tremendous amount of money. The drivers also, the companies' valuations are plummeting immediately. If this pilot program has any meaning, we should stop Uber and Lyft at this time until they can come back to the table and say, how are we going to prevent this? We talk about shared economy. We want to come into the Portland market. No, you want to come in and do a hostile takeover on the Portland market.
 That's what you've done in other states. You have 150,000 drivers in India. You have 42,000 drivers in China. This is such a small market. You don't have to do a hostile takeover here.
 Think about what you're doing. This is a pilot program. Do not step on the traditional cab companies to gain competitive edge here. It doesn't boost your company all that much anyway. So I want you to think about how you're going to come into town and work with these cab companies, work with the drivers, and check...
 where their incomes are. I want to know how much money you're going to invest into the city. I want to know what your future plans are on taking care of the people in this city and not just skimming off the top and taking the money back to San Francisco. So I want you to slow up a little bit and think about taking care of these cab company owners, taking care of the drivers, and don't come in here like a hostile takeover and try to take over this market because Portland will stand behind us
 They're traditional cab companies. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. I want to thank you and admire you first. I'm David Holmquist. For your conduct as a counsel last Wednesday in listening to what was being said, I think much of it was uncivil, much of it was antisocial, and much of it was misinformation. So I admire your job. I couldn't put up with it myself, but you did. Thank you very much.
 I'm not going to read what I wrote for last week. I handed out copies of that. On the insurance issue, I'd like to just say that a million is enough, and I think what insurance should do is cover the apparent risk. When the risk is low, you shouldn't have to cover very much. In period one and period two, the driver is alone in the car, and the real issue is the damage he might do to somebody else and the damage done to himself and his car.
 That's a lower level of risk than a million dollars. Sir, let's take your point first. And who do you represent? Uber. I didn't hear that. I represent myself. I drive for Uber. I'm sorry. I didn't pick up on that when you introduced yourself. So if we mandate a minimum amount of insurance,
 why not let the marketplace determine what the premium is calibrated to the risk? You make a persuasive point that there may be less risk in period one. So if we mandate what the minimum coverage is, presumably an insurance company is going to charge less for that amount of insurance because there's less risk.
 Let the marketplace sort that out, and I think isn't our job to set what the floor should be? Yes, I believe that what you say is true. I wouldn't like to see the city council set insurance practices by levels of coverage. I do think that the period when we have three or four, five or six people in our car is a tremendously higher risk, and I question whether a million is enough in today's market.
 health care situation, which is really high. Again, just to be clear, sir. Yes. You have no quarrel with the council setting the minimums, and you and I agree that then the marketplace can figure out what is the appropriate cost for that insurance. I do have some quarrel with your setting the minimums.
 This is not my area of specialty, but I would think that would be something that Uber would want to work out and the taxi companies as well to protect their investment and their liability. Again, I'm not here to argue the point, but...
 Our concern is not protecting Uber or the taxi companies. Our concern is protecting the public safety. Mine too. And if someone, God forbid, is hit by a vehicle, we want to make sure there's adequate coverage for that person. So that's the public interest for us, not the marginal impact of the cost on the operator. I think Uber and I and taxi companies would agree with that. I also wanted to say something about CAPS.
 I don't see caps as necessary because in our way of doing this business, the drivers can quit any time they want to quit. They can walk away from that day's work by signing off the wrap and going home. We don't have to put in 12 hours. That means that if there's not business on the streets available, if we're driving or not driving, but if we're not driving people around, we're wasting our own resources. So what we do then is we go home.
 or we park, and we turn on our app and wait. We are not driving around, Ms. Fritz. We do not drive around aimlessly, thousands of cars in this city wasting resources. That would be really stupid. I'm not stupid. I don't believe the other drivers are either. So when there is not business, I'm saying, we quit. We quit.
 So you're saying that you take somebody out to Lentz and you just stay there until there's another ride back from Lentz? I'm saying when they're... No. At times, some people do, and they wait for a ride in Lentz. Sometimes that works, sometimes it doesn't. But more often than not, we turn off our engine and wait for a ride to happen. It does happen that the core of Portland has more riders than elsewhere, mostly because most of our riders, two-thirds in my case...
 are from out of town, and they're here in the core doing business, staying in hotels, eating at the great restaurants. They're not in the suburbs. So I just wanted to say that about caps. So we are self-limiting. If the business isn't there, we're not on the road. And like we've heard here, if someone's not making any money doing Uber, they're going to quit. They're going to quit the business. It's a self-limiting thing. So caps aren't necessary.
 I don't understand why there are caps on the number of caps. Other than that, perhaps, this is only conjecture, the city fathers are saying you people shouldn't be in cars, you should be in public transportation on bikes and on your feet. And I don't think that's a position that our city council should be taking to determine how people get around. In fact,
 Private-for-hire rides are a very strong business. People want it. What we should do is make sure that there's public safety and that there's quick service, good service. And you're about that task, I think, and that's good.
 But as for determining how people get around in the city, you're making options available, and that's good. The new Tilikum Crossing bridge is a marvelous thing. No cars or trucks are involved. And that's a tremendous commitment from the city to public transportation and alternate means of getting around. That's a multi-million dollar commitment. Very good. But neither taxis nor Uber will be using that bridge.
 We could use another one. We hope so. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Hello. My name is Peter Mordeshev. I have been an owner-operator of RadioCap Company since 2008 until June 1, 2014. I'm currently a partner with Uber Technologies. And I have to say, after the last meeting, I'm kind of embarrassed with being with the company, the RadioCap Company, for so long, for hearing so many false points that those people brought up.
 I don't have time, like we all don't have time to go through all those false points right now. I'll just bring up one. Mr. Darren Campbell is a profound liar and a manipulator who was making a presentation here. He represents, well, I have to say he never represented for me, never will. He made a point that because Uber customers have cell phones and credit cards,
 than Uber take like skimming off the top and taking all the best fares. That's simply not true. Here's Tuesday, August the 25th, 22 trips total, $125.31. Divide 125.31 by 22, it will be less than $6, but more than $5 per trip.
 Now, I'm not making a point that UberDrive is not making money or anything like that. I'm making a point that Darren Campbell is a liar and manipulator, or at the very least, he just doesn't know the facts, which I do not believe is true. Sir, can I just make an observation? We celebrate the First Amendment in this country, and we celebrate your right to come and, within boundaries, say whatever you want.
 I have yet in my seven years on the council seen a debate made better and more helpful and more useful when we question people's motives or we use derogatory language. You may have a very strong view about the testimony of someone, but I just would encourage all of us, we don't need to disparage people we disagree with. If you have a disagreement...
 State the disagreement. We're adults. We're going to listen very carefully to you. But I think we should avoid name-calling and derogatory comments. It lowers everybody. Yeah, so just tell us what you think we need to know. Okay. Well, I'm just saying I just try to let you all know that some points that were brought up during the past meeting were just false.
 That's the only point I was trying to make, and I brought up an example. And also I would like to say that I'm happy with being an Uber partner because being with Uber encourages a person to find a job, finally. Because all I heard from cab drivers last meeting and this meeting, money, money, money, dollars and cents, give me more, give me more, give me more money. Social Security Office on Yamhill, Yamhill and 16th, over that way.
 You broke, go over there. Don't go here. This is a business. Whoever provides a service for lower price wins. Period. End of story. Thank you very much. If I may finish my speech real fast, just 10 seconds. Briefly, please. We need to understand when the traditional taxi companies and the drivers are hurting right now, the next people to take the biggest loss and to understand this will be public transportation, streetcar companies,
 TriMet Max and buses. When UberPool becomes efficient, they'll cut into your profits, and I can assure you at that time you're going to really look real close at this because that's public money that you're all responsible, and you better watch Uber, and you better watch Lyft real fast because they're not here just to get 2,000 drivers here. That's small time for them. They're here to take over your public transportation.
 And the public has a right for you to defend us and protect our rights on that. Look around, state to state. They're no joke. Thank you very much. One very last thing. In five years from now, there will be self-driving cars all over the place. So what are we going to do, sit here and be like, oh, poor driver's not making any income. Let's not allow self-driving cars? Really? I don't think so. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Next three, please. Paul Esconis, Mike McDermott, Rachelle Manaschi, followed by John Moran, Tony Seymour, Gene Tiber. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you very much. My name is Paul Esconis. I've been driving for GreenCap for over 13 years, and I'm here to talk specifically about the recommendation of no caps in the industry.
 So creating public policy that works can be an art form. You need to balance the needs and wants of all the stakeholders. You guys know this. I've been creating policy for Green Cab for over 12 years on their safety committee and disciplinary committee. Now, this idea of having no caps is – well, actually, I'm sorry. Let me back up. Okay.
 So the balance is of the needs and wants of all the stakeholders. When it's done right, you have growth. That's what I want to say. When it's not done right, you have other things. You've got things like destruction. You've got things like desperation. You've got things like crime. So the history of bad policies in the transportation industry in Portland, we only had two cab companies for a long time, like the limo driver from New York.
 Uber pointed out last week, after 30 years of being the only two companies, they got lazy and their cabs weren't anything to be proud of. So then the city did a good thing. They allowed three more companies to enter the market, and all the companies had to ramp up their game in order to be competitive. Then we had another bad policy was introduced called the moratorium. For over 12 years…
 Every year, TestFi at Green Cab would submit new applications for new cabs, and they were denied. They were denied even for new wave vehicles. So the community cried out that there was a problem with the cab companies, not realizing that the cab companies had their hands tied. So then, after all this time with no new cars, now we want to put thousands of new cars on the streets.
 I'm not against Uber being here. I'm just against the idea that everyone who has put a significant investment is going to have that investment pay off. I'm worried that it's going to destroy some of the companies. I'm worried it's going to destroy some lives. I'm worried that it's going to cause a gross imbalance. And so far, all I can see is it just serves the needs of the no-cap policy, just serves the needs of Uber as a company. Right.
 I think even as a Uber driver, I don't want 10,000 Uber drivers out there. A couple thousand, whatever the market will allow, that's great. But let's not just rush into no caps. I need you to wrap up. I have a lot more to say, but I'll leave it right there. Thank you very much. That's very helpful. Welcome. Thanks for having me here. My name is Mike McDermott. I'm a wheelchair van driver at Radio Cab Company. I'm on Uber.
 the board of directors at the cab company and i'm the former board of directors liaison to the safety committee i'd like to speak to a few topics one of the one of the primary ones is the level of capping we have in this city or that we used to have we used to have we used to have caps on our on our permits and we would treasure those we tried to we would try to appeal to the city to get more permits
 People call them plates. Each cab is attached to a permit. That means they can pick up within the city of Portland. They've been inspected twice. My wheelchair van was inspected, had a surprise audit the other day by Will Martin up in Peabot. They called a cab to New Rose City, but New Rose City forwarded the call to us. I answered the call and showed up. So we audited my vehicle. The interesting thing is we bring in Uber.
 to help alleviate all of the complaints we get from midnight travelers coming home from bars, going home late at night from work, and we can't do it because we don't have enough cars out. So what does the city do? The city says, well, I'm sorry, there's enough permits. If we allow more permits to go out, it might create a monopoly, and we don't want to do that. So they allow Uber in. The city allowed Uber in.
 to help alleviate that, even though this could have been fixed in the status quo, and it was never fixed. It was never even addressed. We tried to get more permits, and we couldn't do it. I'm on the Board of Directors. I know about the conversations we have. I know what we try to do, and I know we've tried to approach the city about it. We allowed other cab companies in because we want to make sure that people are fairly represented.
 We still do many more trips than our closest competitors combined. Our average driver is driving 50,000 to 60,000 miles per year per shift on their vehicle. Not per shift, but over the year. And we're...
 We're not, you know, the other cab companies can't do it because they don't have the reputation that we have. We have great managers who take care of the lease drivers, and we make sure that the lease drivers comply with our safety standards. We make sure they comply with the city's safety standards, Mayor. And Uber is, now we're just allowing a bunch of amateurs on the road. They've already hit our vehicles. I've already seen the damage they're doing.
 I know the amounts of damage they're doing. And I do agree with you, Mr. Fish. There needs to be parity, a million-dollar limit on all levels. It needs to happen. You know, whether or not they say that they're going to sit under a shady tree or over at a coffee shop, that's not true because they're going to be driving somewhere. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Rochelle Menashe and I have been a radio cab driver for four years. I started driving cab because I am partially handicapped and this is pretty much the only thing I've been able to do is to make a living. I do collect medical and some minimal amount of disability. I have a cap on the amount of money that I'm allowed to make and otherwise I will lose my benefits.
 So since Uber and Lyft have, you know, this pilot program has started, I find myself having to work at least two to three times harder and longer hours than I was before. Pretty soon I'm not going to be able to afford my rent. And I'm sure there's a lot of other drivers in the same boat. We, you know, as a cab driver, I take great pride in, you know, I call this my career, my career choice. There's...
 There's many years of people putting into this industry and to allow TNCs to come in and operate. We work very, very hard all week long in order to be able to reap the rewards of high volume peak hours, the weekends, rush hour work.
 and now that, you know, it seems like most of the testimony I heard last week was from Uber and Lyft drivers claiming that they only work part-time and during those peak hours. So they're taking our bread and butter away. Those are the days, those are the times that I know I can count on making more than minimum wage. This pilot program has already been, you know, accepted. Mayor Hales, Steve Novick, we know you met behind closed doors with Uber lobbyist Mark Wiener.
 And even though it seems like it's a done deal, you know, I urge the rest of you to please put a stop to this. I had a customer the other day ask me if I do this as a hobby or as my job. And that just really hit home with me. You open the door. You can close it. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Well, pick the next. And the next three, John Moran, Tony Seymour, Jeanette Tiberre.
 followed by John Holgate and Kadir Wako. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hello. I'd like to thank the council members for the opportunity to speak today. My name is John Moran, and I'm a proud driver for the local ride-share company, Radio Cab. I like to use the term ride-share company because the TNCs like to use it, even though it's clearly a misnomer.
 There is no sharing in the TNC's ride share model. It's hiring a driver and a vehicle to take you where you're going, not sharing a ride where they happen to be going. The Bureau of Transportation doesn't even believe this lie, so they have coined the term transportation network companies. But I digress. I'm here to make the point of carrying capacity.
 This term is used by biologists and economists alike. It's defined as the maximum equilibrium number of organisms a particular species can be supported indefinitely by a given environment. Basically, if there is space and resources, those organisms will grow and expand until they have reached this number. One thing to note is that when this number is surpassed, times of famine and die-off ensue. I'd like you to keep this point in mind and come back to this.
 For years, the Bureau of Transportation has kept the number of permitted taxis lower than the amount the taxi companies were asking for. This had the side effect of slower wait times for taxi customers, but what it did was ensure the taxi drivers themselves had a livable wage. It also limited the number of vehicles on the road. As Portland grows, we are experiencing more traffic. If you haven't driven it yourself, please trust me. I am out there every day.
 I bring these two points up because back in February, the private to hire board of review finally approved more taxi permits. 242 were to be given out, an increase to Oregonian reported as 63% more than was even on the road at the time. It takes a while to purchase, paint, and outfit cars with meters, cameras, dispatching system, and taxi light. So the decrease in wait time for customers wasn't immediate.
 As these cabs were coming online, the pool of taxis grew by 63% and the Innovation Task Force approved the TNCs to work in Portland, which then just increased the number of it flooded the market. As a taxi company, we are still only permitted a maximum number of vehicles on the road and the TNCs are allowed unlimited number of taxis. Don't let them say they are not taxis.
 The result of these two incidents has been a famine to all private to hire drivers citywide. We haven't just hit carrying capacity, we have blown over the number. In January of 2012, then Mayor Sam Adams directed City of Portland Revenue Bureau to complete a comprehensive review of the economic and working conditions of taxi drivers.
 The review found that the effective hourly income of Portland taxi drivers is $6.22.
 You're chopping up living wage jobs for part-time supplemental income jobs. If that report was done today, that income would have decreased. RadioCab isn't afraid of competition. We have been a proud staple of Portland for 75 years. Uber and Lyft are just competitions. But what you're allowing them to have is the upper hand in this competition.
 which is why I ask that you see what the result in the customer wait times is with just the 63% increase by, say, no TNCs.
 So you can get an idea of what that decrease in wait times is without being allowed for the TMCs to take credit for it. Their numbers on wait times are skewed anyways. Cavs pick up further out in the suburbs. The times it takes to get out there is longer. Whereas the numbers shown by the task force show that TNCs rarely go out to the suburbs.
 I need you to try to wrap up quickly. I will do so. I know that capping the number on TNCs on the road isn't new to Uber. They have successfully bullied New York into stepping back on that regulation, which is why if it's going to be done, it should be done now, because they won't allow it later.
 If not to help private-to-hire drivers keep a livable wage, please do it to help us decrease traffic. The City Council is here to make Portland better. Let your legacy be that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. My name is John Moran, and I'm an Uber driver full-time. I drive between 40 and 50 hours a week. And I think one of the main topics that I would like to bring up is,
 what I hear every day from my passengers, the dislike of cab companies. They're sick to death of unreliable service. They love Uber. They use it other places. Like it's been said here before, the majority, I'd say probably a good two-thirds of my passengers are from out of town. They're tourists and business people. I've had business people tell me that
 They did not like coming to Portland because Uber was not here. They were so dissatisfied with the service. I had one gentleman actually tell me that he refused to come to Portland. He sent his other people because he was so frustrated with the taxi services. I'm a recovering alcoholic. I've been sober almost 10 years. And, you know, I'm not proud to say that I'm sure on many occasions I drank and drove.
 I think if Uber was around at that time, I would have used it a lot more. I really think that there's so many more people that are getting out of their cars, deciding not to drive to the bar, because there is a reliable service that they can call, they can see immediately when it's coming, and they can call.
 When they call a cab, many of the time the cab doesn't turn up. When the cab turns up, they come out, and there's someone else getting into their cab. So it's a very, very reliable service. And I would really applaud you to actually talk to the people that actually use the service, not just the cab companies, not just the Uber drivers or the Lyft drivers, the actual people that use the service. They love it. They absolutely love it. Yeah.
 I think that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Tony Seymour, and I am a RadioCab owner, have been for 14 years. Thanks very much for your participation and your willingness to listen to some of the interesting comments that you've been getting. One thing that I would like to reiterate that I think has been forgotten in this whole thing, and that is that when this was all put together, when the transportation plan for Portland was put together,
 The taxi cab was the lowest common denominator of it. In other words, with taxi cabs, we can build a system, and then we'll have buses and we'll have trolley cars and we'll have whatever's above that to move a large amount of people once upon a time. But I've got to tell you that when it stops, when public transportation stops, who do you call? It's not the Ghostbusters. It's the cabs. And we're there all night because we're required to be there 24 hours a day.
 Now, is there a lot of business from 3 o'clock in the morning until 7 o'clock in the morning? No, there isn't. But do we get to go home, as one of the Uber drivers suggested, was probably his idea about what he should be doing when he's not moving. If I were moving all the time, I could have retired years ago. The truth is that a good share of the time I'm sitting and I'm waiting for work.
 This reminds me of a little story that I'll bore you with for a second. There's a joke about a pig and a chicken about how they participate in breakfast. And the truth is that the chicken is a participant in breakfast, and the pig is committed. You guys are the chicken. We're the pig.
 And I don't mind doing that. I love what I do. But the truth is, we are the ones that are committed to doing the work, and we have been. And we've been doing the city's work all this time, letting you have a public transportation system. Can you imagine running your public transportation system all night long? No, because you've been asked to do it, and you've said no, consistently. TriMet has said no, and the city council has probably, you know, pushed that along. Thank you.
 I actually had a lot more things that I wanted to say, but basically what I want you to know is that I think it's important to remember that the human factor here is really important. The cab drivers and their companies have been taking care of the people who can't take care of themselves in Portland for a long time. This gentleman right here spoke of taking care of businessmen and tourists. Those are the people that cab drivers love to have because generally they're going someplace and they don't mind spending a little money.
 But what about your mom that's at the grocery store and wants somebody to come pick her up and take her groceries into the house for her? I guarantee that Uber drivers will not be signing up for that one. But the trick is for us that we're required to do those things that we don't mind. We don't mind doing it at all. But the trick is if you take away the cream of the crop, we've got nothing left. And what you're going to do is put a lot of people out of business because they can't afford to continue to be only doing the crappy jobs.
 I know that all of the cab drivers that I know are voters. And the people that we carry in our cabs are voters. And one of the things that seems like right now, you guys are stuck in a place where you could either stop this thing and start over again, or at least add some of the information and comments that you've received that will make it work, because we're not asking for you to throw them out, or at least I'm not. I think ultimately we're going to have to face the fact that this is something that's coming in the 21st century.
 What's happened is you guys have come off at warp speed to make this thing happen. One of our city councilmen was on the phone with them screaming at them when they told them, you can't come to our city and do that. And what's going on now? Please come to our city. We want you here. There's something kind of missing about that.
 I feel sort of like the little kid that told the emperors that he was naked in the parade. Because it's like, you know, here we have this thing where everybody's saying, oh, this is going to be so wonderful. And the truth is...
 It's not that wonderful. It needs to be brought into our system, our Portland cab industry layout, and the way that it's been put together by the city needs to be brought in gently, not all at once, not helter-skelter. That's all I got. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. The next three I have are John Holgate, Kadir Wako, and Alem Tesfaye, and Jeanette.
 I did call your name. Somebody else came up. We'll get you up. Have a seat. Jeanette, you'll be next. We'll get you up in the next round. And then Jeanette and Kirk Foster will be after these gentlemen. Welcome. Yes, I'm John Holgate. I have been driving with Uber since November last year when we were operating out in the suburbs. I live in southeast Portland.
 I'm one of these Uber drivers who drive during those hours from past 12 midnight, sometimes as late as 7 in the morning. And I know just from having met with some of my other drivers at the airport and other locations that we do have people out there working in those hours and taking some of those difficult trips that the prior gentleman was talking about. So...
 But that's not really what I came to talk about so much as I have to ask a question. Why are we so intent on capping the number of drivers? The way I'm seeing it, what I've been hearing from coming to these meetings is that there's two main reasons for setting caps.
 And the first one is congestion. The other one is trying to ensure that drivers make a living. And I want to challenge those notions. For every – now, let's start with congestion. For every adult driving age passenger in an automobile or riding in an Uber or a taxi, you're eliminating one more car off the road. Right?
 In addition to that, the cars that are out there moving people around are getting full utilization out of those cars, and they are taking up less parking spaces around the city. So that's eliminating another form of congestion. Another concern had to do with, you know, pollution and exhaust emissions and everything.
 Uber drivers, I can't speak for everybody, but I can speak for rideshares, the Ubers and Lyft people. A lot of us are in this business for ourselves, and we have a financial incentive to drive cars that are fuel efficient. A lot of us have Priuses. I own a Prius. Some people own Leafs or other fully electric automobiles. Now, the...
 The other thing I wanted to mention is that when you're talking about ensuring that the drivers that are out there can make a living, is it really the city's job to ensure that people can make a living? I thought in order to make a living, you have to be able to provide a service that people value and that people are willing to pay for that service. That's what determines whether or not you make a living.
 But if the city is setting things up in such a way that, you know, you limit the number of people out there doing that job so that all of them can make a living at it, then we're kind of moving beyond what should be a business operation to a de facto welfare program. And I like to suggest that, you know, if you're looking at capping licenses for people to drive in the city –
 How are you going to cap what the demand is out there for the people?
 Because when you do that, you're going to constrain the people who actually need a ride. We're going to go back to having longer wait times and even people not getting rides. Now, it may not happen right away after you pass some sort of capping scheme, but over time as things change, we're going to be right back where we started from, and who knows, maybe there'll be another disruptive technology to come in and kind of change the playing field like it's happened before. Okay.
 So thank you very much for your time, and I'm finished. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Kadir Wako. I'm the general manager of Union Cab Cooperative. I have been in the taxi industry since 1998 when I first started as a cab driver. Union Cab was established in 2013 after working diligently for three years to be issued 50 permits.
 Union Cab is a company affiliated with CWA, AFA, CIO, and the job with justice. We follow the rules. We follow the process and we did it right. We chose the taxi industry for our livelihood so that we may support our families and provide our children with the choice they will need to be successful. Deregulation. The removal of cabs on permit will saturate the market and dilute the earning potential of all drivers, taxi and TNC alike.
 This will have a grave consequence on many families of drivers who are already limited in their ability to earn a living wage. The taxi industry, however, has a cost because of its unique nature and it is part of the public utility system. Balancing on the supply and demand of the taxi allows the system to operate sustainably and allows the driver to make a living wage. A cost ensures the taxi company can deliver on the CD Monday service requirement.
 CAP is not monopoly. It is simply a monitoring system administration can use. If all CAPs are removed on the number of taxis in the TNC that are serving the market, the supply floodgate will open. Yet the underlying demand will remain unchanged as we have witnessed. The result raised to the bottom with no one making a reasonable income in the fallout of our industry to most dedicated drivers.
 If the drivers are no longer able to earn an income, their option for family survival will be extremely limited. Drivers and their family could quickly become homeless and consequently depend upon welfare. The burden will then fall on the CD and ultimately the taxi fare. Under your leadership, Mayor Hills, taxi drivers and small cab companies are suffering from the wrong regulation taken by your office. In 2012, CDO Portland study showed that
 Taxi drivers barely make a living wage based on hours. There is no change for the drivers except flooding the city with thousands of vehicles. Increasing the number of permits does not increase the number of drivers' income. Meyer Health. As the son of a cab driver, please remember the time away from home that your father committed daily driving. Fees. Union cab fees pays those permit fees by collecting...
 from cab owners of the company. 1,000 company annual fee, 600 vehicle annual fee per vehicle, and $100 driver annual fee. The application permit fee must be uniformly applied to all for hire transportation companies including technology taxi company or TNC. Technology taxi company must carry educated commercial insurance like any other taxi company. Most importantly,
 In the upcoming months, there will be another 250 cabs added to the Portland metro area. We ask the City Council to authorize more cab stands in the following areas. All major hotels and motels in Portland metro area, shopping centers like Safeway, Fred Meyer, Winkos, and Walgreen, and all northwest Portland area per district, restaurants and bars.
 By adding those cab stands, the City of Portland will avoid congestion that is already highly congested by overdrivers in those already overpopulated areas. We highly urge the City Council to establish a level playing field and carefully consider the impact on drivers when determining the right balance between increasing supply and preserving family weight. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Tasfi. I think most of you know me. And the testimony I'm giving is submitted already to all of you. I am lucky. Forty years ago, I was politically a prisoner in Ethiopia because I opposed the country's dictatorship. I was tortured daily. I just wanted to die at the time. But somehow, I escaped with my life over time.
 I got married, moved to Portland, and raised a family of four children. I was able to achieve the American dream thanks to the goodness of the city of Portland. One of you, Charlie, Mayor Charlie Hills. I was able to, okay, I'm sorry, be able to achieve the city of Portland. This where I earned the opportunity to be a cab driver, then co-founder of Green Transportation Corporation.
 Since being founded in 1997, our company, which operates sedan, taxis, shuttles, medical, and web transportation, has been doing very well. Over the years, we have taken a keen pride in operating a well-run business with little to no debt. We provided family-wage income until April. Applied for additional permit two years ago and followed all the procedures required
 The city established, including showing the demand for more taxis. After going through all the steps in good faith, I was awarded new permits two months before the pilot project. Part of getting these new permits was the requirement that I purchase web vehicles, which I did right away. This year, I paid 18,450 permits to 82 permits.
 Then, along comes Uber, which, without going through any procedure spelled out to the city code, they were suddenly granted unlimited ability to put an unlimited number of taxis on the road, with no real requirement for wheelchair-accessible vehicles, and no requirement to the same level of insurance that branded taxi companies are required to provide. And,
 Uber only paid $20,000 permit fee for its unlimited number of vehicles. Uber and Lyft have approximately 3,200 vehicles on the streets of Portland. If they paid the same permit fee that the branded taxi companies in Portland paid combined, they would owe the city of Portland almost $2 million. None of this is fair. Why and how did this happen?
 It is because Uber bullied the city into approving an opportunity that was denied me for years. Like the other branded taxi companies in Portland, green transportation is small business. We provided web services. We give 24-7 coverage to all areas of the city. And we pay in commercial insurance. Many of the branded taxi drivers in the city are immigrants, just like me.
 The same stories and life experience similar to mine. You have given a 50 billion California-based company an advantage over us. Then, when the trial period began, you said Portland existing branded taxi companies could have an unlimited number of cars, too. After spending half a million dollars on new wheelchair vehicles, I could not afford to buy another vehicle.
 Portland City leaders, I thought, had rewarded my company for providing exceptional service. But I was wrong. You have instead helped to drive my business into a state of disrepair.
 I have several web vehicles that are not being driven now because many drivers cannot sustain their family by driving them. They say they cannot afford to serve personnel with disabilities because those are not the most profitable. How is this that solves the web problem here in Portland? It's not. It has just created a new problem. Green transportation has spiraled into debt.
 What is the message this sends to Portland-grown businesses if an out-of-state company comes here, ignores all the rules, and operates as it pleases, forcing local companies out of business? The city of Portland has failed miserably on four of the eight guidelines, principles, of the so-called pilot project.
 The current regulations have not provided an environment that promotes fair competition. I want you to wrap up. Yes. The current regulations are given over and leave competitive advantage, excluding web services. Taxi drivers are no longer able to make living wages.
 And there is not an effective enforcement that is ensuring that Uber and Lyft are following the same regulations that have been put in place. If only you had figured out a way to honor those of us who have invested everything into our company, a cap on the number of branded and unbranded taxis would have helped.
 But in the end, I still feel lucky. I survived prison and daily torture by a very corrupt government. I can survive this. But green transportation may not survive. We have followed your rules. If we fail, it is on you. Can I say something just in addition? We have followed the insurance, the waiver.
 the permitting processes, and the background check. We've done everything we can do, but on the back of us, the billion-dollar companies have come and pushed us into the corner. Maybe we are going to go out of business. What we did is a level playing field so that we're not one thing that everybody is trying to say is we are not asking Uber to get out.
 We're asking to have the same level field, insurance, permitting. Why do we think that they do not want to use the city of Portland for permitting? Because if we're asking the number of vehicles, if they are paying for the number of vehicles, they will know. If they are paying for the number of drivers, they will know. If they are paying for the company, they will know. Everything will be known if it goes through the city of Portland. It has to go. It has to be done that way. That's what we have done.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Yeah. I just want to add, there is a way to naturally cap the drivers in this area, and that is through the market. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Others that we have signed up? Okay. Jeanette and Kurt, if you'll come up. Come on up. Kurt Foster. This is just people that. The other gentleman wants to testify? Okay.
 So actually, at the end of the last hearing, there was a procedural issue with the council clerk not being able to take additional sign-ins, even though at the end of every hearing we always say, does anybody else want to testify? So I took the list of the four names of the folks who were here last week. We'll certainly take those folks. So please, go ahead. Jeanette Thiebert. Thank you. Yes, I drive with Radio Cab. Mayor Hales, Commissioner Novick, Commissioner Salzman. It's become clear.
 over time, that many of you might want to leave a lasting legacy that might be important. The 120-day extension to this current issue might be quite the gift for that opportunity. So while many things have come to light recently that may not be part of the legacy that you'd like remembered, this is your golden opportunity. Thank you.
 We missed an opportunity to, in the beginning, do data gathering before we implemented the pilot project. Okay? But I want you to do a couple things and ask yourself, make your decision-making based on what is best for all of the people of Portland. And I said people, not corporations. Okay? Okay.
 It's become very clear that, oh, let me back up. Most everyone here has a spouse, and some of us have children. So when you're in discussion and decision-making, I want you to remember what it's like to live in a house with teenagers because you might be experiencing deja vu. When this began, the TNCs, Uber and Lyft, Uber in particular,
 Easily. They approached the city. They easily could have done business in Portland a year and a half ago. It would have caused a slight mindset shift. They chose not to. What I'm asking you to do is practice restraint, practice discipline, and occasionally say no. They could easily provide support.
 full coverage insurance. They choose not to. They could easily put fire extinguishers in all their cars. They're resistant. They could easily provide coverage 24 hours a day in all the neighborhoods of the city for people in wheelchairs. They have not chosen to go far enough to find solutions. They've wanted...
 They want to do the chores that are easy, the ones that they like. They don't want to do the work, okay? And they don't want to be held accountable, to be responsible. Nobody, nobody has to do business in this city. No one. We get to. It is a privilege. And with that comes responsibility. If your teenager came to you and said, Mom, Dad, I'm 17.
 House rules, they shouldn't apply to me. I'm almost an adult. Would you agree? Why did Uber get to come here and not abide by the rules? If your teenager came to you and said, wow, I'm almost an adult. I'd like to set my own allowance. We've allowed Uber and Lyft to set their own wages. And then, oh, because they do it, now everyone else gets to. Okay.
 We don't treat teenagers this way. Why do we allow corporations to act like teenagers? Leave a legacy your children would be proud of. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. My name is Kirk Foster with Wapato Shores Transport. And Tess if I said most of what I had to say, so I'll jump right to the end of what I said. Summarize first out, I think everything needs to be just looked at from a question of equity or equality.
 We have a lot of, like Testify's, well-run cab companies that are perfectly capable of competing on a level playing field, and that's what it has to be, is simple equality all the way through. There should be no separate rules for TNCs or insurance companies or taxi companies. They should have the same insurance requirements, same signage, same background checks, same everything. It should be all the same across the board. If it's all the same across the board, the TNCs will suffer a little more, and the taxi companies will have an equal playing field, and then whoever's best will come out on top in the end.
 Simple as that. There should be no special rules for either group, and it should be the same. I'll just leave, and like I said, testify said everything pretty much else on that subject I want to say. I want to touch on the wave funding thing because that's something I'm more specially involved in. The reason that there hasn't been equality for wave transport in this city, or equal access or equity or however you want to phrase it, for all these years is one simple thing, and it's cost, both cost of service and opportunity cost.
 It takes roughly 50% longer to do a wave ride than an ambulatory ride because the driver has to deploy the lift, assist the person on the lift, get them into the van, secure the wheelchair, help them with the auxiliary seatbelts,
 stow the lift, do the ride, and then repeat everything on the back end. If a driver is struggling to survive, why would they take a wave ride when they can do two ambulatory rides at the same time and double their revenue given the necessity of keeping equity of cost to the passenger? So that is the reason the problem has been there in the city. It's always been the reason, and it's always going to be the reason until the problem is solved.
 The only way, and so I'm just going to bring this back around to that specifically, because that problem existed before, and regardless of what you do with the TNCs, this needs to be addressed, and this is a good opportunity to address it now and not kick the can down the road again. The idea of the funding that the task force presented,
 the idea of reimbursing is the only, I think it's a good idea, I think it's the only way that it's going to work. It's ridiculous to have anybody suggest that we fund somebody's purchase of equipment or fund a startup business to provide wave service, a startup business that has not proven they can do it. If the city collects funds and reimburses every driver or owner or cab company or TNC or anybody for that matter that provides wave service,
 wave service after the fact. The city will both have all the data it needs because the wave passenger's name will be known and they can be surveyed to check for quality of service. The operator or whoever they may be can be reimbursed for the additional cost. A wave ride is roughly 275% of the cost of an existing ride.
 And if every driver of any organizational structure goes ahead and does a wave ride, collects the same fee from that passenger they would collect from any other passenger, and then the city reimburses them the difference in cost, then there will be no disincentive, no lost opportunity cost for a driver to choose an ambulatory ride over a wave ride, and there will be no cost reason to choose an ambulatory ride over a wave ride. So the entire problem will be eliminated if we can have after-the-fact reimbursement for wave rides citywide. And that's...
 than out of what i would say give me that number again as to how much more expensive a wave ride is approximately 275 percent thank you thank you very much welcome yes my name is omba makano and i drive for uber um and actually i'm just gonna start by quoting some some of my my passengers i was taught by a gentleman from band who was so mad
 that Portland couldn't allow Uber to come to Portland. And you know what he said? He said it's a very stupid idea to fight technology. Very stupid idea to fight progress. Shouldn't be. Not here and nowhere in the world. Because that's just keeping human intellect from developing. We shouldn't be fighting progress and we shouldn't be fighting technology. If...
 The other one said Soviet Union was collapsed just because they failed to keep up with technology. The other one said Roman Empire, when they failed to fight Christianity, what did they do? They joined them. If you can't fight them, you join them. As easy as that. We used to have in Portland, we used to have Washington Meteor. We used to have Montgomery Ward here. We are there now.
 and they are all older than a radio cab and so on. But they went out of business. Why? Because they couldn't keep up with the progress. If you can't keep up with the progress, you have to go. As simple as that. Is there another thing where, you know, maybe we can request just a...
 the city council to try to make some regulations here. Uber doesn't disagree with that, but their intention is not really regulations. Their intention is to keep Uber out of business. I had a passenger who was visiting the Northwest from, I think, I don't know, from Miami or something, and he was in Seattle.
 He only had one extra day and he wanted to visit either Portland or Vancouver. He went online. He checked, he saw in Vancouver there is no Uber, but in Portland there was Uber. So his choice was easy. He came to Portland and he got me. He told me, my friend, I only have four hours. Show me all the landmark of Portland.
 I showed him around, starting by Pioneer Square. I took him to Washington Park. I took him to Blazers Stadium. I took him even to Multnomah Falls in just four hours. He left $166 here in Portland. What's wrong with that? Nothing. Great. Thank you. That's my question. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 So we do have some more folks, because you've completed your list, right? And we have these folks who signed up at the end of the hearing. So I'll call them. Gene Nations, Linda Robb, and Frank Choto, if you're here. Or Nikola Batrachuk. Okay, come on up, please. Any of those four folks that are here, come on up. Afternoon. Good afternoon to you, Lord Mayor, commissioners, and citizens of Portland. Good afternoon.
 It's always a privilege and a pleasure to appear before you. I'll put your name in the record, please. Thanks. My name is Frank Choto. I've been around, I started driving back in 1986 after completing college here in Portland. Some things need to be said. The first is, and it comes as news that might upset
 But this is a new day and a new age and a new technology and a new industry that is upon us, manifesting itself as TNC. And from all indications, it is here to stay, not just in the city of Portland, but throughout the world. They're in my hometown where I grew up back in Africa, and they're here. Now, but we have citizens who have expectations and who vote.
 and who are hopeful that these new technologies will go away, but they will not. And we therefore need to be honest with them and raise our level of discussion here by telling them that there is the possibility that these companies are not going away. I have joined them comfortably. I'm not scared of them.
 and make them understand that this is the new playing field, these companies are here, and pose the question, given the continued presence of these companies amidst us and doing what they do, how do you as taxi companies then move forward and manage to survive and perhaps even thrive?
 It's not an easy question, but it is a question that needs to be asked so as not to sit here and give them the false hope that these discussions are going to end in these companies exiting. I don't see it. But since my time is running out, let me just touch on insurance because that's a big thing. And I suspect from listening to the testimony that you're not getting everything you need to be told about insurance. Yes.
 Insurance can destroy a company in the blink of an eye. And that's why it is so hard. Now, how have the taxis dealt with it? They're not telling you everything, and I'm not blaming them for not telling you everything. Some of these are seen as trade secrets, some of these are seen as irrelevant. But you need to know this, that most taxi companies have something called an accident fund. It is a fund quite outside of insurance.
 and which is used to cover accidents. So they never use their policy to cover these things. Because when you use your policy to cover your accidents, your rate goes up, and it will destroy you. It almost destroyed me. Now, I briefly suggested about six months ago that insurance need not all be in the public sector, I mean in the private sector.
 that perhaps it is time to approach the insurance commissioner down in Salem and raise with them the possibility of insurance through the public sector. Because there was a referendum here about 15 years ago, and which authorized that, and which the construction industry has taken advantage of, because it is an expense. One more thing and then I'll be done.
 Parking for these cars is an issue that needs to be addressed. Maybe a monthly pass so they can park. I'm tired of quarters being slipped into the machines. A monthly pass would be nice. And also, no one ever raised the question, all these people who drive, what toilets do they use? And if they're tired, where do they go?
 And if they have a flat tire on a Sunday night, who fixes that? And we do have some good ideas. The scope of my remarks here obviously cannot delve into that. You have other things to do.
 But if some of us who are interested in these issues would be given an opportunity, not in a forum like this where we can't really get into them in depth, but we've thought about them for years and we have some good ideas, it would be nice to meet with your staff to chart out some of these things. Lastly, the people testifying here are the people who always testify here, and they represent a minority of the driving community.
 Sometimes you need to go over there to where the drivers are to get testimony over there. There are places where they congregate, like at the backfield at the airport, hundreds of them. And then you will get a different perspective from the pure driver. Thank you. Not the owner who also controls a few permits on the side and has a vested interest in other than just pure driving. Thank you. Hello. I'm that driver. Okay. We're going to give you the chance to have the last word. Go ahead.
 I'm really sorry. Just give us your name. Commissioners, my name is Babak Talai, and I know you've all seen me. Unfortunately, I'm very passionate, and as you can tell, I'm hardly able to breathe right now. So I'd like to throw some words up. My words are this, sophistry, bullying, and there's one more, but I just can't get it out right now. This is essentially what Uber has been doing.
 sofa street. The gentleman sat there, not this gentleman, but the other gentleman, and laughed while my sister was testifying in this space. And you know, the body language of that other gentleman... Please, please, tell us your point. What I want to say is...
 I remember when Commissioner Novick asked, you know, we let Walmart in here and nothing happened. You know, it's still making me cry every day over that question that the gentleman put up. I remember Commissioner Fritz, what a lovely question that was to Uber. How much insurance have you got? And the reply was, enough. Sir, you...
 I have a question for you. You have been, you know, through different publications, have been said that you and Uber seem to share an advisor. Sir, I don't really have any...
 idea of what you stand for, but Commissioner Fish has really put some very smart, intelligent questions on the table. What I wish to say is I'm not against the drivers that drive for these other companies, these multinational companies, by the way. They're not the mom and pop, you know, whatever operation that they make out. When they put, you know, my brother Abdul, whoever it was, Abdi,
 Last time he was talking about how he was buying a home when we first started. But anyways, if you guys had a dispatch, maybe you could go to your dispatch and ask these very intelligent questions. I go to that beautiful lady in that white hair and ask her questions every day. I've been driving for Radio Cap for three years now. There are questions. There are lots of questions. But when you have just a smartphone and that's all that keeps you from whatever, the outer darkness...
 God help you. All I got to say is Walmart has managed to skim a lot of profits out of this small little city and walked off. I give a ride to two different schizophrenic lovely ladies in Lake Oswego, and they speak and have conversations all the time in the back of my cab, and I continually pick them up and drive them where they got to go. I get...
 If you want to know how many wheelchairs fit into a back of Prius, ask me. I can tell you. There's two very comfortably, and then two passengers can also ride. I can get one bicycle into a Prius and two passengers, God forgive me, in the front seat. These are the things that I've had to find out, and then through my command structure, I vet my questions and I get them answered. Thank you.
 We are a very self-sufficient company, but right now we have our hands tied behind our back because...
 As you all understand, Uber does not pay for the privilege of driving here. I don't know why they're here, through the grace of God or otherwise. It's a mystery. But I'm really sorry. No, thank you very much. I know I look like Vin Diesel, but brothers, if you put you on the sides of your cars, you will see that this radio cabbie will come and give you a hug. I am Woody Allen, and I'm not here to eat anybody's lunch. Thank you.
 I'm just here to do what's right. I am a... Thank you very much. The only way I can describe me is that, you know, I'm here, I'm queer, and get used to it. Because I have way too many labels. I got disabled vet, I got immigrant, I got... Thank you so much. Sorry about that. Thank you both. Thank you so much. Okay, we appreciate you two. I think that was a good way to end this public testimony. I'm serious. Thank you very much. Now, I know we want to bring staff up. I know there are a number of questions.
 So why don't we do that?
 Commissioner, bring PBOT staff up. Is that right? Actually, Mayor, I'm wondering if we've got, for the first time, I think a representative of the insurance industry here. Yeah, I know you want to have him here. You made a special trip. And I've actually got a couple of questions for him, and I think we should take advantage of having him here. We've had a lot of discussion about insurance with anybody from the industry here. It would be very helpful. We could bring up experts and resource people, including Mr. Bryan. That would be, I think, quite helpful. Steve, could I raise just a procedural question? Sure.
 since we're now in the end game here, at least for today's hearing, can I just get a sense of how you want to handle our discussion? So, for example, we have a report that we can accept. That's just a, as I said earlier, ministerial function. We can accept it. Typically, we do not
 modify a report, a report speaks for itself. We can accept or reject recommendations, but we're not apparently going to be doing the next level of regulation for a while. But there are specific things in the testimony that I think one or more of us want to address. How, what is your preferred approach for us to do that? It doesn't quite feel like we would be, it doesn't, it doesn't quite feel like we would amend the
 report because it's we're not it's the report speaks for itself but to the extent we have if there's a consensus on the council around any of the issues that have been raised and a desire to have staff come back with specific language and recommendations how do you want us to handle that
 Well, as far as accepting the report, all that matters to me is that we actually have a vote in accepting the report before we leave today. As far as additional questions to staff, obviously staff will be here after today. And if people have questions, they think that they might be okay to postpone for a while, that's fine. If people have questions they want to ask the staff right now, that's fine as well.
 So, I mean, to me, the bottom line is simply at some point today I want to have a vote in accepting the report. And if you want to take some time in advance of that to ask questions of staff or other guests here, that's fine, too. Let me just be – let me sharpen my pencil. So if it's, as of today, the will of the council that we establish some criteria for insurance or any other issue, do we put that on the table today and ask staff to come back with specific language? Sure.
 I don't know. I think that would be reasonable. I mean, at this point, we have extended the pilot for another 120 days, and what we're looking at is what the final regulations will be, and we're going to take some time to do that. So, I mean, we can give –
 If we have consensus, we can give staff some preliminary indication of what we'd want in the final regulations. But it's not as if we're going to adopt final regulations tomorrow. So, yeah, I mean, speaking for myself, I didn't come prepared today to delve into the details of the insurance issue, knowing full well that we're going to have –
 the committee take a look at this and we have another 120 days so i would feel very uncomfortable starting to do amendments on insurance today i'm comfortable accepting the report or not and continuing the charge of the committee to come back to us but we're going to have several bites at the apple here and we've had several bites and i don't want to sort of live and die these these issues every time that we
 Consider this issue. Yes, and at some point, the council needs to make a decision on the policy questions. In this memo that we were given dated August 20th, Portland Private for Hire Transportation Innovation Task Force recommendations relating to taxes and TNCs, there are, I believe, 20 different recommendations. I only agree with five of them, and it would seem to me to be helpful at some point before the council
 committee continues on down the path that they've recommended for the council to give some direction yes no or maybe on each of the recommendations but commissioner the committee has already issued their report and we can do whatever we want with those recommendations uh what would be the process for deciding what to do with those recommendations
 Well, the process is we are going to propose final regulations to take effect before December 19th, and we will have a discussion among the Council about what is acceptable and not acceptable in proposed regulations. But as far as the task force is concerned,
 I actually thought that as of last week we should consider their work in this phase done. However, some task force members have indicated that if there are specific questions that council would particularly like them to consider further at this point, they have some capacity to do that. But, of course, council doesn't have to ask the task force to follow up on specific questions. We can follow up on them another way. MR. Steve, let me frame the practical consideration just to get your thoughts.
 The thing I want to avoid is in December, us agreeing to a set of regulations which the industry then says, well, we're going to need six months to transition into them. So, for example, we set insurance regulations in December and people say, well, we're going to have to spend six months talking to private insurance, seeing if we can line it up, blah, blah, blah. And so there is a virtue there.
 at some point well before the end of the extended pilot period for the Council to be clear about some of the baseline issues because the folks out here are going to have to, like around insurance, if we mandate certain levels of insurance, they're going to have to go find private companies that provide that insurance.
 Actually, Commissioner, you've raised an excellent point, and that's actually the specific issue you raise is one that I wanted to ask Mr. Bryan about while he's here. How long does it take for the insurance industry to agree to sell insurance to people of a type and a coverage level they haven't before? So, again, let me suggest that we bring Mr. Bryan up and maybe staff as well, because I think there are at least some issues we ought to get resolved.
 before our experts as questions regardless of what happens next. So please. Ms. Treat, do you want to come up, Leah, and bring staff with you? Okay, I might be able to accommodate that later, but it's, again, we're accepting a report here. Okay, who would like to begin? At the risk of, let's stick with the insurance first. I do have one minor question, and I'll ask after the insurance presentation.
 Mr. Brown. Go ahead, Steve.
 First of all, actually, it would be great if you could give a hazard answer to the question that Commissioner Fish, in effect, just asked, which is suppose we decided in the near future that we were going to tell the TNCs that they need to have a higher level of insurance during period one. The TNCs have said that those products are not available. Some people on this council have the suspicion that if you call up an insurance company and say, I want X amount of coverage, what do I have to pay for it, they can answer that question pretty quick.
 So do you have an answer to that question? First, should I state my name for the record? I'm Kenton Bryan with Property Casualty Insurers Association. We're a national insurance trade association of about 1,000 member companies that write insurance. Some of them write locally. Some of them write nationally. Some of them write regionally. Our members write about 40% of the auto insurance policies in force across the country today. With that...
 There is not a simple direct answer to what you're saying. I can confirm this. The policies that would be in excess of what is currently required under the agreement, the national agreement and what's in place in Portland today, those policies do not currently exist because they're not required to exist.
 insurance companies can be responsive. They've frankly been quite responsive to the emergence of this transportation alternative. And not only had I never heard of Uber two years ago, but insurance companies had not heard of Uber two years ago. And we spent a considerable amount of time coming to know how that business operates and frankly being on the opposite side of some of these issues from them initially. But
 we've come to an agreement on what those minimums can be and what carriers are willing to write, and that's currently set at those mandatory minimums that you have in place in Portland today. If there was a new taxi company, they can get a million dollars. Why is it different for a...
 Sure. Well, thank you for that question. Taxi companies are commercial enterprises and they buy commercial insurance policies. What we're talking about is this hybrid of a person who is at one moment driving their private passenger automobile for private purposes, who then turns an app on on their phone and becomes a commercial driving operator, or however it's defined in Portland language.
 And what the industry, what insurers have tried to do is to say we need bright lines between those two activities. When you're a private passenger, when you're just a regular driver driving your personal car for your own purposes, you're covered by your auto insurance policy that you purchase.
 When you switch over and turn that app on, you become something different to your insurer than what we signed you up for, and therefore you need a different kind of coverage. The kind of coverage that is contemplated in the national compromise between insurers and the TNCs and what is included currently in place in Portland says once the app goes on, there's TNC insurance, which is not –
 classically commercial insurance, it could be sold by your private passenger auto insurance as a separate policy or an endorsement on your private passenger auto policy. But there's a line. And on one side of the line is you as a normal driver driving your own car. On the other side of the line is you as a driver picking up passengers for money. But we could tell — why can't we say that Uber is like a taxi company? Why can't they — they as a taxi company can get the commercial insurance?
 I think that what, I mean, I don't want to speak for what Uber's position on this. I can tell you that in a long, at first, battle, but then a negotiation process with Uber, insurers have come to see actuarially that the arguments that are made by the TNC companies are at least near as we can tell so far accurate, that there's a difference between an Uber driver and a taxi driver in that the Uber driver is,
 sort of, for lack of a better term, minding their own business when they don't have their app on. They're not the same risk as a taxi driver that is commercially driving all the time that they're in their vehicle. What are you talking about when the app is on?
 When the app is on it. When the app is on, they're a commercial driver. Why does there have to be a distinction between when they've accepted a ride? I think that this gets into the argument about how the council sees the activities of Uber and whether they see them as a commercial driving enterprise or sees them as a company that provides an app that allows people to sign up and provide transportation services. Right.
 They will say, I suspect, that their model is different and their drivers are different. And I'm saying as an insurer, that's not really something I can speak to directly, but I can say that insurers are writing these TNC policies as endorsements or standalone policies because we agree that we don't see them the same way as we would see a commercial taxi company or a commercial taxi driver. Thank you.
 But Mr. Bryan, I think the question we're asking is what about if we required a certain level of coverage? Let's say the council did decide that as soon as you turn the app on, you have to have a million dollars in coverage. I can see that there's sort of special negotiations between the TNCs, the insurance companies, about what the rates should be. But in terms of just the level of coverage.
 If we impose that requirement and Uber and Lyft said, well, it will take us a year and a half to figure that out with the insurance companies, would that be a plausible statement? Or would it be more plausible to say, well, if they got $100,000 worth of coverage now, just multiply the cost by 10 and we'll sell you a policy for that?
 Well, there are kind of two. The direct answer to your question is I'm not sure how long it would take exactly. It would take time. I don't think it would take a year and a half, but it would take time for insurance companies to –
 and figure out if that's a product they can affordably sell. The other question I think that's important for policymakers, because I've heard this come up several times today, it is absolutely any policymaking body's right and responsibility to make laws to protect the public and determine what those minimums ought to be. The question is what will the financial and market impact be of those decisions?
 I think that it's fair to say, although I have to be cautious to not make what industry would do statements because that's against antitrust law, federal antitrust law, but I suspect that
 The level of participation that would be in place in the insurance market would be different with a policy requirement, with a minimum requirement in the million-dollar at all times range versus a minimum requirement. So let's put it in terms that may be more familiar to some of us up here, that once upon a time put a child on their insurance policy.
 for their own car. So I remember the first time. Is that myself? Yeah. So you and I. Feel my pain. Both feel the pain of having the conversation with our insurance broker and saying that we're going to put someone on. So I guess with my daughter, probably, I don't know, just for argument's sake, when she was 19 or 20. Now, the insurance company didn't say that there was a question about whether they could give me coverage, and they didn't spend a lot of time talking about actuarial stuff.
 They said, if you put your daughter on the policy, it's going to double your rate. And I said, well, boy, that's not the best news I've had today. So what are my other options? They said, well, you can increase your deductibles for certain things and essentially self-insure as a way of reducing your costs. And if your daughter has a clean record over time, you'll get a discount and things. So...
 Rather than, I never had a debate with my insurance broker about the mechanics of insurance. They just told me what it would cost, and I either put her on my insurance or not. I don't understand why in the commercial context it isn't the same matter. I understand that you're saying that the cost may be at a level that Uber or TNC doesn't like. That's not the question we asked you. We're asking, is an insurance company going to underwrite the insurance if we mandate it?
 And since insurance companies underwrite college football players and underwrite horse races and underwrite my daughter, why on earth wouldn't there be a market for underwriting a commercial policy at the limits that we set, regardless of what the secondary question is about what the cost is?
 To be clear, I've never said there wouldn't be a market. I have said that the market would be a different market for that product than the market for a product that's in place today. Okay. But you've also said, very tellingly, that in the industry's view, there's a different actuarial model for that period one. Sure. So why isn't that good news for TNCs? Because you've decided the industry can offer a million dollars of insurance, but also TNCs.
 through its own actuarial, through its own underwriting process, they can also make the judgment that's a pretty good business because it's very unlikely there's going to be much exposure during period one. Okay, so that's a good business. What's wrong with that?
 What's wrong with that is that in the first place, if you define it as commercial coverage, that limits the number of carriers or the type of carriers that can offer the coverage. It says personal insurance, writers of personal insurance policies can't enter that market unless they develop a commercial product, which has to be developed and approved by the insurance department and go through that process. And some companies would do that, and a lot of companies won't. There are a lot of companies out there that don't write commercial auto insurance. So you're limiting your pool of insurers.
 You're also limiting your pool of insurers who want to enter a market where the minimum limits are $1 million for that period one time period. Finally, I hope I'm answering your question. When you add your daughter to your policy, you're talking to your private passenger auto insurance company that's been writing private passenger auto insurance, maybe for you for a short time, but for the entire industry.
 insurance buying public for maybe 100 years. So there's a lot of actuarial data, and they know what it's going to cost. So they have the data to price a product, and they're going to compete with each other to provide that product for you and your family and the other drivers.
 In the case of this particular circumstance, we're talking about something that's new enough that that's why it's difficult for me to say how long it would take a product to be developed, how much it would cost. And these are things that are sort of market-driven. They're also case law-driven. All the things that go into the price of the policy that you are providing for your daughter have been developed through years and years of case law and legislation and negotiated settlements in the course of auto accidents. So, yes.
 There's a lot of factors that go into pricing auto insurance policies, and some of those are not known yet. And the industry has tried to be responsive and develop products based on
 The known knowns, the things that they can actually actuarially price things out at, and that's what they're trying to do here. Just so I'm clear, this is a complicated area, and I appreciate you walking us through it so clearly. And I do want to be as clear as I can for you. I hope we can call you back on lots of issues because this way I can understand you, which is saying something. So –
 What's the – where TNCs offer the lower coverage in period one, are you suggesting that by and large that's just rider insurance to a personal coverage? It can be, yes. That's how it exists today in some markets. By keeping the limits low, it opens the door to this being coverage through private insurance, at least for period one coverage.
 and the commercial insurance doesn't kick in until 2 and 3. So what we're really arguing, so the concern you're raising is that if you displace private insurance in period 1, you're not sure whether there's,
 a viable commercial market for that period, or at least you think it could take some time for it to be established? I think it would take time for it to grow. I think that there could be a commercial market for both period one and period two if the limits are set at that high level. I think that just...
 based on just even a layman's understanding of what private passenger auto insurers are interested in, there will be a lot fewer carriers that are interested in a market where the minimum limits are a million dollars. Could you just help me understand one other piece? And, again, I appreciate your patience. In period one, where you turn on your phone and you're driving, and you're waiting to get a ride, and you run someone over, God forbid,
 Are the current limits adequate for that event? My guess is that if you are the victim of that accident or a family member of that accident, you may not believe so. However, you know, public policy is a tradeoff in a lot of ways, and one of the issues that arises for all drivers is those mandatory minimum limits. I'm sorry. I don't want to interrupt your question. Still, yes, we make tradeoffs, but for the person who was crossing an intersection who is run over and killed by a distracted driver,
 The extent to which they can get compensation for medical, for any liability is set now, at least with TNCs, at $100,000. And is that adequate? That's really not a question I'm comfortable answering. I mean, that's a public policy question and issue. The same person who is hit and killed in period two, I think, would take some solace that we're up to a million dollars.
 And I'm not sure I can make a clear distinction in my mind as to why we should have a tenth of the insurance for the same event simply because of an accident of timing. Actually, it's the 20th because it's 50,000 currently. Excuse me, the 20th. So anyway, I'm struggling with that because it doesn't – if our public policy concern is consumer protection, protecting the victim, I'm not so sure why we value life so differently in period one versus period two.
 I think ultimately, as we discussed the term tradeoffs, the thing to be cognizant of as you make that determination is...
 if you want to have these transportation alternatives working, existing in your city, it makes a difference how much it costs them to enter that market. It makes a difference how much it costs for insurance and permitting and all the other things that have been discussed here today. I'm not arguing that you don't have a right to set those and that you have to weigh the public policy and public safety concerns that you're raising. I'm just arguing that there is a cost impact to having a –
 a product where the minimums are here versus here, and there will be a market response to that from the people that you're talking about. Let's be clear. We either externalize that cost on an unsuspecting public, or we ask an industry to incorporate that cost into their business model, and we typically frown on externalizing those costs on unsuspecting people. Colleagues, if we are going to do this, then part of what we've been talking about for the last several months is a level playing field.
 So the taxi companies currently have to have more insurance than the TNCs. I know, Commissioner Stoltzman, you said that you weren't ready to make a decision on this today. However, if it's going to take the companies a while to gear up, it might be wise to give some direction if three or more of us are looking at having the same rules across the board for insurance. Yes.
 that indeed they will need to provide insurance at a million dollars with the primary being the TNC starting when the app is switched on. And you mentioned earlier about a bright line. That's a very bright line. You've got the app switched on. If you get into a crash when you're going to hit the screen because you're about to accept a ride, that's a clear cause and effect, and yet it wouldn't be covered at this point.
 Well, it would be covered. It wouldn't have a minimum of $1 million coverage, but under what's in place currently and what
 We have supported around the country, including in Oregon, there is coverage. It's the 25-50-100 minimum limit coverage. Yeah, that doesn't cover even 10 days in ICU. But it's not just that coverage. I mean, other coverages apply. Any coverage that's required by the state, and in Oregon, personal injury protection insurance is required for all drivers, and underinsured and uninsured motorist coverage are required by the state. But, sir, don't we run – I mean, isn't there a catch-22 here? I mean –
 Aren't most insurance companies going to disclaim on the basis that they're going to say that the person was operating in a commercial context and their own insurance doesn't apply?
 My insurance on my car does not allow me to run a commercial. Well, that's why we're talking about a separate product, TNC coverage that is required from the time the app goes on all the way through the ride. Right, but it's with limits of $25, $50, $100. Until period two, yes. What's the additional coverage that you're referring to above and beyond that? The...
 This national agreement language that we have pursued in Oregon and passed in 20 states so far says, if your state requires you as a private passenger auto driver to carry UM, UIM, and PIP coverage, it is required coverage in period one and period two under the TNC insurance policy.
 There is no gap. That's the whole purpose of seeking the legislation in every state is to have no gap. And that's the current law in Oregon? No, we have not enacted that law in Oregon. We were not able to get that bill passed last session, but that is the language that's in place, as I understand it, in the existing pilot project in Portland.
 That's right. But, Commissioner Fish, you reminded me of another question that I wanted to ask Mr. Bryan, which is that we've heard some concerns over the last several months that drivers might have their insurance canceled if they haven't told their insurers that they're going to be driving for a TNC.
 and that there might be a mass of cancellations, and suddenly the insurance companies hear that you're driving for a TNC and they cancel your policy. There's also a concern expressed for passengers and also people who a driver might hit that it might in effect wind up being a retroactive cancellation, that a driver who's driving for a TNC might hit somebody and a claim is submitted to –
 when they're driving for themselves, not with the national agreement coverage in period 1, 2, 3.
 that a driver might hit somebody and then a claim would be submitted against their personal insurance, and the insurance company will say, no, I'm not going to pay that claim because I didn't know that this driver was driving for Uber or Lyft, and if I had, it would have canceled the policy, so the policy is retroactively canceled. So I just wanted you to address those concerns and see how valid you think they might be.
 Well, I have heard that concern raised, but I have never, ever actually seen evidence of it having occurred.
 I personally have no knowledge of that ever occurring anywhere in the country, and that's as far as I can respond to that specifically. But I have heard that concern, and I've heard legislatures express those concerns as we've talked about this bill. I have a six-state region. I pursued this legislation in five of those six states, and it's been approved in four of those six states.
 Across the country, 20 states have enacted the very language that's in place in Portland today. Twenty-seven states overall have enacted some kind of regulations establishing insurance requirements for TNCs. Most of them, all except one, follow generally the same principles that are in place in Portland today. And what I think I need to state, if you were to go forward with something that had the different limits, the higher limits,
 you'd be the only place in the country that requires that. Now, if I may, go back to your question, Commissioner. The insurers have had a lot of concerns about TNC drivers, and that's why we have been interested in this kind of legislation.
 What happens when you enact the kind of rules that are already in place in Portland currently or might consider on a statewide basis is that you're reducing the exposure that an insurer has to being charged for an accident when someone was driving their vehicle for commercial purposes. I talked about that bright line that I mentioned before. So there's not much incentive for an insurance company to cancel someone whose accident is covered
 by their activity, you know, by a TNC insurance policy.
 When they get into an accident on their private passenger auto policy, I can see them getting canceled if they have an accident on their private passenger auto policy. That does happen sometimes if they've had multiple accidents especially. But tickets, accidents, and those things that occur on one side of the line are the things that the insurers have exposure for. So there's not much incentive to say, now, we had a conversation once before, and I want to add the addendum that if insurers start asking you,
 you if you drive for Uber when you're not driving your car for personal purposes and you lie about it on the application form, then they probably would have a reason to consider canceling you. But if they did how you phrased the question, I suspect there would be lawsuits and action by the insurance department against a company that did that kind of cancellation. Okay. Other questions for Mr. Bryant? It's been very helpful having you here. So thank you. My pleasure. Any time I can help. Anything else for him?
 So thank you very much. MR. Absolutely. Absolutely. MR. Thanks a lot. So I think I want to suggest that Director Treat and Mr. Owens come up and join your colleagues here because I just want to make sure we understand, along with Commissioner Novick's direction, where we're going. So what we have in front of us this afternoon is a report from the task force. The only action that we can take with that, with respect to that report, is either accept it or not accept it because it's a report.
 But there are other steps ahead which all the testimony that we've heard in this hearing can help inform. One is council members need to articulate the issues or questions that we think need further work.
 And I want to put an asterisk on that and place that question to you, Commissioner Novick, and also to the team here, and that is, to what extent are we going to ask the task force to soldier on a little more and do some of that work, or is all that work going to fall on Ms. Treat and her staff and the city attorney? Okay.
 You don't get to answer that question. He does. Or the task force does, actually, because they're volunteers. So I'm – Could I give a preview? Yeah. Just throw in a contender? Sure. I personally feel that we are at the point that we get to on planning issues where the next step is planning and sustainability commission staff comes before us with a menu of options. Right. Yeah.
 We identify the areas where we want regulation, and staff comes forward with option A, B, C. They pitch an option. We debate it, but we decide.
 Correct. And I guess I want to get to how that happens. So, again, today we've got a report in front of us we need to dispose of, and I don't mean that in a pejorative way, that report, decide it, say thank you or say never mind. And then the question is, again, there are issues that we want addressed. We can ask staff to bring recommendations, but we can't ask them to bring recommendations.
 Is there a reason, Commissioner Novick, in your opinion, to ask the task force to do some of that work versus your bureau? I think it's an issue by issue question. I think what I'd like to do is get the questions on the table and then we can sort through to some extent right here and now and then maybe we'll take on some of them some thought as to whether we'd want to ask the task force to do further review or whether we should have staff do the review. Okay. So here's what I would suggest.
 I have, and I bet others here on the council have, questions and issues based on what I've heard in this hearing, things like the renewal fee and obviously insurance and even smaller issues like more cab stands, that I have an interest in having those issues considered and brought back for decision-making.
 So I want to suggest that one, today we take a vote and accept or not accept the report. Two, very swiftly, I would say by tomorrow, each of us ought to make sure we get all of our questions to your office and to PBOT to say, I need more about this, I need more about that, I want to see options on this. All of us have got some of that, I bet all of us have some of that in mind.
 And then third, there's a schedule for what's going to happen next, which is I understand it on October 7th, right? That's when we're going to get the status report on the 120-day pilot, right? Correct? That's correct. And then sometime after that is when we act on the final version of the regulations. Okay.
 Correct? Correct. So it seems to me that by the end of September, we ought to have all that work done of vetting council's questions and options that we consider when we adopt those regulations. Am I making sense here in terms of a critical path? You've won me over.
 The one thing I would ask, because I think we all benefit from this, is I would ask that you give everybody on council an opportunity today to put their issues on the record and supplement them if necessary. But I think we benefit from hearing each other and then making sure we have a comprehensive list. And then a sense from Commissioner Novick as to whether their questions are going to be answered or perhaps addressed by staff or are going to require the task force to review them.
 All right. Jim, I understand that there are members of the task force, maybe all of them, that are willing to do more work if they're asked to by the Commissioner? Yes, Mr. Mayor, Council Members. The task force is willing to further delve in issues that you ask them to do so. I think we're balancing here report ownership factor with process fatigue. Okay. Well. So we're willing.
 What the task force members have indicated is we have two meetings set up in September. We're hoping that the set of issues you forward to us for further reconsideration, we could deal with in no more than two meetings. And I would offer this about the action on the report. This is a report on the taxis and T&C elements of the Private for Hire Transportation Program.
 In September, we were going to further work on the limited passenger transportation element. We have not finished the recommendations on that piece. What is that?
 What is it that you're doing? The limousines and town cars and shuttles. Okay. So we intentionally held that element off so that we could devote adequate attention to taxes and T&Cs. I would suggest that we haven't actually finished the first task, so to start another one before we finish the first would not be advisable. But we have started that one, so... But, I mean, we hear. Okay, I know. But the point is...
 We were intending to come back to you with that element of the Private Firehide Transportation Program. The task force was going to pull the recommendations on that element. So in essence, our report is not complete anyway. Okay.
 Jim, most of my questions, just for example, they don't need to go to the task force. I'm ready to have staff come forth with language and commentary that we can then debate. I don't need to have it reviewed by another set of eyes. I think you've done a great job getting us to this point. Yeah.
 And I would not like to move forward on the limousines just yet. In fact, I think there's something to be said for bringing in the Private for Hire Board of Review to come and look at what, if we've designed this system to allow the TNCs, what then is the impact on the taxi companies and what do they want to do? Because several of my questions and concerns relate to keeping the taxi companies as viable businesses. Okay.
 And that cannot be done by the task force. I would think it has to be done by the Private for Hire Board. I would point out one of the task force's recommendations is to do away with the Private for Hire Board, and I'm inclined to support that. I think the Private for Hire Board should have some comments. So she'd be asked to give comments on that further.
 When we started this whole process, it was how do we allow this alternative transportation mechanism to operate in our city? I expressed my concern that I want there to be taxis who are viable for people like me who will never, ever get into a stranger's car. And will never, ever get into a car that has not been properly vetted with government-sponsored background checks.
 where we seem to be headed with the task force report is that there will be no company for people like me. There will be no vehicle that I can call with my phone, my landline and pay with cash necessarily that has had the necessary background checks done by government staff. And that's a big problem.
 It's not just dismantling. It's not just dismantling. It's not just allowing this other system to work. It's taking away the system that works for me and probably many of the other folks who are doing those 3 a.m. calls and who are preferentially calling taxis because they prefer the taxis and they trust the taxis. And at 3 a.m., when there's nobody around, you don't want to be screaming with nobody listening. You want to be in a cab with a camera and with –
 annual background checks with daily supervisors looking to make sure that the windshield isn't broken, you don't want to be putting yourself in harm's way. And so we need to figure out a system if it seems obvious that there's a lot of support for allowing this alternative mechanism, that's fine.
 I just visited England. My 85-year-old mother is really good with texting on her phone, but she does not have a smartphone. She will never have a smartphone. She pays for her cabs with cash, and there has to be a service that's available as a public service, as a utility, as part of something that's part of the government structure. That still needs to be available. So doing away with everything and just going the route of complete deregulation doesn't work for me or for a lot of other people in Portland.
 It's all well and good to design a system that works for the two-thirds of Uber driver passengers who are visitors. I'm concerned about the people of Portland and how people in Lentz get to their 3 a.m. pharmacy and how I get to the places that I need to go to and how I feel safe because I trust our government workers to do the background checks correctly. I trust our government workers to provide the services that government's supposed to. Thanks, thanks, thanks, thanks.
 Commissioner, the issue of whether the background checks are all done by the government or done by the companies with private contractors that we audit is an issue. The task force has looked at that and made a recommendation. The recommendation, of course, is not binding on us. I think that is an example of an issue that's for us to resolve, not to kick back the task force. Yeah, and it's, you know, if some folks, which they obviously are, are comfortable having third-party background checks done and driving an Uber, well and good.
 There are a lot of us who are not. And so I think that there are some places within this report where actually we do want to have different standards for the different kinds of transportation. And I would like the Private for Hire Board to weigh in. How can we maintain a viable taxi system in this new reality? Are we going to allow these three new companies to come in? Are we going to further flood the taxi market?
 Commissioner, actually, I have to say that if there's a lot of people like you, then there will be a market for taxi companies, and they will continue to exist, because companies exist when there's a lot of people who they need to serve. Not if they're not regulated. I'm not going out at 3 a.m. I mean, I'm going out very often at 3 a.m. anyway. I don't know.
 I haven't heard anybody today say they don't want to develop a playing field that accommodates the TNCs and the taxi companies. And that may have been a tune change from a few months ago, but that's what the line is. That's the party line we're hearing today. Everybody deserves to be in this market. And you're talking about the private-for-hire taxi board, which kept the moratorium on any new permits for I don't know how many years, but –
 the private taxi board is part and parcel of the taxi cab industry and let's face it if we want a
 unbiased board making policy decisions as it affects TNCs and taxi cabs, it's got to look different than the private tax report. Well, that's why I think the primary conversation here needs to be between the City Council and our staff. And then I would like to have some. Appreciate the task force. They've done their work. I'm prepared to vote to say thank you for your report. But everybody needs to understand, and your points, Commissioner Fritz, are a great illustration of this.
 We are not adopting the recommendation. We are not implementing any recommendation as a result of thanking this committee and accepting their report. Correct. Everybody understands that. This is not sleepwalking into legislation here. We are saying we got your report. We appreciate your recommendations. Thank you.
 That's what we do by adopting or accepting this report. But it's very important, and you just started to do that, that we articulate the issues that we want addressed before we adopt new final regulations. And you've just done a great job of that. I know you have more, and so do the rest of us. So, again, I hear the request. What we ought to do is make sure each of us puts those issues out there today to the extent that we're ready
 and understand that we might wake up tomorrow morning or walk out of here tonight and say, I've got three more that I've got to make sure that Leah and her team know about. So my suggestion, again, is that we start now and finish tomorrow, or at least by the end of the week, getting our requests for options for the council to consider back to us in a timely way. Does that work?
 So there's a couple ways we can do that. We can do that right now in turn, or we can do that as we vote to adopt the report. Let's do it now, Mayor. Okay, that's fine with me. So let's just start at one end and work our way along, and you get another shot in a minute. But let's start with Commissioner Frisch. Okay. First of all, thanks to everybody for the testimony and for this discussion. And I have a number of issues. They are not exclusive issues.
 because I think the report and the recommendations address a number of issues that I'm interested in. But I want to just drill down on a handful that have been highlighted through the testimony and I still have concerns about. Primarily, for me, it's the insurance question. And my own preference at this point is for parity, consistency across TNCs and cab companies,
 If there is any ambiguity at this point, I don't think there is, that the commercial policy has to be primary, make that as clear as possible. And then I think there needs to be a consistent minimum of a minimum of a million dollars in all three periods. And given what the gentleman told us about how the insurance industry works, I think that's an issue that the sooner the council –
 reaches some consensus on that point, the fairer to all concerned, because it sounds like there's some work to be done with the insurance industry. The second thing for me is a more technical issue, and it's
 It's understanding what minimum standards of service means under 16.40.270. And frankly, this flows from an extraordinary meeting I had with some law students who have been looking at access and the code, and they persuaded me that
 Under sub C, service citywide 24 hours a day, seven days a week, does not actually set forth the service standard. It's too generic. What does service citywide mean? And I'll give you an example. Someone took out an app and showed me that the further you get from the downtown area, the more likely for Uber it's going to say no car available.
 Now, I understand that the rides in the inner city, that there are more customers in the inner city, and I understand, I guess, the argument that they're more lucrative. But this council will not tolerate redlining of service delivery. And if service citywide means what I think it means –
 then you do not frustrate the will of having citywide service by declaring to a potential customer that no cars are available simply because of your zip code. And I want to make sure that nothing that we are adopting permits redlining, effectively redlining communities, and it appears to be communities where it's most likely that people are lower income, more people of color, and also people with disabilities. So that has to be addressed.
 I continue to believe that it is unacceptable to allow for service agreements that are inconsistent with Oregon law or city law and say that, well, but there's a catch-all clause that says local laws apply if they are different.
 Most people I know don't have lawyers on retainer to sort of figure those issues out. I think it's bad for the consumer to put out information that may be erroneous and say, yeah, but we notify them that if it's inconsistent with local law, you get the benefit of local law. Who has the time to figure that out? I don't think it's asking a lot.
 from a consumer point of view, to say that the service agreements need to be tailored to the states in which these companies operate. And it seems to me a $50 billion company can figure that out. I'm going to defer to my colleagues on background checks because I'm not sure where I'm going to fall on that, although I think it's an issue about who does them and what's the standard. And...
 And I also will defer to my colleagues on the question of permit fees, but I'm now just, I don't really understand what we're doing. If you're a taxi company, you have to pay one permit fee, and there's a renewal fee. If you're a TNC, you don't. If we're going to get to level playing field, I'd like to know what a level playing field looks like in terms of permit fees, and I'd like to understand what the cost to the city is of deferring on that question, because if we're just renewing,
 permits during this experimental period and we're losing revenue, who's supposed to make up that revenue to then fund the enforcement of the system? So on both sides, I need more information.
 I'll join with the mayor in saying I'd like to know about the – and, Mayor, you had mentioned you were going to raise this, and I just want to encourage us to put it on the record. In the testimony from Mr. Waco, he says add cab stands at various locations. It seems to me to be a thoughtful recommendation, and I'd like to know if that's possible, and I would like to have that included. Thank you.
 And frankly, for the next phase, when staff comes back with recommendations, again, I hope it's consistent with what we get like on our land use proceedings where there are complicated issues, the issue is framed, we have options, more than one option in certain instances, and then we have a debate with staff commentary. But I think there's enough complexity here that if you break it out the same way Planning and Sustainability Commission does on complex land use and zoning issues.
 It'll be easier for us to follow, and frankly, even more important, I think it'll be easier for the public to follow our decision-making. Thank you for your good work. Okay, thank you. Helpful. Commissioner Saltzman, have you got some things to put on the table? Well, I think, you know, most of my policy requests are going to come after we actually have some real data, and that is the conclusion of the trial period, because the data, you know, really sort of defies some of the myths, I guess, we're being asked to rely on in a lot of the testimony. And, you know, for instance, last week we heard that,
 you know wheelchair access was not available through uber or lyft and then we heard the data and they're actually responding in less than half the time of taxi cabs so i really want to see the data at the end of this 120 day trial period to help some form some of the policy questions i'm going to have about whether we really have a level playing field and that's really what i want to see i think that's what everybody wants to see is a level playing field whether that's insurance coverage
 whether it's 24-7, whether it's geographic, whether it's wheelchair access. Performance standards, that seems to be the hue and cry I'm hearing. And if we want to sort of cut through all the fog, we're going to need the truth out there. And as I raised last week,
 getting to the truth, I think, is really the crux of the matter here. And I think one of the things I suggested last week, and I will reiterate again, is that we look at making sure we have a robust, well-funded compliance program. And I suggested last week maybe a $0.50 per trip
 charge to help fund compliance efforts. Maybe that's in lieu of the permitting fees because the permitting approach seems so different for a TNC versus a taxi cab, although it's still mystifying. So I think, you know, I really want to reserve judgment other than what I just said, universal service 24-7.
 and wheelchair access. I'm certainly open to looking at the insurance issues are vexing, and just in my own conversations with my own insurance companies, it's vexing. I barely can track it. So I want to understand it better, and I appreciate the information we received today. And certainly a million dollars in period one seems like something we should take a close look at and consider.
 And that's so I guess. And then I also did appreciate the testimony about the cab stands. I don't really understand the cab stand issue, but it sounds like something that is something that we need to look at too. And yeah, so I guess I'm going to reserve judgment other than accepting the report today on where we need to go in the policy arena. Okay. Let me, I'll run through my list and some of these are redundant, but just in case I missed something, I'll go ahead and mention them all. First, um,
 There are a couple of informational issues that I want to make sure, in addition to the ones that have already been raised, that I want to have data on. One was raised in testimony today, and I'll go get that from the police bureau or ask them to coordinate with PBOT. And that is, do we have any indications yet with respect to drunk driving?
 Has it gotten better? Has it gotten worse? It's a short time period. It's summer, so they may say, we can't tell. But I'm going to at least go ask the question. We have had 21 or 22.
 traffic related fatalities this year every year some of those involve drunk driving I don't know where we stand with respect to a typical year and that's of course crashes that are non-fatal involve alcohol as well so that's one to the extent that we have useful information I want to go ask and find out another issue that hasn't really come up lately but it certainly came up during the the early days of discussion about this issue
 And that is, it's never been our intention in Portland to default to what's happening in the suburbs around us on this issue or many others, for that matter. But I'd like to know what's happening and that we're in a metropolitan area. You know, we're 600,000 people out of 2 million. There are 24 cities that surround us. I think I know the answer to that question, which is they're not regulating this at all. Again.
 Again, that doesn't mean that we want to go there, but I think it would be useful to find out what's happening out there in the cab industry and in the TNC world with respect to the rest of the metropolitan area. To the extent that there's any information, I think that would be useful for us as a community to know.
 Issues where I want to have options and decisions for the council. One is the renewal fees. What should they be? How do we level the playing field as others here have articulated? How do we provide a stronger incentive for wave trips? This idea of an accessibility fund.
 Is that viable? How would it work? What would it cost? Let's hear back about that. Cameras, are we requiring them for cabs? Should we be requiring them for T&Cs? Drug and alcohol testing. Of course, the overall issue of caps themselves, I know what the task force's recommendation is, but what's the Bureau's recommendation? Okay.
 And then, yes, this smaller issue about cab stands, if we're going to try to preserve, as I think Commissioner Fritz has wonderfully articulated, the option of using a viable, profitable cab company or the option of using a T&C here in Portland,
 does providing more cab stands for the cab companies help keep them in profitable business? And also, oh, by the way, provide more service to the public, which is what this is all about. We're supposed to be regulating this industry because we're supposed to be maintaining a level of safe transportation service for the general public. So those are the items on my list. I think I captured them all.
 The first issue is income to the city and financial impacts on the city services. We currently have 753 permitted taxis in the city of Portland. Each of them pay the $600 renewal fee. That's a total of just over $450,000 that comes into now PBOT.
 We now have conservatively about 2,000 new TNC drivers. If they were to pay the $600 a year, we would have $1.2 million. One of my reasons for supporting the legalization of Airbnb was, first of all, that we could have a system where homes could be checked for safety, and second of all, that we knew we were going to get the lodging taxes paid directly to the city.
 We all know that we have a big challenge with transportation funding. This may be an opportunity not only to get better regulation and enforcement of our private for hire system, but also to raise some revenue. And several of the Uber and Lyft drivers last week suggested that they would be willing to pay an annual fee. The concern is that since there's so many more part-time drivers, they're not going to be reaching the $50,000 a year threshold to pay business income taxes.
 So I want to know how much did we get in business income taxes from taxi companies and from the drivers last fiscal year? What could be the potential impact of the reduction in business income taxes? What are the fiscal challenges?
 Presumably we've been funding our city staff with the permit fees that have been paid. I want to see a plan for how we're going to have adequate number of enforcement staff and how the companies are going to pay for them.
 Because the city needs to not just have other systems set up, we need to be able, at the very least, to verify that we've got compliance with insurance, vehicle maintenance, access, background checks, and such like. So that's a big concern that I have regarding just the money part of it. How much is it costing us now, which Commissioner Fish said, but how much is it going to cost us in the future, and how are we going to pay for adequate staffing? Then going through the...
 Task Force's recommendations, they suggest that all companies would get their own background checks, which, as I've already said, is totally unacceptable to me. And I don't see that, since many of our drivers have said it's not burdensome for them, from the taxi companies, to continue having us doing their background checks. I don't know why we would take that option away from them.
 I do think we need to look at the permit fees for the companies which don't make any sense, in my opinion, that the initial fee in some cases is less than the renewal fee, which I don't understand why that would be.
 the board of review. Yes, that makes sense for the overall system. But what we really need to do in the next couple of months is to have the taxi companies get together and figure out what would make your industry continue to be viable. What does the city need to do? What do you need to do to be able to provide that service that I and others value so much? Because we're not going to choose the alternative.
 The recommendation is that permit approval and denial would be assigned to the commissioner in charge of transportation and delegated to PBOT, not to the advisory committee and not to come to council. I think that we need to discuss, that the taxi companies need to discuss, how do you decide what the right number of taxi companies are?
 cabs is, given that we may have 2,000, 3,000, 4,000, however many, unlimited numbers of Uber drivers, what's the right number of taxis in order to be able to preserve a viable system? And there does seem to me to be some I'd like you to discuss and PBOT to come back with a recommendation on, should we continue to limit the number of taxi cabs based on supply and demand? Okay.
 The third recommendation is about record keeping. It sounds very good. However, there needs to be a mechanism to fund and verify the funding of, fund the verification of all of these documents.
 reporting requirements. I do agree with some of the testimony that said that the TNC driver should have large magnets on their car. That is much more clearly identifying them as a TNC. A phone number to call in large numbers because remember, we're the folks who have the old flip phones and other landlines that we're not going to just dial up the app on our phone.
 Smart phone. Commissioner Fritz, would you yield on one point? Yes. I wasn't here for the conclusion of the last hearing. Did we get a response to the question that was asked about who the local agent is and what the phone number is for both Lyft and Uber? No. We looked up. They both have local agents of service. Uber has a local office with a 503 telephone number and staff. Lyft has an email and an 800 number for staff.
 complaints. Just want to acknowledge that it took the City Council a couple of weeks to unearth that and now you're putting that in the record, but how on earth is a customer supposed to figure all that out? Yeah, that needs to be clearly posted. I think I'm glad we've resolved it, but it now needs to be broadcast so that a customer can get that information.
 Well, more particularly a bystander who may be aggrieved as well. Thank you, Commissioner Fisher. I appreciate you clarifying that. So on page two, the next item is about the company permits. And as I said, I think that needs to be discussed in much more detail.
 The next item is the citywide service, which Commissioner Fish covered eloquently. The next one is about maximum fare rates for taxi cabs, and the recommendation is to get rid of mandated fares and cabs. How on earth is a consumer supposed to know which cab to get into if we don't have a regulated system? They're supposed to go down the entire line of the taxis to find out who's going to give them the best deal? That doesn't make any sense to me. Okay.
 So, again, that's something that I think that the taxi drivers should be working on and helping to give us a recommendation. The surge pricing I don't think works for taxis either.
 Street hailing needs some enforcement. What's the enforcement mechanism? You can actually now hail a TNC, and they will then tell you as they pull over, oh, you need to put on your app and request me, and then I'll accept you, and then you can get into my car. That doesn't seem to be in the spirit of what we're doing, and so there needs to be much more education. What's the plan for education for community members that they are not supposed to be doing that if indeed we continue with that regulation?
 I agree with the waiting in the taxi zone area. The TNC vehicles, in this section at the bottom of page 2, it doesn't list cameras as a requirement for taxis, but in the next section on page 3, it does list cameras as a requirement for taxis. I suggest that we need to continue having cameras in taxis because, again, that's one of the things that makes me feel safer and is safer for the drivers.
 So I agree with the first part on number three, on page three. The background checks, as I've already expressed, it's just I don't trust private corporations to be able to do the kind of verification that I do trust our city staff to do, and I appreciate the diligence that the city staff have done.
 The driver working hours, I'd be interested to know how that's going to be enforced and how is, are the TNCs currently being asked to tell us how many hours their drivers have the app on? And I'd like to know what those hours are.
 And the transparency regarding that, the next one is about the driver kitties or fees, and it's suggesting to do away with floors or ceilings on driver kitties and fees. That doesn't seem to protect the taxi drivers very well. And so I think that that, again, needs to be discussed by the taxi companies and their drivers with a recommendation.
 On page 4, it suggests that the company has a responsibility for administering a city-approved training and testing program and require defensive driving training. Again, I don't trust the companies to do that. We've heard testimony and gotten emails about drivers being allowed on one of the TNC's platform while they were waiting for their background check to come back. And that's just not acceptable.
 There needs to be penalties for when the wheelchair accessible vehicles are not required. I think that is one of the big positives of this experiment, this pilot, is that we have focused much more on providing the wheelchair access vehicles. And I agree that having some kind of a per-fee, per-ride-on-oil,
 a rider's fee to then pay triple to those providing WAV service seems like a very good way around it. And then, again, I'm still concerned about the additional cars on the street. It was interesting that we were discussing this morning about congestion and thinking about all of these cars now doing the additional rides.
 So the last page on five is the insurance issue. I have to tell you that it is very hard for me to listen to people asserting that $50,000 for a person's life is an adequate amount of compensation and that $100,000 per incident –
 The driver that killed my husband 48 weeks ago today had $300,000, which is above the state minimum by a long way. However, there were four people injured or killed in the crash, so I still have not had a penny of that insurance yet. And so certainly money doesn't compensate for the loss of a lost one. $50,000 wouldn't even cover the medical bills of our friend Carrie Fairchild.
 So these insurance limits, I think that's something I've said before that we need to put on our legislative agenda to get our state limits changed. If people are driving commercially, at the very least, they need to have the same as the taxi companies, which is a million per occurrence, 2 million in aggregate, 500,000 for the vehicle. And I would like to get to see if we can require that sooner rather than later. Wouldn't it be wonderful if Portland was the best place?
 and safest place in the entire country to hail an Uber, because at least you'd know you'd be covered. And then, as the insurance expert told us, there will be the question of, does Uber and Lyft actually want to operate in our city if we require them to have adequate levels of insurance at all times? That's their choice.
 That's where the free market comes in. That's where responsible drivers come in, and that's the policy that I think we should be doing sooner rather than later. We did have some very compelling testimony from Wendy Kellington last week regarding the insurance and regarding EcoCab, having been told that their insurance was fine and then being told it was not fine. She sent us some additional testimony. Apparently, we're already implementing that all insurance policies must carry an AM best company rating of A-A.
 I have no clue what that is, but the council hasn't directed that yet, so I don't think eco-caps should be penalized for following the previous policy when we haven't changed it yet. Second of all, they raised the issue of having an insurance company that's accepted in the state of Oregon and that has backup insurance from the state of Oregon should the insurance company go bust.
 And I think that that's – I would want more information on that. I want us to look into that because, again, we should be supporting Oregon companies, not off-state or out-of-country, offshore insurance companies that are not going to stand behind either the company or the driver should something terrible happen. And so that's another piece of making sure that the insurance is acceptable in the state of Oregon. Thank you. Thank you very much, Steve. What have you got? Yeah.
 So on the issue of permit fees, that's something staff is actively working on right now. We want to come up with a system that is fair and that does cover the cost of enforcement and compliance monitoring. And we are postponing the renewal fees for the taxis until we have figured out a new system. I have to say that we need to come up with –
 enough money to fund a system that's unlike any we've had before. Because I have to tell you that six months ago, we did not have aggressive monitoring and compliance and enforcement of the taxi cabs for a variety of requirements. We did the background checks. We did the vehicle inspections. We did not have people out checking at all hours of the day and night to make sure there was truly citywide 24-7 taxi service, including for people who need WAVs.
 So that's a new thing for us, which I'm very much committed to doing. And as Commissioner Fritt said, there needs to be penalties for not meeting those standards. Last week I saw some data that indicated that for the TNCs, they clearly were not meeting those standards, and I think that we do need to start moving towards penalties. I need more data actually on whether the taxis are meeting those standards, and I asked staff to start more aggressively gathering that data.
 So the permit fees is an issue we're actively working on. We want to come up with a fair system. Responding to what Commissioner ‑‑ What about 50 cents? That actually ‑‑ First trip charge.
 I don't dismiss that as an option, Commissioner Saltzman. I'd like staff to figure out whether that might make more sense. I appreciate that suggestion. I agree with Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Fritz that if we are going to require a higher level of insurance for period one than is in the, quote, national agreement, we need to serve notice of that now. And I have to say that...
 At present, there's not a final decision, but I am inclined to say that we need higher levels of insurance in period one. I note that last week, Mike Greenfield, the head of the task force, although he's speaking solely for himself, said he doesn't see the reason for the big difference between period one and periods two and three.
 So I see that at least one of the representatives of Uber is still here. We'll get in touch with Lyft and just sort of serve notice that we need to start thinking about how to go about getting a higher level of insurance in period one. So those are – oh, and one more thing. Yeah.
 I do want Commissioner Fritz to be able to continue to call a taxi when she needs one. I am not sure that it makes sense to have one set of background check requirements for taxis and another for TNCs.
 Maybe that's a road we want to go down, but I want to ask the question. I recognize the task force's recommendation is to have the background checks solely handled by private companies. I want to get a sense of that.
 how much of a sort of administrative burden it would be on the police and the lead system, et cetera, if we simply had the government do background checks for everybody. So that's an issue that I think requires further discussion. I asked Chief O'Day about that in our first consideration of this issue, and I was told by him that Leds is kicking off cities doing background checks on taxi drivers. Right.
 I think, yeah, actually my understanding is that Ledge has sort of, the state police has sort of asked us to justify using Ledge to do background checks on taxi drivers, and I don't actually know if that means that they're about to kick us off or they just want us to give a reasonable explanation. Mayor, can I, in light of something my friend Dan said, can I clarify my request on access? Sure.
 So Dan said we need to make our decision based on data. We need to lift the fog. He wasn't referring to fats, oil, and grease. But...
 So I agree we need to make good policy on the basis of data. The concern that I have is that it's apples-to-apples data. And if the TNCs are effectively excluding whole sections of our community from service, then I'm not particularly impressed with the cherry-picked numbers on service times. Thank you.
 If we are requiring that they serve the city, which is the minimum requirements in the statute I referred to earlier, then I don't want to base a future decision on data that is based on the calls they are choosing to take and lose track of the fact that there's a lot of people who are not getting access to the service because their app says there's no car available.
 And so you have to, if we're going to require universal service, I don't want cherry-picked data that has misleading service times, nor does Dan. There's no daylight between Dan Saltzman and me in terms of wanting to have an adequate level of service for disabled residents of our community. But if you can simply frustrate our system by not providing service,
 and then you report that you've got good response times in the inner court, that's not consistent with what I think this council intends to regulate. So if you are required to provide service to everybody, then I don't want to be looking at apps that indicate that by the time you get to 82nd, if that's where you're initiating your call, there's no service available. Because then you're essentially saying there's no service for disabled residents, and the other data does not impress me. Quick.
 Question for staff. On the taxi company's app, Curb, does it work the same way, and you can look at the Curb app and see whether there's service available, like look over a geographic area? And I think the other piece of that, Commissioner Fish, is the –
 scheduled rides that taxi cabs do. Those haven't been included in the on-time data. That's correct. It was an on-demand comparison. Yes. I think in order to be fair, we need to be looking at the scheduled rides as well and assuming that they are, unless there's a complaint or some evidence that they're not being picked up on time, that's service two. And that's how people like me use cabs. We schedule them ahead of time. Eric?
 Yes. I move the report. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Further discussion on accepting the report. Roll call, please. Saltzman. Aye. No, thank you.
 I want to again give my profuse thanks to the members of the task force who have put in, as Mr. Owens pointed out, more than 700 hours of their time analyzing these issues, hearing testimony from a wide variety of people, and responding to questions posed by citizens and by this council.
 We're not going to implement every one of the recommendations of this task force. There's some even that I take issue with, but the work of the task force has been extraordinary, and the staff support has been extraordinary, and I'm honored to...
 to have had the opportunity to assemble this task force. And I'm still amazed that most of the people we initially asked to serve in the task force agreed to do so. We have a group of fantastic people doing a lot of very hard work, and I can't thank them enough. Aye.
 Thank you to the task force, Jim Owens, for facilitating and for Leah and all your staff. This is a very challenging issue. We're looking at doing things very differently from how we've done it before. I also want to thank Claire Adamsick on my staff who has been on my staff for the last six months and I think has spent the majority of her time on this issue.
 So she's done amazing work. We are getting closer to addressing the real needs of all in our community, and I think it's clear that there needs to be room for the different kinds of options. We need to make sure that those different kinds of options are viable for the kinds of people who are using them. Capitalism is not a system that works particularly well for providing services, especially public services.
 Competition doesn't always ensure adequate coverage, wages, or benefits when profit is the sole motive.
 And the question we are asking is to what extent should government be involved in providing for this type of service? I do see this as part of the public transportation system. And I trust government, which I know a lot of people don't. But I've been involved for the last six and a half years, and I trust government workers. And I know that our staff, first in revenue, now in transportation, do great work in doing those background checks, in making sure that the inspections are done, in doing the spot checks. And I don't trust out-of-state corporations.
 One of the roles of government is to provide for public safety and for orderly provision of service, and we need to continue to be able to do that. We also need to be able to support our businesses. I think one of the testifiers said preserving full-time jobs is not one of our roles on the city council. I disagree. It absolutely is. Providing gainful employment for Portlanders is definitely one of my big concerns.
 We need to make sure we have the regulatory safeguards in place, that we're meeting the core standards, and I don't know that we have that yet. I do expect that when we see the trip pattern data in October, we'll get a clearer picture of the late-night service and the service to the communities in Outer East.
 And I will be interested to get a clearer picture from staff as to how we're doing to ensure compliance. I'd like to see the reports from the inspection staff specifically with examples of what they've seen out there in the community. And I want to see how are we going to fund to make sure that at the very least we still have adequate enforcement within the city.
 As I've mentioned, the insurance coverage is huge, and Commissioner Novick, I appreciate your willingness to look at asking the companies to implement the commercial levels as soon as possible, because I think that that...
 It's crucial and it's only a matter of time before something tragic happens and I want to make sure that in that awful instance, at least, the family doesn't have to worry about whether they're going to lose their house as a result of a commercial driver having a crash. Thank you, Mayor, for your leadership on this and thanks to everybody who's participated in this process. It's been a meaningful community engagement process and your input has made a difference on all sides and so you should feel good about that.
 Well, this vote is to accept a report, and I have expressed my deep misgivings about the process and my deep skepticism that we can get to a level playing field, but that's not what we're voting on right now. Our vote is to accept a report and to thank the task force for the time and effort they put into giving us the recommendations, and it is one of our great traditions of this body that when we ask a group of citizens to do a lot of hard work and produce a report,
 We set aside our differences at moments like this and we simply say thank you. And if we didn't, we'd have a hell of a time getting people to serve on these task force in the future. So whether we agree or disagree with any of the recommendations in this report, that's not what we're doing right now. Right now we are celebrating the fact that citizens in our community devote lots of time to help us make complicated decisions effectively.
 And this is an excellent report and has helped shape what I think is one of the more interesting discussions we've had in the council in a long time. Also, thank you to Bureau staff for all of your work. I'm not sure where this is going to end for me, but I do agree with Commissioner Fritz that all sides of this debate have stepped up and have agreed
 raise the quality of the debate so that whatever decision we make, whether you agree with it or not, it will certainly be informed by all the time and energy we're putting into it. So I'm enormously grateful for that. And I echo Commissioner Fritz's comment, Steve, that –
 I appreciate that a consensus is now forming around insurance, and I do agree with you that we need to send that signal early on. I don't want to come back in December and find out that it's a six-month lag to actually implement it. So thanks to my colleagues. Thanks to everyone who has been participating. Hi. Ailes. Well, thank you, Commissioner Novick.
 pibot and again our task force well said commissioner fish for weighing in and giving us some guidance so far more work obviously ahead to do quite a bit of it based on what the council has laid out here already in this discussion and again i want to make sure that everyone understands that
 We can lob a few more questions and requests in if they are either suggested to us or occur to us over the next couple days so that you have your full scope of work in front of you. From the beginning of our work on these issues of the new economy, as some call it,
 We've tried to find a good place for Portland to land, and we were confronted by the eruption of people renting out their spare bedroom through websites in ways that didn't conform to our old regulations about hotels, motels, and room taxes. And we've tried to figure out a way for that piece of the new economy to operate legally in our city. Okay.
 Both words are important. We want to try to make it operate because there is change all around us in this tech-friendly city in a tech-suffused world. So there's change all around us. Many have suggested that we should deal with that, and we're trying.
 But we also have some old public responsibilities about safety that never go away and about trying to support local businesses that should never go away. And that's the middle ground that we're trying to find. And I hope everyone understands that we're trying to find that. Thank you.
 in the now infamous meeting that Commissioner Novick and I attended. My first face-to-face meeting with anyone from Uber was where I told them, we will begin discussing this topic when you stop breaking the law. And they stopped breaking the law, and we started trying to work on these regulations, and we'll keep trying.
 So everyone I think in this room needs to understand that this is a City Council of good will with excellent staff and some great citizen advisors who are trying to find a way into some difficult topics. I'm always happy for Portland to be first. It seems like that happens more often than not.
 Bill de Blasio has been calling me about this issue rather than me calling him and saying, how did you figure this out? And that is kind of normal, it seems to me. Portland usually does these things first and better, and I'm okay with that, even though I would like to be informed.
 by what's happening around us. But I think it's important to remember that around us, either cities have tried to keep these new services entirely at bay or they have utterly surrendered, as I believe all 24 jurisdictions around us have. And neither of those is acceptable, I think, again in a new economic world and where we're trying to be responsible and support local businesses.
 Finally, one little piece of this that just keeps bubbling up, but it needs to be articulated, and that is we regulate these businesses for a reason or for a set of reasons, and they've been well expressed here today. But it's always important to remember, even though I sound a little pedantic when I say it, that driving an automobile is a privilege, not a right. That's why we have license laws.
 You get licenses for privileges. You don't need a license for a right. There's no right to drive an automobile, as outrageous as that might sound in the United States of America, or at least in Texas. But it is not a right to drive an automobile. It is a privilege. And driving an automobile for pay is an even higher privilege.
 So regulation is completely appropriate, and I think the folks that are enamored of the power of the market always need to remember that in this debate or any other. I think we will find a way forward in this. We're not there yet. We're trying. I really appreciate the fact that we have tried some things. Government doesn't do this very often, and I want to commend Commissioner Novick again in the difficult environment here, trying some things.
 of innovating, of experimenting. Government doesn't do that often, but this is one of those cases where I think it makes sense to do that. And then get the data, get the conclusions, write the regulations, and give people some certainty about the future. I think we can do all that. I appreciate the good work so far. Look forward to the next phase of the discussion. Aye. Thank you all, and we're recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m. Thank you.