Very good. Good morning, everybody. This is the August 23rd morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll.
 Saltzman. Here. Udailey. Fritz. Here. Fish. Wheeler. Here. And both Commissioners Fritz and Commissioner Udailey have been excused in advance. I'm sorry, Commissioner Fish. I don't know why I keep doing that. People do. It's all right. I apologize. I'll just go in their hells again. Very good. So just the usual admonition.
 A reminder that this is an opportunity for the public to be heard. There's two opportunities for the public to be heard and address the city council in the chamber today. The first is during communications. Those are opportunities for people to come up and speak for three minutes on whatever subject they would like.
 Those, because those slots are limited, we require that people sign up in advance. If you'd like one of those opportunities, you can see our very able counsel, Clerk Carla, over here. The second opportunity is on the first reading of ordinances and resolutions.
 and reports, and if people would like to testify, again, you can sign up today with Carla on any of those issues. There's a couple of ground rules that we've agreed to. First of all, please do not disrupt other people's testimony. I think that's common sense. People want to be heard, and they may or may not have an opinion that you share.
 But we still expect people to be able to speak here and feel that they're in a respectful and safe environment.
 environment where they can be heard. So please let people do their testimony. We also ask that people not interrupt council deliberations. This is an opportunity for us to take into account what we've heard, what we've learned, and be able to make a discussion. If you do disrupt people's testimony or if you do disrupt council deliberations, you will be asked to stop. If you do not stop, you will be asked to leave.
 And if you do not leave when you are asked to leave, you are subject to arrest for trespass, just so everybody's clear on the rules. So with that, we'll move into the first part of our agenda. That's communications. Carla, please call the first communications. Item 922, request of Jesse Love to address council regarding to be heard on something they can help with. Great.
 Is Jesse here today? It looks like Jesse may not be here today. Next item, please, 923. 923, request of Don J. Baldwin to address council regarding Freedom City's campaign. Come on up. And if you could state your name for the record. I'm Don J. Baldwin. Thank you. And I should have mentioned there's a light system in the front of the chamber. When you have about 30 seconds left, the yellow light goes on. And when your time is up, the red light goes on. Thank you. Okay.
 First, I would like to extend my gratitude and thankfulness to Mayor Ted Wheeler and to our distinguished commissioners for all your hard work taking care of our city and for granting me the honor and privilege of speaking to you today. My name is Don J. Baldwin. I'm a citizen of Portland, an emergency medical technician, a voter, and a member of one of Portland's People Power Grassroots Mobilizing Groups. I'm armed today with a few facts, a little of what I hope is common sense, and a little bit of reason.
 At this time, I would like to ask all my fellow People Power volunteers to make themselves known by rising. People Power groups are a grassroots movement of ordinary citizens and patriots concerned at the direction our current administration is leading the country, and we are here today to explain why it is in the best interest of the City of Portland, in addition to Multnomah County, to adopt the ACLU 9 model enforcement policies and rules. Now, I come to you today as a concerned citizen of Portland and as a medical professional.
 I believe there is a credible risk to our public health which can be minimized by adopting the ACLU 9 model policies. When it comes to the flu season that is approaching, the Latino population is already at risk due to widespread misconceptions that the vaccines cause more problems than they prevent. According to the LA Times, in 2014, only 15 to 24 percent of Latinos in California received a flu vaccination.
 With fear of deportation looming and immigration population distrustful of law enforcement and institutions in general, we can only expect these numbers to decline. Should an outbreak of swine flu, H1N1, or other virulent strain take place this year, I suggest the impact on Portland's public health could be significant and the undocumented population is extremely vulnerable.
 I'm not here to frighten anyone or make any claims of imminent danger. The point is that even without an outbreak of severe flu, the impact on public health and child and infant mortality within our immigrant populations may be significant because people are too afraid to access care. During interviews with residents of low-income Latino communities in Denver, researchers found that many didn't call 911 in cases because of their suspicion of law enforcement.
 and the possibility of language barriers with first responders and misconceptions about the cost of ambulatory care. A 2013 study by a professor at University of Chicago, Illinois, called Insecure Communities, Latino Perceptions of Police Involvement in Immigration Enforcement, reveals some notable findings. Since the beginning of 2017, reports of rape among the L.A.'s Latino population have declined by 25%, compared to the same period last year.
 Domestic violence reports have dropped nearly 10% and no other ethnic group experienced a comparable decrease It is clear that mistrust of law enforcement and fear of deportation are responsible for the sharp decline in the number of reports This is why adopting the Model 9 is so important By adopting the 9 model policies we clearly establish the role of law enforcement and really all EMS When combined with an outreach effort to the community we can improve access to the emergency care and make all of Portland safer and healthier
 Thank you. And if I could just make a couple of comments. First of all, I appreciate your efforts around the Freedom Cities effort. And obviously we have recently signed on to the Cities for Citizenship campaign. And I was appreciative of the folks who came and spoke to me about that. We are thrilled to do a naturalization ceremony here at Portland City Hall. So we're looking forward to that. With regard to the ACLU ceremony,
 The Model 9, we actually believe we have adopted those principles. There's some disagreement between us and the ACLU on the specific wording of our ordinances, but we're working with them on that. And philosophically, we're in alignment on those issues. And it's just a matter of getting to where we're in agreement that our ordinance says what we think it says. Sure. Thank you. But we appreciate it. And I appreciate the folks who came in this morning to show their support for your efforts. Thank you.
 Next item, please. 924, request of Martha Dibley to address council regarding the ARIS project. Good morning. My name is Martha Dibley. I'm a resident of Eastmoreland. Please have a seat. Thank you for being here. Thank you for allowing me these three minutes. I think that this is an experience that I haven't had before. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners,
 your staff has provided you with the documents that I have provided as supporting information, and I think you have those on your –
 The Aarhus approach to the infill issue that's plaguing Portland provides small apartments for a reasonable price. Designed for Portland city blocks 200 feet square, each block module accommodates up to 160 apartments. Thank you.
 This concept does not impact existing Portland neighborhoods, and it does not present zoning challenges. Used extensively in Europe, where real estate is really tight, it will lighten the burden and anxiety of existing house demolitions in established Portland neighborhoods and could provide up to 4,000 single-family units with the added benefit of large, safe green space.
 The handouts you have been given provide more detail about this project. Don't hesitate to contact me if you have questions. I have a short PowerPoint and I don't know if that was intended to be shown or not.
 Okay. So in the PowerPoint, this comes from my visits to the Danish community, and it looks like it would work very well in Portland. I've given you some statistics in that PowerPoint presentation, and you can see that...
 It's a shell with an open space inside, and this inside open common space would allow for a safe and secure area.
 I've based my cost analysis on $100 per square foot. That may be way low. I don't know exactly how much cost would be. These are just sort of off my head. But the main thing is that this type of a proposal, of a design, would allow small 500-square-foot apartments, which probably,
 you know, very definitely are small, but it would allow a number of apartments in this area and to actually put these buildings around town in various areas where there are square blocks. Thank you. All right, you're welcome. Appreciate it. And you went and visited in person? Beg your pardon? You visited in person, Martha? Oh, yes. Very good. Excellent. Many times. Thank you. I appreciate your providing us with this. All right, thank you. Thank you.
 Next item, please. 925, request of Donna L. Cohen to address council regarding St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 plan. Good morning.
 Good morning. I'm Donna Cohen. I live in St. John's, and I'm here with five, I am among five of the six original members of the stakeholder committee which developed the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 plan. We have Barbara Quinn, Seamus Linsky, Kurt Schneider, Lisa Irani, and myself. Okay.
 So it has been 17 months. I mean, we spent 17 months in 2011 to 2013 working on this plan. It's been 16 years since the creation of the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 1 plan and four years since approval of the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 plan.
 In 2018, the city is to implement the construction phase of this plan. In June, with absolutely no warning, even to the neighbors who served on the committee, PBOT unilaterally eliminated key safety treatments for the Fessenden-St. Louis corridor.
 Am I too close to the mic? No, you're good. Those features were pedestrian signals. 17 months of hard work on the part of the community thrown out so much for the public involvement process. Since PBOT's announcement, the community has rallied, and with the support of Commissioner Saltzman, we are told those key treatments are back.
 However, we have no commitment as to when the treatments will be completed other than if not in 2018, quote, following the completion of the larger St. John's truck strategy phase two improvement, unquote.
 There is nothing that has changed in terms of technical requirements for the pedestrian signals in the plan. The same guidelines from the Federal Highway Administration exist now as existed in 2013. I personally have been in communication with the Federal Highway Administration in D.C. and in Salem and ODOT. The initial attempt to eliminate these signals combined with wavering now on when they will be done raises suspicions in the St. John's community. Delaying these...
 especially since delaying these treatments until after the rest of the project is complete would be more expensive. And yet the project has gone from $3.3 million, the best cost estimate for any project that Metro received during that funding cycle, to over $7 million now. We'd really like to know how that happened and why the city feels it's acceptable to now spend $7 million while at the same time taking away crucial safety improvements.
 public trust is a valued commodity to city government we expect our city council to hold PIVOT to its original commitment a commitment we all worked hard to achieve and provide us assurance that all the safety changes to Fessenden St. Louis will be completed in 2018 the construction phase of the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 plan should take place as scheduled in 2018 with all its components including the changes to Fessenden St. Louis safety can't wait
 And we have a request for some documents at the bottom. Oh, it's okay. Sorry. We're here with the community, as you can see. And we've worked a long time on this, and we feel that we shouldn't have to wait any longer. It should be part of the original plan. So if I may just respond. So, yes, PBOT is going to complete the project in the 2018 construction season. Okay.
 It will include the safety improvements with the one possible exception being the rapid flashing beacon, which may take a little longer, but everything else is going to be done in the future.
 2018. And that's precisely what is unacceptable to us. The pedestrian signals are needed. We've been waiting 16 years for them. This street is a barrier to the people on either side. We have people on the north side that are lower income. They're more diverse. We have a high proportion of seniors, kids and people with disabilities and we need to be able to get across our community of 15,000 people.
 So it needs to happen in 2018 along with the rest of the project. Well, that is the goal. But I'm just being candid with you. We need a commitment. The rapid flashing beacon may take a little longer, but the goal is to have it all done in the 2018 construction season, all safety improvements. We need it all now. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Let's see. So that takes us to the end of communications. We have one more. 926. 926.
 Kelly Tadlock. I apologize. Absolutely. Thank you. Request of Kelly Tadlock to address council regarding St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 safety improvements. Peabody letter to the mayor's residence. Oh, great. Thank you. Do you have a copy? Okay. Thank you. Peabody letter. Good morning. Good morning. Hi. I want to say how grateful I am that Donna Cohen has been on this for so long on our behalf in the neighborhood.
 I want to speak to you today about the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 plan that Donna just spoke about. I have lived near Fessenden Avenue for the last 15 years. It's not if there will be a traffic fatality on this unsafe street, it's when. PBOT's Vision Zero Anatomy of an Unsafe Street fits Fessenden.
 It is an unusually wide street. It's a collector street. Cars travel in excess of 35 miles per hour. There are no marked or signalized crossings for over a mile in either direction. There is a long, dangerous blind curve. Vision Zero says we should correct these unsafe streets by installing marked crosswalks with signals.
 This street bisects a densely populated neighborhood where over half of the St. John's community lives. The demographic is low-income, elderly, disabled, children, and people of color. In order to get to Pheasanton from my street without sidewalks, pedestrians have to travel directly in the street. Cars often travel at 35 miles per hour to cut through to Columbia Boulevard.
 In my case, to get to Pheasanton, I have to roll directly in the street to an unmarked intersection and hope that cars going over 35 miles per hour in either direction will see a person in a wheelchair and allow me to cross. Trucks Off Pheasanton formed in 2008. Our first success was getting the trucks off Pheasanton. Neighbors protested with signs in their yards and in the street with news media. PBOT then put up signs that instructed trucks to use the
 designated truck route. Traffic Enforcement Division gave tickets to truckers using Pheasanton, then the truck traffic stopped. The community worked with PBOT for 17 months in 2013 to approve three pedestrian signals marked crosswalks and speed reader boards at the blind curve on Pheasanton. This was the original approved PBOT plan for 2018. However, June 2017's
 PBOT met with the St. John's Neighborhood Association to give an update. The original plan had changed, and the safety improvements would be stripped from most of the plan on Fessenden. Instead, they would put a bike facility on Lombard. This area, unlike Fessenden, is not densely populated.
 This updated version of the original plan was done without notice, explanation, or sufficient documentation. The community members who had worked with PBOT should have been informed of this update, which should have triggered an amendment process to the original approved plan. Community members met with Commissioner Saltzman.
 and neighborhood associations wrote letters in support of the original plan. PBOT now says they will install our crosswalks after all, but not in 2018, sometimes in the future after projects are completed like the bike facility. The time to make Pheasanton a safe street is more urgent than installing a bike facility on Lombard. That project should wait.
 We have been waiting long enough for a safe street. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Could I just ask one follow-up question? And you may not have the answer, and I certainly don't. Do you know what the cause of the delay is for the flashing signal crossings? No, I have not been given any information on why that can't happen in 2018. Okay. I will certainly. I would appreciate it. I can add some, shed some light on that. So as I said a minute ago, yes.
 Our goal is to have those all installed in the 2018 construction season. The possible exception may be the Hawk Light Beacon. And it deals with negotiations with the federal government about whether these things can be included and funded by the feds. It's a federal contract or federal? My understanding was that that didn't require a federal warrant. Right.
 Yeah, well, I think we're trying to get the federal warrants if we can. But regardless, it's going to happen. I think Donna could speak to that, actually. Well, I don't know if we want to get into a lot of detail here. Why not? It's been 15 years in the making. Give them a few more minutes. The safety projects are going to happen in 2018. It's important. We need it to happen before we have a traffic jam.
 Well, it sounds like we're all in agreement that we want the flashing beacon. Yeah, we do. Let me work with Commissioner Saltzman. We'll dig a little deeper and see if we can get to it. We would like to get it in 2018. Got it. That would be ideal. And it sounds like we're all on the record saying we're in agreement with that. Yeah. So let's see what the hang-up is. Good. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate everybody who came in today. Thank you. Thank you.
 And that is the completion, I believe, of the communications, correct? Yes. Very good. Let us move first to the consent. We don't have a consent agenda. Beautiful. Okay, so we'll move to the first time certain item, please. 927. Travel Portland 2017 presentation.
 Very good. Travel Portland, colleagues, is the city's destination marketing organization. Their job is to drive tourism and create economic development opportunities for people here in our city. Often we don't think of tourism in exactly the same way we think about business recruitment, but those visitors' dollars put money in the pockets of businesses both large and very small in our community. Okay.
 and we know that Portland is a thriving startup and maker scene which
 is enhancing the visitors' experience here and adds dollars to those businesses. For those of you who were here last week, we heard from some of the small business owners and operators in Ankeny Alley, and they certainly confirmed that. According to a survey by More Information, Portland residents rank tourism and tourists third behind technology and health care as creating the most economic success in the Portland area. Okay.
 A combined 86 percent of those surveyed said it was extremely or fairly important. Travel Portland also is charged with sharing the brand of Portland and ensuring it is authentic to the experience that visitors have here. And the board has discussed this work. They also know that through tourism we export the values of Portland to other places around the country and around the world.
 How open and welcoming we are as a community is evident as you walk down the street and see locals helping tourists with their maps in hand get to the destination that they want to get to. Another area of focus over the last several years has been to dig deep into the multicultural meetings market and to ensure that all of Portland is well represented in promotional materials.
 And you'll see today using members of our local community to tell their true Portland experience. And with that, now I will turn this over to our Able Travel Portland team. Good morning, and thank you for being here. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Before we start, I'd like to introduce Naeem Hazan, who is our board chair this year. I'm sorry, can you all say your name? Naeem Hazan, who is the emcee. Can you introduce yourself as well? I'm Jeff Miller, the president and CEO of Travel Portland.
 Naeem is our board chair and owns Naeem Hassan Photography and has been a great addition to our board. After four years of phenomenal growth, as you know from the lodging tax, it's beginning to become a more normalized growth. And we've seen extra hotels being built. We certainly are excited about the groundbreaking at the Hyatt Convention Center, and that will bring more business to Portland.
 via those conventions that are so beneficial to the city economically. While we have not been able to officially start booking the hotel, we do have four groups coming that we've promised rooms to, so we'll have to make that happen. And our job as a destination marketing organization is to make sure that businesses, large and small, and all lodging types of properties benefit from that.
 The photo that you see is of the Mercado on Southeast Foster, and this is from our photo library. And it's one of our favorite photos because it represents the joy of Portland. And they received the Travel Portland President's Award this last year for fostering diversity and entrepreneurs. And we think that small business in this culture is the cornerstone of what makes Portland interesting.
 We had over 9 million visitors last year to Portland. This is up 1.3 percent from the year before, and these are from Dean Runyon, who does our economic impacts.
 Direct spending. This is a nice increase from 2010, and you'll see an increase from last year as well. I will tell you that the lodging taxes from fiscal year 2010-11 to 2015-16 doubled in Portland. A huge increase and nice going into the city coffers as well as all recipients of that lodging tax. And we had a 4% increase last year, so a more normalized growth, but growth nonetheless.
 At the end of the day, this is all about jobs and the jobs that are created through tourism. And I think we'll see an increase in these job numbers as all the new hotels open. We have another 2,000 rooms coming on in the next couple of years, and I'm sure you know about all of those.
 You know, we talk about healthy hotels and the city's occupancy, and you can see we are – we have very large numbers there. And the average daily rate, which is – has gone from $150 to $182. And in this – when you add the entire city, this is – these are numbers for the central city, but for the entire city, the occupancy last year was 78.9 percent, and the average daily rate was $152.
 So that is why we are getting a lot of hotel construction, because we are a very hot market. We do a survey every couple of years of residents, and as the mayor said, Portland residents feel that tourism is important to the economy. It jumped from 58 percent on the last survey to 65 percent this year of tourism being important. And another point that I think is really interesting in the survey is we ask people, where do they recommend friends and family stay? Okay.
 Sixty-two percent do say stay with me. But the folks that said stay in a hotel dropped from 28 to 19 percent, but the home sharing, Airbnb, VRBOs, jumped from 9 to 13 percent. So we are indeed seeing those folks, the host, benefiting from this. And we know that our job is to have an impact on the destination. Thank you.
 International has been a key investment for us with the Tourism Improvement District. We're committed to branding Portland internationally, and this is the Japanese language tour guide that we did, and this is our mascot, the Dude. We believe he's the only mascot for a U.S. city in Japan, and he has his own virtual travel agency in Japan. Thank you.
 This is the dude in Modi Square, which is the Times Square of Tokyo. He connected through HIS travel agency that we partnered with there with potential visitors. He's quite the blue dude. Yeah.
 We've created some virtual reality heads, which were at our awards breakfast this year. And we had three of them. They were branded food, as you can see, the ski dude, and then the maker's culture and sort of the ADX. And we spend a lot of time making sure that those direct international flights through Delta, KLM, and others –
 are well supported. We also, in Japan, partnered with Prosper Portland on a Hanjin department store promotion where they took an entire floor and made it with Portland products, and we joined Prosper Portland there, which has always been beneficial for us and for them. Last year, we recruited the number one Dutch reality TV show called Who is the Mole, or We is the Mole.
 It was their 17th season, and it was the most successful show that they've had, 3.2 million visitors a week. And our TravelPortland.nl website blew up, over 3,000 percent increase. It's basically a scavenger hunt, and one person is a mole who's trying to break the whole game down. It really helped how we're seen in that market. And Delta KLM reported very strong results.
 increase in their business as well. We're working in London. We were with the group on the inaugural flight and we've hired Black Diamond, which is a London-based tourism promotion company in the UK to help promote Portland. We've done Expedia campaigns and then we'll do some Portland pop-ups in the Shoreditch neighborhood, which is a very Portland part of London, and take Portland makers with us to showcase them there.
 You probably know that Delta has renewed the flight for next year and expanded its time period, and we are looking for the year-round service, and we'll do our part to promote that.
 We also moved for the first time in advertising outside of the Pacific Northwest to San Francisco, Minneapolis, and Phoenix, and those market research show that they have an affinity for Portland. And the campaign is titled You Can, which really showcases the spirit of possibilities here and every person's ability to craft their own experience while in Portland.
 And next I'll show you the 30-second ad that was created by Wyden & Kennedy and House Spirits, which is a stop-motion video company here in Portland. And we got an email from a retired film editor and animation buff who stepped frame through the whole ad. And his comments via email were...
 And I wanted to sincerely thank you for showing diversity, capital all caps. You have interracial couples, people in wheelchairs, gay couples, preppy to long hairs, rockers and classical musicians. I mean, I'm really impressed. He goes on to say thank you for subtly telling how everybody is welcome in Portland. And I'm going to let you see how many of those you can catch. And you might also notice since it's Portland, we have a chicken.
 Whatever it is that floats your boat, or tickles your taste buds, or brightens your day, even if you've never tried it before, just know that you can in Portland. This played very successfully in all of those markets, and there was a lot of excitement about being able to showcase those pieces of Portland. Here you see one of the stop motions with the timbers.
 We also had out of home, talking again about handcrafting local products and being able to create your own trip when you're here, unlike any other place on the planet. We did press events in each of those cities, and we took Portland in a can, showcasing Portland products and taking those makers with us. And we got a ton of press on that. It was fun to see how much you can get in one can.
 You know, public relations is the cornerstone of our success, and you can see some of the results here, an article from the Wall Street Journal, which is not where you might expect us to pop up. But it's been terrific for us to be both internationally and domestically focusing on that press.
 And with that, we're hosting the Society of American Travel Writers Convention, October 29th to November 3rd. And with help from the Visitors Development Fund, which Commissioner Fritz and Fish sat on, they were able to help us financially with that. And it's an organization of the premier travel writers in the country, both...
 writers and public relations officials in the travel space. Early registration already shows that we have folks from the Los Angeles Times, San Francisco Chronicle, National Geographic Traveler, USA Today, Travel Leisure, and many, many others. And while they aren't required to write articles, we know from other destinations that they've met that you get many years of residual articles from them. We're very excited about hosting SATW. Thank you.
 You know, and the convention business is clearly one of the things that is easiest for us to count. And this is a screenshot of our new meeting planner website. And you'll see it says Let's Portland, which is a takeoff, a little bit of a different takeoff on You Can. And it helps invite those meeting planners to do Portland and some easy tools for them to use.
 As the Mayor knows, we had a very successful pitch with Outdoor Retailer and Interbike. And while we did not get the Outdoor Retailer, we're still waiting on Interbike. And each of those cities is throwing lots and lots of money at those meetings. But it was good for us to work directly with Business Oregon and Prosper Portland and those vendor communities and economic development professionals to help us put that pitch together and really show Portland in a very, very positive light.
 We were told by the folks at Outdoor Retailer that we stayed in the competition a lot longer than we might normally, simply because of the pitch we put together. And you'll see here, this was – we took our retailers with us via video. And because of our facility size, we weren't able to win that bid, but we certainly gave it a good, good pitch.
 We also just did a pitch for the NAACP 2020 in Baltimore. We've booked a couple of multicultural conventions that we're really proud of. One is the Church of God in Christ coming in 2020 with over 10,000 room nights.
 And another convention whose name we can't give yet, but in 2019 with over 9,000 room nights. And we're really working very hard on this part of the business, and the NAACP was a dream pitch for us. We are up against Miami, and you don't often hear Portland and Miami in the same pitch, but we're really excited about that. 2020 is also an election year, so we would love to have the NAACP's national convention here with us.
 And I'm going to show you the video that we took with us because I think we used Portlanders to talk about their city. The mayor was also kind enough to be in that pitch. But I think it will show you the kind of pitches we're putting together about Portland. People say to me, especially in Portland, I don't see color. We cannot relate if you don't understand it's different. That we are still so stuck in the isms that we can't grow.
 I think we need to get our hands out of our asses. I think that we need to reconcile the history of the state of Oregon and be honest about it. The past is pretty ugly.
 And so I don't say these things to badmouth the community. I love Portland. It's a great community. I'm very optimistic about its future. But we have never really had intentional dialogues to the degree that we need to to own that racist past in this state and in this community so that we can move on from it. And that's where I think the NAACP can be particularly helpful.
 What gives me hope is the work we're doing and we've been doing over the last several years in the Oregon legislature. We had a legislature who was willing to go up the hill and require that all Oregon children, regardless of their immigration status, have access to health care coverage. To me, that's a really good sign that we can make progress and we can move forward.
 It's beautiful here. There's a different spirit here that I haven't experienced in a lot of places. This is like the food capital of the world.
 So we've got great restaurants all over the city. We've got wine and beer and everything in between. The arts here, the music here. My husband is from New York, and he's a musician, and when he moved here, he has been amazed at the musicianship here. We have what we call our Columbia Gorge, which is absolutely gorgeous. There are waterfalls and beautiful Columbia River, and then you head west toward the ocean, and it's heaven.
 Coming to Portland, you know, I pretty much felt at home as far as being amongst a creative community as well as, you know, just being introduced to so many other creative outlets that I, you know, wouldn't have been exposed to otherwise. Out here, it's like, where are you from? And, you know, why do you do what you do or what makes you happy? So in general, everybody's very accepting. The thing that allows for all the creativity and acceptance is actually, I would say, the industries that are out here.
 Why do we have all these food carts? Why do we have some of the best restaurants? Why do we have some of the greatest creatives, one of the biggest creative agencies in the world? The biggest footwear companies, biggest tech companies. Why do we have all this stuff if we're not doing something right? Having organizations like the NAACP choose Portland
 It's not Baltimore, it's not DC, it's not LA. So if you're coming looking for a large African American population, this isn't the place for that. But when you have an opportunity to change the landscape, and not just a city like Portland, but a state like Oregon, with the history that it does, man, that is the best topsoil ever. It feels very counterintuitive to consider Portland, but I think that's what makes it right.
 And I think that picture would provide a different lens by which to see and understand the possibilities of what the African-American experience has been. And so I think there's an immense amount of possibilities that the city could gain by having to be present. If you don't choose Portland, you're actually missing out. It's that simple. You're really, you're really, you're really missing out. Don't give us a chance. Give yourself a chance.
 I love how he finishes that up, and I think it's so incredibly well said. Commissioner Ray Leary from the Merck Commission did a very good job of talking about the need for the NAACP to come to Portland and create a dialogue with us. And we were very honest about the community we live in and the community that we want to live in and how they can help us do that. So we were really proud of that pitch, and I was proud to be with the team making that pitch. We won't hear until the fall, but we're very optimistic.
 Let's Portland, this is some of the creative that we did on the convention side. You'll see here some of the banner ads that are on Cvent, which is a meeting portal, the number one meeting portal, and you can see the creative very much represents the experiences that you'll have in Portland. This is one of the print ads where culture and kindness are superpowers, and this is a picture from the Portland Pride Parade, and we take absolutely every opportunity to show what a welcoming community we are.
 This is the first ad announcing the Hyatt coming to Portland. And we can start selling that in about 90 days, but we wanted to get out there in front of this. And we have a long list of clients that we'll be talking to. Thank you.
 And this is the Mercatus website from Prosper Portland. And we know that at the end of the day, small businesses and businesses in Portland need to benefit from tourism dollars. And we've been, Tamara Kennedy-Hill, our Vice President of Diversity and Community Relations, I worked very closely with Tori Campbell, who you saw in the video, from Prosper Portland. And we had a vendor showcase early last year. And then we'll have a much larger one this coming year to showcase those minority entrepreneurs benefits
 and to the community, but also to the meeting planners and other professionals that can use their services. So we take very seriously doing our job with other economic development agencies to create business. We work very closely with organizations throughout the city. We have the Travel Portland Education and Training Foundation, which is supported by our golf tournament and member donations. And we focus those scholarships, which are for our industry, the hospitality industry, on funding.
 students of color using the Black United Fund, Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber and many others to funnel those scholarship dollars to people interested in our industry.
 We've also worked very closely with many other community relations, both with their galas, but also funding some of their initiatives like transition projects, which we've just helped fund, again, the street outreach for downtown for the rest of the summer and are looking for other ways with our hotel partners to continue funding that because we believe that we can be a part of the solution there.
 As we look forward to the future, we are working on the tourism master plan because we want Portland to be a great city for its residents as well as a great place to visit. And Mayor Elect Wheeler met with residents when we started this project a little over a year ago. And we're now in the second phase of that where we've looked at what the tourism assets are and how do we position ourselves for the future.
 We're not Venice or Barcelona yet, but we want to make sure that we do a really good job of selling this place and making it welcoming for all. And with that is my presentation. Thank you. Thank you, Jeff. Thank you. Colleagues, any comments? Thank you. Excellent presentation. I'll just say, as usual, your very impressive presentation and very impressive activities that Travel Portland is involved in. Thank you. You're doing a great job. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Well done. Thank you. Do you want to tell us about these pins? I'm assuming you gave us these pins, or are they from somebody else? Nope. Those are from us. That's the Let's Portland pin. They are great trade show giveaways, but it really, it's that Let's Portland. Let's bring your meeting to Portland. Fun sort of lapel pins for folks to pick up at our booth and remember us whenever they go. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Very good. Thanks, Jeff. It's good seeing you. Next item, please. Time certain, 10 a.m.
 Item 928, create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the North Subtle Road Local Improvement District. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. A quick review here. A first reading of this proposed local improvement district formation ordinance was held on July 12, 2017, right here in City Council. Consideration of the ordinance was postponed to August 23rd.
 to allow additional time for a privately funded engineering study to be completed. A property owner meeting to discuss the draft findings of the study was held on August 7th, and the chief engineers of the Portland Bureau of Transportation and the Bureau of Environmental Services attended this meeting. A final version of this private study was completed on August 16th and is being incorporated into this ordinance. PBOT and BES desire the flexibility required
 to implement as many of the study recommendations as possible with authority to implement changes delegated by Council in lieu of a requirement to hold an additional Council hearing after the formation of the Local Improvement District. Of note, both BES and PBOT have mutually agreed to provide additional funding of $500,000 each to defray the property owner's cost of the LID subject to certain conditions.
 And I'd especially like to thank Commissioner Fish and the Bureau of Environmental Services for stepping up to help here. The joint financial participation of both bureaus will provide significant financial leverage, effectively doubling their respective investments in the much-needed new stormwater and transportation infrastructure and providing some financial relief to property owners. LID Administrator Andrew Abbey will walk us through the ordinance, and then I believe we'll hear from property owners as well.
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for the very good recap. So you have some proposed amendments in front of you that would incorporate Exhibit H into the ordinance and accept the additional funding for the LID subject to certain conditions. So I wonder if we could start with the roll call and the amendments, and then I'll explain how that would have a financial effect on the property owners. Do I need to move the amendments? Yes.
 Somebody explain those amendments already? I'm sorry. Yeah, so the amendments, Carla, incorporate Exhibit H into the ordinance, and then it contains some directives in here that allow administrative decisions to be made about some of the scope changes and the additional funding without having to return to council for additional council approval. I'll move those amendments. Second. Commissioner Saltzman moves the amendments related to Exhibit H. Commissioner Fritz seconds.
 Why don't we go ahead and leave that open, and we'll hear the public testimony before we take a vote on the amendments. But I'm sure there's not an issue. Okay. Thank you. So I'll be very brief this morning. So Malfaster-Alongi did a study and made some good recommendations as far as changing the scope of the LID. And BES and PBOT are committed to implementing as many of those recommendations as possible.
 So with your approval of those amendments, we will end subsequent LID formation next week on August 30th. And when we move forward on designing the LID, we'll incorporate as many of those amendments as possible. Just to kind of put this into perspective, when we brought the resolution in front of you in May, we had an $8.5 million LID amount. With these amendments, the LID amount would decrease to $7.2 million.
 And we think that based on a range of options with the Melfoster study and best case scenarios, that we may actually get the LID amount down to a range of $3 million to $4.5 million. So potentially we could complete this LID with property owner savings in the range of 50% to 65%. But we still are budgeting prudently based on an abundance of caution because we have savings.
 Some engineering steps we need to go through to confirm, for example, that we can do local stormwater infiltration. But it's been a very collaborative process, and I appreciate the council giving us an extra couple months to have this dialogue with the property owners. Thank you. Thank you, Andrew.
 We're ready for testimony? Yes. Very good. Public testimony? Yes, we have eight people signed up. The first three are Tony Lemon, Steve Taylor, and Mike Jenkins. And just a reminder, state your name for the record. We don't need your address. And if you are a lobbyist, we do need to know that. And if you're here representing an organization, that would be helpful, too. Three minutes. Thanks.
 So my name is Tony Lemon. I'm the plant manager for Lackness Laboratories, one of the businesses on North Settle Road. We'd first like to appreciate the opportunity to address the council concerning the formation of the North Settle Road Local Improvement District, the LID. Unfortunately, at this time, Lackness Laboratories cannot support the formation of the North Settle Road as it is currently budgeted.
 Lack of mislautertries agrees, nor is Subtle Road in need of a repair. However, we oppose the LID as currently proposed because we believe the financial burden imposed on the property owners far outweighs the benefits. The scope of the LID as currently budgeted is overbroad and too conservative, and we believe that the primary goals of street improvement and stormwater management can likely be attained for significantly less expense. Thank you.
 An analysis of alternatives for street improvement and stormwater management is merited and should be incorporated into the budget prior to any council decision on the LID. Of course, we are grateful for the City's proposed $2.4 million funding contributed to this project. However, we are a small business, as are a great majority of businesses on North Settle Road, and the current budget of the LID improvements is $9.6 million. Thank you.
 Even with the City's proposed $2.4 million contribution, we simply can't afford to pay our share. Even if paid in monthly installments, the financial burden would be overwhelming. If required to do so, it is possible that we would need to lay off employees, sell the property and relocate, or take other, even less desirable measures. Over 70% of the properties on North Settle Road submitted official remonstrance letters or objections not supporting this budget. So I know LACMAS is not alone.
 In order to obtain a more realistic cost assessment, we, along with several other property owners, retained Moll Foster Engineering to analyze the proposed LID. Given the information provided by the MFA engineering study, their revised $3.9 million
 to $4 million cost estimates and the City's acknowledged changes to their initial proposal, we respectfully request the Mayor and City Council to limit their approval of the formations of the LID at a budgeted amount that is aligned with MFA's recommendations and not to simply push through the conservative $9.6 million LID.
 In summary, there is a definite need to improve North Subtle Road, but we ask that the Council set limits to PBOT's budget that are aligned with the engineering data provided by MFA and affordable to the property owners on North Subtle Road. Thank you. Thank you. Could I just ask one follow-up question? What was the budget proposed by MFA? $3.9 to $4 million. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. Mr. Mayor and members of the Council, thank you for the opportunity to submit my testimony.
 My name is Steve Taylor. I'm a professional civil engineer and the president of Moll Fosk & Lange, an engineering and environmental company located in Portland. We were hired by property owners along North Subtle Road to evaluate the conceptual roadway design and associated cost estimates prepared by the city and determine if there were ways that the roadway project could be completed for less while maintaining the city's goal of having the road meet modern roadway standards. As part of our work, we commissioned three separate studies, which are included as part of our submittal to the city.
 We completed a geotechnical study, a stormwater infiltration study, and a traffic study. Moll Foster and Elanji used the results of these studies to develop a conceptual cross-section for North Subtle Road, prepare recommendations for changes to the original design, and developed independent engineering cost estimates. Before I go into what our study found and our recommendations, I'd like to acknowledge that the City did not have this information that we collected in our studies when they estimated, prepared a conservative estimate of $9.6 million for this project.
 This number is what caused our clients' concern and motivated them to hire us to collect field data and to see if the project would be completed for less. We have shared our information and recommendations with city staff, and they have been very understanding of the property owner's concerns. They have also been very cooperative and professional in their reaction with us and our staff, and I would be remiss if I did not recognize Mr. Andrew Abbey and the staff of Portland Bureau of Transportation. They have been a pleasure to work with and have the same desire of completing a project that is functional and providing good value to the citizens of Portland.
 Through our studies, we determined that the following cost-saving measures are viable and should be pursued. Stormwater infiltration is viable and could eliminate the need for conveyance piping and discharge of stormwater to the Columbia River. Infiltration testing and runoff calculations showed that infiltration is a viable option for dealing with stormwater along North Suburban Road. Additional work needs to be completed to show that historical contamination from industrial uses does not exist in the infiltration areas, and we are working on a preliminary assessment of this issue right now.
 and we'll be presenting our findings to city staff in early September. The width of the proposed roadway should be reduced from 36 feet to 28 feet. The City Transportation Plan, TSP, defines the minimum pavement width for a local access traffic street as 28 feet. When the street is not in a pedestrian district, no additional bicycle lanes are required, and North Subtle Road meets both these criteria.
 We suggested that the separated pedestrian connection between North Subtle Road and Marine Drive should be removed. It is not necessary and was more of an outcome of needing to require right-of-way for a potential stormwater outfall. This outfall is unnecessary if infiltration is pursued. Installing a new sidewalk along North Subtle Road as part of this project would adequately address pedestrian needs.
 Reducing the driveway widths and evaluating shared driveways should be evaluated. The original design assumed 30-foot-wide driveways for all property owners, and as part of further design, this can be focused on what can be accommodated with shared access points. In conclusion, we found that if our recommendations are implemented on North Sutter Road project, the project could be completed for between $3.8 and $4 million, providing significant savings over the initial estimate.
 Our understanding is that city staff will utilize our report and data collected and have determined that because of this work, design is at 25% versus 0%. While there are still questions to answer to assure these savings can be realized, we are confident that the city, the affected business owners, and its citizens can realize substantial savings beyond the original cost estimate while providing a functional road built to modern roadway standards. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Dan, Conner, Ed, and Chris. My name is Mike Jagans for Records. Thank you.
 I'm with the Hawthorne bus, 420. I was just told today right in here that my dogs aren't dead, but I was told yesterday that my dogs were shot in the last 24 hours. I've been going nuts. Now, your police officers got me out at 431 at 1015 yesterday. I'm sorry. I'm aware of what happened, but this is not related. Oh, yeah, it is. Oh, yeah, it is. Oh, yeah. Let me get to it. Please keep it related. Oh, yes, sir. Yes, sir, it is.
 You know what? Us homeless problems out here, we have problems. And you know what? We're going to step up to this. We do have problems. You know, we got right to dream over here, okay? I got records. I got 17 phone calls of alcohol being drunk on police calls.
 There's your records. I got proof and everything else. We have agreed to meet with you. We have met with you after the last two meetings. No, you haven't, Mayor. You have not came back and called me once, you son of a bitch. Excuse me. You are in violation of council rules. Son of my dick, Mayor. Yes.
 You were arrested for trespassing and... Bullshit! Yes, you were. You're going to fucking kill my dogs, you motherfucker! And disorderly conduct. And you were notified... You were notified that your dogs were ready for... You were notified that your dogs were ready for pickup. Not to say that, Porkchop. Shame on you. Thank you for your testimony. Next three, please. Our Mimi Gurman, Star Stauffer, and Corky Collier.
 Good morning. Good morning. Star Software, for the record, as you very well know. I oppose this project simply because, number one, I don't understand how PBOT has the funding to make improvements that a neighborhood clearly does not want and nor can they afford, but they can't put in a crosswalk. And number two, I oppose it because every single time
 you give the go-ahead for anybody in this city to develop or improve anything, the houseless get shuffled around, arrested, swept. Just on the way here today, we were watching cops harass houseless under the bridge on Waterfront. What?
 I mean, it's ridiculous. So, I mean, where is PBOT's plan when they come in and do this so that the impact isn't so traumatizing on the houseless in that area when they get shuffled around and moved again for an unnecessary improvement?
 Where is PBOT's plan to reduce the impact on this neighborhood and whether or not they can afford these improvements, especially when we're sitting in the middle of a housing crisis? This project, based on the numbers that guy gave that testified to three people before, this is too expensive. This could displace some of those folks. At what point do you let the community be the community and tell the developers to pack sand? Right.
 Or is just everything in this city about money? Oh wait, it's not because we're still waiting on that $50 million for the houseless. But thank God the cops got their $4 million in bullets. That went through just bam, like that. I agree with almost everything Porkchop said except for that last disgusting part. You're shameful because you put children in danger and act like you don't. You're shameful because you put black people in danger and act like you don't. And you're just shameful because you're gross all the way around.
 Again, I would just remind people, please keep the testimony germane to the issue at hand. I think we can all handle that. I was pretty well on topic. Thank you.
 So, yeah, so I just looked up this agenda item and it has to, I don't know, near like Columbia Boulevard. Is that right? The water, no, why does it say that in there? I don't know why that says that in there, but I just read it. Anyway, it doesn't really matter. What matters is that people want to do all kinds of building and rebuilding and we can't get a crosswalk, but, you know, people can come here and ask for millions of dollars to do, you know, sidewalk repair for water treatment or whatever. Right.
 And all I can think of is why do we keep giving money to all kinds of development in Portland when we have Nazi cops on the Portland police force and we can't get a crosswalk in due time without you saying it's part of the deal, it's not part of the deal, well it can't be part of the deal, maybe it's part of the deal. That's what we're left with in St. John's. I live in St. John's. I know Fezzenden. I can't cross Fezzenden and I'm not in a wheelchair.
 I don't know if you've been to Fessenden, but you should try crossing Fessenden. It's a highway, Fessenden. And the fact that we're giving money and we sit here every week, we come here every week to see how the city works. We know how the city works.
 And the city doesn't work for the people. The city works for builders, contractors, different forms of employment, taking away people's homes, all kinds of things that are egregious when the houseless aren't even getting the money that you aren't dealing with, Mr. Mayor, until October, which was supposed to be started, I think, in July from the budget.
 And also, the fact that we can sit here for this agenda item to testify, but we couldn't for the Travel Portland agenda, I believe is a violation of our rights in city council. And it's been brought to the city attorney. Can the city attorney please answer that? If we were actually allowed to testify for the last agenda item, which is under the same section as this agenda item? Because I don't know why we weren't. That was a presentation. So the answer is no. Okay.
 Okay, I don't know. Lightning knows more than I do, and the lawyer knows more than I do for sure. But, you know, it was brought to my attention, so I wanted to bring it up. Because if that's a violation, then we should be allowed to testify against that. Travel Portland, everything's beautiful. And, yeah, we're going to put black people in to tell everybody around the world that... It's not about Travel Portland. This is about an LID.
 It doesn't really matter, Mr. Mayor. It actually does. It doesn't matter, Mr. Mayor. It actually does because those are the council rules. It actually doesn't matter, Mr. Mayor. No, it does. No, it doesn't. The reason this works is because people abide by the rules so that everybody gets to testify and be heard respectfully. That's why we have the council rules. I would say that we don't have a crosswalk and that's not working for anybody. Right.
 I told Vera Katz once that if a particular building went up in our neighborhood in St. John's, and it didn't, we won. But if it did, and there was a death on that hill that goes down to the river, if there was, it would be on her. And if this happens, Mr. Saltzman, it will be on you if there's a death.
 Thank you. Corky, good morning. Good morning. I hope I'm in the right meeting. You're in the right meeting. Good. Thanks. All white people. If you're here to talk about LID, you're in the right meeting. I'm here to talk about LID. Please state your name for the record. Corky Collier. I'm Executive Director of the Columbia Corridor Association. And regarding the LID, it does appear that the plan is coming together pretty well, at least almost.
 We have to keep an eye on expenses. We've got to further evaluate the on-site stormwater infiltration. We need to make sure that financial contributions do actually arrive. But we're on track. I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fish for making this happen. Directors Jordan and Treat have hired great staff and have done their part. Maurice Henderson helped move things along. The Ball Foster Report has provided very valuable analysis.
 I'm not going to break out in kumbaya, but it's worth noting that outside of the downtown, I don't think we want to do that right now, but outside of the downtown transit mall or the OHSU tram, this is the largest LID in city history. And it's funded mostly by adjacent property owners who are going out on a limb to pay for it. It could have turned ugly. And it still might. It's possible. But everybody has remained respectful and focused on solutions.
 Small, low-margin businesses have stepped up to do their part and provided a considerable amount of money. PBOT and PBS have found a relatively small, well, actually it's a large amount, but it's an extremely outsized, important amount of money to help out. And Andrew Abbey will keep expenses down. Won't you, Ian? Good. We count on that.
 In the end, the city gets a rebuilt street for a bargain. And that's why we really appreciate and stress the need for the city to provide a little bit of funding to help those adjacent property owners move this along. Hopefully, we'll stop breaking a few axles in those three-foot holes. Thank you very much. Thank you. I have a question. Yes. Just to remind us and people at home, why is this street improvement needed? Okay.
 Well, if you look at the evaluation of the street condition, it's as bad as it gets. It's almost nonexistent. If you go out there when it's raining, of course, the rainwater fills these really massive holes. When I was out there this last winter, a truck driver stopped by and started chatting with me and said, yeah, that one up there is about six feet deep right over there.
 We do have a lot of streets that fit that description all over the city. Why is this particular one, one that you and the Columbia Corridor support getting done? You know, you're right. We do have a lot of streets. I'm not sure that we have very many that are in this bad a condition, but we do have unpaved streets. We do have a lot of needs.
 The reason this is important for the city is that most of the financing is coming from those adjacent property owners. So the city is really getting a bargain. And from the perspective of those property owners, they're kind of scratching their heads saying, hey, I paid my taxes today.
 Why isn't the city providing the entire street rebuilt? We all know how difficult that is. So I think that's sort of the answer to your question is the reason we suggest you move forward on this is because it's really a bargain for the city. And then, of course, it's extremely important for those property owners because this is an industrial area, and you're providing a lot of traded sector money coming up and down that street. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The last two who signed up are Jim Brown and Larry Kahn.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor. My name is Jim Brown. I'm an attorney that represents several of the property owners along North Sutter Road. Mr. Mayor, members of the council, on behalf of our clients, Western Container Transport, Eco Services Corporation, our operations LLC, and Tradeco Real Estate LLC,
 I appreciate the opportunity to speak in support of the formation of the North Subtle Road LID as currently proposed with inclusion of the Mall Foster Elanji Engineering Report, which is Exhibit X that you've received today. We also want to thank city staff and Mr. Abbey for their helpful efforts in bringing this proposal to the Council. They've listened earnestly to the property owners' concerns and have worked with us to design a project that,
 that meets the needs of the city, the property owners, and provides capacity for future development. We're grateful for the city's proposed $2.4 million funding contribution to the project. We recognize that municipal funds are tight and applaud the city's recognition of the need for North Subtle Road to be reconstructed and its willingness to contribute significantly to the project.
 We appreciate the City formalizing these contingencies with their vote to form the LID. With respect to future development,
 We respectfully request that a provision be included prior to the final assessment stage of the LID that in any future development that may occur along North Subtle Road, that the development entity be solely responsible for providing any traffic control measures that may become necessary along North Subtle Road or at the North Subtle Road-Portland Road intersection. We...
 As the property owners, we commissioned Moll Foster Alonji to do this study because we believed it was necessary to have the additional information to properly scope this project. And we're grateful the city's been receptive to those findings. We also appreciate the help of city staff and Mr. Abbey and their transparency with which they've moved the project forward.
 We look forward to continuing to work with them in reaching the final design stage for the roadway and the stormwater infiltration system, which we think will achieve the savings that have been talked about today in this project. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Hi, my name is Larry Kahn. I'm an agent for PMP Properties.
 a neighbor on North Subtle Road. And I don't think I've missed a meeting since we began meeting on this issue a year ago or however long it's been. And I do appreciate the efforts that have taken place, particularly with regard to potential city funding. I don't know if some of those funds are on a percentage basis or not.
 But on behalf of the owner of PMP Properties, we don't feel that Subtle Road is any more in need of this type of project as many, many other streets in the city of Portland. And I also think that the city can't afford it,
 The property owners can't afford it. The land values won't support it. And my feeling is that an effort to find a way for allowing the property owners to maintain this street by themselves is the most prudent method that should be addressed.
 I think six feet deep on any of those potholes is a stretch. Although I'm not traveling down the length of Subtle Road, we only use about 300 feet on the very east end. But I do go down Subtle Road, and yes, some of them are deep. Can they be maintained? Yes, definitely.
 For how long? Who knows. But at this point in time, it's something that I think is beyond all of our abilities and efforts. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Thank you, sir. All right, so we'll vote on the amendment before we move this to second reading. Is there any further discussion on the amendment? I actually don't find the amendment in writing. Could somebody? It was Exhibit H, is that correct? Yes.
 I believe there's a memo from staff that includes the amendments in it. It begins on page two. So the goal right now is for you to take the study, the Malolongi study, and further refine the cost estimates? Yes.
 Yes, Commissioner. In a downward direction. Yeah, Andrew Abiel, ID Administrator. So just to clarify, so what the amendment does is it incorporates the study of the new Exhibit H, and it allows us to administratively make the scope changes that were recommended by Mal Foster without holding a subsequent council hearing, notifying all the property owners, and then providing property owners with the opportunity to remontrate against making the cost reductions and the scope changes.
 Also, just listening to some of the testimony, it might be worth noting that the $500,000 from BES can only be used to build stormwater infrastructure, and the $500,000 that's coming from PBOT, which by the way is contingent upon including Subtle Road in the new SDC project list, can only be used to build additional capacity. So I think the Council knows that I've been at Subtle Road for 13 years. I've had 13 years' worth of conversations.
 On this, so I would respectfully submit that this is the end of the road, and the decision is now for council to make. If you approve this ordinance next week, we will be ordering a survey, and we will be including the property owners throughout the design process. We will continually update the estimates of the project, and we'll share that with the property owners. And if Subtle Road in the end is improved, then we'll have to find some other street
 to be labeled as the worst road in Portland, because Subtle Road will no longer fit that category. So I very much appreciate the Council's consideration of improvement to North Subtle Road. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for your explanation of that. And certainly, 13 years of working on possibly the worst street in Portland is significant. I'm actually a little bit concerned with Mr. Collier's description of it being a good deal for the city. Usually, we look to it being a good deal for the property owners.
 And why are you not going to go away and redo it and then come back to council? I feel very confident that the recommendations in the Mal Foster study have a lot of merit. And if you saw the written testimony that I emailed around to the council offices, you can see that we had quite a few letters of support.
 for adopting the recommendations of the Moll Foster study. So in my mind, I think most of the property owners have weighed in and have been supportive of the Moll Foster study. So I didn't really see a need to bring that question back before council. There's quite a big difference between $9 million and $4 million there, right? Yes, and I would also say that we have not taken the Moll Foster estimate and run it through our standard estimating process to validate the numbers.
 But I don't think we need to do that because I think in short order we'll confirm whether we can do stormwater infiltration. We already know that we can narrow the road. And so we think that once we do a 30% design, we can do an estimate. And I think it's going to be a lot closer to the Moll Foster study than it is to be closer to the original estimate. And what are the options to the property owners if you go through this process and they find out it's $7 million instead of $9 million and they feel they can't afford that?
 Well, I think it's important to note we're only going to charge the property owners what it costs to build this project. So to be very clear, my goal is for this LID to come in substantially under budget and bring in good news for the property owners. And if it doesn't, if it happens to come in at $7 million, which some of the testimony we heard today said actually will put up with the road, if it's going to cost that much because we simply can't afford it, what would be their options at that point? Well, that's precisely, Commissioner, why we baked in the additional PBOT and –
 BES funding. So in a worst case scenario, if we couldn't adopt any of the recommendations in the Moll Foster study that we could incorporate. So again, I want to stress part of the savings is narrowing the road and there's very little debate that we can narrow the road in accordance with their wishes. So really the pending item out there is the stormwater infiltration in lieu of the outfall. And the initial information from Moll Foster indicates that we should be able to do that.
 Yes, and if it turns out that's not the case and it comes in at $7 million instead of $4 million or $9 million, the property owners are still unhappy with it. What happens then? Well, the default scope of the project is we build a stormwater outfall, and those costs would be billed to the property owners. And at that point, they would have no option other than to get billed? That is correct, but they could finance it over 20 years. Yes.
 which some of them have said they can't support. I can't understand why. I know you've been doing it for a long time. This information's come in. This seems to be... Everybody's said that we're working together well. Why not come back to council so that everybody can sing Kumbaya and bless its honours? I'm just concerned that people are asking us as well as...
 They're asking us to trust you, which of course we have reason to do so. They also have a right as part of this hearing, which my understanding of the amendment is we might take away that right. There wouldn't be a final vote by the council public hearing.
 It is certainly the council's prerogative if you want to defer making a decision on forming the LID and or if you want to direct me to bring something back to council. That certainly is a prerogative of the council if you wish to do that. It sounds like you're already halfway there. You've considered the study and it won't take all that much more to come back to council.
 I think, Commissioner, what I'm struggling with a little bit is we've been at this for 13 years, and at some point we have to have a budget to actually go do the survey and the design. So PBOT relies on a formed LID as a basis to start survey and design. So it's difficult for us to start designing and surveying a project that we don't have a budget for. So that's why we really need council to approve the LID in order to do that next step.
 And that was a pretty fundamental change we made to the LID program because what we used to do 15 years ago is to go design projects and survey them before we knew that we had a project. And we wound up spending a lot of money designing projects and throwing plans on a shelf and not building anything. Or worse yet...
 we would design a project two or three different times and build it once. So I'm trying to be responsible with the limited resources that PBOT has to not spend that money unless we know that we actually have a project to design and build. Usually we have a much higher confidence level, though, of what that number is going to be. Well, again, it's been scoped based on a stormwater outfall that once we get the Level 1 and the Level 2 environmental analysis done,
 Then that would be the point in time where we can confirm with BES that we can do the local stormwater infiltration. We already have the findings in the Malfoster study. And shortly after LID formation, we're going to get a level one assessment from Malfoster along. And then BES is going to go to the next step of doing a level two environmental assessment.
 So if we were to pass this next week, could we add one additional step to this rather unusual process of a report back to council in the middle when it's been agreed as to how much it would cost? Or at that point, do the other property owners...
 just in regardless of whether it's $3 million or $9 million? We could certainly brief the council, Commissioner. I think the question would be whether you want council to make another decision with respect to the scope of the LID. But we could certainly include a directive for staff to report out an updated scope and cost estimate to council.
 Well, I'm sure that none of us want to put any company out of business with a large bill, even with the capacity to pay it over 20 years. What I heard today was we do have agreement that it's a terrible street that needs fixing. There seems to be a lot of concern for the amount that it would cost. Of course, the more it comes down, the more the proportion of the city's fund is up, because our dedication of money, I'm assuming, will not go down.
 The two bureaus? Yes. That's my understanding. Yeah, we're in for $500,000 each? Yes. Okay. And, you know, there's always the option of looking at additional funding option, too. I mean, I haven't brought that up, but that's certainly another option for council if council wants to provide more funding for the LID. What is your assessment of why this particular, other than it being when you've worked on for 13 years in terrible condition, what are the benefits to the community to having this street improved?
 I think for me, Commissioner, it's not really based on an engineering study or anything terribly scientific. It's just that if my phone rings for 13 years at some point, I'd just sort of reach a conclusion that...
 there is a need in the community for the street to be improved. And so, fundamentally, I'm just trying to be responsive to the property owners. Okay. And just last question. Some of the testimony was about a condition of approval of a future development being responsible for the traffic light. A, can we do that as part of this process if we wanted to put a condition like that on? But more importantly, does improving the street make –
 scarce industrial land more available for development? How much undeveloped property or underdeveloped property is there around the proposed LID area? Well, certainly the improvement, I think primarily the improvements are going to benefit the existing property owners. We don't have any pending development proposals on the table. So I think some of that discussion is a bit academic. But I think what we can certainly do between now and final assessment is monitor that and perhaps craft some language to that effect
 If there were some level of development that would, for example, trigger the need for a traffic signal, I think we could certainly take that into account and incorporate some language into the final assessment ordinance. I want to be really clear that it's not my intent to come back to these property owners for a second LID to build a traffic signal. And usually the last in is the store that breaks the camel back and is responsible for the traffic. I was just wondering, is there an area, any undeveloped land around where we're going to do the LID? No.
 There are some undeveloped areas in the LID. I honestly don't think we're going to trigger the need for a traffic signal. I'm not a traffic engineer, but I don't think that's a likely scenario. No, I'm also just trying to justify the expenditure of public money and the reasons for doing this that we do have a scarcity of industrial land, and if there is any undeveloped property, this LID might help. I think part of the justification for spending public funds on this, Commissioner, is the city has some level of maintenance responsibility for the street,
 And frankly, we're wasting our maintenance operations, limited resources, trying to put Band-Aids on the street. So if we can reconstruct the street, it benefits the property owners and it benefits the city, which is exactly why we set this up to be a funding partnership between all the entities. So it's a difficult decision. I recognize that, but my recommendation is to approve this next week.
 And I'm comfortable with that. I would like a report back to council after you've gotten to a more definite estimate. What I might suggest, Commissioner, is in lieu of a hearing, I could be happy to send a memo around to the commissioner, maybe not scheduled as a council agenda item, but I can certainly send a memo around that briefs council on the outcome of that. That would be okay. And could you please send it to all the property owners as well? Absolutely. Because then they have a direct opportunity to come to us to ask for help.
 Absolutely. I'd be happy to do that, Commissioner. Thank you. Very good. Any further discussion on the amendment, please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? With my concerns and your replies on the record, aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. This is the first reading of a non-emergency item. It moves to second reading as amended. Thank you. Thank you. Next item, please. Okay.
 Item 929, accept bid of Precision Trenchless LLC for the Tabor Powell Phase II Sewer Rehabilitation Project for $1,841,089. Very good. And we have VES staff here today. Good morning. Thank you for your patience. Thanks, Larry. Good morning. I'm Larry Pallat, Procurement Services.
 You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Precision Trenchless for the Tabor Powell Phase II Sewer Rehab Project for $1,841,889. The engineer's estimate on the project was $1,875,000, and the Bureau's confidence level was high.
 The project was advertised as City's electronic procurement system in pursuing to Ordinance 188375. Bids were opened on June 22. Five bids were received. Precision Trenchless is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $1,000.
 $1,841,089, which is 1% under the engineer's estimate, which these days is a very welcome thing. BES and Procurement Service identified an aspirational goal of certified DMW ESB subcontractor supplier utilization at 20% of the hard construction costs. There is a total of $420,574.25.
 Almost 23% certified firm participation on the project apportioned as follows. It is a women business enterprise at $420,574.25 doing site work and excavation.
 Precision Trenchless is headquartered in Schenectady, New York. They are not a State of Oregon certified DMW ESB contractor. They have a City of Portland business tax registration. They are EEO certified and are in full compliance with all of the city's contracting requirements. If counsel has questions regarding the bidding process, I can answer those, or Scott Gibson from BES is here with an interesting story about the project.
 An interesting story. Let's hear it. Actually, good morning, Mr. Mayor. Good morning. I'd like to briefly just take a second to talk about this contract that we advertised. Your project manager, Ms. Colleen Harrell, did a lot of outreach to vendors who are selling a new technology, which is UV light cured in place pipe. It's a technology that's going to save us a lot of money.
 And we have been trying to get that technology involved in our, basically in our community for a long time. And Colleen reached out to vendors all across the nation, and she was successful in getting five firms to bid. She successfully estimated what this new technology would cost and actually ended up with a firm with an excellent participation rate with a local women-owned business as a contractor. So we don't always have these successes, but...
 In this case, we took a risk as an organization, and I think this bidder coming in is going to encourage or force our current vendors to up their game a bit and adopt this newer technology, which is the UV light cured instead of the heat cured pipe relining. So I think that's a really good story, and I just want to take a minute to share that with you. Very good. Thank you. Any further questions? Very good. Public testimony on this item, please. They all left.
 I'm sorry? They all left. All right. Very good. I do have one question. This new UV technology, is it now becoming an industry standard? Is it something that's been tested and proven? It is. It is.
 It doesn't have quite the long history of what we call the heat or thermal cured, but it's an excellent product, a high-quality product. It cures faster. It allows us to get our customers back in service sooner and has several other advantages in addition to it doesn't have some of the chemical off-gassing that we experience with the lining. So it's safe and reliable, but it was just an issue of the current vendors not wanting to upgrade their capital investments. Okay.
 and not wanting to spend a bunch of money on new light streams and newer materials. And so this is sort of encouraging the market to do that. Thank you very much. Very good. I'll accept a motion to accept the procurement report. So moved. Second. Commissioner Fritz moves. Commissioner Saltzman second. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Well, thank you both for your presentation. Aye. Wheeler.
 All right, the procurement report is accepted. Next item, please. 9.30, approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize competitive solicitation using the alternative contracting method of design-build and authorize payment for construction related to the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant wash water and hypochlorite piping replacement project project.
 For an estimated amount of $4 million. So we've already taken testimony. This is a second reading. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wigler. Aye. The ordinance is approved. Next item, please.
 931, authorize Portland Fire and Rescue to provide limited fee for service patient transport under unique and unusual circumstances and authorize application to Medicare as ambulance services provider. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I don't see Chief Ken Burns here who is going to make the presentation on this item.
 Do you want to skip it or do you want to give us a description? We'll find them. Okay, very good. We'll skip to the next item, please. 932, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Sunnyside East Reconstruction and Green Streets Project.
 Number E10370 for an estimated cost of $2.64 million. Very good. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning. Good morning. Chief will get with you next on this. Thanks. Good morning. My name is Scott Gibson, and with me today is Ruben Gonzalez-Baird, who's your project manager on this effort. We are asking for authorization for a construction contract on a sewer rehabilitation project.
 We have two today. They're back-to-back. As engineers, we see sewers fail in two main reasons. One is they're too small, and they can't meet the demand of the storm and sewage combined, and they result in flooding to people's basements or surface, and that's a health risk to everyone.
 The first part of your currency by Ruben is about the capacity of sewer. The second one is about when a pipe dies, when it gets old and it starts to decay. And Margaret's going to talk about that one coming up next. I'll turn it over to Ruben. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, counselors. I'm going to talk about the Sunnyside East Reconstruction and Green Streets Project. The Sunnyside East Project area is in...
 Southeast Portland, it's bounded by 44th and 38th Avenues to the east and west, and Stark and Taylor Streets to the north and south. The project was identified in the BES Combined Sewer System Plan as recently as 2012 as being an area with a high risk for sewer backups and street flooding due to undersized combined sewer pipes.
 A few of the objectives and details of the project will be replacing, adding about 4,800 linear feet of new sewer pipe. The number there should actually read 6-inch to 24-inch diameter because we're including the addition and reconstruction of existing 6-inch sewer service laterals.
 Um, much of the pipe in the project area was constructed in the early 1900s. Uh, most of the work will be taking place on local streets. We'll also be building 16 stormwater facilities, also called Green Streets, within the right-of-way. And we've been coordinating with, uh, PBOT on the Green Streets and pavement restoration, as well as Portland Water Bureau with regards to waterline relocations.
 For public involvement, we've been engaged with the public early on, as early as 2014. We have collaborated with the community to identify impacts and access needs. We provided project updates that have been conveyed via flyers, newsletters, emails, and the project website.
 We conducted a project area tour with residents at 30% design, and a public open house was held at 60% design.
 And you'll see from the slide here, I just wanted to mention a couple of notes here. The top photo is the Belmont Library, which according to my source, was the very first public library in the city of Portland. We have pipework that is actually on either side of that on Southeast Yamhill and Taylor Streets. And our public involvement staff is in contact with that library to coordinate access needs there.
 And then the bottom two pictures are Peacock Lane. And as you might be aware, during the Christmas season, there are specific access and traffic control requirements. We've been coordinating with the PBOT traffic engineer to ensure that we meet those requirements. Outcomes of the public involvement have been that we've ensured adequate – will ensure adequate access during construction.
 and that the businesses and residents are well informed and have been engaged throughout the design and will be engaged throughout the construction processes. We will also be applying for a noise permit or variance for work on southeast Cesar Chavez in order to meet the Portland Bureau of Transportation's traffic control requirements. The night work in Cesar Chavez is expected to last for approximately three and a half weeks.
 And the majority of the project will be completed using open-cut trench construction methods, replacing the vitrified clay pipe with PVC and reinforced concrete pipe.
 We're also going to be doing some trenchless work for some of the new sewer laterals, and we're proposing to do pipe bursting for one block between Cesar Chavez and 38th Avenue on southeast Washington. And again, as I previously mentioned, we're proposing to build 16 stormwater facilities in the right-of-way,
 The primary purpose of the facilities is to store and infiltrate intercepted stormwater flow during rainfall events. And the integration of these facilities with our project has allowed us to avoid more costly pipe replacement while still meeting our levels of service for stormwater conveyance.
 And the project is sufficiently budgeted based on the engineer's estimate of $2.64 million. Our level of confidence is high. We've experienced – we have experience with this type of project. We've identified –
 the conflicts and impacts and issues that we'll need to carry forward into the construction phase. We expect the project to advertise in early December and for construction to begin in April of 2018. Construction is expected to last for approximately 280 calendar days. We'll be happy to take any questions. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions? Yes.
 So I have a question, and this is going to be procedural. Are you teed up and ready to do the presentation on Concordia? We are. Yes. Okay, so let's do this. Let's keep this open. Could you also read Item 933, and then we'll take testimony on both of these? Okay.
 933, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Concordia Sewer Rehabilitation Project, number E-10677, for $4,824,200.
 Good morning. Once again, for the record, my name is Scott Gibson, and with me here today is Margaret Russell, who's your project manager for the Concordia Rehabilitation Project. This project is the first of the two ways sewers failure, which is they get old and they decay. And so this one's a little bit more straightforward. It is part of our larger program to rehab failing sewers.
 which is currently scoped 36 efforts. I think 36 projects. This is about the 30th. We spent over $100 million, about $108 million spent to date over the last seven years. And so Margaret's here to talk about her particular project. Margaret? Good morning, Commissioners and Mayor. My name is Margaret Russell. I'm a Senior Engineering Associate with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and we're here to talk about Concordia Sewer Rehab Project.
 On the slide, Concordia is in green. The other large-scale sewer projects are in yellow. Concordia is in northeast Portland. It is bound by Lombard, Alameda, and then also northeast 10th and northeast 42nd Street. This project is going to be replacing highly deteriorated sewer pipe.
 As a project overview for the segments, we have 54 segments of pipe, which means pipe manhole to manhole. Of this pipe, about 16,000 linear feet will be rehabilitated. There is 13,000 worth of main in that pipe. The remaining 3,000 are lateral, 6-inch lateral pipe. The main pipe are 8 inches to 24 inches, and the majority are a typical 8-inch sewer pipe.
 They were constructed between 1919 to 1950, and it's a very residential project. Ninety-eight percent of the pipe are in residential streets. We have one on a collector street in northeast Killingsworth near northeast 34th Street.
 On the screen now at the top you see some typical decay and defects in pipe. The top two are mains showing deterioration and some cracks. And then typical lateral issues where there are holes at the connection to the main or a broken pipe at the main. For our construction methods, we will be replacing with PVC pipe. The majority of our work will be open cut.
 Thirty-one segments are going to be open-cut rehab, and we have 12 non-conforming sewer extensions. What do you mean when you say open-cut? Open-cut means cutting a trench, yes, open-cut trench. Okay, thanks. I just didn't know. We will also have 11 segments of curing place pipe repair, which is trenchless.
 Throughout the project, public involvement has been involved. They have been outreaching to homeowners and schools and businesses and the neighborhood associations. They have sent out flyers, done personal contact, newsletters, and had presentations at the neighborhood meetings. There is one school that will be affected, and we will not be doing construction while Alliance High School is in session. Thank you.
 For our night work and noise variance requirements, there is only one segment of a 24-inch pipe that is being lined, which will require a noise variance for that. Also at that intersection is some street art that public involvement has coordinated with the neighborhood to let them know that there may be some impacts, but we are lining at that situation. We are not doing open-cut trench work.
 As was earlier stated, probably, that our engineer's estimate is $4,824,000. We have a high level of confidence. The scope is clearly understood. This is a similar large-scale sewer project. The quantities and unit prices are from recent projects. The schedule, we've tried to take into account any difficulties or constraints. And there are experienced bidders that we expect to be available to bid.
 What are we looking at in the photograph? What? Oh, it's a typical street with pavement, some rattling on the pavement, which is one of the issues that we sometimes have to deal with restoring the pavement. Is that because of the pipe, or is that unrelated? This is existing. This is the existing condition where if we have to open cut the pipe, we would have to deal with restoring this pavement. Got it.
 It seems like there's a win-win there. It seems like there's a win-win there. Yeah, I think there is a win-win. We've been working with PBOT on a way to –
 these big trench patches to get potentially full width replacement wherever we can, wherever it makes sense. Trench patching is done by hand often. With small crews, it's more expensive, where if you have a mechanized replacement of lane-to-lane or wider, there are some savings. But one of the things that our engineers deal with as a risk is once you get into construction with heavy equipment, you can have roads that are in poor condition fail. And then as a responsibility to the neighborhood and P-BY, we end up having to pick up that cost
 as a part of our project. So I think the reason why it's here is that she's attempting to estimate how much of that we're going to be paying for in advance. It's a little bit of a reading the tea leaves. Yes. For our schedule, we hope to advertise in October, begin construction in February of 2018, and it should last approximately a year of 400 days. Do you have any questions? Very good. We'll take testimony on 932 and 933. Thank you.
 Thank you for the presentation. Mimi Gurman. Coming up. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Mimi Gurman, and I was just listening, and I don't have a problem with fixing sewage pipes. You guys know I write poetry, and so sometimes I look at the poetry of what is going on around me. And it was interesting to me that the money is somehow available to fix sewer pipes.
 because they need to get fixed. You know, we don't want dirty water going in the rivers. We don't want people drinking dirty water. But the way that we describe houseless people are as dirty, not myself. I don't describe them this way. But the common language is they're filthy, they're broken, they're mentally ill, all kinds of things, meaning all...
 all of which are similar to how we describe what's going on with sewer pipes. So I'm just saying, maybe we could look at the fact that we're so easy giving money for fixing sewer pipes, which we should be, but apply that to the ease of...
 of giving money to fix the houseless problem so that people can have clean water, be clean, have a sense of cleanliness for themselves, be less broken so that they can get fixed through the systems that are here that also need fixing, but at least they're somewhat in place for people to get the therapies that they need, the addiction treatment that they need to avoid jail, to avoid issues of maybe having their dogs killed because they're living outside and they're not okay, and
 And I just want you guys to think about it. You know, the similarity of how we talk about things and applying money to things and giving contractors money to fix things. I'm asking you to fix the houseless problem. I'm asking you to come up with the fix. We have the money. You gave extra money. And it needs to get used. That's my testimony. Thank you. And please no more Nazi cops on the police force. Let's fire them all. Good morning. Good morning.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. I guess on 932, my only concern, you know, is I prefer to have local Oregon contractors end up with the bid. My understanding, this is a New York business, and if I'm incorrect, I apologize on that. On the issue, it said that you're going to replace the clay pipe with the PVC pipe.
 My understanding is the statement you made. I was wondering if we're going to get quite a bit more longevity from going in this direction. Again, you said the diameter would be anywhere from the 6 to 8-inch lateral to the up to 24-inch main. Again, just when we're talking the trenchless type method,
 I believe that was on the number 933. You have a certain section, I guess, which would be trenchless. Again, you were talking two different methods from the UV to the heat. It sounds to me like maybe that's still kind of an uncertain method or maybe going in a different direction now for that change will offer more longevity.
 I'm hoping, again, there's some type of, on this type of work, they're offering some type of warranties or longevity on how long they think this will last. Because it sounded like on the first 932, you had a capacity situation to where these pipes weren't big enough at the time.
 And I'm sure you've calculated into any growth in the areas and what could possibly happen to make sure we don't run into that situation again. Because I know you're talking going up to maybe 24-inch. And I was curious on why you might not even go up even bigger than that just for long-term type growth and to make sure that we don't run into the same problem. And also, you used a term called pipe bursting.
 for one block, and I've never heard of that term before, and hopefully someone can come up here and explain what the term pipe bursting means for one block and what type of method that is. Thank you. Thank you. I don't know if staff has response to that. Oh, okay. Very good. Excellent. Thank you. Colleagues, any more comments before we move these?
 Very good. With regard to Item 932, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. With regard to Item 933, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It also moves to second reading. And that gives us Item 931. Thank you for your patience, gentlemen.
 Go ahead and read it. 931, authorize Portland Fire and Rescue to provide limited free-for-service patient transport under unique and unusual circumstances and authorize application to Medicare as ambulance services provider. Commissioner Saltzman. I'll turn it over to Chief Burns. Very good. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Good morning. Glad to be here today. Portland Fire and Rescue responds to 63,000-plus EMS calls annually from 30 fire stations providing emergency life support services. The ordinance here today that we bring to you allows us to kind of move forward and get more innovative and look at more ways of partnering. We also have two transport-capable rescues currently that are responding day-to-day on emergency calls.
 The ordinance today allows us to be in contact with the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services and to get a billing number. A billing number allows us on the rare, unique, and unusual circumstances that we do transport someone in one of those two ALS units that we would be able to bill.
 We have transported during the ice storm, and there wasn't a billing mechanism because we didn't have the proper documentation, and we need to get that all in alignment. So the ordinance allows us to proceed with our efforts to have a billing number for limited transport services.
 As well as it sets the fee. The fee for transport is set by Multnomah County through their compliance, authorizing the same fee for service that we would charge when and if we did transport as what the current contracted provider for Multnomah County is charging. So that is the ordinance before you today.
 Thank you. And I'm sorry, I apologize. This is Deputy Chief Joe Budge. He's in my office at the EMS Medical Services Training Division. He's been instrumental in getting the paperwork and get everything in alignment for the –
 accreditation to be able to do the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services, that application process is a very stringent process, and he's taken the lead on that. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. Yeah, thank you for your work on this. I know Commissioner Novick started it, so it's taken a long time to get to this point, which is good. Tell me again, what kinds of vehicles are people going to be transported in?
 So currently we have two transport-capable – they look like ambulances, but they're rescuers. Portland Fire and Rescue are staffing those with firefighters today, and they are actually running some of the low-acuity calls. So in this scenario that we're preparing for is when there's a snowstorm or a mass casualty incident where the ambulances are overwhelmed –
 we could then implement those two transport-capable rescues, if you will, into the system and to be able to transport. So there's two of those currently being operated today. And they do accommodate somebody lying on a gurney? Yes, I'm sorry. Yeah, a gurney. They would look, if you parked them next to an ambulance, other than the emblems, they have similar equipment, similar trained personnel.
 And this is specifically for disasters, emergency service, like weather events, or can you do it at any other time? We can't do it. Right now there's a sole provider contract for Multnomah County. Today it's AMR, and they are the unique provider for the county.
 So we would only be able to transport in those unique, unusual circumstances. There are some conversations going on with the potential, the new provider that would happen in 2018, that we may be in a partnership where we could subcontract.
 Today's ordinance at least allows us to get headed in that direction, but it doesn't get in front of that partnership. Good. I hope you keep going with that partnership because that's currently out for bid. Correct. Yes, we're very much aware and very cautious, and we're looking at getting us in a situation to be able to participate more if we have a chance. But we have a duty today to be able to transport. Thank you. Very good. Do you need a –
 I mean, do you need some determination by the county that a transport is a unique and unusual circumstance, or is that just...
 Well, actually, today in our protocols, we could actually transport if there's a critical patient that readily needs transport immediately and there's not an ALS unit currently available. We have that in our protocols today. The situation that we're preparing for and trying to be innovative for is when there's a perceived snowstorm or when there's an earthquake, earthquake would be we wouldn't have noticed, but when we had the snowstorms last winter,
 We collaborated, and we knew where the stresses of the system were going to be. And at that point, we tried to implement additional resources as part of the partnership. So the criticalness of a patient is a factor, and the ambulance availability is a factor in identifying the unique and unusual circumstances. So you don't need the county to declare we're in some period of...
 Unique and unusual circumstances in order for you to do the transport and in order for you to bill for reimbursement. Correct. If there was an earthquake today and we needed, you know, 50 ambulances, and AMR is a great company, and today at this time they probably have about 24 ambulances available, we would assume a role of a transporting unit.
 because this would be a unique and unusual circumstances. If someone just had a 911 call, we would not be transporting. We would not be in violation of the contract. Okay. Okay.
 How many fire stations, fire districts do we have? We have 30 fire stations. That's interesting. So we actually have more coverage than the number of AMRs, ambulances? Yeah, absolutely. If a patient is transported by you, who pays for it? Does the county pay for it or does the...
 individuals on medical insurance pay for it? The ordinance that we're passing today, so we're not entering into a contractual arrangement with Multnomah County or any other private provider, today the billing would go to the person's private insurance, or if they had Medicaid, Medicare, we would be able to bill them directly. Is that any different from AMR, if AMR transports?
 It's exactly the same. It's exactly the same process. They're billing the individual's insurance provider. Thank you. Any further questions for now? Thank you, gentlemen. Public testimony? Everybody on the list left. Lightning wants to talk. We have one last question. Gentlemen, please have a seat, and we'll see if there's any follow-up. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X.
 I absolutely approve this ordinance, and I like the direction that the fire and rescue is going on this. I want to see more of a cost recovery type analysis in the future on this that could be done as far as if maybe working with Multnomah County, you might be able to do a little bit better service in certain areas, right?
 from your current fire stations and having an understanding maybe AMR has approximately 24 ambulances. Maybe you can work with them to increase how many we have.
 I think it's great. I mean, you have my understanding on this ordinance, 63,000 emergency calls each year. Now, what kind of confused me a little bit, and I think you know where I'm going to go on this, is that you're talking 1,000 per transport, and then you have basically on your last page that you think the fees brought in will be about 10,000 annual revenue.
 Well, as you and I both know, if you're having 63,000 calls a year and you're possibly able to move forward on this,
 I think your income is going to be pretty good there. And I think it should be. I think you earn it. And I think that people out in the community should have a right to say, no, I'd rather be transported by Portland Fire and Rescue instead of AMR. I think they should be given that right. And I'm hoping after review through the Multnomah County contract that we get a little more clear understanding of,
 on not saying taking over too much, but being given a little bit more, and then calculating new vehicles to be purchased in and expanding this. Because I think it's a great opportunity for the public first, but also for Portland Fire and Rescue. And I think there needs to be more numbers done on this, calculations.
 and look at the cost recovery analysis and the benefits, again, to the public. If I want to be transported by Portland Fire and Rescue, then so be it. I think I should have that right. And then, again, we'll bill my insurance or Medicare. We go from there. So, anyway, it's a great program, and I hope it will continue and expand. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it. Colleagues, any further questions?
 Follow-up. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you for your testimony and your presence. We are adjourned until Thursday at 1 p.m. That's Thursday, August 24th.