Good morning, everyone. The council will come to order. Carla, could you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Okay, before we begin, I'll just read a little statement here. The purpose of city council meetings is the orderly consideration of the public's business. Preservation of order and decorum is necessary for due consideration of matters before council. The public is welcome to attend council meetings...
 During the meeting, there will be time-limited opportunities for public comment on various agenda items. Although citizens can sign up for communications, public testimony on a council calendar item must address the matter being considered. Please state your name for the record. We do not need your address. If you are a lobbyist, please disclose that information at the start of your testimony. If you are here representing an organization, I ask that you also please disclose that as well.
 unless otherwise informed each community member will have three minutes to speak in front of the council at two and a half minutes you'll Hear a beep and a light will flash on the box before you at three minutes You'll hear four beeps and the lights will flash and that will be the time for the next person to speak I ask that you respect the time limit so that there's time to hear from each person Who is signed up to speak? Please give handouts to the council clerk and she will distribute them to us please testify only on the matter at hand and
 Council rules of procedure seek to preserve the public order and to ensure that Council's deliberations proceed efficiently and that all who want to participate get to be heard. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting during other people's presentations or interrupting testimony or Council deliberations, will not be allowed. Please show your support or displeasure with your hands, i.e., thumbs up, thumbs down, or hands up.
 This is a warning that anyone that disrupts this proceeding may be escorted from the council chambers and excluded from City Hall. Okay, with that we will...
 pair of dignitaries, I would say. My brother, Peter, who has been an elected member of the Children's District Council for over 25 years, which I think is even more longer than you've been here. And his wife, Katie, who's a consultant on international development and education, are visiting because my son just got married on Saturday. So would you please stand? Yes, stand and be recognized. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you. It's good to have you here. Sure.
 Okay, we'll begin with Council Communications, item 963.
 Request of Maggie Benware and Barry Fowler to address council regarding Metropolitan Youth Symphony concert tour in China. Could you read 964 also? We'll have them come up. Yes. Request of Arparna Jayakumar to address council regarding Metropolitan Youth Symphony concert tour in China. She's not able to make it, but the other two are. Oh, okay. Colleagues, Maggie Benware and Barry Fowler are joining us this morning. They're going to be here.
 They're going to share some reflections on their recent trip to China. They're members of the Metropolitan Youth Symphony, which is a wonderful arts organization here in Portland. I had the honor of speaking at their send-off. They did a concert at Director Park, and it was well attended, even though it rained. And we're just so proud of these young people, and we're delighted they're here today to tell us about their great adventure. Well, welcome. If you can just give us your name when you speak, and you each have three minutes. Thanks.
 Good morning, my name is Maggie Benware. I play viola with the Symphony Orchestra at Metropolitan Youth Symphony, and I'm honored to speak with you guys today. I really love MYS. We get to perform here at the Schnitz and recently traveled this June for over 4,000 miles to visit China, so it's been amazing.
 Before I briefly introduce myself, I also want to express my thanks on behalf of MYS to the Regional Arts and Culture Council for the funding that MYS receives to build up our music programs and establish the family atmosphere that we have. I'll briefly introduce myself. Like I said before, my name is Maggie. I am a rising senior this year and I have played viola for four years. This year is my second with MYS. In college, I plan to continue my studies of music and also pursue global business and I'll be speaking today with Barry.
 Hello, my name is Barry Fowler. I used to be in the Metropolitan Youth Symphony. I played in it for three years with my last two as principal violist.
 I'm currently attending Oregon State University, majoring in business and minoring in music to help me reach my goal of a career in the music industry. I love music and travel, which made China an especially great experience for me. I continue on expanding my horizons next year in the spring with studying abroad in Rome. MYS invited me on the trip as a performer and a chaperone, which is typical of the Metropolitan Youth Symphony, has offered me any, excuse me, many other great opportunities in the
 including traveling to Miami to perform with Michael Tilson Thomas and performing with the Oregon Symphony at their annual Waterfront concert, which by the way is tomorrow, so hopefully I'll see all of you guys there. We'll start with a brief narrative of our trip. We split our 11 days up between three cities, Beijing, Tianjin, Beidaihe, and then finished back in Beijing. The first half of our trip was super busy. It included three concerts in three days.
 We went to visit the Great Wall, we saw the Olympics village, and on our last day of the half, we went and saw Tianjin. Our first concert was at the Central Music Conservatory in Beijing, which we actually shared with a high school band, a local high school band, and got to do a gift exchange. So we traded some of the best of Oregon for some of the best of China. Our next concert was actually on the Great Wall, which was the most unique and photogenic concert I've ever done.
 Our third concert was at the Tianjin Concert Hall, which afterwards we got to explore the city of Tianjin. We got to see the mashup of culture that exists there and some of the beautiful city lights that are over there. The next day we boarded a bus to Beidaihe, which Barry will go ahead and talk some more about.
 In Baiduhe, it was a really interesting town. It's actually a popular vacation spot for North Koreans and Russians. So there's a lot of Russian influence in the town, especially. Personally, I enjoyed going to some of the tea shops around the area and taking a boat ride into the harbor with some local fishermen. We also saw the start of the Great Wall of China, which is nicknamed Dragon's Head. It extends into the Yellow Sea.
 Our last performance was nearby in the city of Qinghuangdao. We had a last minute venue switch because the Communist Party needed the cultural center we were going to use. So we switched to a university, which was great because we got to meet a lot of the students there. And also afterwards, we switched roles with them and acted as the audience and watched their orchestra perform for us with traditional Chinese instruments.
 After our performance and some much-needed beach time, we headed back to Beijing, and we saw lots of famous landmarks in our last few days in China, such as Tiananmen Square and the Forbidden City. Also, we took a rickshaw ride and were invited to some local people's homes for dinner. And so, of course, you can imagine this was a huge trip, and it had a huge impact on all the 50 students who got to travel. For me personally, I love learning about the Chinese culture, and some of these experiences are really going to shape the way I approach my future.
 One of my favorite parts was the way that music was able to connect our two cultures, since they're virtually opposite in every way. For example, like Barry talked about at the Northeast University in Tsinghua Dao, after our performance, we got to watch the students perform on their traditional Chinese instruments. And even though we don't speak enough of the same language to introduce ourselves, we were able to see the passion that they have and the pride that they have in their own music and their country.
 And this kind of pride is evident everywhere in China, which was another part that I really liked of the trip. We saw some of China's best through our tour. They took us to the best concert venues. We saw historical sites like the Great Wall of China and Tiananmen Square.
 And it's really interesting to see the positives instead of the negatives that sometimes get focused on. And this kind of approach can go anywhere. It can be as big as focusing on the strengths of a nation or as small as the traits you like in a family member. And I think that'll really shape the way I approach college and all of my relationships in the future. And of course there are many memories that I'll take with me for the rest of my life, but those were just a few that I really enjoyed.
 I think one of the things that impacted me the most on this tour to China, just as a performer, was experiencing the cultural difference and the different kinds of audience. For me, at first, it was really hard to read the audience. I thought they weren't really enjoying our performance. People were talking. They were on their phones. I even saw a couple of people listening to headphones while we were playing. But afterwards, when we were done performing, it was amazing. Like, people just wouldn't stop applauding. We would...
 play encore after encore and they would want more. I mentioned we had a last minute venue switch and so we had basically no confirmed audience and then in the last 24 hours it went from 0 to 1500 people and so we had a full house of students there and it was a fantastic performance.
 I think another thing, too, another way that this tour really impacted me, it really put everything in perspective for me. I think we take a lot of things for granted here. For instance, our tour guide, Sophia, one of her biggest dreams is to just get a travel permit to even be able to come visit the U.S. for just a month. And I don't know, that just really put things in perspective for me, seeing all of the little freedoms that we have here.
 Thank you. Thank you very much for sharing your great experience in China. Can we suspend the rules and give these outstanding young people a round of applause? Let's do that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Actually, Mr. President, can I ask a question? Sure. I was just curious, were there places that you really want to go back to that you're like, wow, I wish I had a week in that place rather than having to be in there a couple of days? Yeah. Yeah.
 I really love the city of Tianjin. It's very interesting because it was occupied for a while by European influence. So there's a lot of Western architecture, and also the city is very clean and very lit up, like I mentioned, beautiful city lights. And I'd love to take some time and really explore. They have a bunch of cathedrals, and it's really an interesting mix-up of cultures.
 of culture, and I'd like to spend some time there. I think for me, just because of time's sake, we mostly had to stay in a certain area of China, so it would be interesting for me to explore other areas. For instance, like Shanghai, or maybe seeing the other end of the Great Wall in the Gobi Desert. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you. Could you please read item 965? Request of Meg Hansen to address Council regarding historic resource inventory removals and demolition delay. Okay.
 Also, 966 has come up. This is 966 also? Yes. Okay, I want you to read that. Request of Kyra Goodhart Littlefield to address council regarding historic resource inventory, removals, and demolition delay. Welcome. All you need to do is give us your name, and you each have three minutes. Do you have your binders? I don't have a binder. But go ahead. Thank you. We may have them in our offices.
 My name is Meg Hansen, my colleague, Kara Littlefield, and I are here representing the Close the Loophole Coalition. And we'd like to speak to you about two urgent and related issues, the delisting of historic resource inventory properties and the subsequent illegal approval of demolition permits without 120-day delay. We'd like to combine our time today, so I'll speak for the majority, and then Kara will say a few words before our time is up.
 I was here in July speaking on the same subject, requesting immediate action and asserting our position that the BDS has been issuing demo permits illegally for over 13 years by not enforcing the 120-day delay. I won't repeat myself today, but I've included that information in your packet. This is not the first or the second or even the third time that the council has heard these assertions or our urgent requests.
 In November of last year, you heard extensive testimony from members of the Historic Landmarks Commission, Restore Oregon, the Architectural Heritage Committee, and others. I've included the minutes from those meetings in your packets as well. There was quite a lot of focus on the HRI and the demo delay loophole, as well as the pending decision before the Oregon Supreme Court regarding owner consent and delisting.
 The HLC used the words like shocking and alarming at the realization that the 120-day demolition delay was not being enforced for HRI removals, and the ease with which developers could purchase, immediately delist, and receive demo permit approval. Restore Oregon had previously stated that this practice was a violation of state law, and that it circumvented the city's long-established historic resource demolition delay provisions. Thank you.
 Immediate action was requested to close the loophole, and a very quick and easy pathway to compliance with state law was recommended. In addition, a request was made at that time to prohibit all delistings pending the Oregon Supreme Court decision, stating that failure to take immediate interim action would result in irrevocable public harm. Regarding the 120-day delay, Councilmember Fish said at the time, we could tackle that very quickly and put something in place.
 Council didn't act, and indeed our historic heritage has suffered more irreplaceable losses since then. Here we are just a few months shy of a year later, and we're still having the same conversation and making the same urgent requests, even after the Supreme Court has ruled that delisting is not an option for subsequent property owners. The preservation community has been eagerly awaiting an official statement from the city attorney since the Supreme Court decision was announced a few weeks ago,
 The question on everyone's mind is, will the city continue to allow HRI delistings and expedited demolition, or will they act in harmony with the ruling? The city attorney has not issued an official decision that I'm aware of, and formally they've indicated their opinion is that the ruling does not apply to HRI properties because they're not official designations, that it only applies to historic landmarks. The state definition of designation and the context in which designate is used is broad and
 and not limited to historic landmarks. This splitting of hairs over the word designate in order to justify the continued fast-tracking of HRI demolitions is absolutely contrary to both the spirit and the letter of the law.
 Prior to 1996, owner consent regulations, a demolition permit application for an HRI property, ranked or unranked, would automatically trigger a historic landmark review concurrent to a 150-day demolition delay. At that time, the history and significance was revisited, and there was an opportunity then to designate it as a historic landmark and even potentially pursue a public purchase.
 Once owner consent regulations came into place, there was no longer a process to review those potential historic landmarks. They were forever stuck in that demoted status of historic with a little h. HRI properties listed as eligible and contributing meant something then, and it means something now.
 If HRI properties are deemed unworthy of applying the Supreme Court's ruling, that would be in direct contravention of the court's intent and would further dismantle the framework of Rule 5 historic resource protections, which the legislature didn't intend to.
 Members of Council, we want to repeat yet again a request for immediately complying with state law by closing the HRI demolition delay loophole once and for all. Give HRI properties back the 120-day demolition delay. Whether you continue to allow them to be delisted or not, this you can do immediately. Thank you.
 Regardless of the absurd semantic dispute and hair-splitting over the word designate, and we urge you and the city attorney to extend the Supreme Court ruling to HRI properties. Failing to act immediately would only continue the erosion of public trust and perpetuate the practice of surreptitious deregulation.
 You're cutting into Ms. Goodhart's time. I'm almost done, which we will then challenge and subject to judicial review before Luba. We urge you to err on the side of caution and careful consideration rather than continuing to err on the side of irrevocable harm and regret. Thank you.
 My name is Kira Littlefield. Thank you to the council members and everyone who came here today to show their support. The heart of the Sunnyside District at 34th and Belmont, near where I live, is currently under the threat of demolition. All of the buildings that make up
 Our historic street car era Main Street were on the historic resources inventory until earlier this year when two of them were delisted. And now there is a demolition permit issued for 3334 Southeast Belmont. It will be the first domino to fall in one of Portland's last intact historic Main Street's.
 I became actively involved because I love the city and the historic texture that drew me and so many others here in the first place. I'm here to support the CLC's request for an immediate 120-day demolition delay for all HRI properties so that there is, at the very least, an opportunity for public comment or conversation before any more of our community treasures are delisted and demolished. Thank you. Thank you.
 Just want to let you know we will be making an announcement this week about responding to the Supreme Court ruling and our policies. Thank you. Thank you both for being here. Item 967. Request of Sherry Willoughby to address council regarding impact that accessory short-term rentals have on residents. Good morning. Good morning. All you need to do is give us your name and you have three minutes. Thank you, Sherry Willoughby.
 i want to thank you commissioner fritz and your staff and those of commissioners novick and saltzman uh ross coron mike liefeld and terry williams for your interest help and direction my inquiries to relevant parties i also want to commend justin lindley because he told me that he really wanted me to not just talk about my issue but but mention that it affects all of portland as well
 He earns my highest respect. I hope you can help with this matter. Airbnb came to my neighborhood this March, three months after I bought a little condo with a great view of trees. Little did I know that this was about to change drastically.
 It has taken a bletchley circle to get me here today as we piece together information over three months that this Airbnb hopes to site a commercial parking lot in our neighborhood. The exact scenario, Ordinance 18976 foresaw but failed to prevent. Every day we fear the loss of our trees, excavation of our hillside, and construction of a large unsightly heat retaining wall to hold the hill. Never mind that the house already has three parking spaces in addition to the two in the garage. Thank you.
 We've asked the city to withhold or withdraw the permit for this business. We've argued unsuccessfully that this is a ghost hotel with guests being its only occupants. Unfathomably, the city turns away eyewitness proof of lack of ordinance mandated 270 days a year occupancy, seeking only to establish owner residency through DMV records, DMV and other records that the owner has altered to reflect residency falsely."
 The city is also in trouble by the number of bedrooms rented out at the time of permit application. I actually took out data evidence to the city itself that they used to upgrade a permit, A, two bedrooms to B, three to five on August 4th.
 four days prior to the safety inspection for this house. This showed the owner was renting out six bedrooms, not the two for which she applied. A BDS supervisor refused to consider this evidence of application for the wrong permit, refused to even put it on file, telling me to return with it after the two-bedroom permit was granted on some future date.
 Only yesterday did I finally work my way to someone in planning and zoning who told me definitively that permits to rent out six-bedroom STRs are not granted at all. The same BDS supervisors also saw no need to connect the permitting of two Portland homes for this owner with each other or other ASTR rentals by this person and a business partner.
 simultaneously permitting both in Portland. And I just learned that the permitting process can just drag on and on indefinitely while a community waits to present violations is delayed. I would say that this is egregious behavior on part of BDS and ask that you never again ignore evidence of excessive bedroom rentals and non-occupancy
 simply continue with your permitting process and that you scrutinize owners of multiple permits more carefully. I would ask that when you do establish residency, you let the DMV know. And I wonder what will happen if there's a fire in a bedroom that the city's own COBE and not let you inspect, but you knew about and an unsuspecting guest is hurt. Isn't this a gaping loophole exposing the city to liability as well?"
 So I ask for your help. Ask Urban Forestry to contact this business owner to be certain she understands the root protection zone for Title XI trees and development situations. Ask Urban Forestry to not grant a permit to remove any trees at this house under private tree rules without an inspection.
 This business owner has been incentivized by EZ Permits to remove trees and put up a parking lot. Solve the problem, your STR permitting process created in our neighborhood, please. And for all Portland neighborhoods, fix the STR flaws in an amendment, please, soon. Thank you. Thank you very much. Ms. Willoughby, if you could stop over to my office and talk with either Christina or Pooja about the urban forestry aspect of this concern, they can help you. Thank you.
 So I'm going to ask my council colleagues. We have a Mr. Laddy Reed who showed up to testify this afternoon on the housing emergency, and it's really hard for him to come back this afternoon, so I would ask if we could suspend the rules and give Mr. Reed three minutes to speak to us. Is that okay? Okay, Mr. Reed, come on up, and you have three minutes. He's actually asked me to speak for him. This is something he has written and just asked me to say the words. Okay, but keep it within three minutes. Absolutely. Okay. Okay.
 Despite what has been said on previous... You...
 Do you remember me? Yes, I do. All right. Ready? We remember you. Yes. All right. Despite what has been said on previous occasions in City Hall, we have a homelessness crisis in the city of Portland. Too often we respond to this as if it were a problem caused by the homeless. Too often we respond only to the needs of business owners afraid of a loss of customers, of neighborhood groups concerned with reduction of property values.
 Portland has a reputation for handling homelessness better than other places in this country, and we have every reason to be proud of this, but we have even more important reasons to not become complacent. We fail to respond effectively again and again because we see the homeless first as a category of people or even an abstract problem rather than as individual citizens sharing the condition of homelessness.
 For this reason, we invent only institutional solutions, like homeless shelters, group homes, and in our better moments, clinics and soup kitchens. We treat homelessness as something that must be treated with a universal approach. In doing so, we fail to see that the needs of any given homeless person differ as widely from the needs of any other homeless person, as do the needs of any given citizen with a home from those from any other such citizen.
 We must acknowledge that any person can face financial ruin. Any child can be born into a home full of fear and abuse and thus seek to escape. We must acknowledge that many people do not have a safe and reliable place to sleep, but are still very independent and capable, and they do not need institutionalization. These people do not need to be moved to the industrial corners of our city to await, for three years, a better answer that may never come.
 They need the same things everyone else does. They need places to store their possessions where they will not be stolen. They need restroom facilities and places to bathe. They need places to wash their clothes and throw away their trash. They need opportunities for gainful employment. They need the protection of their police and the support of their communities. They need the support of their families.
 Furthermore, they need these things in the parts of the city where they already live. They don't need to be moved around again while a state of emergency is extended indefinitely so that we can exploit this problem for unrelated financial and political gain while ignoring for another three years the actual people and their actual needs. I myself grew up in an institution which treated me only as a component of a larger abstraction.
 The Fairview home for feeble-minded and criminally insane. In the years since Fairview closed, I have achieved a largely independent life. I own a home and a car. I'm an advocate and activist involved deeply in this community. I've held gainful employment and contributed to my community in organizations such as Food Not Bombs and Oregon Care Works. I've achieved this because I've received the assistance I actually need as an individual with cerebral palsy.
 It is time that we, likewise, stop assuming that we know the category of the homeless and what they need and that we can provide exclusively with large-scale institutions and shelters instead of how we look to deliver the needed infrastructure, assistance, and public service to those who have no common qualities except for the lack of a reliable home. I have a question. Can you ask a question? Yes, one minute.
 where's the mayor uh he'll he's he's not here today but he's going to be here this afternoon via telephone for the hearing thank you very much laddie appreciate it it's good to see you okay let's move to the uh consent agenda are there any items that members of council or the public would like removed from the consent agenda okay hearing none uh let's move for approval of the consent agenda novick aye prince aye fish aye saltsman aye
 Okay, let's move to item, our first time certain, item 968. Item 968, accept a grant in the amount of $852,000 and authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the Oregon Department of Transportation for the planning and development phase of the Portland Central City Multimodal Project.
 commissioner novick colleagues for several years now we have been anticipating a central city multimodal project to help getting around make getting around the central city safer easier more convenient by foot bike and transit through the construction of active transportation projects
 We applied to Metro for a $6 million grant for this project for Central City Multimodal Safety Improvements in 2013. That grant was approved. We also plan to supplement that grant with Fix Our Streets money from the recently approved gas tax.
 This item would allow us to accept a preliminary pot of money of $852,000 to undertake a planning and project list development process with a variety of stakeholders.
 as informed by the Central City 2035 plan. The idea is to engage stakeholders, yield a list of infrastructure projects in the Central City. We would anticipate that that list will come to council at the end of this process in approximately a year. And I'll now turn it over to Art and Gabe. Thank you.
 Good morning. Thanks for having us here this morning. So this is really an exciting moment for the central city and an exciting moment, I think, for PBOT. We've really long discussed the need for an intentional look at the investments we need in the central city. In particular, central cities throughout the country and throughout the world are reinventing themselves.
 And Portland Central City needs to think of itself as an evolving place that is continuing to be competitive with central cities throughout the country. And so this package of investment can support the types of planning initiatives that are being contemplated in the Central City 2035 plan, which will come to you over the next six months.
 and can sort of bring right after that planning effort direct investment in the central city to continue to make it vibrant and make sure that we can continue to see the central city grow and include more residents and more employees in a supportive way that we can really be proud of.
 And so as we've, as the Commissioner noted, you know, this is a long-awaited grant. I mean, part of the challenges with the regional flexible funds process is we apply and we have to wait three years before the funding starts coming. So we have been waiting and the constituents have been long-awaiting for this process to get started, so we're very excited to be underway. Is this – How come we got the grant to do it before we got the grant to plan it?
 Well, that's a good question. What we decided to do was put those two elements together. Given the complexity of the conversation around finalizing which infrastructure projects we would move forward with, it seemed best to combine those two phases together into one effort. So we will be able to directly follow on the finalization of prioritizing which projects to move with, with that capital investment. But we already got the grant from Metro. Usually you do the planning and then you get the grant for doing it.
 How can we get the grant to do it first? With the grant with Metro, we just applied for both of those cycles together. So overall, the central city plan gives us the broad plan to work off of, and Gabe will talk a little bit more about this. But this really is taking the overall strategy for the central city, which is a 20-year plan, and breaking it down into really concrete investment strategies. And so it made sense to put that all into one effort. Correct me if I'm wrong. My understanding was that this $852,000 –
 is part of the $6 million, and the $6 million was approved, but we haven't actually gotten the money yet, and this is sort of releasing the first tranche of money. This is the first tranche of money, yes, exactly. So the rest of the funds will be coming once we finalize the plan for investment. We'll then finalize the contract for implementation. Art, when you say flexible funding from Metro, that's the same pot that we tapped for the bike share, right? Yes.
 It is, yes, correct. Yep. And so this is competitive money. Very competitive, yes. So it gets divvied up by Metro based on what people apply for. Right, and making sure that they're following through on the policy intentions set at the regional level. Okay, good. So I'll pass it over to Gabe, who can give you more details. Sure. We've just got a short presentation here. Commissioners, thank you for having me. Gabe Graff, Capital Project Manager at the Bureau of Transportation. And...
 Thank you. So Council nominated this project for the Regional Flexible Fund Program in September 18th of 2013. The grant was approved and included, as Art mentioned, in the 2016-2018 STIP, or Statewide Transportation Improvement Program.
 You can see the project boundary here, which mirrors that of the central city boundary. And the project seeks to make getting around the central city safer, easier, and more convenient by foot, bike, transit, through planning, prioritizing, and constructing active transportation projects.
 At the time, the project was identified as a priority for three reasons. First, safety, safety of people walking and biking. Twenty of the top 40 high-crash intersections for walking and biking were within the project area. Two, a lack of a bicycle network designed for people of all ages and abilities in the central city. And finally, a lack of clarity from stakeholders and the public on a strategy for active transportation improvements in the central city, particularly for the bike network.
 And another key reason for this being a priority is growth. Today's central city is home to the densest concentration of people and jobs in the state. It serves as the region's economic hub. And as you know, 30% of Portland's growth is expected to occur within this boundary, which represents just 3% of the land. 37,000 new households, 51,000 new jobs.
 How can we safely and efficiently get people to these jobs, the cultural amenities, the retail, the dining that the central city has to offer as it grows? That's a key question of the Central City 2035 plan. And we see this project as one of PBOT's first significant investments in that vision. Thank you.
 So, as Commissioner Novick mentioned, we have $8.8 million against this effort, and this initial funding of $852,000 will pay for the planning and development phase, resulting in a prioritized project list. We'll break those projects down into tiers, with top priority projects fitting within the dedicated funding that we are discussing here today. We'll also develop a second tier of projects that are prioritized.
 We don't have the dedicated funding for, but we'd seek to find funding for in a five- to ten-year time horizon. And it's final tier projects that we'll consider with the community, but unlikely to move forward in the near term. We'll be back at Council with that prioritized project list, and also to seek your approval to authorize the construction and design phase for those top-ranked projects.
 Again, as Art mentioned, the good news is we have a strong foundation here in the Quadrant plans with the Central City 2035 proposed draft shown here. And also our effort is inclusive of the Green Loop, one of the big ideas in the Central City 2035 plan. We've included two members of BPS's Urban Design Studio in our project team so that we can best collaborate on this effort. Here is our rough timeline. Public outreach is underway now.
 We are conducting an early input survey, meeting with stakeholders and presentations to groups like the Downtown Neighborhood Association, Portland Business Alliance, Travel Portland, the Central Eastside Industrial Council, the Freight and Pedestrian Advisory Committee, and others. Upon approval of the IGA, we can begin work on this planning and development phase, which will include stakeholder interviews, forming an advisory committee, and digging into the
 the lines in these plans. We hope to complete this phase within a year with design and construction to follow. As Art mentioned, with all of these presentations, we've been underscoring that Portland streets and public spaces have always been evolving and that this tradition of innovation and creative problem-solving is something we hope to leverage in this effort. We've been experimenting with some elements of this vision. This is the street seat across the street from the 1900 building.
 And this is northeast Multnomah. Again, this idea of clearly delineating spaces for all people regardless of how they're traveling to be. So clear space for cyclists to ride, clear places for pedestrians to cross with shorter and safer crossings, and a safer cross section for people who are driving. Okay.
 We've also been experimenting with demonstration projects to engage the public on what different ideas for streets could be. So this is Better Block's demonstration of a better Third Avenue, which we later implemented. And also community-led projects. So Second Avenue was reconfigured following the Better Block demonstration and a request from the Old Town Chinatown Community Association that was striped earlier this summer.
 And finally, Biketown. We've got 1,000 bicycles in a service area that largely mirrors the central city. So making improvements, particularly in the bike network, for all the new riders who are trying cycling for the first time. Can I ask you a question? It's my impression that this launch of Biketown has been a huge success. That's partly because I see these orange bikes everywhere in our community. Can you give us a quick update on what you're seeing?
 Yeah, I think we're very pleased with the success of Biketown. The average bike is getting 1.9 rides per day, so that's 1,900 rides. So...
 So far it's been greater than projected in terms of usage. And I think one of the most exciting elements has been the sort of unexpected users, sort of folks who are not regular cyclists. So they're visiting the city, and this is the way that they're enjoying to experience the city. So that's been a really exciting part of the process. And by the way, I –
 I talked to a guy recently downtown who was on one of the bikes, and he was stopped at a light, so we just engaged each other. And he was visiting from Amsterdam. So I said, well, that's interesting. I said, how do you like our bikes? He said, they're a bit clunky, but they work. But, I mean, it was just cool to see someone who had already sort of hardwired into his view as he's visiting a city, and there's this amenity, and he expects to use it. Right.
 I am very pleased that it's working. I'm very concerned that many of the riders don't have helmets and also that they continue to ride as other cyclists do on the sidewalks in downtown. So I hope that we'll continue to work on those issues. Absolutely. In fact, this infrastructure, in my mind, is that inviting environment to bring people off the sidewalks. Right. And also we need to get away from people to get helmets because people from out of town are generally not going to go out and buy themselves a helmet.
 Thank you. So what might we see as recommendations coming out of this project? I'll share a couple of ideas and then some examples from other cities. Here is a sketch that illustrates the separation and safety we're seeking to achieve. So again, clear spaces for everybody to be, shorter and safer crossings for pedestrians, clearly marked refuge islands, clear spaces for cyclists to ride, and
 clear spaces for motorists to drive, and trying to acknowledge and reduce all of the conflicts at intersections so there's better visibility for all users in reducing crashes where they're most likely to occur.
 Also, transit priority, an additional goal, not just to – a goal of the project is not just safety, but also more trips to the central city, safer and more. So using efficient – using the right-of-way in the most efficient manner possible, and transit priority is a real way to do that. Okay.
 As to other cities, we're looking to Seattle for their innovative designs for getting transit access, cycling, driving in, pedestrians all on the same right-of-way with designs like this. And also for their higher quality finishes and designs. This is outside of the Amazon headquarters. They have very nice-looking street infrastructure.
 Chicago, when I presented this to the Downtown Neighborhood Association, like, do you see any trees in this picture? I don't see any. Oh, we found one. There's one dead tree in the top left. But this is a protected intersection design that, again, shows that clear separation.
 Transit priority, this is in New York City with bus-only lanes, a way to efficiently move a lot of people in and out of the central city, particularly in the peak hour. And then placemaking and temporal uses of the right-of-way. This is in Philadelphia. In the evening, they've shut down the street to vehicles and opened it up for people to enjoy and hang out for commerce.
 And finally, tourism and economic development, the Indianapolis Cultural Trail. We'll be looking to see how our investments can encourage people to spend more time in the central city, to want to come to the central city, to want to bring their families on the weekend. And this is a great example of that kind of solution. Thank you. Unless there are any other questions, I'll turn it over to Ronnie from the Downtown Neighborhood Association.
 hi commissioners good morning uh thanks for having me um so i am the land use and transportation chair of the downtown neighborhood association and we like trees um but we also give us your name oh ronnie boyle thank you we are extremely excited about this project and i personally have been getting excited emails since 2013 i think when it was a glimpse in someone's eye um so we're really excited to be part of it
 a lot of downtown residents don't have cars and they live downtown because of the multimodal transportation options. And we really appreciate them and we're lucky to have them, but we're very aware that there's so much room for improvement. Transportation access and safety comes up in almost every meeting that I host. And too often people have very personal stories of close calls in
 injuries that they have to share. And I'd certainly like to hear less of them for all the right reasons. So people are very excited about feeling safer walking more and feeling safer biking more. They want to do more of all of these things, but there are challenges. And the issue of bikes on the streets, unfortunately, on the sidewalks is an issue that comes up very often. And
 It's an issue where people don't feel comfortable biking in the streets right now. And so then they bike on the sidewalks and then cause an issue with people feeling comfortable walking downtown. So we're very aware that these issues are linked. We're really excited about having comfortable facilities for biking downtown.
 And we think that's going to have a ripple effect, that they're all going to be improved. Hart, can I ask you a question on this? Yeah, sure. Because we sold our house. I live in a rental apartment downtown, so I'm doing a lot more walking. Right. And I feel particularly vulnerable. And in light of the terrible tragedy that recently happened on Hawthorne,
 It struck me that there are limits to what we can accomplish through legislating. I mean, we can legislate all we want, but some of the behavior we're talking about, cars and bikes observing the laws of the road, stopping at red lights, not accelerating when it's yellow, not putting people at risk. What –
 Do you have any thoughts just generally about beyond the changes in design and some of these kinds of improvements, which hopefully are designed to make it safe for everyone to share our streets, what's missing in terms of getting the message to people that irreversible
 irresponsible and dangerous behavior on our streets is not tolerated, whether you're in a car or a bike. That's a great challenge, I think. I think Portland really is at a place in its evolution right now that we're growing up as a city. And this is, I think, part of that. We're experiencing more congestion and more sort of conflicts as we navigate the streets on a daily basis.
 And I think your initial reaction to that is to sort of try harder to navigate through, and that's actually accelerating those conflicts. And we do need to develop a culture where people understand that as a city gets larger, you need to expect it takes more time to traverse through the city.
 And I think we're right at the moment of that evolution right now, where we're seeing people sort of fighting their way through the congestion rather than realizing they're just going to have to expect it takes five more minutes to go through downtown because we're a bigger city now. But are we going to win that fight through friendly persuasion or through a bigger stick?
 And I'll give you one example. I was walking to get a haircut the other day, and someone in a car accelerated, made the turn, almost ran me over. I stopped. I said, please slow down, and she told me to F off. And I was saying, well, I'm not sure friendly persuasion is going to reach that person. And so as between carrot and stick, what has to happen to get people to think twice about the consequence of their behavior? Yeah.
 There probably is a greater need for enforcement in the central city as part of this package. At this point, the main tools that we have at our disposal within transportation would be overall information campaigns and infrastructure investment, those types of elements.
 But I do think part of the challenge is especially if people are leaving the freeway network in which they're either going very fast or frustrated that they're not going very fast, when they enter the central city, they're trying to make up time at this point. And that's what's encouraging some of the behavior we're seeing where people are making U-turns. They're going through private rights of way. Right.
 they're getting frustrated and engaging in even higher risk behavior, which seems to me to work against the purpose of what you're trying to do by making this straight C. No, I think that's exactly true. And I think until we're able to come with levels of infrastructure, not just in biking and walking but also in transit infrastructure,
 we're not able to turn the tide in terms of the level of congestion we're seeing, especially on state facilities right now. And so this is a key part of this package is making the central city more safe and comfortable, but another piece is really partnering with TriMet on some of those larger investments for sure. This could be simplistic, but it's my impression from visiting Copenhagen, for example, that the more common and mainstream biking and walking as opposed to getting around by car becomes easier
 the better everybody behaves because motorists to whom bikes are an annoying distraction and they wish they would all go away once you're in a city where 25% of the trips are by bike then you sort of accept they're there you have to deal with them and
 My impression is that in cities like Amsterdam or Copenhagen, where a huge portion of the population who are not daredevils, who are just kind of regular people, are riding bikes, the culture shifts from one in which, to some extent, the bicycle culture is one of we're bold and brave and young and we're going to zip around like crazy to, well, no, this is just another way of getting around and we're all clunking along together, as people tend to do on the bike share bikes. Yeah.
 Obviously, there's always going to be bad behavior in any context, but I think that as the context changes, my impression is both sides or all sides behave better. Okay, well, thank you very much. Thank you. See if anybody wishes to testify on Item 968. Anybody wish to testify? No one signed up. Okay, I don't know who signed up. Mr. Lightning wants to speak. Okay, Mr. Lightning, welcome. Just give us your name and you have three minutes.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I really like that bike share program. I think that's really something good for the city. One of the issues I have is that I prefer to walk around the city. I've always done that. But I like to see people riding the bicycles also. And one of the concerns I have, I try to work with them in a reasonable manner, I guess, is that when I'm going over, say, like Broadway Bridge or the Steel Bridge,
 It is difficult for somebody that predominantly walks through the city to have the bikes coming alongside them on those type of bridges. And I don't know if there's been any thought put into that on how that should be handled because some of the walkways, as you know, aren't very wide. So it.
 It is a little bit more difficult, say, on the Broadway Bridge to walk and then have the bikes going by you. So I'm hoping maybe some more studies can be done on that as a safety issue and maybe just a respect for the walkers and the people on bikes and how they can deal with that situation. Another thing I'd like to see is that Central City, I want to see to be –
 kind of designated as the safe zone. And what I mean by that is I like to see the bicycles. I want to see more electric car-type use. I don't want to see any of these diesel buses anymore anymore.
 in that what I call the safe zone. What I want to see established throughout the city is, when you call it the safe zone, it's also I want to see more emphasis on having clean air. And as we know when we're talking transportation, we can begin to phase out these vehicles that we don't have to sit around and breathe this diesel. I can't stand that. I don't like it. I like to walk.
 I nobody in this room can tell me that's healthy for you. So why not create a zone to where we can establish it that we want clean air also in that central city zone?
 And that should be part of this overall plan is to begin to phase out any type of vehicles, any type of transportation that is unhealthy for the people that do want a bike, that do want to walk, that do want to live more of a healthier life. And we don't want to breed those fumes. So I want more emphasis on that, on creating ways to do that. And I know we're talking maybe going in the driverless vehicle position, and I think that would be ideal, right?
 in that central city plan and to focus on clean air for the people that want to ride their bikes, that want to walk, that want to live healthier, and shouldn't have to breathe those diesel fumes when they're walking downtown just to go to the parks or wherever they want to go. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Johnson? Good morning, Commissioner. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And I want to make sure that we're not –
 patting ourselves on our back as we're taking steps backwards. On the general issue of transportation, Ms. Fritz previously most clearly raised concerns about how fare enforcement is done on TriMet. And what did not get really brought into that conversation is the fact that there didn't used to be any fare enforcement in downtown on TriMet because there wasn't any fare. Right?
 TriMet has, I don't know how much intergovernment cooperation there was, whether they acted unilaterally, but they certainly did destroy first the fareless buses and then the fareless MAX. And when we really talk about public safety and convenient usage of downtown, I think that that's an issue that this body and the county commission would do well to address.
 cooperate and engage with the TriMet on, we won't get into the bigger picture of how the TriMet board should be appointed. The issue Mr. Lightning raised, I'm not sure where we are as far as air quality in the central city core versus other areas. And I know money is always tight, but I think it is worth considering, especially for Mr. Novick, since he's got the PBOT portfolio, if we can
 in discussions with Mr. Merkley and Mr. Wyden, maybe there is a magic way that we could...
 if TriMet won't cooperate with us on the Fairless Square, we can make them reroute all their through-the-downtown core buses to be into downtown and turn around and go back buses because there won't be any diesel buses on 5th and 6th Avenue where we'll put electric muni buses. There's plenty of electric buses all over the world, including servicing all of the city of San Francisco, not diesel-powered buses, electric buses. Expenses, it's beyond the scope of a city budget item, except we did manage to finance the streetcar, which is an electric bus.
 an electric bus uh probably had substantial federal help maybe with that but um so let's do it again let's consider that fifth and sixth avenue uh should be served by tram or electrified uh san francisco mini type buses thanks y'all thank you okay it's an emergency ordinance uh carla please call the roll
 Thank you, Ronnie and Gabe and Art and all the folks who have worked on this over the years. And thanks in advance to all of the stakeholders who engaged in an extensive process over the next year to identify the actual projects. Aye. Thank you for all your work. Aye. Fish? Thank you, Commissioner Novick, for really taking a leadership role in helping to make our streets safer. Aye. Saltzman? Yeah, thanks to the Oregon Department of Transportation and the Metro and Commissioner Novick for helping bring home the bacon for some improved safety downtown. Aye. Thank you.
 Okay, the ordinance is approved, and let's move to our Please Read Item 969. Appoint Neil Simon, Marcia Rivera, and Roberto Rivera to the Citizens Review Committee Advisory Board to the Independent Police Review, a division of the City Auditor's Office. Constantine, are you presenting? Okay.
 Well, good morning, Council Members. My name is Constantine Sevier, and I am pleased to be the City of Portland's Independent Police Review Director. So I am here today to present to you three outstanding individuals. This is actually one of my most favorite parts of my job. As the IPR Director, there's a lot of work.
 angst and a lot of issues with police and police accountability, as we know, around the country and in our own city. But I am really honored to be here to be able to talk about these individuals who have decided to volunteer their time to serve the city of Portland. They are Marcia Rivera, Roberto Rivera, and Neil Simon. There is, you probably have read their
 biographies in the packet, they have a remarkable diverse background. And part of the reason we've been able to get such outstanding individuals is due to the efforts of our outreach coordinator, Irene Konev, who has worked tirelessly to reach out to
 different stakeholder communities to make sure that the Citizens Review Committee, which hears appeals of police misconduct cases as well as make policy recommendations to counsel, the chief, and the auditor, actually reflects Portland. When I became IPR director, or when I started IPR back in 2008, the Citizens Review Committee was all white, and there was a period of time where there was
 eight males on the citizen review committee and one female. That, frankly, was unacceptable, I think, because that just is not what our community is. When you look at the quality of the applicants that we continually receive through the efforts of Ms. Konev and the amount of...
 educational and training efforts that we've put into the CRC over the last several years. Every CRC member prior to hearing an appeal or serving on the committee receives 40 hours of training, including six hours of equity training is something that we've started in the last several years. So I am very pleased to present them and would urge you to vote for their appointment to the Citizen Review Committee. Do the candidates wish to...
 come up and talk to us or sure okay come on up welcome and uh thank you for taking on this uh extraordinary task if you wanted this address us or say anything to us or council have any questions why don't you both introduce yourself first thank you i'm neil simon from southwest portland and i'm marisa rivera from southeast portland
 And, Commissioners, we appreciate you showing the trust in us and wanted to thank the auditor, Mary Hull-Caballero, for putting our names forward, and Mr. Sevier and the staff of IPR, Irene and David and others. Just based on the orientation, I can tell you they are doing an excellent job to prepare us for the serious work of the committee and appreciate the consideration. Thank you.
 I have a question. You are both outstanding candidates for a board and commission. We have lots of boards and commissions. What was it about the CRC that led you to be willing to make this tremendous commitment of time and energy? Thank you.
 Well, I was invited to participate by Irene, so I want to thank her for that. And I recently moved back to Portland after being away for about 15 years, and I was looking for a way to get involved in the community again. I have a background in psychology and law, so this seems like a great opportunity to do that, and I certainly recognize the great responsibility that volunteering for this committee involves, and I'm prepared to take
 take up that challenge, and I recognize that working towards transparency and accountability is important to me and the community that I'm new to. And likewise, I'm a native Portlander but was away for a long time and came back about three years ago and was looking for ways to be involved. And we've seen so many times where the trust has broken down, and something happened a
 A couple of young women in our neighborhood actually had an experience where they saw some what could have been nefarious activity happening near where they lived, and we were talking about it.
 If we see that, and we don't really know what's happening, but there's some stuff on the ground. It looks like maybe someone was sleeping there. It looks like there might have been an unsafe situation that you had to walk by, and it wasn't that light out. Let's call the police and just see. Are they seeing some activity here, or could they step up a patrol every now and again to let us know what's happening here? And these two young women, college age, said, no, no, no, no, no. And they were not...
 a member of a minority community, but they themselves had seen enough, heard enough, and experienced enough that even they had a complete lack of trust or faith in reaching out to the one institution that you should be able to call immediately to ask for help. And that concerned me. And then as someone who has positive memories of even as a child being able to, when I was lost from my grandfather one time, he was only probably a few blocks away,
 I remember the policeman's face when he helped me get to my grandfather and the two blocks that felt like two miles. But the trust I felt from that moment and how everyone deserves to have that same trust in our police and what we can do as citizens to restore that trust and rebuild that relationship. And by holding...
 police officers accountable. We hope that we can continue on that road to progress for the relationships in our community. So a few things that motivated me.
 Well, thank you very much for your service. We appreciate it. Mr. Rivera's as well. Yeah, so Mr. Rivera would love to be here, but he's currently taking care of his elderly mother who is quite ill. And I can't speak highly enough of Mr. Rivera. He is a young man. He's only a couple years younger than me, but he feels much younger. Right.
 in spirit. And I have seen him grow as a community leader. He was already a leader before he became a member of the Citizens Review Committee, but I have seen him grow and learn things that he's able to take to his community, as well as take things that he's hearing from his community to the Citizens Review Committee. And I think that's really the importance of why we have such important community boards, not just the CRC, but others. But we're
 at least from my vantage point of working with the crc and seeing how the crc has grown over the last several years i i think um these new appointees will stand in good stead with the rest of the committee right okay we'll see if anybody wishes to testify on anybody wish to testify an item and carla do we have a scrivener's error that we need to adopt or um it's just a scrivener's error okay that's not an emotion does not need a motion so okay great all
 If you could have a seat, we'll see if we can take some public testimony. With three people signed up, please come on up. Robert West, Dan Handelman, and Charles Johnson. Welcome. We'll start with you, Mr. Handelman, and just give us your name, and you have three minutes. Thank you.
 All right. Good morning. My name is Dan Handelman. I'm with Portland Copwatch. And while we don't support rushing the overhaul of CRC, an easy fix to the volunteers' inability to keep up with the workload is to expand CRC to 15 members and do it now as you're inducting the new members. As to the nominees, our comments are not personal, only observational. Mr. Rivera has been doing a balanced job on CRC. He told us he...
 Filled out his application quickly, which explains why his 2013 biography included his one-year stint as a public safety officer in 2005.
 But this one doesn't. But it is good to have CRC members who can see policing issues from both sides. And Mr. Rivera has proven that he can. Ms. Rivera lists herself as a Latina with disabilities who did advocacy for disabled people and for people facing the death penalty and other crimes. This shows, in our opinion, a healthy opposition to the use of violence to enforce state policy.
 Mr. Simon works in cybersecurity, but he's been a journalist covering accountability issues and co-produced a documentary on Japanese internment during World War II. And you all know this since you read their applications. But this topic directly relates to community opposition to the community concerns about the Joint Terrorism Task Force and the police participating in that.
 The balance will continue to be seven women and four men, as it has been since last February. And as for other diversity, CRC will now have two African-American members, two Latino or Latina members, and one self-identified member of the LGBTQ community. Oddly, though, all three nominees today were born within two years of each other, which is pretty statistically unusual. More age diversity is definitely needed on the CRC.
 As we already recommended, we urge council to use the 20-member civilian pool of the Police Review Board to further supplement CRC's work. Each one of those people here is just one to two cases per year right now. It's also a misnomer to call them a board since only one person from that panel sits at a time inside the Police Review Board system, and they never meet together in public or in private meetings.
 We hope to see the September 14th date for changes to the IPR-CRC moved back, so for more meaningful community input rather than three minutes responses to the city's trial balloons that have been going on so far. And finally, we urge council to fill its seats in the COAB and lift the two-month ban on their meetings so they can prepare their presentation for the late October presentation to Judge Simon.
 It's cynical and inexcusable that four council members fail to replace CYB members who quit, shut down the board for lack of quorum, and then is not letting them meet to report on the progress of the settlement agreement, as agreed to when the city dropped its appeal to Judge Simon's initial ruling. And I just want to repeat that we don't want you to rush changing IPR and CRC, but if you want to help them,
 Get through all these caseloads. You should expand them to 15 members. Thank you. Mr. West. Yes I'm Robert was I'm gonna film the police 9-1-1 and I agree with Dan handleman as far as 15 members go What I would caution the board As one of the nominees has a relative that's a police off or a retired police officer and One of the board members does have a does have a
 relative that is a retired police officer. And my concern is about putting too many people on the board that are either police officers or retired police officers. And what winds up happening, you do that, then the voting thing tends to lean toward the police instead of it being a fair and proper tool to...
 make the police accountable for what they do. Thank you. Mr. Johnson, you have three minutes. Thanks again, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And unfortunately, I was stuck at the coast when you had the first meeting at PCC Killingsworth to discuss...
 the changes potentially to the IPR-CRC process, and I did not make it up to Maranatha Church where the second procedure... or where the second public discussion happened on that. I would hope that none of these new nominees are in the same position as I am, and they missed the opportunity to be there engaging about what could be their very short-term future. It's... I have not... I'm so...
 concerned with the general impression that Auditor Hall Caballero's changes to the CRC severely damage, almost totally remove civilian review, that I haven't really even fully processed exactly what the fate of the existing CRC members will be in the proposed changes. But as we get to the 14th, I hope you will consider that,
 Unless there's explicit judicial pressure or pressure from the Department of Justice that...
 The auditor's proposal is not necessary to protect the city from any sanction for not being in compliance with the United States of America versus the city of Portland for the police bureau's possible problems dealing with people with exhibiting signs of mental illness. So consider strongly that we can maintain and enhance the CRC structure with the expansion that Mr. Handleman has mentioned without any other substantive changes.
 For many members of the public don't know that the only person sitting up there that has a representative on the co-op right now is Ms. Fritz. Rochelle Silver is still serving. The others have moved on for other reasons. And I'm sure it's.
 Somewhat complicated situation for you with the hiatus, however that hiatus was worked out, where a consulting firm in Chicago is, I assume, getting paid during these two months exactly what they got paid during the other 10 months of the year, but doing much less work, in my opinion. I'm sure that would come back with a stunning rebuttal.
 Charles, can I address one thing? Yes. So my appointee, Senator Avel Gordley, resigned, as you know. And it was fairly recent, relatively. Relatively recently. I contacted her to debrief her, and she asked me to meet with Kathleen Sadat and others to learn more about some of the challenges that the COAB and the COCL are facing. I've done that. I plan to come back to Avel to debrief again her experience, and we will be recruiting another person that I'll nominate.
 Thanks very much. And I may have even seen her coming in or out of the building on a previous Wednesday. Ms. Sadat. And there were definite...
 problems, even though people I associate with regularly are here now and have been here in the past, I certainly understand that there was what I think was a legitimate concern for some women of color feeling like they were getting unfair targeting, and I wish that we had had a better public process to make sure that any citizens that volunteer for committees can feel safe and that they're engaging, that there's good public engagement all around.
 Thanks, y'all. Great. Thank you all. Thank you very much. Okay, it's a resolution. Oh, I'm sorry. We've got one more. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the things that I may have an absolute disagreement with the auditors on is that the last thing you want to try to do is to remove the public communication at any of these type of meetings. Public bodies must conduct business in public. It's really that simple, right?
 If you don't want to do that, don't represent the public. Find another job. Do something else. If you don't want to listen to the community, the people in the community, get another job.
 Do something else and get people in these positions that understand the importance of what community members have to say. It's as important as you holding that job that the community put you in. If you don't like that, get out of your job.
 Because the community will come back and find plenty of people that will respect what the community has to say, understand that you are a public body, you must conduct your business in public, and you must listen to the public. And if you don't want to do that, don't get in these positions. If you want to limit what the public has to say, don't get in these positions.
 The public is there for a purpose such as you are. When we sit in these seats here, if you don't want to listen to us, leave your job. Because next time around, I can guarantee you, you won't get our votes. We'll do a recall effort on you, and we will remove you out of office. So when you start thinking about coming in and saying the public should not come to these meetings, the public should not communicate here,
 let the public communicate back to you. You're going to be removed out of your positions and we'll replace you with people that understand the importance of freedom of speech, your First Amendment rights, such as Federal Judge Michael Simon on this settlement agreement, understands and is a scholar in that area and understands the importance of people speaking and having the ability to speak, whether you don't like what people
 We're saying remain viewpoint neutral, content neutral, and develop a thicker skin. And if you don't like it, get out of your job. Thank you. Okay. Resolution, please call the roll, Carla. Novick? Really appreciate your willingness to serve in these positions that involve dealing with intense, emotionally fraught issues and take a lot of your time. So thank you very, very much. Aye. Aye.
 Thanks to Constantine Sevier and Irene Conner for your very good recruitment. It is wonderful to see the diversity and the gender balance in this committee. And thanks to everybody who's willing to serve. As you know, there's been some news reports of this particular committee having more than freedom of expression in some cases, and that has been quite frightening for Constantine.
 committee members so thank you for your willingness to serve and we will continue to strive diligently to make sure that everybody including volunteers on the committee have the opportunity to do their public duty thank you yes this is one of the most important and challenging assignments that a citizen can take on and so i want to specifically thank neil simon ms rivera and mr rivera for agreeing to serve this kind of service is selfless
 it requires an enormous commitment of time and energy but if we get it right there's an enormous community benefit so thank you for agreeing to take on this assignment and i'm very pleased to support your nomination hi councilman well i'd also like to acknowledge uh irene connop and her outstanding uh recruitment here this is a great uh great class uh miss ms rivera mr simon and mr rivera you look like outstanding candidates and we appreciate
 the tremendous commitment of time that you're making to serve the residents of Portland. So thank you very much. Aye. Okay. You are appointed. Resolution adopted. And we'll go to our regular agenda, item 977.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, National Institute of Justice for $30,000 for the Portland Police Bureau to participate in the NIJ Real-Time Crime Forecasting Challenge. I see Sergeant Stewart there in the back. Are you going to talk to us about this? Okay. Welcome. Just give us your name and...
 Hello. My name is Greg Stewart. I'm a sergeant with the Portland Police Bureau. Regarding this intergovernmental agreement, the Portland Police Bureau currently takes its call data, non-sensitive call data, publishes it via a media link, and then also places it on civic apps at the end of the year as part of the open data initiative. Okay.
 Our partnership with the NIJ is going to pay to help us develop tools that will allow us to more rapidly make data available to the public. And that's what this $30,000 is being given to us for. While that's beneficial, I think the bigger benefit is going to be –
 The first is they're going to assist us more generally in making data available, provide technical expertise so that we can move more of our data such as STOPS data online. We've already received free consulting on different agencies such as Houston that are putting data such as officer-involved shootings and different things online, making those data available to the public.
 And the other big benefit is as part of a challenge award, there'll be a number of entities using those data to identify locations that persistently create calls for service to the police. With that information, we can identify the factors in those locations which are resulting in those calls and ideally work through prevention to address the issues and reduce our call load overall, which is very important given both staffing constraints and the increased calls we received.
 Thank you. Any questions? Okay, thanks, Sergeant Stewart. Thank you very much. Anybody wish to testify on Item 977? Okay, seeing none, it's an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. No, thank you. The more the Police Bureau can make data-driven decisions, the better. So I'm very glad to see this. Thank you, Sergeant Stewart. Aye. Great. This is obviously very innovative and looks at the data that's happened since 2012 as well as projecting for 2017. So I appreciate the evidence-based data. Thank you.
 provision that will help us with crime prevention. Aye. Yes. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you, Sergeant Stewart. Aye. Okay, the ordinance is approved. Item 978. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the Portland Development Commission for fiscal year 2016-17 economic development activities for a total value of $5,818,465. Aye.
 Do we have anybody here to present on this? Okay. See? Oh, we have our... Well, why don't you give us just a quick overview? Yeah. Okay. Just give us your name and...
 Take it away. Thanks so much, Mr. Saltzman. I'm Josh Howard. I'm with the City Budget Office. We administer this IGA with PDC on behalf of the city. It's an annual appropriation that reflects budget decisions made in the spring during their usual budget process. Because PDC is not technically a city bureau, we enter an IGA with them and amend as needed after the fall and or spring bumps.
 And so this is merely reflective of those decisions being made already. Dan, can I just give a clarification? Sure. Just for the record. So this is general fund money being spent by PDC, $5.8 million of general fund money. $4 million of that goes to neighborhood economic development, which includes $1.1 million for neighborhood commercial corridors, and there is funding for the sugar shack development in Cully that we've all been interested in.
 Just under a half million goes to Venture Portland. Just over a million dollars goes to small business support. A little over $1.2 million goes to workforce economic opportunities initiatives. Half a million dollars – excuse me, $50,000 to small business working capital. Seems unduly modest. $30,000 to the Vose Worker Center, which I believe is now ongoing. Is that correct?
 And then $1.8 million goes to the traded sector job creation and retention. Of that, $1.2 million for cluster development and about a half a million for entrepreneurship support. That's how our general fund money is carved up by PDC for economic development. Do you wish to add anything or just here to answer questions? No, just that this year is the first year that we're incorporating performance measures into the actual IGA that we have with them as part of CBO's larger performance management efforts. Good, great. Any questions? Yes.
 Okay, thank you. Anybody wish to testify on item 978? Okay, seeing none, it's an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Mr. West, did you want to testify? Oh, okay. Okay, just give us your name, and you have three minutes. Okay, my name is Robert West. I'm with Family Police 911. And my concern about giving private companies money or organizations money, one is that
 once you start doing it for one organization or one company, then all of a sudden other companies want the same thing and the same privileges and stuff like that. And the other thing is that the city money should go in for the city stuff. We have roads that need to be replaced. We have roads that need to be fixed. We have roads that have no sidewalks. We have safety stuff that that money could cover.
 be used for any number of other projects. The Portland Police is always asking for money, and they just bought a whole bunch of bicycles for a bunch of kids and had a big old party over at North Precinct a couple weekends ago. So my concern is that, you know, it's easy to throw money everywhere, but where does the people of the city of Portland go
 benefit from you giving this organization money? Maybe I can just take a quick crack. Under Mayor Adams, we started giving more general fund money to the Portland Development Commission to support neighborhood economic development. And the idea was to extend beyond just the traditional model of how we use TIF
 to spark entrepreneurship and job creation and economic development in neighborhoods. We created some microeconomic districts and we experimented with some new models. And the goal is to create more jobs and prosperity outside of downtown and some of the traditional areas and through that create opportunities for people that maybe in the past didn't get a fair shake.
 Your question about what's the outcomes, PDC is now going to be doing some more detailed reporting on how this translates into jobs and tax receipts, and we have to be obviously mindful of that. But this reflects our view that we want to help jumpstart economic development in the neighborhoods, and that's the general gist of this appropriation. It's about $5 million out of a
 $3.6 billion budget. But again, it was Mayor Adams who said the PDC needs to do more around job creation, and we need to focus on neighborhoods, not just downtown. So that's the value system behind this. Okay, but the other problem that I see is how do we –
 verify where they're spending their money. So that's an oversight issue, and I think that's a good point, and we'll certainly work with PDC to make sure we can account for those dollars. All right, thank you. Thank you, sir. During the budget process where we have significant public input, we look at not only what should we appropriate for the coming year, but how has an organization like the Portland Development Commission used the money last year. So there was a lot of discussion about this during the budget. Thank you. Okay, Carla, please call the roll. No, thank you.
 Prince. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Okay, the ordinance is approved. Item 979. Authorize five-year price agreements for purchase of aggregate supplies from Baker Rock Crushing Company, doing business as Baker Rock Resources.
 Welcome. You're here to present. Give us your name, please. Thank you.
 Good morning. I'm Larry Pallat from Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending five price agreements to be awarded, one each to Baker Rock Products, Mounted Rock Products, J.W. Underground, Porter Yet Company, and Wilkins Trucking. The total amount for all awarded contracts over the five-year period is not to exceed $14,500,000. Okay.
 On December 9, 2015, the City Council passed Ordinance No. 187496, authorizing a competitive solicitation for the purchase of aggregate products and services estimated for an amount of $10 million. Subsequent to that ordinance being approved, the Bureaus of Transportation, Environmental Services, and Water identified that additional product would be needed to accommodate the increased number of expected projects over the next five years. As such, the solicited totals were adjusted to reflect the increased requirements.
 On May 18, 2016, the Chief Procurement Officer advertised RFP number 237, and five proposals were received and opened on June 16, 2016.
 All five were evaluated and deemed responsive to the requirements of the solicitation, and the City issued a notice of intent to award price agreements to all of them, including Baker Rock Crushing, DBA Baker Rock Products, Jim Turin & Sons, DBA Mount Hood Rock Products, J.W. Underground, Inc., Porter W. Yet Company, and Wilkins Trucking Company, Inc., on July 25, 2016. No protests were received.
 All five suppliers have current City of Portland business tax accounts, are in compliance with the City's Equal Benefits Program, and their EEO certifications are all current. Based on the expected rise in aggregate usage over the next five years forecast at City projects, current procurement climate and production and product costs, the confidence level in this procurement is moderate.
 If the council has any questions about the bidding process, I can answer those. Or I'm not – yeah, we do have somebody from water to talk about specifics if you need them. Any questions? So I had just two comments. One is that there are three bureaus involved here, right? Yes, sir. And they are Bureau of Environmental Services, Water, and Transportation. Okay.
 Okay. And this is sort of an eye-popping number, $14.5 million, but it's a fairly routine ask. Can you explain that? It is definitely a routine ask. It is typical for all types of products to need various and assorted combinations of rock and or, as we read you,
 Sewer lines, as we redo everything, we buy all the product from the outside, recycling what we can. Transportation has a recycling program of their own. But this is not uncommon. These amounts are not untypical of what we've been doing for the last 20 years. Any further questions? Okay. Thank you. Does anybody wish to testify on 979? Okay. Go ahead and give us your name, and you have three minutes. Yes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX.
 The only concern I had on this overall bid and the number amount was I noticed on Wilkins Trucking Company, they were awarded $10,500,000, which obviously was the highest amount awarded. Now, I understand they're more of a trucking company, but they might have an affiliation with Meadows Rock and Recycling. And it was my understanding on this process, this was really to –
 get more inventory lined up on the ROC and have that lined up with certain people. So I was just kind of curious on if Wilkins was really hired more for their trucking aspect of their company, why did they get such a large amount delivered over to them of the $10,500,000? And why wouldn't that have been divided up between other trucking companies just to move ROC?
 So I was kind of curious on that, if someone might be able to answer that to me. We'll have the gentleman back up, and we'll answer that question. Okay, very good. Thank you. Okay. Good morning. Ty Kovach, Portland Water Bureau. The answer to that question is within the city, geography really matters. Okay.
 The City of Portland is fairly centralized, and within the City of Portland's boundaries, there are relatively few providers of rock and spoils yards in particular. So the disposal of spoils is a key part of this contract as well. When we excavate to dig up the pipe in the system or the sewer pipe, as it may be,
 that material has to be taken to a place that is qualified and has the resources and the storage available to accept spoils from
 within the city and Wilkins Rock Yard is geographically oriented fairly centrally that it makes them the highest utilized service provider in the area. It doesn't make sense to drive far east or to the west side to where a number of the other ones in various circumstances. When you're working in the West Hills, it makes sense to go to different ones. When you're working far east, it makes sense to go to certain ones. But when you're downtown and you're in the
 you know, the greater Portland metropolitan area. They are geographically oriented in a place that makes the expense and the time associated with going to and from there easily the highest use of time and resources. I might add the city bureaus have done some extensive time study analysis to determine who's where and what works and what doesn't. It's not done capriciously. It's done very mathematically and focused on the idea that
 This is the best case, best use, and given prior history, Wilkins Rock is probably the most central. Okay. Thank you very much. Okay. It's a procurement report. I'll take a motion. So moved. Second. Okay. Moved and seconded. Please call the roll. Novick. I fail to understand how, if your name was Baker Rock Crushing, you'd choose to do business under the much less dramatic name Baker Rock Resources. But in spite of that, I will vote aye. Ritz.
 I'm very glad that Portland Parks and Recreation is partnering with the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Transportation to buy collectively so that we get a good price. And thank you to Procurement Services for all your good work. Hi. Mitch? Steve, I had the same reaction but a different take, which is I think in the future we should say to these companies, you have a choice of which name you use, but we're not going to put both. Thank you for an excellent presentation. And, Ty, thank you for joining us today and explaining the intricacies of trucking. Hi.
 Saltzman. Aye. Okay, the report's adopted. Item 980. Accept bid of Stephen Ray Mitchell DBA, Lake Oswego Construction, for the Selwood Park Pool Bathhouse Roof Replacement and Exterior Repairs for $704,418. Welcome. Thank you.
 I'm back. You're back. Okay. I am Larry Pallat from Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Stephen Ray Mitchell, DBA Lake Oswego Construction, for the Selwood Park Pool Bathhouse roof replacement and exterior repairs for $704,418.00.
 The original engineer's estimate on this product was $585,000, and the Bureau's confidence level was moderate. The project was advertised in the city's electronic procurement system on June 15th. Bids were opened on July 14th. One bid was received and was responsive to the solicitation. Stephen Ray Mitchell, DBA, Lake House Weaver Construction, is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $704,418.00.
 20.4% over the engineer's estimate, but which includes original alternate items that were not anticipated in the original engineer's estimate. The Bureau of Parks and Recreation, along with Procurement Services, identified an aspirational goal of certified DMW ESB subcontractor and supplier utilization of 20% of the hard construction projects for this project,
 There is a total of $507,870, or 72.1%, DMW-ESB participation on this project, including the prime contractor at 46.6% and certified subcontractors at 24.5% apportioned as follows, DBE-172,750 and ESB as the prime, $335,120. Okay.
 Stephen Ray Mitchell, DBA Lakehouse People's Construction, is a state-certified ESB contractor and is in compliance with all city requirements for contracting. If the council has any questions regarding the bidding process, I can answer those, or Lauren McGuire and Connie Johnson from Portland Parks are here to answer any technical questions or make additional comments.
 If you need those. Why do you think we only received one bid? Oh, okay. I can answer that question. We originally went on... Give us your name. Lauren McGuire, sorry. Portland Parks and Recreation Development Program Manager. Okay.
 We originally went out to bid and got no bids in June, and then we went out again and we got the one bid. We did do extensive outreach with NAMCO, and we had pretty good interest in our pre-bid meetings, our mandatory pre-bid meetings. We had five attendees at the first one and 13 at the second, and still we only got one bid. At the first, when we went out for the first bid, we,
 We had it all as one lump sum. Some of the feedback that we got when we talked to the individual people that were at the pre-bid meeting but did not bid was that they were a little concerned about the extent of repair needed for the windows and the other repairs on the roofing, and so they wanted us to break it out into a lump sum for the actual roofing and then the windows separate. And so that's how the bid was broken out. Thank you.
 Keeping in mind that the facility itself is very old and has not been subject to routine maintenance, so there's a lot of kind of potentially hidden damage in the project itself. Yes, we have brickwork, too. By very old, we mean 86 years old. Yeah. Okay, thank you. Any other questions? Okay, thank you very much. Anybody wish to testify on Item 980? Okay, seeing none, I'll entertain a motion to accept the report. Okay. Moved and seconded. Please call the roll.
 Novick? Aye. Fritz? Well, once again, thanks to all the staff involved and also the voters who approved the Fix Our Parks bond measure, and this is one of the projects I'm very happy to see it getting going. Very much needed. Aye. Mitch? I note that the roof is 86 years old, so it's even older than some of our problem pipes in our water and sewer system. So it needs to be replaced. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz and your team, for your good work. Aye. Thank you.
 Balsman? Aye. Okay, the report's adopted. 981, please. Thank you. Accept bid of Stellar J Corporation for the Fano Basin Pressure Line System Upgrade for $996,669. Okay, Mr. Palat, are you going to take this one, too? I got this one, too.
 Good morning. I'm Larry Pallatt, Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Stellar J Corporation for the Fano Basin pressure line system upgrade for $996,669. The engineer's estimate on this product was $1,173,000, and the Bureau's confidence level was high.
 On February 3, 2016, Council approved Ordinance No. 187572 for procurement services to competitively solicit the Fano Basin Pressure Line system upgrade. The project was advertised on the City's electronic procurement system on May 23, and bids were opened on June 16. Four bids were received in response to the solicitation, and the Stellar J Corporation's
 The Stellar J Corporation is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $996,669, which is 17.5% under the engineer's estimate. The Bureau of Environmental Services, along with Procurement Services, identified an aspirational goal for a certified DMW ESB subcontractor and supplier utilization of 20% of the hard construction cost for this project,
 There is a total of $39,700, or 4%, of DMW ESB participation on this project, including certified subcontractors apportioned as follows, to a DBE $32,200 in trucking and landscaping, to a WBE $7,500 for asphalt paving.
 Steller J Corporation is located in Woodland, Washington and is not a state-certified DMW ESP contractor. They do have a current City of Portland business tax registration. They're an EEO certification, and they are in full compliance with the Equal Benefits Program.
 If the council has any questions regarding the bid process, I can answer those. There we go. Dan Hebert from BES is here, and Gerald Subasic, I hope I got that name right, from Cellar J is here to answer technical questions about the project. Well, let me kick it off because it's wonderful that we're 17.5% below the estimate. That's good news. And in this current environment, it's rare because of the intense competition.
 On the other hand, our equity and opportunity numbers are quite low, I would say almost anemic. And this is not a state-certified MWESB contractor. So can we do better, or is there some particular reason why these numbers are so low? Stellar J here. There we go. These are from the contractor themselves. Well, can we just give us your name?
 My name is Jeff Carlson. I'm General Manager at Stellar J. And I'm Cheryl Sebasek. I'm the Chief Financial Officer. Well, I can speak to the low level of participation on this project. The total contract is $996,000. We solicited a significant amount of MWDESP firms on this project.
 We're performing, self-performing, all but $50,000 worth of work, and we are effectively subcontracting out to certified firms 78% of the work that we're intending to subcontract. Of the other $11,000 roughly of work that we intend to subcontract would be to electrical, and we receive no bids after soliciting 31 electrical certified firms.
 And although I would like to say and commit to you that I can find an electrician who is certified to do this scope of work, I can't at this time say that we'll be able to do that. I wouldn't be comfortable telling you I'm going to do something and not be able to do it.
 But we feel that we only solicited MWESB firms for the scopes that we intend to subcontract. The scope of this project is to remove and replace some tees that were in this line that are leaking. It has a large material purchase on this project. There's a lot of equipment use that we own, and we're self-performing the excavation of the contract. So although there is very low participation on this project,
 we're actively aware of the participation goals that are set forth, and we're doing our best to comply with those requirements and subcontract in the associated manner. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any other further questions? Well, thank you for being here, too. We appreciate it. Okay, we'll see if anybody wants to testify on Item 981. Okay, I don't see anybody, so I'll entertain a motion to adopt the report. So moved. Second. Moved and seconded. Please call the roll. No vote. Second.
 Stellars Jays are regular visitors to my backyard, so it felt like I'm voting to accept a contract with a neighbor. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Okay, the report's adopted. Item 982. Authorize a competitive solicitation for the purchase of data center co-location services for an estimated $9.7 million. Welcome. If you could give us your name and address.
 good morning my name is carolyn glass i'm with bts we're here today seeking authorization to release an rfp for the data center move project which will move our primary data center computer equipment from the portland building to a local vendor managed facility to be selected through this rfp process this project will also provide as a disaster recovery location outside of the region
 managed by the selected vendor that will provide a home for city data and critical city systems. Once we receive authorization, our next step is to issue the RFP later this week with responses due by the end of September. These responses will provide clarity on the one-time and recurring costs we can expect to pay and allow us to provide our Bureau partners more information regarding the costs of future disaster recovery options.
 Releasing the RFP this week will align with the Portland Building Reconstruction Project Timeline so that city computer equipment is moved before heavy construction begins in the fourth quarter of 2017. We expect to complete the proposal evaluation and return to Council with a recommendation to award in the fall. Due to the complexity of this project, this will fall under TOC for oversight. I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. Questions?
 So I'm just curious, what are the types of companies we expect to propose on this? Any other names we would recognize? There are a variety of local companies that run data centers. Some of them have partnerships with other firms outside the region. ADP, is that a likely name?
 Generally, we would be expecting to hear from places like InfoMart, BioWest, Easy Street, similar kinds of companies that run data center environments for other companies. And having a location outside of the...
 City, is that part of the requirement too, a data location? So we're looking to have the primary facility located roughly within this region, within a 20-25 mile radius from here so that staff can readily get to it. The disaster recovery location is out of this region to ensure that our data is protected in the event of a disaster. By out of this region, what do you mean? Out of the state. Oh, out of the state. Out of the state. Oh, okay. Okay, great.
 Is that a legal requirement? Because it would seem to me one of the great ways we could do the urban-rural thing is put our data in a safe place in eastern Oregon, for example, that was seismically safe and make an investment in Oregon. But what drives the decision to be out of the state versus in a safe part of the state? Okay.
 A fair portion of the driver there is trying to get isolation from larger seismic events that could affect more broadly the local region. Having the data further away from the primary location just helps us to protect it further. It doesn't prevent us from having future opportunities to engage some of these other data center providers for other needs as well.
 What kind of criteria are there, though? Because there's some other places that are not in this state that are subject to tornadoes or earthquakes or floods or whatever. How are you going to be able to screen that out? So generally these facilities are built in a hardened state seismically and to the weather and other conditions that are in their area in regards to flood zones and some more disaster types of scenarios. They're either built to withstand or to not be subject to in the first place.
 These types of organizations generally build their data centers in a resilient fashion so that smaller issues wouldn't interrupt services there. And that's part of the point of having one that's here locally and one that's quite a bit further away so that it's unlikely that any scenario would affect both of our data centers at the same time.
 Well, I would encourage you to explore Commissioner Fish's suggestion, because I know that there are data centers in Prineville, for example, and an earthquake here, and especially as you just said, they're built to withstand earthquakes anyway, that it would be better perhaps to put it in Eastern Oregon than in somewhere that might have a different kind of disaster. Right. Okay, thank you. Anybody wish to testify on Item 982? No problem.
 Seeing none, it's a... Excuse me, Commissioner. We have an amendment to this. The impact statement was amended as a whole replacement. So moved. Second. Okay, moved and seconded to replace the impact statement. Please call the roll. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Fish? Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Okay, and then on the ordinance itself, please call the roll. Novick?
 Thanks for the presentation. This project is one of the highest priorities for Carmen Merlot in PBM, so really pleased to see it's going forward. Hi. Hi. I hope we'll take seriously Commissioner Fritz's suggestion of canvassing places in eastern Oregon where we could have our recovery center. I think it would be a wonderful statement of urban-rural cooperation and investment. I'm sure we could find a place that's reasonably safe. So thank you for your presentation. Hi. Saltzman.
 Yeah, I want to add to that. As I recall, the state has an emergency data location somewhere near Burns, Oregon, and perhaps there's a way we could co-locate there. It would make sense. Aye. Okay, the report's adopted, and let's move to Ordinance 983. Authorize contingent loan agreement with Home Forward for Lovejoy Station Apartments. I'll come. Okay.
 Good morning, Commissioners. Eric Johanson, Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. This ordinance authorizes the city to enter into a contingent loan agreement with Home Forward. The contingent loan agreement provides credit enhancement for bonds to be issued by Home Forward to refinance its existing bonds on the Lovejoy Station Apartments project, an affordable project on Northwest 10th.
 Under the terms of the contingent loan agreement, the City agrees to replenish the debt service reserve fund for the bonds in the event that there's a draw on that reserve. In effect, the City guarantees the payment of debt service on those bonds. Our obligation is subject to annual appropriation, so we present a request to Council, and Council can decide whether to appropriate in that year or not.
 We have five other contingent loan agreements on Home Forward projects currently. To date, we've never been asked to provide funds under those contingent loan agreements. This contingent loan agreement doesn't actually represent a new commitment for the city because we have an existing contingent loan agreement on the bonds that are going to be refinanced. So this one will...
 more or less replace the one that we currently have, and actually it's a net reduction in our exposure because the debt service on the new bonds will be lower than the debt service on the bonds that are being refunded. So that's my presentation. Happy to answer any questions. Any questions? I just want to make sure I understand. Is the principal role that we're playing here using our credit rating and full faith in credit to help get a more favorable interest rate? Absolutely, yeah, absolutely.
 Estimate, I talked to the underwriter this morning, they estimated the value of the contingent loan agreement is about three quarters of a percent to one percent on this particular deal. And so that's the upside for them. And our potential risk here is? Is if the project underperformed didn't generate enough revenues that they couldn't make their debt service payment, and if Home Forward didn't have other funds available, then we could be asked to appropriate funds under this agreement.
 So standing between us is the project revenues and HomeForward's general revenues. The project itself is pretty seasoned, has very healthy coverage. So from a risk standpoint, this is lower than some of the things that we look at. And given that this is not the first time we've done this, just remind us again, have we ever had a situation where we've had one of these loans called and we've had to –
 money into it? We never have. In fact, I don't recall that it's ever really been a question. It's never been close. The projects that we've applied these contingent loan agreements to have performed very satisfactorily. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody wish to testify on item 983? Okay. Mr. Lightning, give us your name. You have three minutes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX.
 now it's also my understanding on this agreement that the property cannot be sold if i am correct but also in this situation that if the property is not performing as the projected in the projected manner it's supposed to perform my understanding the city will make up that difference if i am correct on that and my understanding at that point the city can also impose rent hikes if they feel necessary
 to be more of a market rate for the rentals currently. Now, if I'm incorrect on that, I'd like to possibly have that explained to me. You're incorrect. And it requires a lengthy explanation because it's affordable housing with funding sources that preclude doing that. But if you'd like a longer answer, we could probably get it for you from the Housing Bureau.
 Okay, but my understanding from what I read in the agreement, it does state that the City of Portland reserves the right to ask for rent increases on the property. But it's a federally funded program through Home Forward, and they cannot take an affordable housing project funded with federal dollars and move it above the federal income guidelines. Within the federal guidelines, okay. Okay, within the guidelines. Yes, and you know this building across from Tanner, across from –
 What's the park? Tanner Springs. Tanner Springs, or the one to the south, is home to very low-income people. Okay. And because of the federal guidelines, it is restricted in what Home Forward can charge. Okay, very good. That cleared that up for me. Thank you. Great. Okay, this is an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Okay, ordinance is adopted. Please read item 984.
 Authorize contracts as required with 22 service firms for on-call architecture and engineering services to support implementation of the Transportation Capital Improvement Program for a combined total not to exceed $5,500,000. Mr. Novick?
 It's my understanding that this solicitation took a unique approach by starting a pilot project coordinated with procurement services with the express intention of increasing MWESB utilization percentages. And I'll turn it over to the team to explain how that went. Good morning. My name is Steve Townsend. I'm the chief engineer for transportation. And Maurice and also...
 Christine, it's one of those mornings I need some caffeine. We'll be talking on this program that we did in coordination with purchasing to try to increase our MWESB participation on our on-call services.
 On-call services are exactly what they sound like. We have the eight areas that we're covering include things such as structural, traffic design, geotechnical. And so when situations arise or projects arise that we don't have the resources in-house to be able to do the work, we look to utilize these contracts. Examples of some of these are like...
 Very generously this last year, transportation received General Fund one-time money, and we used these on-call contracts to do the safety design projects on 122nd, the paving work on Southwest Oak, and others as well.
 So these are a great way for us to help balance out our workload as needed. So in this, when work comes up in a specific area, say structural, what it is is we go through the contracts, the first one on the list, we'd work with them on getting them on board and doing the work, and then it's on a rotation through each of these different sections. And with that, I'm going to pass this off to Christine. Thank you, Steve. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. Thank you, Chris.
 So this solicitation took a unique approach by starting a pilot project coordinated with our office to
 and with the express intention of increasing MWESB utilization percentages. Typically, on these type of on-call contracts, the prime consultants submit a proposal listing the consultants they might use for the then-unknown task orders or work orders, with the actual MWESB usage varying depending on when the task orders are issued. Under.
 Under this pilot project, the prime consultants will provide a list of proposed sub-consultants per task order. We feel this will allow for greater MWESB participation as the work is tailored to the specific project when the task order is negotiated. When negotiating each task order, the city will have the option to move to the next consultant in line if appropriate MWESB participation cannot be met on that original task order.
 So during this RFP process, all the consultants that are listed in the ordinance have committed to an overall 20% MWESB utilization. And as Maurice will mention, there was a great effort put forward on outreach for this pilot project. In addition, PBOT has an overall 47.75% MWESB participation for this last fiscal 15-16 year. I'll turn it over to Maurice. Thank you.
 Maurice Henderson, Assistant Director of PBOT. During this round of contracts, as Steve and Christine are alluding to, we did a great deal of outreach and work. As part of that 5.5 million that we'll be
 that will be awarded to the 22 contracts. 1.25 million is actually going to MBE and WBE firms, and that breakdown is actually about 950,000 for minority-owned businesses, and I think it's around 300,000 for women-owned businesses, and some of those are actually ESBs as well.
 Because all the contractors demonstrated a 20 percent utilization of the MWESB subs, the total dollar going to subcontracting MWESB firms will eventually be even higher than that, potentially. This solicitation was originally let out.
 We ended up not having as many bidders the first time around, so we did some rework because we wanted to make sure that there was a substantial turnout for this. And ended up with, I believe, on the second round, for the 22 total contracts, six are going directly to MWESB firms.
 That's a total of 27 percent of the contract award, which was a great turnout for us. This solicitation was substantially different with the 20 percent requirement for those subs. The other aspect that we feel deserves notice is that we are bringing compliance to the front end of the process, as Christine mentioned.
 whereby the bureau director, or in our case, her designee, needs to review and approve the MWESB participation percentages prior to the actual task order being executed.
 It is in the unlikely event that we cannot meet that 20 percent target, which is now a floor, there will be greater due diligence done on the why and why it won't happen, and we'll be able to deal with the task order as needed. In terms of the outreach, because I think that's something that's important in terms of the approach that we took,
 We started with working with Christine's group, her city supplier diversity coordinator, on devising a plan, sent out e-mails, made phone calls and other overtures to MWSP firms in the state database that were registered. We sent it out to about 70 firms.
 We then had a meeting with OAMI around March of this year. At that meeting, there were 13 contractors there. Many of them were MWESBs. A few days later, we ended up with solicitations of about, I think it was about 46 proposals that came through.
 10 of which were MWSB-certified firms. And as I mentioned, six of the firms were awarded – six of the 22 contracts were awarded to MWESB firms. Okay.
 So we're really happy with the turnout. Clearly, there's a lot more work to do, but Commissioner Fritz, as one of the first meetings you and I had when I came here to the city last year, we made a commitment at PBOT and under Commissioner Novick's leadership and Leah's guidance, we've shown some real results. And I think that this pilot project and this partnership works.
 with procurement services is just another great step for us. And as Christine mentioned, you know, this past fiscal year, we saw a jump from 33% participation on our PTE work to a 47%, almost 48% utilization of MWESB firms. So I think that that shows that PBOT and our work with the community on this is something that we should be really proud of. Okay, thank you. Any questions? Any further questions? Thank you. Let's see if anybody wants to testify on item 984. Okay.
 Okay. Seeing none, it's an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Novick? I really appreciate all the work by Steve and Christine and Maurice and Alyssa and the whole team on this, and I really appreciate Commissioner Fritz for spurring us on to do a better job of getting higher MWSB utilization. Thank you. Aye. Fritz? This is an example of the council as a whole and individually as administrators of our bureaus have been encouraging staff to
 try some innovative things to increase the participation. And I'm very, very pleased that everyone from Commissioner Novick through Director Treat and Maurice and all of you have done just a great brainstorming of how can we increase our minority women and emerging small business participation in some very large contracts. So thank you very, very much for doing this. And it's hopefully going to be an example of how we can spread this to other bureaus, and I'm going to be...
 I'm sure I'm going to be very happy about the outcome. Thank you. Hi. Yes. I think I speak for all my colleagues when I say that when we originally planned this hearing, we came with deep skepticism, a string of tough questions, and a lot of reservations about this initiative. And then, of course, the mayor-elect announced that Maurice was going to be the chief of staff. So let me be the first to say, splendidly done, wonderful work. And seriously, though –
 to my colleagues, thank you for your leadership on this. And what I'm hearing, if I'm listening carefully, is that since we have these on-call contracts for services with all the bureaus, what you're really piloting is a way to intentionally boost those numbers because they have not always been as good as they should be. And we look forward in the utilities to learning the lessons from your experience so the next time we bring an on-call –
 service contract to council that maybe we boost our participation numbers as well. So thank you for your good work. Yeah, this is great work and let's hope it's very successful in utilizing not only getting our work done that we need but utilizing more minority women and emerging small businesses. So great job. Hi. The ordinance is approved. Thank you. Please read item 985. Thank you.
 Approve scope changes to the Northeast Couch Court Local Improvement District to limit Northeast Couch Court to bicycle, pedestrian, and emergency vehicle access and adjust pending lien amounts. Mr. Abbey, take it away. Good morning, Commissioner Southman and your Abbey Local Improvement District Administrator. Carla, could I utilize your help in just switching over to the correct presentation? Sure.
 So today's hearing is being held under the auspices of Section 17.08.080 of the City Code. This is a major scope change hearing, and when the PowerPoint is up, I'll walk you through it.
 I do want to let the council know that we did do a series of notifications for a scope change hearing on August 24th. When we lost our council quorum on August 24th, we re-notified all the property owners for the hearing today and also extended the remonstrance deadline by one week. We did not receive any remonstrances against the scope changes.
 So with that, I'll just move on to the presentation. My group manager, Art Pierce, had intended to join us today, but he had to leave early and sends his regrets.
 so here's a diagram of what northeast cooch court where northeast cooch court is is between northeast cooch street northeast third avenue if you look at the orange lines on the map they highlight where the new northeast court street excuse me the new northeast cooch court will be built those are the approximate curb lines of the new street
 And as you can see, the configuration of the streets in the area is mostly perpendicular, but Couch Court will be at an offset angle. And in the course of doing the
 Traffic engineering for the project, we had originally planned for this to be a vehicle street. In the final course of traffic engineering, the city traffic engineer had determined that the street should be one-way eastbound. In talking to the property owners participating in the LID, they expressed a desire that the street be converted from eastbound
 instead of being one-way eastbound for vehicles, that we instead make it a bike-only street. And so we're bringing this ordinance to you for your approval for that major scope change since the LID has already been formed. So this pretty much recaps it. If council approves this ordinance today, the street would be limited to bicycle and pedestrian access, and there would be the ability for emergency vehicles to use the street.
 Council approval of the ordinance would result in a design change to the project to narrow the street from 18 feet to 14 feet. That also introduces the opportunity to make some transition improvements on Northeast Couch Court.
 where we can elevate the bike lane and make it safer for pedestrians, excuse me, for bicyclists, and I'll have more on that in a moment. So the inspiration behind this scope change for Northeast Couch Court was a field trip that I and several of my PBOT colleagues made to Seattle in May. We looked at Blanchard Street in Seattle, and we saw a separated...
 bike facility on Blanchard Street that was separated from vehicle traffic, and we were very impressed with it. So when the conversation arose with the property owners on Northeast Cooch Court, we thought this would be a great opportunity to make the first truly car-free street in Portland. So here's a schematic drawing of what we'd be looking at here. You can see that with the narrow street, it gives us the opportunity to introduce the real plaza-like feel here.
 to the properties abutting Northeast Couch Court. And then finally, this is part of the safety issue that we're trying to address under PBOT Vision Zero objective. You can see that there's a pink circle around the car that's tracking its way into the bike lane there approaching the Burnside Bridge. So there's one sharp angle here right before you get to the bridge. There's also a similar sharp angle right as you approach Northeast Couch Court. So we just thought...
 As long as we were going to make this change, and we're going to have to shut down a lane of traffic and mobilize the contractor to do this work, that it just made sense to get the entire bike lane elevated all the way up to the Burnside Bridge joint.
 So I have a package of minor amendments that I've passed out to Carla, and those amendments would add an emergency clause and also update this ordinance to reflect that we extended the remonstrance deadline and also postponed the hearing for one week.
 I'm asking council this morning to approve the amendment, to add the emergency clause, and to approve the scope change ordinance. Do you want us to put the amendment on the table first? Please. Yes. Second. Okay. Moving to the second. I was actually happy that it doesn't previously have an emergency clause because I have several questions. I know I've been out for quite some time. Okay.
 So could we possibly put the emergency clause on but vote on it next week? We could, Commissioner. The reason for the urgency with the emergency clause, we actually have a contractor already lined up to do the construction work, and they are set up to mobilize the week after Labor Day. So the reason we had scheduled this for August 24th was to give adequate time to mobilize the contractor to do the construction work. And the property owners are pretty anxious to resume construction on this.
 But I'm happy to address their specific concerns related to Y.E. Well, I only just got the map as to where it is, and I'm concerned that, yes, there were no remonstrances from the immediate property owners, but what's about people coming from the east? Does this make any sense?
 This whole intersection area has been quite challenging, I think, to get used to the one way on Burnside and Cooch. I'm thinking of the Greenway on Northeast 7th or 9th, and everybody was concerned that by making one more used by one mode of transport, that then the other gets more traffic. So is the traffic that's needing to use that Cooch piece?
 There's a couple of factors to consider here, Commissioner. This is an extremely challenging area to be doing construction work in terms of laying all these streets out so they operate safely. We certainly had quite a few conversations with the city traffic engineer on what would be safe here. We kind of came to the final conclusion that really if Northeast Couch Court was to offer a good ingress, that it would...
 that the westbound ingress would not work well with the potential for right hook conflicts. So I suspect that if we did an outreach to the community, what we would hear from them is the desire to open up Northeast Couch Court for westbound traffic, which introduces the potential for right hook conflicts.
 Similarly, in the course of negotiating the scope change, the official site that you can kind of see in that final picture there has come in for development and we believe that there will, in the not too distant future, be a new traffic signal at King and Ankeny to augment the existing signal at Davis and MLK.
 which should significantly improve access, particularly on 3rd Avenue underneath the Burnside Bridge. So we could certainly do an outreach effort to the community, but I think we're in a pretty constrained location here in terms of what works for safety and for the property. Andrew, just to set the context for this discussion, can you remind us that...
 with all the construction that's going on there and there's there's at least three buildings and that's that in that immediate burnside bridgehead area that are under construction
 There is no – currently, you can't go – you can't travel by car on Northeast Cooch Court. Correct. It's not an existing street connection. So we're not taking anything away. I think that's just important context. There is no current road there. So once the construction is done, then we have to figure out what we do with that connector. But it's still a planet right-of-way, right? Right.
 It's still in the public right-of-way, yes. Yeah. And my staff tell me that there's going to be an additional street vacation coming in connected with this? We've had a series of ongoing discussions with the developers. If you go back to that slide that shows the orange triangle area, you can see there's a remnant area that would be left over after we –
 build Northeast Couch Court. So we've had discussions with the developers about coming back to council with their street vacation because we're already going to be building sidewalks on both sides of Northeast Couch Court. Why wouldn't we want that to stay in public right-of-way? For instance, even though emergency vehicles will begin to get through, they're going to have to do a bit of a jig.
 I think that would be something that we can flesh out in further detail when the street vacation comes to council. I think where PBOT landed on this is we didn't really want to be in the business of having to administer encroachment permits. And there was a desire by the property owners to do some non-standard treatments in that area and to place some artwork and do some other things in that area specifically.
 to make the area more of an active space. And we just felt that with the street vacation, it afforded an opportunity for PBOT to not have to administer encroachment permits on an ongoing basis for that. But, Andrew, I mean, that's a separate decision, right? I mean, making this decision today in Northeast Coupe Court does not commit us to doing those features. Absolutely, Commissioner, yeah. Right, but we are taking away any possibility of vehicle access.
 vehicles using that street and they currently use it for parking is that correct that's a little bit overstated Commissioner
 When you went out there a couple of years ago, you would see a car or two parked there just kind of randomly. It was sort of a little dead-end stub coming off of 3rd Avenue. So once in a while, you'd see a little bit of parking in there. Once all the development activity commenced there, that area became a de facto staging area. So there's no cars parking there right now. I would also add that since the parking was removed, a parking garage went in at Block 67.
 so there's quite a few more parking spaces in the area than there were before the work commenced. I might also add that we've already built a water main in Northeast Cooch Court. The contractor's already built a water main in Northeast Cooch Court to serve the dumbbell, and so council approval of this ordinance will allow the contractor to resume construction and build the actual street improvements.
 And I might suggest, Commissioner Frist, that perhaps we schedule a follow-up discussion with you on the future use of the right-of-way at Northeast Couch Court beyond what would be approved with this ordinance. Yes, it sounds like others want to move forward, as you know.
 street vacations or taking away public rights of access is something that I take very, very seriously. And so I would have liked to have had more information. I would prefer to have the vacation come at the same time so we could have a holistic discussion. Mr. President, if we could take testimony and then vote on the amendment and on the ordinance. Thank you. Andrew, I have one other question. What do we mean by elevating the bike lane?
 Right now, the bike lane commissioner only has a stripe between the roadway where the cars, trucks, and buses go on Northeast Couch Street and the bikes. And so we would be putting in a concrete bike lane that would be elevated about six inches. So to the extent that somebody driving a vehicle on Northeast Couch Street started to stray into the bike lane, they would feel that visual buffer as they started to stray into the bike lane. It's not as good as a physically separated bike lane, but we wanted to give some sort of a...
 a queue to motorists to stay out of the bike lane and in the travel lane. And PBOT has gotten quite a few complaints about what we call the tracking errors of vehicles straying into the bike lane. Have we done elevated lanes like that in other parts of the city? I'm not sure. That's a very good question. I don't know that we have. There's currently pedestrian, there's a sidewalk, right, on Northeast 3rd? Yes. So what's...
 Is there potentially a pedestrian-bike conflict if the bike is whizzing around the corner and maybe doesn't stop or slow down to see the pedestrian on 3rd? My recollection, Commissioner, your point is very well taken because Northeast Couch Court is downhill westbound, but my recollection is that there will be a stop sign at 3rd and Couch to stop the downhill bike traffic coming down to 3rd Avenue. And that would be before the sidewalk rather than at the curb? Yes. Commissioner Nover, can I ask you a question? Sure.
 We have some successful examples like on our newest bridge and some other places where we've put pedestrian and bikes together and we just striped them. Is there an argument here if you're going to elevate the bike lane just to extend the sidewalk and do the same thing? That's a good question. It seems like this is sort of a first cousin of what we've done elsewhere where we've incorporated both and striped them. I'm just curious if…
 If this is a half measure or whether there are other legal issues of extending the sidewalk that make this a better outcome? I don't know. Commissioner Fish, just to clarify, are you referring to Cooch Street or Cooch Court? I'm referring to Cooch Street.
 Because we already have a sidewalk on Cooch Street, and then we have a bike lane in the street area. But I'm just going off that you're proposing to elevate the bike lane on Cooch Street. Right, but it would not be to the full height of the sidewalk. Right, and the question I was posing… The sidewalk is elevated. Since the sidewalk's already elevated, and we do have examples of essentially sidewalks that have been bifurcated for bikes, and I'm going off of our newest bridge, for example, along the Orange Line. I'm just curious…
 Is that an option, or has this been chosen for another reason? I actually don't know. I mean, I don't know if that would add more expense to it.
 i don't know that the expense would be that great it's just in the judgment of our traffic engineers they thought with the substantial volume of bikes on the bike lane relative to the number of pedestrians on the sidewalk they thought that the safest way to do it would be to have a little bit of uh vertical elevation not only between the vehicles and the bikes but also between the bikes and the pedestrians andrew i'm i'm fine with that i'm just just posing a question
 Your point's very well taken, that we're designing another LID Northeast 47th Avenue where we're actually looking to do everything at grade, but we're planning to do some very significant visual cues to separate the bikes and the pedestrians. This is kind of an after-the-fact fix, if you will, for Northeast Cooch Street long after we built the couplet, so we're trying to do this inexpensively with the best bang for the buck. Okay. Thank you.
 And just one final point of clarification. When we bring the street vacation, there will still be some time and the capacity within the construction project to change some of the schematic that you've currently given us?
 Well, the developer actually has a permit requirement to build the sidewalk in front of the development. And so the LID and the developers are working hand-in-hand to build everything. We're working very close to make sure that the public sidewalk and the built under the LID matches up with the sidewalk that's being built in front of the new development coming in the door. So we're using the same material. We're using the same scoring pattern. The intent is to come up with a...
 with a very unified approach that works well. And is this schematic accurate for northeast third, that the sidewalk is tight with the building, there's no planter strip? We're not planning to do a planning strip in this area, just do the high volume of pedestrian activity we're expecting in the area.
 except that we will have a few surface-level planting close to Northeast Couch Court. I guess that's another piece that I'd like discussion maybe with development services staff or transportation right-of-way staff as to why that building's been approved without the standard pedestrian environment.
 We were looking at stormwater swales at one point, but there's a building on the west side of Northeast 3rd Avenue that has a basement, so we modified our design during the LID to remove the standard stormwater facilities because there was concern about stormwater infiltration with the basement across the street. So we had to make those changes for those reasons. I know this intersection because I've waved with my sign at it.
 And I think, Commissioner, when we brief you on the street vacation, I'd be happy to bring along the traffic engineer and brief you on the other elements as well. I really have to reiterate, this has been an incredibly challenging project to design. We have turned over a lot of rocks on this, and I think we've come up with a... I think we've made lemonade out of lemons, but it's certainly been a big effort to get here. Thank you. We've asked many of the same questions that you have along the way.
 Anybody wish to testify on 985 or the amendments? That's Charles Johnson. Good morning, Commissioner. Just again, for the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And I have to say that it was a little bit disappointing that so many words were exchanged and only once did we hear the word dumbbell. And we never heard guerrilla development and FFA architecture. So...
 People familiar with that neighborhood, skate park access, whatever, have a better idea of what we're talking about. But we're talking about giving a lot of attention to people who are going to pay very high rents plus whatever ordinary citizen pedestrian traffic we have there. So I hope that this meeting will happen. I would actually encourage Commissioner Fritz and the planning people to actually participate.
 Talk about it at the location. Hopefully it won't be a rainy day or an umbrella day, but that might actually be better than sitting here and looking through a 10-page PDF of plans. But there's a lot of talk about equity at this council. And so one of my visions of equity that a lot of people in my income bracket might share is that we make sure that per capita, for however many people are living in the yard, because we're talking about fixing up things around the yard that...
 the place the glorious developer had such a problem complying with Windows at, is that whatever time gets invested in this gets invested in an East County place that has no sidewalks, that gets invested on stable housing for people on the Lentz Corridor. So it's hard for me to even... It seems like the presentation from PBOD and stuff like that has given some issues. I do like what Mr. Fish asked about
 same level elevation for bikes or pedestrians or not. I think that one of the things that's been present in our conversation is that sometimes pedestrians feel a reduced level of safety in the presence of bicycles. And so that if the plan is for the pedestrians to be up a couple on a couple inch curb so that only the adventurous homicidal bicyclists that like to hop curbs, that have that skill, can come up and get among the people, that sounds beautiful. Um,
 So, you know, I don't know exactly whether that's bike traffic coming off the Esplanade where we're thinking there's going to be a lot of bike traffic down below Burnside as opposed to up. But it's hard to give you a cut in stone like yay, nay on this, but I do want you to just have the broader context of mindfulness of
 We're talking about investing all this time in discussions about what we're going to do around a building that has, I think, zero subsidized low-income units. And screw them. Why don't we plan a micro village with some tiny houses and tents right there? Thank you. I'll just point out the yard has 20 percent of its units dedicated to those earning 60 percent of median family income or less. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Mr. West. Yes, my name is Robert West. I'm with from the police 9-1-1. There's a couple concerns I have. Um, one concern is, um, the traffic that goes down cooch and onto the Burnside Bridge. Is that going to be a mess mess with so you can't so there will be no westbound traffic?
 no impact on that existing couplet. Okay. And the other concern I have is if you've got a street here and you've got a bicycle lane here and you've got a pedestrian walk here, the question is safety as far as bicycles go. What's going to be if someone doesn't know the route or something, what stops them from going into the street? The other concern that I have is that
 Say you have someone that rides their bike at three miles an hour, and is there going to be a traffic jam of bicycles where they're going to want to get onto the pedestrian area and ride? That's another concern that I have. And so it's easy to sit there and say, well, okay, we'll do this. But the question is, long term, how is that going to affect people
 everyone else. If I'm riding a bicycle and I ride at 15 miles an hour, I'm not going to want to ride at two miles an hour, but someone that can only ride the bicycle two miles an hour if they're in front of me and I can't get around them, except to go into the street or climb up on the pedestrian area, that can pose a problem to bicycles who want to get to work. You're running late and all of a
 behind something that's going two miles an hour, or some guy taking his kids out for a ride across a bridge. And that's one thing that I don't know if you guys noticed or not, or if that was even considered. And so I wanted to bring that up too, the safety issues, people trying to get around people, the cars, everything.
 um, an elevator, you know, cause you're talking three different elevations. Um, if a bicyclist turns the corner too sharp and winds up on the pedestrian spot, you know, or if he doesn't turn sharp enough and winds up in the street, you know, you're, we're already having a lot of issues with bicycles and safety and stuff like that. I don't want to see any bicycle fatalities. And I also don't want to see, um,
 you know, bicyclists all upset because they can't, because they're getting to work late because they can't get around people that ride slower. And with that, I'll... Thank you. Okay, so we have... Can I just, I'm sorry about this. I know I'm trying to catch up. Could I just ask one more question of staff? Sure. Thank you, Mr. Russell. Where is it envisioned that the cyclists, you've got on the graphic, you've got cyclists going both ways. Where are they coming from and going to? Can I borrow your ear?
 Well, in this proposal that we're talking about, you've got bikes going that way, presumably having come off the westbound Cooch Street. And then they're going to be still wanting to turn to get back onto Burnside Bridge, some of them, right?
 So any bicyclists coming westbound on Coutte Street would just continue on the elevated bike lane to the Burnside Bridge. And if I just may briefly address the last gentleman's comments, it's precisely because we don't want bicyclists weaving into a lane of traffic that we wanted to have the elevated bike lane so that they're not weaving into traffic and risking a conflict. Also –
 Also, with that bike lane being downhill for a good portion of that way, it's fairly easy to keep up with the speed of traffic. But to address your question, Commissioner Frist, Cooch Court is going to be a very key access point for bicyclists into the central east side industrial area, as well as to all the developments that are happening right around that particular location. So in particular, a bicyclist...
 that want to get to destinations along Northeast 3rd Avenue, which travels underneath the Burnside Bridge, will have a very easy connection that they don't currently have. So that explains the bike traffic going that way. Where is the bike traffic going east coming from?
 It's kind of the reverse flow, Commissioner. So if there's trips originating either at the Burnside Bridgehead development or along Northeast 3rd Avenue, it provides a very easy way for bicyclists to get onto Northeast Cooch Street to get to the points at the west side of the river. So there's a lot of jobs and other trip generators in the CEIC area that will be well served by this new connection. But Cooch Street...
 Is there currently an eastbound on Cooch Street for cyclists? There's an eastbound on Burnside Street. Right. So an eastbound cyclist is going here and here and then starts to come down here to get onto Burnside.
 Yeah, an eastbound cyclist that wanted to get to points east of the Burnside Bridgehead would not likely use Northeast Cooch Court for that connection. Northeast Cooch Court will primarily be a way for those cyclists to get to the west side of the river. So if I vote for this today, and I know that you want me to, is there any possibility of changing some of this division? I mean, could we vote in concept that it's going to not have cars or only emergency vehicles?
 and still have the opportunity to make some comments on the pedestrian and cyclist.
 arrangement? If council approved this ordinance today, I think what we could arrange is a, I mean the contractor is going to start the construction work the week following Labor Day if you approve this ordinance, but I think we could schedule a briefing in short order to explain the rationale for the design. If for sake of argument we were to make a change, then what I would suggest is that we further elevate the bike lane at a grade level equal to the sidewalk. And again, I think there's reasons not to do that, but I think we could certainly have that conversation. That would be
 My sense is that would be a relatively easy change to make from a civil perspective. Whether it makes sense from a traffic perspective is another question, but I'd be more than happy to follow up with you on that discussion. I greatly respect your expertise, and so I'll vote for both the emergency and for this with the acknowledgement that there could be some further conversation about how that space is used, and it will have that conversation when the street vacation comes. Yes.
 Thank you very much, Commissioner. I really appreciate your confidence. Okay, great. So we have the amendments in front of us. They've been moved and seconded, so if you could call the roll on the amendments. Carla? No, thank you, Andrew. Aye. Prince? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Okay, so the amendments, now the ordinance with the emergency clause added is in front of us. Please call the roll.
 No, thank you. Aye. Great. Colleagues, I appreciate your indulgence. Obviously, this is an area where we want to be sure we get it right for all modes of traffic and make it much safer for everybody. So I appreciate the conversation. Aye. Yes. Good discussion. Thank you, Andrew. Look forward to seeing you at the Bluff. Aye. Thank you, Mr. Abbey, for, as usual, your outstanding presentation and answering all the questions. Aye. Thank you. Okay, let's move to item 986. Okay.
 amend fee schedule for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement Noise Control Program. Oh, Commissioner Ritz. Thank you. So in our increasingly dense city where development continues to boom, as we just had that discussion, the Office of Neighborhood Involvement's noise program is in high demand. The noise staff balance community complaints with a growing number of requests for noise variances for construction and community events.
 Though the number of variance requests has gone up 18% in the last three years, the noise program has not raised its fees since the 2014-15 fiscal year. These proposed fee increases will help support the existing 3.5%
 full-time equivalents that staff the noise office with some short-term support. In the longer term, I am looking to move the noise program into a fully cost recovery model in the coming years, but it would be much too great of a jump to go from what we currently charge to full cost recovery in one go, and so we've heard feedback from Development Review Advisory Committee and from the Noise Board that we should do a modest increase and continue having the discussions, having the staff track their time so that we
 and come back next year with a more fully cost recovery program. And Paul Van Orden, the wonderful noise officer, is here to explain the project. Thank you.
 how you doing members council paul van orden the city's noise control officer so just a little bit of background especially for the members of the public who might be watching this we did undertake an initial examination of a pretty big change in our proposal for noise variance fees so you may have heard from the public on that particular proposal which is not what's before us so there was some some concern about those fees and what we did with that particular proposal is put that aside
 And what we have before us today is just a 15% across the board proposal. The past proposal had some changes between different categories. And so the project we have before us is 15% across the board. And then we will be in the fall exploring the time we actually spend on noise variances and the inspections we want to be able to do on those noise variances to better understand the
 The best way to solve noise problems related to permits that we've issued. And so at that point, we may be back to city council with a lot more details on how much time we're spending on noise variances and how much time we would like to spend on noise variances and exploring what that would take to get us to a better cost recovery model. So the project before us really gets us back to.
 a closer parity with where we would be at now if we had our normal 5% increase that we have each year. And then there's about a 4.75% increase above that since we haven't increased in two time periods. So the fees that you see before you are pretty close to where we would be at at this point if we had just had our normal 5% increase that we would enact each fiscal year. Okay.
 And the main note is that the increase helps us to maintain a OSS2, an office support specialist position that we have currently. And that has been most helpful this summer. We have had quite an increase in workload relative to construction complaints and just with the growing density of the city, even just for the basic construction.
 stereo and music related complaints that are a giant part of our program. So this really puts us in a position where it helps to stabilize keeping that person on board while we explore how we can get to a greater cost recovery model for the noise program. And I just wanted to mention that in the process of moving to this 15% increase, we went before the city's noise review board. They were most definitely supportive of the proposal.
 and the Development Review Advisory Committee at BDS also took a look at this, and they had a couple of points that they laid out for us that we're going to explore as we look at any more significant increases in the future. So I think we're in a good position that we have community support, support from DRAC, and support from the Noise Review Board in moving forward with this particular increase. Thank you. Let's see if anybody wishes to testify on Item 986.
 We have a lady who wants to talk. Okay. Go ahead and have a seat, Paul. Anybody else? Okay. If you could just give us your name and you have three minutes. Hi. My name is Carolyn Newvine. I'm the noise specialist for the Oregon Department of Transportation. And today I'm here on behalf of ODOT. I'm going to read into the record a letter that was written by Susan Hansen, our community affairs director.
 manager and also with input from our region manager of Portland, Ryan Windheimer. Each year, ODOT has many road and bridge construction and repair projects underway within the city of Portland. That number is usually around 15 to 20. For public safety and to keep traffic moving during the day and not cause major gridlock, ODOT contractors work at night when traffic volumes are lower.
 ODOT applies for noise variances for these projects. Each project is different, and the duration is different, lasting sometimes for just a weekend or sometimes for years when there are projects like on the I-5 or 205 or out in outer Powell or Lombard. We reviewed the proposed noise variance fee increase and provided comment in May to the Office of Neighborhood Involvement.
 While we are pleased with the rollback of the proposed fees, we want to share with you the impact of these increases on ODOT projects as another taxpayer-funded public agency. To address our commitment to providing safe infrastructure to the public, we propose that the City consider a separate fee structure for public agencies, including other City bureaus, Multnomah County, and ODOT.
 All of these partner agencies use taxpayer dollars to maintain and improve services for the public within the City of Portland. Requiring the same permit and fee structure for public works as for private development is inappropriate and counter to our shared mission.
 Should the city be interested in such a fee structure, we would be happy to participate in a process with the city and other public agency stakeholders to determine an equitable fee structure for public works. A couple comments on the fee amounts. The proposed fee increases 15% over the current fees and is more reasonable than the original proposal.
 The variance fee for the project taking more than two years now is $3,463. A 15 percent increase would bring the total to about $4,000. So basically let me just kind of wrap this up. It looks like my time is running out. I'd like to comment on ODOT's responsibility in minimizing the impact of construction noise.
 Go ahead. I'll give you 30 more seconds. Okay. For each ODOT project requiring a noise variance, we set up a hotline with a person on board 24-7 to answer complaints in person. Complaints are something we expect on our projects, and we think we do a very thorough and responsive job to listening to concerns and complaints.
 We also have a stellar comprehensive public outreach process when we use a number of tactics to reach a variety of audiences. So just to recap, I think ODOT would like to say that we are pleased with the fee rollback. However, we would like to propose a fee, kind of a separate tier for public agencies.
 And also, too, we would like to comment on the public involvement process involved with the fee changes that we've seen over the last six, eight months coming from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. We haven't had much time to really respond or ask questions about it. So thank you. Thank you. And we have your full comments or Ms. Hanson's full comments in writing. Thank you for that. And I do thank ODOT for its outstanding public outreach efforts. You do a great job.
 Okay, this moves to a second reading. Ms. Paul, did you want to respond to anything? Okay, this moves to a second reading next week. And then our two more items. Item 967? 987. 987, sorry. Authorize a contract with Excel Tech Consulting, Inc. to provide design-secure necessary permits...
 Prepare bid documents and assist with construction administration services for two pedestrian bridges at Westmoreland Park not to exceed $238,890.
 Mr. Fritz. Thank you. As we all know, Westmoreland Park is one of the most popular parks in southeast Portland. It's bisected by Crystal Springs Creek, which is attributed to Johnson Creek. Two of the five bridges that cross Crystal Springs Creek have structurally deteriorated and require replacement. One is closed and one is in very bad shape.
 This item will authorize a contract for design and construction administration services to replace these bridges, and it would be paid for with the major maintenance fund that the council has allocated in the coming years. Thank you. And Dale Cook, the construction management manager at Portland Parks and Recreation, is here. Thank you. Good afternoon, commissioners.
 As Commissioner Fritz stated, we're here to request council authorization of an ordinance for a PTE contract. I wanted to provide some general background on Westmoreland Park. You could probably skip that, given the hour. Okay. But, you know, the last part of your presentation about how we got to this place. Thank you. It's unfortunate when you're the last one in line to get on. It's okay. Good project.
 Should I discuss the bridge inventory and assessment? Yes, please. So in 2015, Parks completed a bridge inventory and assessment. We used this to prioritize repairs and bridge replacements. Then this information was used to develop a capital improvement plan to keep our bridges safe and in good condition. And we have planned CIP funding over fiscal years 2014 to 2020 to keep our bridges safe.
 um for project background there's two bridges in the park that require replacement generally splitting deck boards riding stringers 30 percent of the wood structure on these two bridges is rotting and we've recently closed the second bridges so we have two bridges in the park that are closed um project objectives we want to develop a fish friendly design maintain ada accessibility
 maintain existing trail access make sure the bridges look nice in the park setting make sure that they are using durable materials that are long-lasting and will require less maintenance and we have construction plans a fairly aggressive schedule to begin in 2017 in the in water work window so in general we're requesting a recommendation I want to state that we're very happy to
 that the consultant that was selected is a minority-owned business, and generally there's 80% MWESB participation on their project team. So thank you, and please let me know if you have any questions. Questions? Nicely done. Yeah, thank you. Thank you very much. Anybody wish to testify on 987? Okay, seeing none, this is an emergency, so please call the roll. No vote. Aye. Great. Thank you for your presentation. Aye.
 Mr. Fritz, this Crystal Springs Park, this Westmoreland Park, is a shiny example of BES and parks working together. And one of my favorite rides is going from my new apartment along the Orange Line over to the park and spending some time there watching the salmon spawn and then coming back. So congratulations. Aye. Selksman. Great work. Aye. Okay, the ordinance is adopted, and our last item this morning is 988. Okay.
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement in the amount of $56,250 with the Multnomah County Health Department for program evaluation services of the lead hazard reduction program. Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues, the Portland Water Bureau delivers safe, clean, and reliable water to almost 1 million customers in our region.
 Our lead hazard reduction program has been at the forefront of addressing the risk from lead in Portland for almost 20 years. It's also how we continue to remain in compliance with the federal lead and copper rule. In addition to lead paint remediation and treating our water, this program has been essential in educating Portlanders on the risks from lead in their homes. And what we're talking about in their homes is basically bad pipes and bad faucets.
 Before us today is a contract with the county to evaluate the effectiveness of those outreach efforts. This short presentation will offer a brief overview of this program, its accomplishments, and what this evaluation will be looking for. Here to present this afternoon
 is Scott Bradway from the Bureau's Water Quality Department and David Dowler from Multnomah County's Program Design and Evaluation Services. Gentlemen, welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, or I guess good afternoon at this point. So I'm just going to try to get through this as quick as possible. Scott Bradway, Portland Water Bureau. I'm the Lead Hazard Reduction Program Manager. Thank you.
 So, as Commissioner Fish mentioned, we're here seeking approval to enter into an agreement with the Program Design and Evaluation Services. It's a joint program with Multnomah County Health Department and the Oregon Health Authority. The purpose of this evaluation will be to evaluate the public education and community outreach component of the lead hazard reduction program. We expect this to occur over this current fiscal year with a final report sometime next fall.
 for a total cost of $56,250. Thought I'd provide, though, to give some context to this program and how it fits into the work of the Portland Water Bureau, a quick overview of some lead and our entire program. So in 1992, the Environmental Protection Agency passed the Lead and Copper Rule. Essentially, it requires drinking water systems to treat drinking water to reduce levels of lead in customer taps to below 15 parts per billion.
 This rule was mostly based on the presence of a lot of lead pipes throughout the country. However, in Portland, we're fortunate in that we have never used lead service lines. We did, for a period of time, use short pipes or connections known as pigtails or goosenecks, but we have removed all of the known such pipes. So what that has left us with...
 For sources of lead in water is household plumbing, as Commissioner Fish mentioned, which is most often copper pipes with lead solder that were built generally between 1970 and 1985, as well as some fixtures that were installed prior to 1985 can also contribute some lead to drinking water.
 So based on the fact that there was a limited amount of sources of lead contributing to drinking water in our system, as we looked at how we would comply with this new regulation back in the 90s, City Council directed the Water Bureau to look at some alternative ways to comply.
 what we ended up developing is the lead hazard reduction program which is a four-part compliance program that includes water treatment and monitoring lead and water education and testing home lead hazard control program public education and community outreach with the goal of not just addressing exposure to lead and water but to addressing exposure to lead from all sources throughout the environment um
 This evaluation and ordinance that is in front of you today will focus mostly on the public education and community outreach. However, real briefly, the other three components that
 Our water treatment and monitoring, essentially that is an adjustment of drinking water to raise the pH and make the water less corrosive. By doing so, we've reduced lead and water levels at the tap by more than 60% compared to pretreatment levels. Additionally, this treatment has allowed us to generally stay below the federal action level of 15 parts per billion.
 We also have a component of our lead in water education and testing. What this does is provides free lead in water kits to any of our customers that request them, because that's the best way for anybody to know if they're being exposed to lead in drinking water. On an average year, we receive about 3,000 requests. This year, because of the attention and concern over the lead issues, we've received over 10,000 requests to date. Okay.
 In addition to free lead and water tests, we also do extensive outreach and education about lead and water. We deliver an educational brochure and all utility bills every year. We do a targeted mailer to homes that are most at risk for lead and water. Those are homes built between 1970 and 1985 that we've identified as having a child or pregnant woman in the home.
 We also have extensive information on our website and include information in our annual water quality report to help educate customers as to how they can reduce their exposure to lead in drinking water.
 Another aspect of our program is our Home Lead Hazard Control Program. This is a partnership with the Portland Housing Bureau that utilizes the funds from our education and outreach component to leverage a housing and urban development grant to mitigate and remediate lead hazard, home lead hazard problems.
 So since 2001, this has been able to leverage over $16 million in funds from the federal government. It has been able to remediate lead hazards in over 1,500 housing units that have affected over 3,000 children. But the component that we're really focusing on with this project is our public education and community outreach.
 The idea behind this aspect of the program is to perform outreach and education to the general public on all sources of lead and how the community can protect themselves and actions they can take to reduce their exposure to lead.
 We do this by providing grants to community organizations and agencies to provide these education programs. For this fiscal year, these grants are being issued to the Community Alliance of Tenants to provide education to tenants, Community Energy Project to provide workshops on lead poison preventioning and community outreach, Fair Housing Council of Oregon to do outreach to landlords so they know what their responsibilities as a landlord is,
 Growing Gardens to provide free lead and soil testing. Multnomah County Health Department that manages the lead line, which is an information and referral source for all sources of lead. They also provide free blood lead level testing to the community and then perform investigations to determine the source of lead in cases where there are elevated blood lead levels.
 And then we also provide funding to Portland Public Schools to do paint stabilization projects in early education and primary education facilities. Since 2004, our program has reached more than 19,000 tenants with lead prevention information. We've had over 6,500 people attend a lead poison prevention workshop, provided information to more than 14,000 landlords, tested over 900 soil samples, and
 We've provided information to over 7,600 new and expecting mothers on lead information. 40,500 people have contacted the lead line. 12,500 blood lead level tests have been performed in our community. We've replaced over 95 pieces of playground equipment in our Portland parks and performed 180 paint stabilization projects in Portland public schools.
 So what this evaluation will focus on is three main questions. Are our partner organizations that we provide funding to raising awareness to the people that they interact with and provide that information to? So they're more aware of the lead hazard risks in our community.
 Additionally, in addition to them being more aware, are they then using that information to seek out and utilize the resources that are being provided through the community to actually reduce their exposure to lead? And then finally, are we actually reaching those that are most at risk for exposure to lead in our communities?
 What we plan to do with the results of this evaluation, we hope to improve the effectiveness of our community partner programs. We want to direct the outreach efforts to better target those that are most at risk and then also identify gaps in our program, our education program, to help guide the development of any potential future partners or grantees for this program. That quick run through? Mr. Dallard, do you want to add anything before we go to questions? No, thanks. Anybody have questions?
 Okay, let's see if anybody wishes to testify on 988. Anybody wish to testify? Okay, Mr. West, come on up. Okay, give us your name, and you have three minutes. Okay, my name is Robert West. I'm from the police, 911. And lead is a very serious situation. Our public schools' drinking water was contaminated with lead. They shut that down. And my understanding is there's still lead in the water systems, and the city of Portland...
 And the county should do whatever is necessary to make sure that the people and the children of the city of Portland is safe from Ludd. And that's all I wanted to bring up. Okay. Thank you. Mr. President, this goes to a second reading. Right. I do, if I could, I just want to acknowledge Scott's work, Yona Akagi, who's here.
 chris wanner and everyone else in the team there has been a huge spike in customer requested testing there's been a significant increase in workload i want to call out particularly the professionals in the bureau doing a great job and also just forecast preview for you that we will be coming back to council i think in october
 for a broader discussion about water quality issues and conversations that are ongoing with the EPA and the Oregon Health Authority, so stay tuned to that. And to the testimony we just heard, let me just be very clear. We do not have lead in our water system, and since you mentioned that, but we do have a situation where corrosion in some pipes that have lead, copper, can result in higher levels.
 They are typically in buildings and homes built in a particular period of time before the law changed. And we are working in a collaborative way with the county and our regulators to see if we can address what we call corrosion control. And we take that charge very seriously. And we want to thank Multnomah County for being such a great partner in our work. Thank you. Okay, we'll vote on this next week, and we stand adjourned until 2 o'clock. Water tested again.
 Okay, let's bring the council to order. Council, come to order. Carla, could you call the roll, please? Or should I do my thing about the mayor being on the phone first? I'll do the roll. Do that first? We'll do the roll. Okay, let's see.
 For short, the city code, we need to take a vote about allowing Mayor Hales to participate by telephone. And it's not a vote. It's really asking my fellow colleagues if they have any objection. Failure to participate in today's council session I think would jeopardize public interest, health, safety, or welfare. And therefore, I ask my colleagues if anybody objects to the mayor participating by telephone. Seeing no objections, welcome Mayor Hales. Carla, please call the roll. Novick?
 Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Hales. Here. Saltzman. Here. Okay, so we are could you please read item 989? Extend the emergency housing declared by ordinance 187 371 to address increased homelessness identify council powers, specify three year duration and waive portions of the zoning code.
 Mayor Hales, did you wish to make any opening statement? I do. Thank you, Mr. Saltzman, and thank you for accommodating me calling in for my vacation, because this is an important discussion this afternoon, and I'm very glad that we're all going to be here to participate in it.
 um we're here of course because there is a housing and homelessness crisis it's a national crisis it's particularly acute on the west coast and it's particularly acute in our city it's a crisis of families being priced out of their apartments forced to be sleeping in their cars of children getting ready for school living in a tent of people working full-time and still unable to afford their rent
 Last year we had the highest increase in housing costs in the nation, a list no one wants to be first on. We went up 11% from 2015 to 2016 in our average cost of housing in the city of Portland. And yet we still have 1,000 people a month moving to our city and part driving that demand for housing.
 Our 2015 point-in-time count found, in terms of homelessness, that we have 1,800 Portlanders unsheltered, sleeping in their cars or in tents or on the street. And so for all those reasons, last year we unanimously declared a state of emergency in housing and homelessness, recognizing that this is an urgent crisis and that we need to respond.
 What does that state of emergency mean in practice? First, it has meant rapid action. We've opened hundreds of new shelter beds with governmental, private sector, and faith partners. Second, it means deliberate experimentation. We've launched some successful pilot projects, like opening day storage units for people to store their belongings during the day, so they can job hunt or go to medical appointments.
 And third, it's meant real money. This city council has committed unprecedented levels of funding towards housing and homelessness. If you add up everything we've committed and what we've sent to the voters for approval this fall, it's half a billion dollars.
 The state of emergency also signaled to local, state, and federal partners that we're serious about making real progress. And because of our state of emergency, the United States Housing Secretary, Julian Castro, attended the first-ever West Coast Mayors Summit, which I convened here in Portland back in December. And with my colleagues from Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles, and Eugene, we asked for more resources to address this emergency, and Secretary Castro has advised us on how to get it done.
 Because of our state of emergency, our Office of Government Relations was able to tell the Oregon legislature that our housing situation is serious, and they lifted the preemption on inclusionary zoning, thanks in no small part, Commissioner Saltzman, to your advocacy down there in Salem. And with the state of emergency, the Planning Bureau is fast-tracking incorporating inclusionary zoning into our city code, and we can also fast-track code changes to allow homeless shelters to be more easily sighted.
 Because of our state of emergency, local partners have come together in an unprecedented way. The historic partnership between the city and the county with our Joint Office of Homelessness Services launched in July. Just recently started running the Hanson Shelter for 200 people. Most importantly, though, the state of emergency has signaled to everyone in our community that we recognize that this is a crisis, this is a struggle, and we're going to dedicate resources and public policy to address it.
 So I'm proud that we've made some great progress, but we all recognize that we're still in a state of emergency. We still have people being priced out of their apartments. We still have children getting ready for school in tents or living in cars. We still have people working full time who can't afford to live in our city. And we are in a state of emergency, and that's why this declaration makes sense and does make sense to continue it.
 So I want to thank everyone for this discussion today. I know we have some panels lined up, Mr. Stolzman starting with one led by Chad Stover, and I appreciate hearing from them and from everybody in the community on this important topic. Okay, thank you, Mayor. So, yes, we'll start with the invited testimony, and we'll start with Chad Stover, the Policy Director of Livability in the Mayor's Office, and Chair, Multnomah County Chair, Deborah Kifori. Thank you.
 good afternoon mayor good afternoon city commissioners my name is chad stover i'm policy director of livability office of the mayor and before we actually get into the presentation part i would like to ask my colleague rachel wiggins to come up and discuss a little bit about the substitute ordinance that was uh submitted okay
 Good afternoon, Council. Rachel Wiggins, Mayor's Office. In front of you is in a substitute ordinance. I thought I would briefly run through the changes and then ask Council to put it on the table for discussion. First and foremost, it changes the duration from three years down to one. I think we heard loud and clear that the Council was comfortable with
 renewing it for one year. Two, there are some changes to the directives that reflect work that's currently happening underneath the current state of emergency, specifically around streamlining the review process for affordable housing, that's Directive E, and proposing code amendments that will be coming to the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Okay.
 Additionally, in there, there is a reporting requirement for the Director of the Joint Office on Homelessness as well as the Housing Director to come to Council every six months and give a report out on the work that's being done and give Council the opportunity to evaluate whether or not an emergency is still needed. Lastly, there is a strike through through a directive that sort of – that
 That lays out anything else that was in the previous ordinance is being carried forward in this one. Ninety-nine percent of this ordinance is the last ordinance. The only change is that we are no longer asking the governor to declare a state of emergency, so it didn't make sense to have that directive in there. Okay, great. I'm going to move the substitute ordinance. Second to put it on the table. Okay, so the substitute is now before us, and we will...
 Thank you, Rachel. Thank you. And we'll go back to Mr. Stover. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. I do have a PowerPoint, and I would like to hand out. I made some hard copy handouts that will coincide with what you see on the screen, and I will hand these to Carla. Thank you, Carla. Mr. President, do we need to remind folks to? Yes, if you agree with the speaker or disagree with the speaker, please don't verbalize those concerns, but use your hands, like hands up, thumbs up, thumbs down.
 Yeah, no yeas. Oh. Okay. Mr. Stover, take it away. Harlan, do you have an extra one? Thank you very much. Okay. Take it away. Good afternoon. The City of Portland and regional partners have taken extraordinary steps and made unprecedented progress in addressing livability issues associated with homelessness, including dedicating $356.35 million to affordable housing, rent assistance, homelessness outreach, and related programs.
 The tools provided within the state of emergency in housing and homelessness remain necessary to address Portland's crisis. Under a state of emergency in housing and homelessness, Portland has established regional partnerships, $20 million investment in the creation of city-county regional partnerships such as A Home for Everyone and the Joint Office of Homeless Services.
 We've created new tenant protections, new regulations requiring landlords to provide tenants with 90-day notices for no-cause evictions and 90-day notices for potential rent increases of 5% or more. We've dedicated over half a billion dollars toward permanent affordable housing, $67 million from increased urban renewal tax increment financing set aside to 45%, resulting in $284 million to affordable housing over 10 years.
 $1.2 million in lodging taxes from short-term rentals dedicated to affordable housing. $48.4 million additional Portland Housing Bureau funding in the fiscal year 2015-2016 budget. $8 million from 1% construction excise tax on residential and commercial construction. Referred to an affordable housing bond to the November ballot for voters to decide whether to raise an additional $258 million for affordable housing.
 Some of the actions when it comes to shelters. We opened up the Sears shelter and the Menashe Peace shelter, both temporary, now closed. We opened the Hanson shelter, opened on July 22nd, which included 200 beds. The Portland Gresham Border Women's Shelter will be opening early September, and that includes 90 beds. And then the McLaughlin Resource Center, which will also be opening in early November, which includes 120 beds.
 A note about this, once we get these two buildings opened, we will be at 475 shelter beds out of the 650 shelter bed goal that we set to accomplish by the end of the 2017 fiscal year. So we'll have about 175 more beds to go once we get those two shelters opened up.
 We included opening of the first congregational church, which had 13 beds, followed by Rose City United Methodist, which has 25 beds. So as it turns out, the first congressional church sunset. So once the Rose City United Methodist opened up, we got 25 new beds. So that's not on top of the 13. The 25 replaced the 13 and then added 12 more.
 In January of 2015, we set out a goal to house 695 homeless veterans, and we achieved that by December of 2016.
 Also during the past year, we've, as the mayor pointed out, we've been engaging in a lot of intentional experimentation. We've created new innovative pilot programs, such as the Homelessness Toolkit. This is an online resource for Portlanders to receive information and updates on homelessness policies, services, and future programming. We started the One Point of Contact program. This is a reporting tool to streamline public reporting of livability issues related to homelessness camping,
 regardless of jurisdiction. There have been on average 280 reports per week and 6,000 to date. Since October of 2015, when we began our state of emergency, we've conducted approximately 186 campsite cleanups. We have the sanitation pilot. Portable toilets and dumpsters have been placed in strategic areas around the city that are in need of sanitation services.
 This reduces human waste on the public right-of-way and in other areas. We began the day storage pilot. This includes two storage containers that include portable toilets, needle containers, lighting, porta-potties. These are 53-foot containers.
 cargo containers that have been retrofitted with cubicle space one of them has ended up at the steel bridge the other one has been at the hazelnut grove camp there was actually a story on kgw today talking about this and highlighting some of the successes again a pilot program lessons learned here initially met with a lot of questions from the community but has proven to be successful so far we're continuing to monitor that and check in with the neighbors to see how it goes and so far the reports have been positive so
 Sanctioned camping, we've worked with a home for everyone to develop a framework for outdoor shelters that would be managed by a nonprofit organization. And then the high-intensity street engagement program. This is intensive street outreach coupled with neighborhood response teams and public safety workers to move those with the highest barriers to service into housing. The program has successfully assisted 90 individuals and 80 households into housing placement services, and 52 individuals and 38 households have moved to permanent housing.
 And then lastly, in the 2015-2016 budget year, we funded a home for everyone. So with that, I want to provide that lay of the land, that landscape for you and some of the things that we've done in the first year. And we do have a number of people to testify. And after me will be Chair Kivori. Okay. Thanks, Chad. Chair Kivori. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you so much for allowing me to speak with you today.
 I'm here to express my support for the extension of a one year on the housing state of emergency. And I want to briefly talk about the work that the city and the county are doing together to expand shelter, streamline homeless services, and to get thousands of people into permanent housing. But I think the most important voices that we are going to hear from today will be those people who are experiencing homelessness or those who have overcome it.
 Because it is the trauma of that experience, I believe, that causes us to recognize that as long as we have men, women, and children in our community sleeping on our streets, we need to recognize that we have an emergency and do everything within our power to help them. To that end, Multnomah County is working very closely with the City of Portland to expand shelter beds throughout our community. And you heard a little bit from Chad about what has been done, but I think it's important to realize how many beds we've opened –
 Recently, very recently. In February, we expanded our 130-bed family shelter. We opened it in a former strip club in southeast Portland, turning a neighborhood vice into a safe, welcoming place for families. This shelter has a no-turn-away policy, meaning that any family in our community that seeks shelter will find it. In July, we added 200 beds at the Hanson Shelter and another 25 beds at a new shelter for veterans.
 And this fall, we will open 210 additional beds, 120 at the McLaughlin Couple Shelter, and 90 at a new shelter for women in Gresham. Together, that's 475 safe new shelter beds. Obviously, that is not enough, and our work is not done. But I'm also proud of the collaboration in creating the Joint Office of Homeless Services. For years, the City of Portland was responsible for homeless individuals, and the county was responsible for homeless families.
 And I'm sure like many of you, that division didn't make any sense to me. If a single mother was trying to find a warm, dry place for her child to sleep, she doesn't care which government is responsible for helping her. She just needs the help. So now we have a Joint Office of Homeless Services housed at Multnomah County. Clarifying our roles as public servants is important, is as important as our deep partnership.
 While the Joint Office focuses on the housing placement and wraparound services that people need to get off the streets, that work cannot succeed without the city's work to increase the number of affordable units in our community. Together, we've been able to advance our plan to address homelessness through A Home for Everyone, our countywide coalition of people who have experienced homelessness, nonprofit agencies, business and faith leaders,
 The emergency on our streets is not over, but the action that you are taking today will help us respond with care, compassion, and speed. Thank you. Thank you, Chair Khafre. May I ask a question, please? Yes. Thank you for being here, Chair Khafre. We know that the Director of the Joint Office reports directly to you. Are you comfortable with the changing of the language to require the Director of the Joint Office to report every six months to the Council?
 Yes, definitely, and I hope that he is as responsive to your needs and concerns as he can be. So six months seems like a long time, but yes. Thank you. Chair, could I just address something you said about clarifying our roles? In my office, it's called stay in your lane. And we are very proud of this new partnership, and we're still working out the details. And it means I think this council is deeply committed to getting these six-month reports done.
 and I'm glad Commissioner Fritz just mentioned that. What I sometimes feel is missing in some of our debates, and it's a fast-moving process, is having clarity about whether an issue that we're taking up has been reviewed and or approved by the Home for Everyone Steering Committee. And second, whether the action falls within the framework of the plan that you have hammered out.
 And I'll just give you an example of where it's, I think, worked effectively at budget time. And at budget time, you've come forward and others and laid out the plan and the framework for addressing the housing crisis. And we've made budget decisions based on that. And in some instances, you've even challenged us to make commitments above our resources. So that, I think, has been very productive. What's not always clear to me is...
 Where does an action before us fit within the plan, and has it been blessed by the home for everyone? So I don't expect you to have necessarily an answer today, but as we continue to develop and deepen the relationship, I'd like that to become as routine as we do, let's say, in an item that comes to council where we see what kind of community consultation has there been and has a neighborhood association been contacted and the like. I would like this to be as routine.
 as routine as the way we handle other community consultations. Thank you, and I appreciate that. I think that's one of the reasons why I am here today today.
 to let you know personally from me my support for this and Multnomah County's support. And realizing that there is always going to be challenges moving forward, that each one of us is independently elected, and so we have our own constituencies that we are listening to. And also I think sometimes the speed that we're trying to address things, going through a bureaucratic maze is not always going to be the best
 the best route but that's why communication is is of the most importance thank you again chair for you thank you so uh next we'll bring up uh housing director portland housing bureau director kurt krieger and mark jolan who is uh the director of the joint office for homeless services as well as the home for everyone coordinating committee executive director
 Let me start with you, Mark. Okay. Good afternoon, Mayor and members of City Council. My name is Mark Jolin. I'm with the Home for Everyone, and I am the director of the recently formed Joint Office of Homeless Services. A year ago, when you declared a state of emergency in housing and homelessness, you recognized the crisis that tens of thousands of people in our community are facing every day.
 You recognized that our local economy, which has improved circumstances for many, has created serious hardship for others. Unprecedented demand for rental housing and lagging supply have caused annual double-digit increases in rents at the same time that the real value of wages for the lowest-income households in our community has stagnated. This combination has pushed thousands of families to the brink of homelessness, and many are going over the edge.
 finding themselves living in dangerously doubled up situations in shelters and parks and in vehicles all around the city. The declaration of the state of emergency galvanized our community to respond to the crisis in a way that is unprecedented in my experience. As Chad laid out in greater detail, the declaration was the foundation for a series of new and accelerated strategies designed to address the emergency on multiple fronts.
 to accelerate the creation of affordable housing, to expand financial and legal protections for tenants to prevent them from losing their housing, to expand the safe spaces, shelter spaces, for people who become homeless, and to significantly expand programs to help people who are experiencing homelessness get back into housing and keep that housing. Many of these are long-term strategies already laid out in the Action Plan for Home for Everyone, our unified community plan to end homelessness.
 But in the face of the emergency, this council, joined by the county commission, Home Forward, and scores of community partners committed to dramatically accelerating the implementation of these strategies. We are now in the midst of that implementation, and the indicators that led you to declare a state of emergency are still very much present. Portland continues to have among the fastest growing housing prices in the country.
 and among the nation's lowest vacancy rates. The Portland Tribune reported in March that Portland saw a 14% increase in the average rent for a one-bedroom apartment to over $1,300 a month, the highest percentage increase of any city in the country. These increases far outpace any gains in income for low-wage households and leave people on fixed incomes, like Social Security disability, unable to maintain the housing they have, and if they are already homeless, unable to find a place they can afford.
 These trends, along with the continued lack of prioritization at the federal level of affordable housing development, income supports, and services for vulnerable populations, explain why 211 Info, our community's information referral line, reports that they have taken more than 21,000 calls for shelter and housing-related services since the beginning of the state of emergency, including an average of 1,300 calls a month from people who self-identify as homeless.
 Calls for housing and shelter services to 211 have gone from 35% of their call volume to 50% of their call volume in just the last three years. It's also why between December of 2015 and June of 2016, the average number of nightly residents at our Human Solutions No-Turn-Away Family Shelter increased from 116 people per night to 146 people per night, an increase of almost 30% over just seven months.
 It's why Transition Project has 1,000 people on their adult shelter waiting list, including 300 women, and why visits to their day center are up 17% over what they were two years ago. And overall, our publicly funded shelter providers reported that from July 2015 through June of 2016, almost 6,000 people accessed emergency shelter.
 nearly a 50% increase over the last three years. And that number doesn't count the people who sought shelter at Portland Rescue Mission, City Team Ministries, and in places like Dignity Village and Right to Dream, too. Unfortunately, the data also suggests that the vast majority of people who enter shelter are not able to exit shelter to permanent housing because we have such a desperate shortage of available affordable units for our lowest-income residents.
 That is why when Home Forward opened its public housing waiting lists earlier this summer, over 8,000 people submitted over 22,000 applications just to get on the waiting lists for various buildings. As these statistics indicate, there is no question that for tens of thousands of Portlanders who are homeless or in housing crisis today, the emergency is real and ongoing. Your decision to extend the state of emergency will help sustain the critical momentum we have,
 to implement policies and expand program capacity to help them through this crisis. On the shelter front, as you've heard, we committed to achieving the Home for Everyone goal to increase shelter options by at least 650 beds, more than doubling the publicly supported shelter capacity in our community.
 by the end of fiscal year 2017. With the flexibility and new resources allocated during this year under the state of emergency, we're on track to achieve this goal, but there is a lot of continued effort, investment, and code reform needed to finish the job and sustain our progress.
 As important as shelter is, as one part of our response to this emergency, we will only truly address the crisis if we significantly decrease the number of people who are losing their housing and becoming homeless, and if we dramatically increase our capacity to help people move out of shelter and back into permanent housing. With the declaration of the state of emergency, we committed to achieving the ambitious Home for Everyone goals of having programs in place by the end of 2017 to prevent at least 5,000 people a year from becoming homeless,
 and helping at least 4,350 people a year move off the streets and back into permanent housing. We've begun to build that program capacity and scale up resources to achieve these outcomes, but we've only begun.
 And beyond expanded homeless prevention and housing placement services, we need to continue the focus that the state of emergency has brought to rapidly increasing the supply of affordable housing units. Our ending homelessness strategies depend on significantly increasing the supply of deeply affordable and permanent supportive housing, and Director Krieger will speak to these efforts. We see daily in the faces of the people in our shelters, on our streets, and in our eviction courtrooms the human toll of this housing crisis.
 Under the state of emergency, we are moving critical long-term strategies and investments forward at an unprecedented rate. In doing so, we are helping tens of thousands of people a year, and we are also setting an example for our state and federal partners, without whom we will not be able to truly resolve this crisis. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mr. Krieger? Can I ask a question? Yeah, a question. Mark, I talk to people periodically who just don't believe that people are homeless because housing prices are rising. They understand housing prices are rising. They understand people are homeless, but they just refuse to believe that there's much of a connection.
 And I think there is a connection, but I'd love to have more statistics to give them to say, for example, here's what percentage of people who are homeless now are people who had a home a year ago, but their rents went up and they couldn't find another place. So actually, I think I asked you that a while ago when you said you didn't have the numbers offhand. I was curious if you have that.
 So we don't have the data parsed out in that particular way. So in the street count that we'll do in January, in part because you've asked this question, we'll be incorporating the kind of primary causality questions. I think we know from our providers, we know for example from our family shelter providers that a significant majority of the families they're seeing are reporting that they're homeless for the first time, that the cause of their homelessness was very much an economic crisis.
 We know from our providers that are trying to help people find housing that if someone is on less than $800 a month in long-term disability and rents for one-bedroom apartments are $1,300, that that financial piece is an essential barrier to their ability to get back into housing. What we also know is if there's a housing unit available that someone can afford, we can provide the support service to help them stay housed. If they don't have the money to pay the rent, all the support services in the world will not keep them in housing. And that's just –
 fundamentally what's at stake. I really appreciate getting more of a breakdown in January. I should also note that the Tribune did a poll on housing affordability and homelessness a few weeks ago and I think that their data with people in the metro area also showed that a lot of people think the primary reason for homelessness is unemployment or unemployment
 mental health issues, and not very many of them was simply the rising cost of housing. So it's not just anecdotal. It appears to be there's a fair number of people in the metro area, the general public, who I think would like to know the data. Sure.
 And the causes are interwoven, right? Because there may be a variety of reasons why someone is struggling to earn an income that would allow them to pay the rent. But we also know that rents are escalating to the point now where someone who is working full-time in a minimum wage job still can't afford the rent. So I think...
 The financial piece will always have to be a contributing cause, and why someone is struggling to have the income that they would need to pay the rent is going to be specific to their circumstance. But right now, the rents are beyond what even folks who are able to find full-time work can afford in many cases.
 mark i have a comment and a question i wholeheartedly agree with what you said that long term the solution to this crisis is expanding the supply of affordable homes in the short term we made a commitment to expand our shelter capacity because we believe that a shelter is a better and safer place in some instances than being on the street but that's not our long-term plan shelter is just a piece of the plan
 Can you just very briefly explain to us how a one-year extension versus what we were initially, I think, the default was going to be, which was a six-month extension, how does a one-year extension strengthen your hand in terms of finding available shelter space over the next year? So I think in part what the state of emergency and certainly having another year of it, it
 It sustains that intensive focus that the State of Emergency Declaration has brought to this effort. As we go out to look for spaces for shelter, the ability to make a year-long commitment to a space. So certainty. So there's a level of certainty there. Whenever we identify a shelter site, it's going to –
 require some level of financial investment, some program development. And the more sustainable that that shelter is, the more cost effective those investments become. So we're looking at that opportunity to not only expand, but then also do the work of stabilizing the shelters over time that are not just temporary, that we expect to have as permanent shelters. So could I ask a follow-up question about that?
 How many of the shelters that we've opened have used the state of emergency to weigh elements of the zoning code? So the shelters we've been able to expand in the last year have all –
 taken advantage of the sort of temporary use provisions that are allowed under the code. So the state of emergency becomes a platform for that. It allows for the continuation of that temporary use in essence. Okay.
 For longer than six months. So I'm wondering if we need a further amendment in the substitute because it says that the council waives all applicable provisions of Title 33 other than the temporary general activities, general regulations, to allow the city to site up to five-day storage units in several locations. So we've actually waived everything except the temporary activities for some of the shelters too, right? Yeah.
 uh so it's i'm not trying to follow the question it may be a question for the city attorney rather than me for me i don't know what what is required in terms of the provisions of the ordinance and that's part of my my understanding is that we need to extend the state of emergency to allow the shelters to continue to operate and i'm wondering if the previous ordinance also had something about we're just waiving the zoning code for storage facilities so i'm wondering where it gets to we can do this
 in a longer-term basis? Maybe Director Kruger can answer this. I'm just trying to figure out how does the state of emergency affect the zoning code and the temporary activities rules? So, again, so my understanding is that the state of emergency allows us to create a presumption in favor of being able to allow us to continue the temporary use to stabilize those shelters. Okay.
 Okay, so it's possible that city attorneys might need to advise us on putting that in black and white in the ordinance. Thank you.
 Director Krieger. Good afternoon, members of council and Mayor Hales by phone. Craig Krieger, director of the Housing Bureau. I'd like to speak to some of the permanent housing aspects of your emergency declaration and speak specifically in support of the substitute ordinance that has been proffered. Specifically, I'd like to mention the GATOR, the so-called Governmental Accountability and Transparency Review Process that was launched by Mayor Hales and Commissioner Salzman.
 Since we were increasing the available funding for housing development and housing preservation, we needed to make process improvements to the way in which PBOT, the Bureau of Development Services, the Housing Bureau worked together with Planning and Sustainability to compress the time of permit approval.
 And the Gator process is the means by which that has come about in the last six months. It was specifically convened in response to the state of emergency. And the directors of our sister bureaus were all convened by the mayor and Commissioner Salzman to identify ways in which we could tangibly shorten the period of time from project application to project approval. Okay.
 and I'd like to say that we are making good progress in that regard. For instance, simple things that really are –
 have been helpful is that the eight newly funded projects in the so-called NOFA, the Notice of Funding Availability, as the applicant applies for their permits, the Housing Bureau is listed as a co-applicant. So we're on the front sheet of the permit application as the Housing Bureau, which signals to the Bureau of Development Services that that project will receive priority processing.
 The allocation of resources inside of BDS is a daily optimization effort, and housing is getting priority treatment as a result. I think we will see tangible results. However, it's early in that process, so I can't report yet what they are. But we're looking for months, not days, of savings.
 The other thing I'd like to speak to is the design review improvements that are embedded in your emergency declaration. Up until the state of emergency, projects that went through a Type 3 were often stuck in an interminable loop of re-review by the design commission. The Type 2X process was a way by which to short circuit and compress the time needed to make sure the projects met City of Portland design standards.
 The Type 2X process is currently designed as a staff review appealable to the design commission. And we have two projects that are preparing to submit for a review under that new auspices. It's taken a few months because they have to prepare working drawings for their projects to get to this point. But specifically, River Place Parcel 3 by Bridge Housing and Raleigh at 14th and Raleigh by Innovative Housing, Inc. are coming forward to utilize that new process improvement.
 Third, I'd like to say that in large part our success in Salem with Senate Bill 1533 was the state of emergency. It allowed Mayor Hales, Commissioner Salzman, and myself to speak very clearly and very bluntly about the help that we needed from our state legislators. And as mentioned earlier, a 17-year prohibition on inclusionary zoning has been lifted as a result of that.
 And frankly, as we move forward to implement inclusionary housing policies, which are referenced here and with some deadlines, it, I think, poises us for another productive year in Salem. I'd like to go to Salem first day of session next year with everything having been proposed.
 prepared for enactment or enacted by the City Council before we ask for tenant protections. And we know that increased tenant protections will be a major priority or anticipate that they will be a major priority. So our focus and our singular attention to this matter, I think, is in large part due to the fact that you declared the emergency, state legislators heard you, they want to be helpful and have responded in kind.
 To respond in part to the question proposed by Commissioner Novick, the Housing Bureau prepares the state of housing, and we will release one this winter for 2016. We are specifically doing some deep dives into economic displacement. And one area of special concern of mine is the number of units that have been converted from month-to-month rentals to short-term rentals.
 There are some 2,700 whole homes offered on the short-term rental market in Portland. We think about 1,000 of those had been heretofore affordable, month-to-month available rentals. If you take 1,000 units out of the housing ecosystem in Portland, that's a value of about $380 million. It would cost that much to replace 1,000 units. So what you're seeing through this,
 homelessness on the streets is some of these ripples, if you will, in the market rate housing, which cram people into the affordable market. They're competing for fewer and fewer available units. And, of course, the people with the least means to compete in that marketplace are often the most vulnerable, the disabled, the people least able to cope with economic forces that we're faced with.
 Did you say $380 million? That's what I said. I mean, that's really striking because I think that one of the quandaries we've had in enforcing the rules we have on short-term rentals is that enforcement takes bodies to go out and do inspections, and it costs money. But if you're talking about that kind of return in terms of affordable housing, then spending a significant amount in enforcement might be well worth it. I think enforcement will more than pay for itself.
 We're happy to come forward to the council with more specific data in this regard, but we're receiving cooperation in part from the short-term rental platforms and from Portland State University in this regard. In fairness, cooperation from the short-term rental platforms, if they took a page out of the way Uber and Lyft participate with the city,
 would be very simple they would simply agree that no one would be able to advertise a unit on their platform unless they had independently verified they were in compliance with city law the credit of uber and lyft and i've had my issues with both they don't allow their drivers on the platform unless it's been established that they have a license that's the that's the one difference and it's it seems to me the print a and there's a chasm between those those two industries
 And if we could get the short-term rental industry to behave as responsibly in this area as Lyft and Uber, then at least we would be able to say to the guests that we are reasonably confident that you're moving in, that you are occupying a safe unit. Without it, they're making money at the top and shifting the risk to the customer.
 That, to me, is irresponsible. Well, another profound thing that I don't want to dwell upon because this isn't a fair housing hearing, but there's quite a lot of national evidence that the exchange between a host and a guest is racially biased because the –
 profile of the guest is visible to the host. And in blind treatments, using names that are customarily associated with people of color, there has been a marked increase in the amount of racial discrimination. We're especially cognizant of that, and we're looking for means by which disparate impact can be demonstrated, either through racial or for people with disabilities. So we're mindful, and we'll continue to monitor that.
 Thank you. This concludes my remarks. Thank you. Any further questions from council? Okay. I'd like to follow up and see if you have an answer to my question about the shelters. Well, I don't. I was reading the ordinance, and I know the city attorney was directly involved with drafting of this ordinance. I know that each of the commissioner's offices were directly involved. I think it's covered in the detail. And by raising this, and perhaps by the end of the meeting we'll have a –
 have a response. My understanding is it is covered, but Kurt, could you and the city attorney get together and reassure us of that? Well, specifically under 1504040, the Declaration of the State of Emergency, it says that
 emergency under Portland City Code in 33. Mass shelters are allowed as temporary activities for the duration of the emergency subject to the standards in 33-296-040. And I brought that up during the discussion about Terminal 1 because I think it's important to note that
 In some ways, it's unfortunate that it says that we're not waiving those standards, and those don't allow any kind of permanent improvements, which seems like a complete waste of taxpayers' money to have a shelter operating for a year using porta-potties when you could probably do it as cheaply and have proper shower and bathroom facilities. So that's something, if the city attorney could get back to me before the end of the hearing, because, you know, I –
 We want to have a holistic solution, and we don't want to not waste any money anywhere. So either we say that we have to figure out the whole part about what's allowed under a housing emergency and what improvements are allowed under temporary activities. That's helpful. I'll cite the Terminal 1.
 Under the current law, and it has not been challenged in LUBA, so we'll have to wait for that legal process, but in light of the R2-D2 decision and in light of what we know about our code, there potentially can be a temporary shelter there as long as there are no improvements made to the warehouse.
 If there are improvements made to the warehouse, then that violates our code. And that's because the use is, by definition, a temporary use that is sanctioned under the emergency where we're waiving some things. But once it becomes more permanent, then you run afoul of what Luba said that made the R2, from their point of view, made the R2D2 move to the Central East Side illegal. So that's the line. And, I mean, I have many reasons why I think T1 is a bad idea.
 But in the short term, there can be no changes, substantial changes to the site. Otherwise, it runs afoul of our code. And Mayor Hales, are you still with us? I sure am. Great. The ordinance doesn't need to be renewed until October. The housing state of emergency doesn't need to be renewed until October. Is that correct? Yes.
 That's right, but obviously we wanted to have time for it to go into effect with the usual 30-day ordinance period. Oh, right. Well, perhaps what we should do today is hear the testimony from everybody and see if we do have complete consensus on the council so that we could perhaps take another week to be thinking about doing it as an emergency or even longer than a week, do it as an emergency but having all kinds of...
 discussion, particularly as Commissioner Fish said in light of the Rights Dream 2 decision from the Land Use Board of Appeals yesterday, that I think does have significant implications for shelters everywhere and for, again, wise use of taxpayers' money. Can I make a suggestion? We're not going to take today's – we have a substitute ordinance that says we're extending the clock without making substantive changes. Okay.
 my strong recommendation is the question was whether commissioner chris i think has raised a good point and that is given those new developments um if there's a likelihood or an understanding on the council that uh we're going to unanimously support an extension of the um
 emergency declaration, then that can be done as an emergency ordinance rather than as a conventional ordinance and not have the 30-day period. So I'm certainly open to that scenario if that's where, after this hearing, the consensus of the council lies. Yeah. And once, if the council does agree to extend by the year, which I think there's broad agreement, it seems to me if there's other tweaks to the code that anyone wants to consider, we could bring that back as a separate package. Okay.
 Correct. Okay, thank you. Thank you both. And we're going to – our final invited guests are George Devendorf, Executive Director of Transition Projects, Inc., Shannon Singleton, Executive Director of JOIN, Ibrahim Mubarak, Right to Dream II, and Israel Baer of Street Roots. I don't know if we have enough chairs for all four of you. It would be nice if we had a fourth chair. I think Israel's here. Yeah, Israel's here. Okay, great. Excellent. Okay.
 Why don't we start with you, George? Great. Thanks very much, and good afternoon. The message I'm hoping to offer you this afternoon with regards to – Oh, give us your name. Sorry. George Devendorf, Executive Director of Transition Projects. So my message with regards to the state of emergency, I believe, is relatively straightforward, and that is stay the course. The state of emergency over the past year, and I would say the momentum that it's generated, have achieved quite a bit.
 But those achievements need to be sustained because as we all know and as been said by everyone here today, our homelessness crisis remains with us. So with that in mind, I wanted to offer a couple of insights and perhaps make a recommendation or two as you deliberate this issue. And I wanted to focus my remarks particularly on shelter, which has come up a few times.
 My colleagues here and throughout this hearing will quite rightly emphasize the long-term overriding importance of housing and affordable housing in this issue. And I wholeheartedly concur with them, but wanted to mention a couple of things about our efforts which have drawn quite a bit of attention specifically around shelter. So the first is that the demand for shelter remains extremely strong.
 During the past year, Transition Projects succeeded in helping over 800 individuals, formerly homeless, to regain their housing. And that represents an all-time high in our agency's almost 50-year history. Unfortunately, we've also been experiencing all-time highs in some other categories, including the number of people that we're helping each day in our day center in Clark Commons, and also the number of people on our waiting list to access our long-term shelter. And that's why we're here today.
 And so those wait times, which were referenced earlier, amount to six months for men or women trying to access our long-term shelter, not housing, but shelter. And tellingly, those wait times have not gone down during the state of emergency, even as our community has made great strides in adding additional shelter space. And I think that's an important indicator for the demand that's out there.
 We also know that folks outside, many of them, want to come inside. And we know that in part from the survey work we do in our day center, where, among other things, 87% of those in the day center who are sleeping outside have signaled to us that they would avail themselves of shelter if it were available to them.
 But we also know it from the past month where our mobile engagement team has been very active in the Springwater Corridor and has already helped 20 individuals living in the corridor to find space in the Hanson Shelter, a temporary emergency shelter, and have identified 30 others who would like to access space there once that space becomes available, something that will hopefully happen during the month of September.
 Second point relates to the accessibility of shelter. So during the state of emergency, this community has more so than in the past embraced a low-barrier, come-as-you-are approach to offering shelter to those who need it most. And that embrace has really enabled us to offer people living on the streets shelter.
 three of the most important things that a shelter can offer, and that is the three Ps, right? So their partners, their pets, and their possessions. And to the extent that we can offer that, we literally open the door to scores of individuals living outside who previously have found the idea of coming inside to be untenable because of oftentimes those three Ps. So this has been an important, I think, shift or reprioritization in the way that we're offering safe places for people to sleep.
 My third point relates to flow through, and that's something we often talk about. We all know that shelter is only valuable insofar as it plays a meaningful role in helping someone to regain housing.
 flow through, in this case, referring to our ability as a community to ensure that those who are going through shelter have a reasonable chance and all the assistance we can offer to help them achieve that housing goal. During the past year, during the state of emergency, we noticed in my agency alone that our ability to place guests in our long-term shelters into permanent housing increased substantially.
 So two years ago, about 27% of guests coming out of our long-term shelter went into permanent housing. Last fiscal year, that number went up to 41%. So it's a 14% increase.
 in placement rate just over one year. And that kind of success in flow-through is directly attributable to the decisions taken by local and federal leaders to prioritize housing assistance funding. I can't understate, can't overstate how important that is as we look at providing quick, temporary, and immediate forms of support to people living on the street.
 If we're going to, I think, continue to move that needle forward in the coming years, we're going to need, in this housing market, to make very strong and continue to make strong investments in housing and in the development of not only rental assistance but affordable housing. Finally…
 I think the way forward, the one comment I'd make is that the state of emergency has brought a sprinter sense of urgency to the way this community has been addressing homelessness. And I think that's been a really good thing. It's helped to galvanize attention. It's spurred very timely and I'd say well-coordinated work on the part of governmental actors. And it's increased public interest.
 public support and volunteerism for our efforts. But the reality is we're not really just looking at a single sprint. We're looking at a series of sprints that will have to be sustained in the coming years and supported and really championed by this city council and the city councils that will follow it. So in the coming years, I would simply recommend that we continue to focus our attention and dedicate significant resource in three smart investment areas –
 shelter, rental assistance, and deeply affordable housing. Deeply because although our community has made strides in directing more resourcing towards affordable housing, we know that if we want to have a positive impact on the most vulnerable in our community, we need to be prioritizing housing that is affordable to those on the street looking to end their homelessness and regain their housing. Thanks very much for this opportunity. Thank you.
 Ms. Shannon, why don't you go ahead and just give us your name and affiliation. I'm Shannon Singleton. I'm the executive director of JOIN. And I'm just here to give a little bit of information about JOIN and what we're seeing on the streets. A lot of folks know that JOIN works with people who are sleeping in cars and on the streets in our community and helps them move back into housing. But we're also supporting a number of households who we've worked with in the past to help them try and maintain their housing.
 Right now, I would say that JOIN is not a lack of people to serve, but we're at a terrible lack of affordable units for people to move into. In addition to that, we're seeing whole building evictions. We're seeing rent increases that are completely unaffordable for the people who may have been stable in their housing for five, six, seven years.
 With the extension of this state of emergency, the council will affirm that not only what is a personal crisis for many individuals in Portland, but is also a crisis for our city as a whole.
 The rate of rent increases, the request for double and sometimes triple deposit for apartments, requiring income that is three times the monthly rent in order to rent a unit, in addition to other screening barriers, is not only preventing people from moving inside, but also pushing people into homelessness.
 I hope the council commits to not only continuing the work to expand safety off the streets options, but also addresses the affordable housing need, as well as the tenant protection issues that have been far too long ignored. Blue in the face about why those reasons are, but I think that we all understand at a very complex level that there is a growing divide between government and the people.
 And to be able to show courage, I commend you all for all the work that you've done, all the work that we're doing. Obviously, I don't always agree with all the policies that take place surrounding this issue, but I think that we can all agree that we are in a state of emergency. We have been in a state of emergency before.
 And just after this, I'm directly going to meet with the mother of someone who lost her son on the streets recently. And, you know, I don't have a lot to offer her other than a listening ear. And so it's a hard-knock life out there. We appreciate your support. We want you to do more. And we just ask you to not always do things that are politically viable but to do what is right. So thank you. Thank you all. Okay, we're going to move to public testimony.
 And we're going to limit testimony to two minutes each. And we have a custom here of inviting. We have a custom here. We have a custom here. Okay. We're going to limit testimony to two minutes apiece. We invite people with disabilities or families with young children to go first. Is there anybody who wishes to come up in that category? No? Okay. Yes. Joe, okay. Come on up. You get your first two minutes.
 This ability should get four minutes. Up to two. And give us your name, and you have two minutes, and the timer's in front of you. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We have no position on the extension because we see the arguments on both sides of this. And the way we understand it is, one side would ask the question, what have you done in the last year with the emergency? You throw a lot of figures around
 And you say you've done great stuff, and the county comes and tells you they've done great stuff. We have this question. A year ago, we had 1,800 to 2,000 people on the street. Today, we have 1,800 to 2,000 people on the street. So when we look at the figures, we say you spent a lot of money, you've done a lot of talking, and you've ignored us.
 And we still have 1,800 to 2,000 people that every night are fearful. I'm 74. I'm not going to be here very long. My health is deteriorating. So when I argue, I don't argue for me. I go home tonight, and I will take a nice hot shower. I have a little glass of wine with dinner.
 And I'll open up the refrigerator and look in it and say, what do I feel like having? It's not what I got or what I can afford or what's available. It's what I feel like. That's the way we are. So when you do this extension, please do some kind of an amendment that says you will actually do something and have a report card at the end of it because I don't think you've done anything.
 Now, it sounds like you've done a lot. I don't believe it. As long as there are 1,800 people on the street, I don't believe it. And tomorrow morning, there is going to be a sweep of 500 people or maybe four or maybe six. We don't know. That's a new woman. You can stop that. Are you listening to me, Mayor? You're going to go to hell when you do these sweeps. Time is up. Thank you.
 Is the two minutes up yet? Is the two minutes up yet? Your two minutes is up, yes. My God, a citizen took two minutes and 35 seconds. You're going to hell too. Okay, folks, once again, no clapping. Indicate your support by hands up or thumbs up. Dislike, thumbs down, okay? Okay, Carla, please read the first three people signed up. Did you have a disability or want to go? And are there any other parents with young children that wish to
 Take advantage. Come on up. Go ahead. Go ahead and have a seat, sir. You can come up also. Yeah. I think you can if we've got room. Please. Okay. Come on up. Yeah, we've got three chairs here. Okay. Why don't we start with you, ma'am? Okay. You can just give us your name, and you have two minutes. All right. My name is Lori Grasso. I was a resident of North Portland for seven years until I got a no-cause eviction, so I did have stable housing. I became homeless and found out I was pregnant. Okay.
 And guess what? Your services, they suck. They suck. The only reason I have housing now, which I got with the help of Israel Buyer and joined, I got it by communicating with people on Facebook. Facebook has done your jobs better than you have. I call 2-1-1 every day. No response. Nothing. Nothing. Imagine being 6, 7, 8, 9 months pregnant, sleeping on concrete.
 Sleeping on concrete. Hi, over there. Eye contact. Yeah? Fathom that for a second. Facebook has done your job better than you have. Meanwhile, there's people with disabilities, families sleeping on the street, working full-time, nothing. I really, really hope you continue your housing emergency for three years. I think you have a lot of issues going on, not just with rent rising. No-cause evictions need to go. They need to go. No.
 Okay? Like, there's no purpose behind it other than to be able to go, okay, you need to leave now so I can raise the rent three times higher, and it's quicker to get people out with no-cause evictions than actually raising the rent and giving them the opportunity to pay it. Okay? It just quickens that whole process. But, yeah, this is my kid. Okay?
 Yeah, I carry him inside me. Yeah, he smiles. But you know what? When I was out homeless on the street pregnant, nobody smiled at me. They treated me like crap every day. Every day. Garbage. So, and oh yeah, by the way, imagine being nine months pregnant, waking up at 5 o'clock in the morning. No bathrooms. No where to go to the bathroom. You know how often pregnant women have to pee? Do you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Oh, thanks. Thank you.
 Why don't you go ahead, next. Just give us your name, and you have two minutes. My name is Ben Garcia. Can you pull the microphone a little closer to your mom? There. OK. That's good. My name is Ben Garcia, and I am a 61-year-old woman that has always been able to take care of myself, as well as raise a child on my own. I have never seen a state that our nation is in, such as this one here now.
 with homelessness has always been an issue and yet there's not been anything as far as the government that I can honestly see that is helping to solve the problem the problem just continues to grow and grow and grow I've been actively trying to help the homeless
 issue to begin with because I always said I was a stone's throw away. Well, the stone got thrown and I am now homeless for the first time in my life. And I've worked hard. I raised a good child. I've done the best I can. I am also a vet. And I've done everything within my power. But on disability, you are on such a minimal amount to survive with.
 and it's not covering the cost of a minimal apartment here in Portland today. So this is just, I am one example of hundreds of other people that are sitting in the same seat. I'm just a face to so many others and a voice because it's hard for us to step up in front of strangers such as yourselves and explain our scenarios.
 And the other part of this that frustrates me the most is the lack of city planning. It's been a problem for decades, and yet the city just now seems to be giving it the real respect and attention it needs. And I just feel as though I've become a victim because people have been lacking doing their job.
 And now I am suffering. I hope you have a beautiful night in the beautiful comfort of your home. There's so many of us out here have nowhere to go. We look for a rock to crawl under and we can't find a rock. Thank you for your time. Okay, go ahead. Just give us your name. You have two minutes. Hello, my name is Zoe White. I've been a resident of Portland, Oregon for four years. And I am a resident of Hazel Nut Grove.
 My understanding is that the city is planning to work with a person by the name of Homer Williams, who apparently it's a $100 million investment for the T1 site. Now, for the 1,800 people that are homeless, that's about $50,000. The median house price is about $550,000 in the city of Port. You could subsidize the building of triple the amount of houses, right?
 based on just materials. It's also worth pointing out the fact that most of the people who are homeless are women, especially women who are trans, GLBT, veterans, and construction workers. I find it extremely sublimely ironic that many of the people who are homeless are the people who know how to build houses. Well, building a house is actually quite easy. Building a house
 Building a house, you know, you've got your frame, you've got your studs, you've got your Simpson ties, you've got your, you know, I mean, I'm learning this from Joe Benny. He's a phenomenal person, and he's taught us how to build. And building your house is not just a solution to houselessness. It could eradicate houselessness.
 but it's also a solution to people who simply don't want to pay a landlord, who is merely an individual who is putting themselves in between them and their ability to shower, sleep, shave, and shit.
 You are profiting. If you are a person in the real estate industry, and you want to profit off of my basic needs to clean myself, to relieve my bodily functions, and to eat food that has been refrigerated, then your character should come into question and will come into question because we will question it. And especially when we can go to Home Depot and buy new materials and build houses that look just as nice as those ones –
 In the Pearl, just as nice as those ones in North Portland, just as nice as those ones in Lentz. And, yeah, they're about three cents on the dollar that market rent wants to pay for us. So that's what I got to say. Okay, thank you. Okay, let's go to the sign-up list. Could you read the first three people? Yes, the first three are Alina Langford, Sammy Black, and Chloe Utilei.
 And they'll be followed by Lynn Hager, Margo Black, and Pete Hyberson. Okay. I think Ms. Langford, you were... Yes. My name is Elena Langford, and I'm here representing Ash Street Tenants Association. We're a small but mighty apartment complex on Southeast 119th and Ash Street.
 where all eight of the month-to-month tenants have been offered a choice between signing a lease with a $375 rent increase or no-cause eviction. We are single mothers working two jobs, immigrants and refugees, people of color. We take the bus. Our children are in neighborhood schools. Some are disabled, and we're struggling to meet ends meet. We already live where people were told to go that can't afford rent in Portland. Our choice between a $375 rent increase...
 or a no-cause eviction, is an eviction from Portland. It's a notice of homelessness. I'm here today to urge you and extend the declaration and ordinance of the City of Portland State of Emergency on Housing and Homelessness. But I ask you not only to focus on getting people who are in tents or on the street into shelters, and even those in shelters, hotels, and couches into housing, but also to consider doing something radical. Acknowledge and act on preventing the homelessness in the first place.
 Before moving into this apartment three years ago, I was already homeless. I lived in a hotel. I lived on a couch of a family member from a no-cause eviction. I'm already barely making ends meet, already paying $825 a month in rent for a no-amenities apartment where we experience poverty every day right outside my front door.
 Now I've been given a choice to pay $1,200 a month or move. I can't afford to stay. I can't afford to move. I can't afford to remove my son from Head Start that's fully funded, that's just blocks from my house. I can't afford to be further from transportation that my family is dependent with. And all eight of the families that occupy this building that got this notice are in the same boat. And the truth is, on July 19th, the day we received the notice, is the day we became homeless. Yes.
 We're not alone, and this is not an anomaly. You're hearing this all day today. This is happening every day all over the city, and we have no place to go. For people in this city, this rent increase in this magnitude or a no-cause eviction is just a notice of homelessness. And you know that we can't afford, that there isn't enough affordable housing for us. You know that we can't wait for affordable housing in the pipeline to be built. You know that the application and screening barriers are too high for people like us to find anything.
 And 90 days is just 90 days worth of trauma and worry. But at the end, we still have no place to live. Okay, thank you, Ms. Langford. Just a minute. I have a question. Go ahead. What's the name of the company or landlord that has given you these notices? So the management company is A&G Management, and they actually blame us. They say that Portland is...
 a victim of its own success. And they blame you guys for not building affordable housing fast enough. You know, it's just, for a landlord, the prospect of kicking us out, kicking out a low-income, below-market renter is just too lucrative. The money is there, and they want it. This isn't, you know, this isn't, we're not people to them. This isn't our homes to them. This is just money to them. We're their ATM. Really, commissioners?
 You are my family and my community and my neighbor's only hope. Because the landlord and the owner, which I've made personal and public attempts to negotiate to keep us housed, they will not respond. They will not sit down with us. They will not talk to us.
 And I really believe that you must utilize your power during the housing state of emergency, and you must protect the vulnerable people from becoming homeless. That we need housing for homeless people, but we also need to keep the people that are already in houses and in homes, we need to keep them housed.
 We need to keep Portland housed. And this is a man-made disaster. This is a man-made disaster. And if you extend the state of emergency, you need to put a stop to no-cause evictions, and you need to put a rent freeze. Because this is the only thing that will keep eight of these families in this house. Okay. Thank you, Ms. Lackman. Sir, I think you were next. All right. Give us your name.
 My name is Sammy Black. I'm also an organizer with Portland Tenants United. I'm here, of course, to strongly urge you to extend the housing state of emergency, also to consider responding to that emergency.
 I was in Peninsula Park almost exactly a year ago when Community Alliance of Tenants declared that Portland renters were in crisis. Three weeks later, I was in these chambers when the housing emergency was passed. Renter protections were debated and vague promises for more help for renters gave us hope. Promises that we know now never came to pass. This emergency has not passed.
 Meanwhile, Portland Tenants United, a grassroots tenants union barely a year old, an organization without a revenue stream, without a budget, without an office, without a single paid staff member, has become triage for Portland's burgeoning renter emergency room. People contact us every day begging us for help. Sometimes they just want to know their rights because they're...
 The only other source is Katz's renter rights hotline and a waiting two to three weeks for a callback from a volunteer. This is not Katz's wrongdoing. It's yours. Why is a desperately underfunded nonprofit bearing the sole responsibility of educating tenants on their rights?
 Landlords abusing tenants count on us knowing better, and you are their insurance policy. But sometimes the tenants that contact us do know their rights, and they know that their landlord has violated them, and they're either scared to take a stand because they know they are risking their housing, or they want to know what to do.
 Do you know the answer, commissioners? Do you know who a tenant can call when their landlord has only given them 30 days notice instead of 90? When they illegally fine us, harass and intimidate us, refuse to make repairs, blatantly steal a down payment sized security deposit when the rental contract is illegal? Do you know where they can go for help? To a courtroom. But only if they can navigate the system themselves or can afford a lawyer. And all too often the lawyer tells them it's not worth it.
 that we could win today but we'll be no cause evicted tomorrow. But usually they call us because they're about to legally lose their housing, maybe because of a no cause eviction or a huge rent increase. And to stay there in a panic is an understatement. They're disillusioned, devastated, depressed. They cannot afford to move. They have nowhere to go, and this is hard for us commissioners. Sometimes we're able to give helpful advice. Sometimes we're able to get them an attorney. Many times we've accompanied them to the hell that is eviction court.
 to offer support and guidance, but short of civil disobedience, there is often no recourse. They will lose their housing, and no one but you can do anything to stop it. Okay, thank you, Mr. Black. Ms. Udaly, just give us your name, and you have two minutes. Hello, my name is Chloe Udaly. I'm running for city council, but I'm here today as a cost burden renter to ask the city to help me and tens of thousands of other renters who are being impoverished and displaced during this crisis.
 I was one of the advocates. It's so hard for me to listen to these stories that I read every day, but to see these people in person and hear the stories is really emotional for me. I was one of the advocates calling for a housing state of emergency last year, and when the city seemed to hear our call, there was a lot of hope in the community that something would be done.
 A year later, we've not seen meaningful progress on emergency shelter, on tenant protections, or our out-of-control rental market. I support extending the housing state of emergency for a minimum of one year, but declaring an emergency is only the first step. There are also real solutions council can consider right now that could provide immediate and meaningful relief. First, please consider a temporary...
 Lift of the ordinances that currently ban RVs from parking on the street, prohibit homeowners from allowing camping on their private property, and prevent the construction of tiny homes on donated public lands. We can manage public health and safety through existing laws, and we can let property owners help their friends and family and neighbors stay marginally housed.
 In addition, you can enforce the rules you put in place on Airbnb and put an end to residential properties being turned into commercial enterprises. Estimates put these properties at at least 1,000 with a vacancy rate of around 2%. That's a significant number. It's also close to what we hope to build in the next several years with our housing bond. That's rental housing that's been eliminated for over 3,000 renters.
 The boldest move you could make is to invoke ORS 91.225, Section 5, to temporarily stabilize and protect renters until the legislature gives us back the regulatory tools we need to deal with this housing crisis.
 I know the city is afraid of being sued over this action, but have you done a cost-benefit analysis of the expense of a lawsuit versus the human and financial cost of 2,000 people sleeping on our streets? I've got to finish. 2,000 people in emergency shelters, 60
 16,000 people doubling up with friends and family, and 150,000 cost burden renters. We have got to make Portland a city that works for all of us, not just the landlords. Thank you. Okay, please read the next three names. Signed up. Lynn Hager, Margo Black, and Pete Heibertson, and they will be followed by Jamie Partridge, Paula Madden, and Chris Treball.
 Are you Ms. Hager? Yes, I am. Go ahead. Just give us your name, and you have two minutes. My name is Lynn Hager. I've lived in the Portland metro area for over 25 years, and I am here today to speak as a cost burden renter and an organizer for Portland Tenants United. Over the last three years in my southwest Portland neighborhood, I have seen the average rent increase from $900 to $1,700. That's a 90% increase for an apartment. Let that sit for a minute. Most of the units on Beaverton Hillsdale are not even upgraded. Okay.
 These once relatively afforded homes, accessible to lower-income families, seniors living on fixed incomes, and other vulnerable community members are now only attainable for those making over $60,000 a year. This has driven out many of our long-term neighbors and has caused a palpable divide in our community between the haves and the have-nots. For example, this spring, proposed school boundary changes in my neighborhood would have moved the children, including my child,
 living in apartments on Beaverton Hillsdale Highway and only those living in apartments, from their schools within walking distance to school more than three miles away. And children in the affordable housing Stevens Creek Crossing can't go to Reiche Elementary, a school they can see from their sidewalk, and are instead bused to Hayhurst, two miles away. How much is that costing the city? These classist policies echo the overwhelming message that City Council has continued to send to the public. If you have money, City Council represents you. Everyone else can just move.
 This has been evident with the complete lack of action toward slowing the rapid increase in rent throughout the metro area, the ballooning houseless population who continues to be swept from somewhere to nowhere, and the continued traumatic displacement of families by landlords who care more about their profits than people.
 Portland is in desperate need of tenants' rights, a rent freeze now, and an immediate end to no-cause evictions. We refuse to believe that you have done all you can do. You continue to throw money at building shelters. Without pausing to recognize that displacement from housing is a huge part of what is creating that need, Mr. Novick. Low vacancy rates can't be solved with more development if none of the housing is affordable. The vacant units are in the high rises charging $3,500 for micro studios.
 They aren't in places that your constituents can afford. Tenants are 49% of the city, projected to be 60% by 2020. When low-income, vulnerable populations get displaced, including the disabled, elderly, mentally ill, and those suffering from addictions, and there is a shortage of housing, including state-funded services, there is literally nowhere to go but the Bushes.
 That is why we are seeing... I'm not finished. I'm almost done. This is why we are seeing tents all over the metro area, including Beaverton, Tigard, Clackamas. Where the hell are we supposed to go? Extending the housing state of emergency in the city of Portland is a no-brainer. One year? What a joke. It should easily be three years. But we need it to be more than lip service, and we need the city and state leaders that have power to do something about it to actually take real action. I urge you.
 I demand that you extend the declaration as well as implement a rent freeze now, a moratorium on no-convict evictions. As leaders of our city, it's your job to protect your most vulnerable citizens, and it is time you finally do the job you were elected to do. Okay, thank you. Thank you.
 Ms. Black, just give us your name, and you have two minutes. Margo Black, organizer with Portland Tenants United. You'll be happy to know I don't have a speech to read, so you can cut me off. It's because I'm really tired. I woke up this morning thinking I'd read a speech, but instead I was tagged in this message on Facebook. Okay.
 Is anyone able to help a neighbor who is an older disabled woman move her stuff into storage today or tomorrow? She got a no-cause eviction and her time is up. She has no place to go and she shouldn't be kicked out, but kind of at a loss for what to do other than help her move her stuff. Commissioners...
 This is my new daily life. Two years ago, I was a math teacher and a mother of three. I still am, but I spend all of my spare time responding to inquiries like this. As Sammy mentioned, those folks call us, write us, message us, walk up to us on the streets when we're in our shirts and tell us their stories. If it's not the Ash Street tenants, it's the 43-unit building of low-income immigrant families in Tigard facing no-cause evictions today.
 It's the families in my son's school at Rickey Elementary who message me or email me and ask if I know where they can find affordable housing because they have no-cause evictions or rent increases they can't afford. It's the family of six, including triplets, who are one year old, a year and a half ago, who had to move because of a no-cause eviction. They spent the summer camping in Grandma's yard. They are still cycling between the yard, the car, and the couch of Grandma's house because they haven't been able to get back into housing.
 It's the folks who wrote me around the same time who moved from a no-cause eviction and moved into an RV and now message me with tickets, the photos of the tickets they're getting for parking their RV all over town that they can't afford. It has been a year. Commissioner Novick, you asked about statistics.
 I want to know why we know when we commissioned the study on Uber and taxi cabs, why we knew about every single pickup and drop off at every single point at every single time in the city and the number of passengers. But we don't know how many people have been displaced by no cause evictions in the city of Portland. How is that happening? All right. Airbnb hosts, the 20 percent or so who are actually operating legally.
 more regulated than Portland landlords. If you want to get a drink, I can tell you more stories. If I wear my shirt, people will walk up to us and tell us about their $500 rent increase. It makes my $200 rent increase this year, makes me feel lucky. Even though it's better than the $250 rent increase I got last year. We need a rent freeze. We need a moratorium on no-cause evictions. We need action. We need leadership. We need it yesterday. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. Just give us your name and you have two minutes. Okay. My name is Pete Hebertson, also an organizer with Portland Tenants United. Since you declared the housing state of emergency last year, the crisis is only getting worse. One thing is clear today, it must be that. Tenants are still getting priced out and evicted for no just reason, and our unhoused neighbors are still being forced from place to place with no reasonable alternatives.
 You know, the declaration may be up for debate in city council today, but for those of us who are living this, it's really not a debate at all. This is an emergency. The declaration needs to be extended, and it needs to be extended for much more than six months. I'm not trying to say that you all haven't made any effort here. Honestly, I'm not. Investment in affordable housing and shelters is important, but what effort you have made, it just isn't enough, and it isn't meeting our most urgent needs. Can't build our way out of this, and we can't afford to wait that long.
 We need a rent freeze and a moratorium on no-cause evictions, and we need it now. We need to stop the bleeding so we can put tenant protections with actual teeth and rent control in place. And we really do need to put a stop to our housing being used for Airbnbs full-time instead of as long-term housing for our actual Portlanders.
 And most of all, we need a shift in perspective from you. We need to see you put our needs above a landlord's ability to exploit this crisis for their bigger and bigger and bigger profits. There's no clearer example, really, of the housing emergency than what's happened on the Springwater Corridor. And, you know, there's a survey done of people living out there found that the great majority of folks are out there because of an eviction, because of a rent increase, because of a loss of their job, along with illness and domestic violence. Thank you.
 Over 90% of those people say that they have lived in Portland for over 10 years, yet they are being stereotyped as criminals and outsiders in their own community. I'm not even denying that this has been a major strain for people in Lentz and Brentwood-Darlington. A lot of those folks are just trying to hang on to their own housing and get by. But, you know, what I think you all need to recognize is that if a housed person on my block commits a crime, you do not send the police to evict our whole neighborhood. And our unhoused neighbors, our unhoused friends...
 They need that level of dignity from you. They need to be treated as the individual human beings. They're not some great mass. They are of our community. They need a hand up. They do not need a kick when they're already down. And they need to have their voices heard. They need to be a part of making solutions that work for them. I'm going to wrap it up now by saying that if we do not take aggressive action to keep Portland housed, then it's only a matter of time until we have the next spring water corridor.
 You need to extend the declaration, please. You do. And let that be the first step of an actually aggressive solution that matches the severity of this crisis. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Next three. Our Jamie Partridge, Paula Madden, and Chris Treball. And they'll be followed by Michael Withey, Young Nam, and Kelsey Schomburger. Okay. Mr. Partridge, just give us your name. You have two minutes. Sure. Sure.
 Good afternoon. I'm Jamie Partridge. I'm a retired letter carrier, and my union, the National Association of Letter Carriers, has endorsed the Portland Tenants United call for rent control and for an end to no-cause evictions. I represent my union on the Northwest Oregon Labor Council, AFL-CIO, which represents unions in four counties.
 and they've gone on record endorsing the portland tenants united call for rent control and then to no cause evictions i resent represent my union on the jobs with justice steering committee which is over a hundred labor and community and faith-based organizations which has also endorsed the portland tenants united call for rent control and and to no cause evictions
 I won't go into stories. I've spent some time out on the Springwater Corridor, and I'm pleased that Brother Heibertson preceded me. Mayor Hales, if you're listening, what you're about to do tomorrow in evicting those souls out on the corridor is a crime against humanity. It's
 It's brutal. It's brutal. It's unnecessary, and we'll accomplish nothing but more pain and suffering. What we need is replacement, not displacement. We need relocation, not disbursement. We need rent-free moratorium on no-cause evictions, and we need to keep Portland housed. Thank you. Thank you. Sir? Sir?
 Good afternoon. I'm Paula Madden, and today has been an eye-opener. I admire your dedication and hard work, and I don't envy you the issue confronting you now. Today I've come on behalf of the majority of employees in a commercial building in northwest Portland to speak of our concerns.
 We are distressed, disappointed, and quite frankly, disgusted by the negative impacts that have been made on property and sidewalks. This summer, hosting former residents, including twice mayor of Orinda, California, and first-time visitors, they were shocked.
 In the lobby as you came upstairs today, there are historic photographs of North Portland dating from the 1900s through the 60s and 80s. Look carefully. There's not a speck of litter or tents on sidewalks, and there's pride. Law-abiding citizens, taxpayers, and business owners are affected by the garbage, drug needles, human feces, and squalor that has been exacerbated by the state of emergency, and daily we pick up the mess.
 The city needs to get a plan, and it needs a one-year emergency schedule. It's a safety issue. It's a trash issue. Graffiti has tripled. Men have literally climbed walls and broken in. Employees parking under 405 are afraid now in the daytime and night.
 But equally important, it's a question of heart. For the most vulnerable in our community, we need emergency shelter. In light of the legal decision prohibiting use of industrial land, there is a compassionate choice. Wapato costs $58 million hardworking taxpayer dollars yet sits empty at $500,000 per year.
 It could house immediately 525 people in short notice. Why not work with Multnomah County? The weather is changing. Someone said 87% people would like to be inside.
 I agree we need the maximum year extension emergency. But the longer the problem festers, the worse it gets. There is no stigma to Wapato that has never been used as a jail. And it's a place where people could feel safe. It could be painted. There's 1% for art. Mental health and addiction problems could be addressed. Okay, Ms. Baden, your time is up. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Parkland?
 Hi, my name is Chris Trable. I'm a member of the Overlook Neighborhood Association Board. There is an emergency, and we need to focus on this ordinance today, not all of the ancillary issues that have been raised. When council approved the housing emergency a year ago, it was worth a try. But before renewing it, you need to ask yourselves whether it succeeded. I would say it has not. It has not.
 We've seen policies proposed under the ordinance that then failed, and most of the things cited as successes could have been done under existing code without the state of emergency. If the goal is momentum, we have that. If the goal is to allow temporary shelters to continue, a more narrowly focused ordinance would suffice. The emergency declaration led to an autocratic, top-down approach that runs counter to Portland's tradition of broad-served engagement.
 We are a community that brings all stakeholders to the table to find solutions, not one that enacts them by decree. You've heard a lot today from housing advocates. I'd like to share with you the perspective of a neighborhood. In Overlook, even before the emergency, Hazelnut Grove was allowed to form without any input from the neighbors on a piece of land that is a swamp in the winter and a fire hazard in the summer. There's now a rat problem, and the site is unsuitable for human habitation. Yet somehow this is the best Portland can do with the power of a housing emergency.
 A few weeks ago, after abandoning fruitful negotiations toward a temporary permit for Hazelnut Grove, the mayor's office said the camp would be relocated by the end of October. Since then, the office has refused to answer questions about the move, leaving residents and neighbors uncertain of what comes next. In addition to Hazelnut Grove, camping continues to increase and overlook and to cause problems. This ordinance is big on language about the needs of Portland's homeless residents, and it should be. As a society, we have a moral obligation to help.
 but it also should be big on language about neighborhood livability. We find needles where our children play, trash accumulates, car windows are smashed, property is stolen from garages and yards, packages disappear from front porches. Those are symptoms of a housing emergency, but the emergency declaration ignores them. I urge you to reject this extension. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, next three. Michael Withey, Young Nam, and Kelsey Schomburger.
 and they will be followed by Terry Light, David Davis, and Lightning Watchdog PDX. Hey, Mr. Withey, just give us your name, and you have two minutes. Mike Withey, MicroTree, and I'll tell you...
 I want to be you guys. It's a thankless job you're doing. I appreciate what you guys have been doing for years, and I appreciate what you're doing now. I know that you'd like to do more. I know that you're in the middle, and you have people that hate homeless. You have homeless advocates, and you have all these conflicting emotions. It must be very hard for you. So I want to thank you for doing what you're doing. Amanda, I think you brought up a very good point.
 I believe that the new writing of this homeless emergency or this housing emergency should include tiny houses.
 We're working together with some churches, some other nonprofits, some organizations to buy land, to build tiny houses. I hate to call them tiny houses, small structures, emergency structures that will be put on the back of flatbeds and moved throughout the city to different churches and different organizations, private property. No city property. This will all be private so that we won't have to go through these hoops, all this red tape.
 It's a lot better to do it privately than it is to do it publicly. So when you go to rewrite this, I would hope that you go ahead and include in there some ability for church properties to use their parking lots or their property to place these temporary structures –
 as well as non-profits that buy property to use them for that purpose. I'm a part of an organization that's already putting together money, that's already putting together coalitions to build these tiny houses. We're going to do it. Over the next few weeks, you're going to hear a lot more about it. We would hope that you guys stay open.
 Keep your minds open about this, but also I would really like to see it in the writing for the new proposal So I'm glad you brought that up. I'd also like to bring up that you know we can't produce 1,800 units that quick you know we're typically as a Governmental you guys are usually spending about two hundred fifty thousand dollars on an affordable housing unit We can build these we can build these time is up appreciate it. Okay. Thanks, sir. I
 Give us your name, and you have two minutes. I'm Hyung Nam. I'm actually a social studies teacher of one of Margo and Sammy's children. And also, I'm an owner-occupied landlord of a duplex.
 And I could speak from experience that actually I just spent some time writing some curriculum for teaching about the housing crisis. And as you know, over 50% of renters in Portland are housing insecure. So even people that are not houseless yet are already insecure. And that includes ourselves.
 our students, my friends, and many of the people that make Portland the city that we want to live in. So I want to urge you to declare a housing state of emergency, but make it mean something by using this state of emergency to go against the state preemptions on things like real estate transfer taxes, for house flipping, for rent controls, for no-cause evictions, and so on to
 so that we could actually make this housing state of emergency make a difference, and you have the power to do so. And furthermore, and same thing with cracking down on Airbnb, I want to also ask you, what is the cost of doing these sweeps?
 I mean, how much money does that cost? Where do people go? Ultimately, we need permanent housing, affordable housing, really affordable housing, not what's for median family income of over $50,000. So that is something that you can do, and I urge you to do so. Thank you. Thank you.
 Just give us your name. You have two minutes. I'm Kelsey Schomburger, and I'm a young renter facing the threat of losing housing if I were to receive a no-cause eviction or exorbitant rent increase.
 It's a serious fear that I live with all the time as I see my friends receiving evictions without warning, becoming displaced, or desperately struggling to keep up with rent prices when wages barely cover bills, let alone food. I see my friends searching for couches to sleep on or temporary places they can stay to avoid having to sleep outside. Others have no other option.
 My household has hosted folks struggling to stay housed, and I have seen the trauma and suffering of this housing crisis firsthand. I find myself in a precarious position as a person disabled by chronic illness. I have difficulty making payments on bills, and I'm constantly stressed about paying my rent. I am not so far from losing my housing due to financial instability, but...
 And I'm barely hanging on. Facing a no-cause eviction or rent increase, I could lose the roof over my head as so many others have. I live on 83rd Avenue near Flavelle, and I'm not so far from the Springwater Corridor. I have been out there and visited the campers when I went to go volunteer to help them clean up. And what I saw were human beings who were doing what they can to survive and live their lives while they're there.
 afforded inadequate resources or help for their health and well-being. They're already vulnerable in their position and are not provided true opportunity to find stability, shelter, and safety, and ultimately long-term housing. To sweep
 These encampments with no concrete solution offered, when they have nowhere to go or enough help to get them there, is a heinous act of violence. These people are living, feeling human beings, refugees in their own city. The scale of this humanitarian crisis, this public health crisis, is tremendous and has no end nor plans for solution in sight.
 It will not be resolved in six months, and at this rate, not even 12. I urge support for an extension of the housing state of emergency, and I'm making an appeal to your compassion and humanity, that with your power that you hold as commissioners of our city to prioritize the needs of the masses and not moneyed interests or merciless, greedy landlords and management companies. Okay, thank you. Your time is up. I'm sorry. Could you read the next three names, please? Thank you.
 are Terry Light, David Davis, and Lightning Watchdog PDX, and they'll be followed by Tequila Gordon, Robert West, and Sharon Nasset. What was the first name, Ms. Light? Terry Light. Terry Light? Terry Light? There he comes. Oh, okay. So why don't people get three minutes like you?
 Because I'm presiding officer, that was my decision. Mr. Light? You're signed up first, so give us your name. Okay, I just didn't hear my name and where I was in the order. Okay, give us your name. You have two minutes. I'm Terry Light, and I'm a member of Right to Survive. I'm also a current resident of Hazelnut Grove.
 I urge you to extend the state of emergency. I urge you to recognize that human beings have lives and heartbeats and blood and bones and can communicate. And the structures that you've created can be changed. They have nothing to do with what reality is, the structures that have been made by people. That's not reality. Thank you.
 That is, like, if you have this idea that human beings are more important than things, then you have to make decisions based on that premise. If things are more important than people, then you'll make decisions based on things more important than people. So that's part of that process. And as a resident of Hazelnut Grove, I've been there since October. That was a rough beginning because I didn't know everybody. Everybody else didn't know everybody either. And on the streets, you kind of have a lot of caution. Right.
 But over that time, there's been tremendous changes. There's been movement, growth, and bounds on your human level of people growing up, learning, having insights, cleaning up, building. And yes, people can build. And it's been creating community that people have not had. And it's been very diverse in learning about other people. That if you work in an office in a city, you only see people who can think city. And like, where's the diversity in that? And you're doing this whole thing about what's code and what's the law, right?
 Instead of what you each feel and what your families are like and what your struggles are. Our struggles are really important. That makes us human. And I hope that you guys will go in and struggle because it makes you feel really strong inside. This stuff here is boring. This whole thing with going with these laws. And it's like we're buried in it, under caverns of it. It's like we have to go and make some changes. I offer you courage to go and do that.
 And if they're nice, otherwise human beings will do what they have to do. Human beings will organize and will make those changes. We're not. Thanks. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Davis, give us your name, and you have two minutes. So my name is David Davis with Fight the Sweeps in Multnomah County, Copwatch.
 And just like he was saying, you know, you guys are falling back on all these codes and laws and a bunch of bullshit, saying that, yeah, we can't do this and blah, blah, blah. You can do whatever you want. You know, this nation at one point, right, was a breakaway nation from the British Empire. So you can break away now.
 from the state and all these stupid rules and do a little actual progressive solutions, you know? And, you know, you had Mark Jolin up here, who's the housing commissioner of Multnomah County, right? Well, you want to know what?
 Mark Jolin let me fall into the streets when I was homeless, and Joyn wouldn't even pay for a meth contamination to check my apartment when I was having health issues. And then I had a lung collapse a year later, right? And my dog got tumors and died, okay? Yeah. So you guys...
 You guys have all these ineffective agencies like JOIN who don't even do anything. They're the only agency that gets direct information of where the sweeps are happening and when they're going to occur. You don't allow all these other groups to have that information. And you can't just walk into JOIN like you can at TPI and a lot of these other places. They have to contact you on the streets. So, sorry, everybody.
 And yes, they've done some stuff, and they've housed some people. And, you know, but...
 They're not the one agency, okay? And I've seen groups. I saw people talking about needles on the ground here. You want to know what? I've actually seen in the Lentz Active Watch group, this guy over there with the ZZ Top beard in the back is the head of, right? And they're talking about throwing needles on the ground to make it look like homeless drug people are using drugs.
 right so I've seen that there's screenshots of it you know he
 He can come up here and admit to the stuff that goes on and the fact that members of his group are out there harassing homeless women, beating up people, doing all kinds of vigilante actions. You guys don't care if there's serial killers, all kinds of people, you know. You had a homeless serial killer, Mark Bebout, who got released from prison pretty early. Okay, Mr. Davis, your time is up. And then he went around and killed homeless people.
 and a homeless service outreach worker. You guys don't care about anything. You're all about money and bullshit. You're not about... Time is up. Thank you, Mr. Davis. Okay. Shut up with all your rhetoric. Thank you, Mr. Davis. Do something. Okay, thank you. Mr. Lightning. And what are you going to do tomorrow? You're going to walk... How much is the city sweep going to cost you tomorrow? Mr. Lightning. How much money are you going to spend sweeping out homeless people and warring off the mentally ill homeless people
 uh women and children lgbt people everyone okay mr davis thank you call that thank you thank you here and now call out the sweep tomorrow okay waiting to come arrest people like me if we get a little too mouthy somewhere is there like a little panic button are they gonna come out
 What's going to happen? You have all this money to spend on resources like that instead of resources to house people, okay? That's the reality of the situation here. Thank you. Mr. Lightning. And it's crisis capitalism in work, and that's why you guys want homelessness to continue.
 Because your job depends on it, just like all the crisis capitalist workers of America. It's a, I mean, let's get real here, people. Okay. These people aren't the ones that are going to solve your problem. You want to solve the problem, the community needs to solve them themselves and get off their own asses. Because these people will not fix it. Okay, Mr. Lightning, give us your name and you have two minutes. Yes, my...
 My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Washdog PDX. I do agree on the extension of the emergency declaration. Again, Mayor Hales, I will applaud you again for your efforts on what you have done up to this point. But let me say this to you. If you go out there to that spring water trail and you sweep them, you will leave City Hall as a disgraced mayor.
 Now, your other option, plain and simple. You can say, I'm going to hand this off to the next mayor-elect, give people a moratorium, some time over there, and figure something out that will be more appropriate. If you do that, you will walk away from City Hall not being disgraced. You make your choice. Do not sweep them. Make your choice. Issue number two.
 I think we need to focus on that affordable housing bond. It's very important that that gets passed. We're talking possibly 1,300 more units out there. And again, remember...
 50% of those units are going to be 30% MFI or below. That's going to be public housing. That's very imperative that that gets passed. We get those housing units built, and then we have the right to buy more existing housing units out there and take control of the rents, and that is rent control. This bond is...
 is a form of rent control. If you want rent control, get this bond passed at $258 million, which is a record number. Issue number two, I still want to see more money coming in from private developers such as Terminal 1 and Wapato. More options for more people need to exist. Let's not shut those down either. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, next three.
 are Tequila Gordon, Robert West, and Sharon Nasset. And they'll be followed by Doug Bennett, Charles Johnson, and Jesse Sponberg. Okay. The first name, Gordon? Oh, there you are. Okay. Welcome back. Just give us your name and you have two minutes. Yes, I'm Tequila Gordon. As the council knows, it's been many, many long times since I've seen you guys. Yes.
 Well, pretty much, I'm pretty much, I just want to know, is there a landlord in the house today? All right. No, no, no. I'm not going to be nasty. What I want you to do, my real name, my birth name is Joseph Gordon. My social security number, morning and welcome. Check my rental history.
 Especially within the last three. It's perfect. Perfect. But the reason I'm homeless again, I'm a resident at Hazelnut. It's due to the place where I first got. Now it's $1,000 a month. I can't. I got money. Literally. It's the 31st. Tomorrow's the 1st. I'm sorry. Here's $500 that I have on the 31st. Instead of this is going to rent, this is going to a solar panel and some wood.
 I'm tired of paying this rent because all it's going to see is it's going to keep me harbored just for a year or two, and then the rent's going to go up. It's no pointless building all these shelters and shelters and shelters if there's no outlet. I mean, honestly, I can't afford rent. I can pay rent. I mean, there's nothing. But honestly, the city, I'm just here to just say y'all know my story. Y'all know what I'm about and everything. And I'm back into the same situation due to COVID.
 the city's policy. There's no way out of it. Today, there is no more middle class. All I see now is the people that can pay rent and the people that pays rent. And I'm sorry, I'm no longer... I don't even have the faith in...
 Going out and trying to think, because I'm back to the three times the amount of the rent, the three, I even got from Joe, whatever, I had a domestic violence grant given for, he's trying to kill me. I couldn't find a place due to, it was no room. It was nowhere to go, and they wouldn't accept the voucher, especially if you're looking at a six, six foot black big guy like me, and I got a, oh, this is for domestic violence? Right?
 So I'm just saying, honestly, there's something got to be done. And sheltering, I mean, spending $500 and a half a billion dollars is really shocking me. Because if you guys can spend a half a billion dollars, I'm sorry, I'm going to just say, if you can spend a half a billion dollars, and this is the result, there's no way in hell that I'm going to get out of this mess. There's no way. Mr. West, just give us your name. You have two minutes. My name is Robert Walsh. I'm the president.
 And I'd like to sit there and let you guys know that you guys, for last year or since this housing emergency, you guys have been a failure. I've seen more and more homeless camps go up. I have a friend of mine that got housed right after the declaration went in. And about a month ago, she was kicked out of her housing, and she joined housed her.
 So they kicked her out to put someone else in. That's not housing more homeless. What that's doing is that's just equaling out what there is. You guys got a serious problem with the homeless. And I don't know, you guys keep coming up with all kinds of different things and stuff like that. It's not working. You need to house people or you need to stop the sweeps.
 These sweeps need to stop. How can you get people out there to help these people if they don't know where to find them? You know, yeah, the people along the corridor don't like them. Do you want them in your neighborhood? Do you want them camping on your front lawns? What's next? I mean, they could easily sit there and say, okay, fine, I can't sleep here, but Dan Salzman, Amanda Fritz, and Steve Novick lives in these houses. I'll go over there and pitch a tent in their front yard.
 These rich people, I'll go pitch a tent in their front yard. What I've told people is instead of worrying about the corridor, they need to move those homeless people up to the rich areas up here and pitch tents in their yard. Yeah, we can do that. And maybe something will be done because the people that have money, all they want to do is complain. But they have money to help these people out.
 and they don't want to do it. All they want to do is complain. Okay. Thank you, Mr. West. Ms. Nasset, just give us your name. You have two minutes. Thank you. For the record, my name is Sharon Nasset, and I would first like to thank this council and Mayor Hills on working on this issue. It's really, really tough, and you could have avoided it, and other councils have. And I would also like to especially thank the mayor for working in a compassionate and generous manner as much as he could.
 Not everybody chooses to use some of the ancient virtues as a way to go forward with government. I would like to talk about some solutions. I actually have five different solutions, and I will start with one that does not cost the city anything, can be started immediately, involves several and various locations, would be the economy for people who have a lot of money all the way down to people who have no money,
 The laws already exist having to do with safety and health. And that would be that we need to have boarding houses again and allow boarding houses here and throughout the United States.
 We stopped having boarding houses and in many cities made them illegal in the 60s when our war veterans came home and we offered them single family homes. It has given us latchkey children, families that do not get to raise their children all under one roof, families that do not grow together, and communities that are fragmented. Boarding houses allowed you to
 put together the families that you desired. They had families living in them, they had singles living in them, and we utilize the spaces we currently have. By saying every piece of property can be a boarding house unless the owner says no, you immediately open that, you utilize the spaces that we have. We also have nearly one million board feet of property above ground
 above second floor that is vacant and underutilized because they are allowed to write it off on their taxes. By giving them a specific amount of time for commercial and noncommercial properties to immediately have their properties fully utilized or pay a property tax as if they were fully utilized, it would also open things. And I'll wait for the other three. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Okay, next three. Our Doug Bennett.
 Charles Johnson and Jesse Sponberg, and they'll be followed by Robert Schultz, Leo Rhodes, and Mike O'Callaghan. By the way, if I'm not my 30 bucks back from the Bernie Sanders campaign, which one? I've been on that for like two years. Good luck. Okay, Mr. Bennett, you're first. Just give us your name. You have two minutes. Doug Bennett. Doug Bennett.
 Chloe Udalli and Jamie Partridge covered every topic I had, among other people, and I was really glad to hear the boarding house offered, and thank you. Thank you. Mr. Johnson. My name is Charles Johnson, and I suppose I should offer a very teeny-tiny thank you for the teeny-tiny amount of progress we've made. There was some talk earlier about data-driven decisions, right?
 But to a large degree, you all have chosen to be ostriches and hide your heads in the sand and not seek data so that you continue to watch people have ridiculous profits. There's a courthouse two blocks over, a fully automated electronic courthouse that tracks every eviction in Multnomah County. You do nothing with that data that has come on my radar or made it into the remarks of the press.
 hundreds of comments that have passed during the past year. So there's evidence that you're faking it and not making it. The other issue is your prolonged reticence to denounce greedy, immoral scumbags. There are laws about financial predation, but you don't give a crap about financial predation because you haven't enacted any laws to stop financial predation.
 You know that in the credit card industry and in the loan industry, even the oddball payday loan industry, there are regulations. But the sick, disgusting predators that pass as landlords are unregulated when it comes to predatory rent increases.
 You are gross people for not imposing rent control at the beginning of this session and letting your 40 city attorneys, who all make about $100,000 a year, defend the emergency situation and the necessity of stabilizing rents. Period. I convene that my time is over because that is what you should have done then and it's what you need to get in the ordinance now.
 That is how the city attorneys should earn their money, not justifying cops, shooting pepper sprayed down the throats of women and brutalizing citizens. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Spongberg, just give us your name and you have two minutes. Who's sitting up for the marriage? I've got to pick my words carefully because I really feel like crying right now.
 And I also really feel like flipping over this fucking table. You dirty money changers. You know what's really terrible? It's the same people that helped create this problem give you guys the fucking money that makes it so that we can't get you out of here. You dirty, corrupt politicians. I sat here last year, you sons of bitches, and I told you exactly what was going to happen. Charlie, can you hear me, you son of a bitch?
 You just came here and told us how proud you were that you spent a half of a billion dollars.
 A half of a billion dollars. And do you know what? It's worse than it was last year when I came here and wagged my finger at you dirty, evil bastards. Do you understand that? These are people in the streets that are dying. And not only are you guys not empathetic or sympathetic, you're actually apathetic. You're working against it. I told you last year we were going to put bodies in front of the problem.
 We did. You know what? I turned my backyard into a camp for vulnerable women that were taken off the Springwater Corridor who've been failed by every other agency. I'm putting people back into housing by giving them a chance and a shower and Wi-Fi. And you know what you guys did? You sent the Bureau of Developmental Services out to my house and gave me citations for having tents in the backyard.
 You haven't made one more camp like Hazelnut Grove or Ride to Dream 2. I haven't seen a single tiny house put up. We still have renters that are people looking for houses that have to pay $50 for a stupid application fee. How hard would that have been to make one citywide application process? Zero creative leadership at all. Zero. None. Okay? None. And the real terrible thing is...
 that we can't get scumballs like you out because you get so much money that even a good person like Nick Caleb couldn't defeat you. So I beg you, Portland, at least get that scumball the hell out of here and vote for the homegirl, Chloe. Okay, thank you, Ms. Plonger. Next three. Oh, and try to get off your damn phone, Novick. Next three. The next three. A little bit of respect.
 The next three are Robert Schultz, Leo Rhodes, and Mike O'Callaghan. And they'll be followed by Nancy Newell, Diane Kiefauver, and Richard Robinson. Robert Schultz, Leo Rhodes, and Mike O'Callaghan. Okay. Okay, Mr. Schultz, why don't you lead it off? Just give us your name, and then you have two minutes. I'm Robert Schultz. I'm from...
 Lentz Neighborhood. I'm on the Neighborhood Association as Public Safety Chair. So the impacts of the state of emergency are seen very clearly in our community. I don't necessarily advocate for or against extending the state of emergency, though. I would advocate for having a better system.
 more inclusive forum for that state of emergency, our community directly impacted by it, as seen with people being moved to the Springwater Corridor. And by that I mean law enforcement actively engaging that community in other parts of town, not actively engaging it on the Springwater, thus creating this kind of travesty of like...
 I don't like to use human refugee because I think it sums it up in the wrong direction, but effectively this human population that's been bounced around and insensitively dealt with with zero solutions as seen from the start of the crisis to this point and as will probably still be seen in a year if there's no inclusion of the impacted parties such as the neighbors. Some folks are offering testimony about the impacts of those that have kind of transitioned down the spiral through a variety of reasons, going from living in a
 an apartment or a home, to living in a car, to living on the street. And I submit to you that people in Lentz are very close to that very same thing. And the respite that comes or is being asked for the people on the street is not being asked for the people in those homes. And that is a component that I personally believe needs to be added to this whole mix of offering solutions.
 stop the flow of people kind of exiting the housing market. Folks here have very well stated the need to look at the housing market for its flaws and issues relative to the Airbnb, which I agree with, that there's some problems there that enforcement probably could help. I think it's a reasonable thing to note. But I think further than that, I'd
 At least the thing that I touch on a lot is talking to our communities. There's a wealth of solutions that our communities could provide, but we have no avenue to provide those solutions. It has been funded to have these agencies deal with these established agencies to provide
 kind of trickle down and almost this Reagan-esque trickle-down economics of aid to homeless. And the answers, I believe, will come from the people living near it, living with it, living in it, and not from advocates for it, per se. I think they're great voices, but I don't know that they're the problem solver, because oftentimes they're doing exactly what I'm doing. They're mentioning what the people they represent have to say. And if we had good avenues of communication, I believe we could find answers to this problem.
 global problem and certainly this problem in Oregon. If Oregon is going to be a model, or Portland specifically is going to be a model city, then we should have something to model. And at this point, we have nothing. Like, we continue to have nothing. And throwing more money at it doesn't really solve it unless we also build into that throwing of money.
 an idea of who's going to participate and taking not necessarily just the guy with the degree but the guy that's been living on the street or working in construction and bringing them to the table as well. You'll note that at this meeting you don't see a lot of those hardworking folks because they're at their jobs. I think adjusting your access to allow for more evening kind of meetings that allow for people to come and testify
 And then as well, adding that component of direction for the community to involve themselves. I think that's where our answers will be found. So to kind of sum up, I'm not necessarily for or against it, but if you're going to provide those avenues of communication, let's do it and let's fund it and let's get it done because I think that's where our answers can come from.
 Mr. Schultz, thank you for your testimony and for bringing that up. The council did provide funding one time for a community engagement process because we agree that we need everybody to know what the plan is and we want everybody to be engaged in –
 finding solutions and implementing it. So the Office of Enabling Involvement has been talking with the coalition directors and with the diversity and civic leadership partners and others. We'll have a proposal that will come back to council that was required to have a report to council before we implement it, but we agree that it's very necessary and we'll get it going very soon.
 Thank you. Well, and if I could offer, I think one easy solution is just to blog on some of these key issues so that the population can be directed to what's being said. So the whole Wapato, I just toured it Monday, and the realities of that facility and what it can and can't do are lost on the general public because it's a very big kind of conversation about –
 the zoning issues and funding of the facility and how you get it to operate appropriately. If you blogged on this topic, if there was an easy point that I could send the people of Lentz to and say, here's the answers to this conversation or, you know, that you can contribute to, I think that would be... And that kind of thing is simple. A tech guy can do that in 20 minutes. Yes, and I have yet to hear from somebody who lives outside who says that they want to go to Wapato. Right. I went to Wapato Monday. Mr. Carter, Mr. Carter, Mr. Carter.
 mr callahan thank you for your time it was your name you have two minutes uh mike o'callaghan uh first of all i want to applaud everyone's efforts in in kind of a response to him about a solution there are three solutions you know what they are the right to dream dignity village and hazelnut grove
 You've got the solutions, okay? Look, you guys can't afford to put all these people in housing. I'm in favor of this emergency housing, okay? But housing's like way up here, okay? We're down here, okay? I live on Springwater Trail Corridor, okay? As you know, I'm in Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. I dropped them all off except for you, Steve. I asked them for an emergency expedited consideration and a restraining order.
 Okay, the deputy attorney who I talked to yesterday is supposed to call me back today. He hasn't yet Hopefully he will restrain these activities because you have no authority to sweep people The ordinance doesn't give you this Okay, you can't do that, but you can do it. Can't you you are doing it and like all these people? Emotionally God you've heard these emotions today. These people are living hard
 And they have a solution. And you won't let us do it. Okay? And the solution is small communities...
 So they're not invasive in the community. I've said this to you. I've given it to you in plans many times. Okay? You tell us, wait, wait, wait, wait. Where do we go? That's never been answered. Okay? Give us the unused alleyways. Give us a permit. If we get a community agreement and find a place where we can do this, give us a permit to do this.
 You can't build houses. We've got 12,000 people on the street. It costs you like $6 billion to build housing. I mean, how absurd. Stop this. Come on. See the solution. Do something. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Rose.
 Girls, just give us your name and you have two minutes. Yeah, hi, my name is Leo Rhodes, and I'm a homeless advocate. I just want to say in 2009, there was three of us that kept talking about the more need for shelters in 10 cities, which the
 the council here and others kept saying, no, affordable housing and programs, that's what we need. We kept telling you guys over and over, it's getting worse, we need this. This is a temporary solution. But no, you guys kept going for housing, affordable housing and also for programs.
 So we're in the solution right now, or we're in the problem right now, all these homeless people outside right now. It's not caused, or some of it is caused, I think some of it is caused by your decision-making of affordable housing, not putting people into temporary shelters or like we have 10 cities right now. So that's what we really need right now is,
 a temporary spot for homeless individuals. I think that this should be extended, this state of emergency, but it should be extended until there's enough affordable housing for everybody, not just one year, not three years,
 but until there is enough affordable housing for everybody. You know, it's crazy to say we're going to only limit it to this time. Okay, so on the Springwater Corridor, I wrote this poem, and it's called On the Brink of Insanity, Interreactions Between Homeless and Non-Homeless. Love, hate, love, hate, love, hate, hate, hate. Every second, minute, hour, day, month, year. Hate, hate, hate, love, hate, love, hate, love. Love, hate, hate, love, hate, love.
 It's all a ball of confusion, bending over backwards, trying to please others while working on your own problems. Some understand your plight. Others have selective hearing, claiming to be experts, causing a stigma. Still, others just look at you and judge you on appearance. Most people don't look or even speak to you, making you feel ostracized. One homeless person screws up. All the homeless people have to pay. Three steps forwards, 18 steps backwards.
 Do you know our stories? Hate, hate, hate, love, hate, love, hate, love. It's all a ball of confusion. That's what it's like for homeless people out there right now. And when you're doing the sweeps, that's what happens. These individuals are confused out there. Do you love me? Do you hate me? What's going on? This is what's happening right now. So that's why I say we need to keep it going until we have enough affordable housing for everybody. Thank you, Mr. Rhodes.
 Next three. Are Nancy Newell, Diane Kiefauver, and Richard Robinson. And then the last person who signed up will be Sam Resnick, I believe is the last name. Oh, yes. Ms. Newell? No.
 i'm oh i'm sorry there's that there's yeah okay okay so my name is nancy newell i took on the enron corporation when the council fully voted to bring them into our city and as we all know they were total crooks as i pointed out the only person that filed against them at the puc now we have warren buffett who practically owns the state of oregon and i guess saltzman and fish don't give a damn about that 37 billion on our major manufacturing plant
 When the neighborhood was saying toxins are so vicious and the illnesses are so horrific that Aaron Brockovich was brought into our community to come up with a lawsuit in order to get him out. And you don't rip his license out of his hands. He owns Pacific Corp. He is a coal operator. He owns coal mines. He shuffles coal through our cities and towns and causes health issues, which causes homelessness.
 And this goes on endlessly, $37 billion. They get away with tax write-offs. You rub shoulders with them in private meetings that we don't even hear about. We don't see any paperwork on it, and it continues. Now I have to fight Warren Buffett. None of you will join in unless you form a resolution that this kind of operation in the state of Oregon and the city of Portland is no longer allowed.
 We stopped Enron for you. Why are you adding this down the pile? Why are you adding these people who could care less about anybody's lifestyle? And here we are, the city of Portland, we have the single largest electric grid in the world, and now he owns, Buffett owns that grid through Pacificor. What did Enron do? They killed people in California, shut down the grid, and raised the prices. And they got caught because we have a decent citizen in our town that caught them with double books.
 Why aren't you doing something about this? Why aren't you using your influence and your licensing to kick them out and protect the people of this city? We wouldn't have these problems. The defense budget is $6.7 trillion unreported. We have military contractors here that have parties every day on our money. We are hardworking people. We believe in the system. And you keep forcing people out of their homes without enforcing the license –
 power that you have. You should enforce it. You should create a quality of life in this city. I am totally fed up. I've done this for years. I've done it for 40 years, been an activist. Make our city a healthy place. Your time is up. Okay, sir, would you in the middle, why don't you give us your name and you have two minutes. Mr. Saltzman, members, my name is Richard Robinson. I'm visiting from Hollywood.
 I'm a student of child psychology and a homeless advocate. I haven't been in this chamber since Bud Clark and Lee Brown ran the city. Sir, ma'am, in 1991, Colin Powell, using his email, defeated Saddam Hussein. Desert storm. 1999, the Republicans steal the presidency from Al Gore. Florida election.
 uh subprime crisis occurs saddam hussein tried to destroy america's economy we entered the subprime crisis and uh we know what happened bank after bank failed the government took over and barack obama was elected we worked our way out of this terrible crisis the great recession today
 Because of the failure of the banking system, essentially, what we see is a tremendous number of folks on the streets. Now, I believe with all my heart, I'm a Christian, I think that God is with us, that we're going to solve this problem. We're going to have proven leadership again in the United States of America as the greedy, the Madoffs, the Skillings, the Enron ripoffs, the Ponzi schemes.
 As we move back to proven leadership. But right now, we need emergency housing for homeless people. I hope that someday down the road, you will use Wapato as a temporary shelter. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Kiefauver? My name is Diane Kiefauver, and I'm here as a member of Portland's Tenants United, the Industrial Workers of the World, and the Portland Solidarity Network.
 I have heard Portland has spent a lot of money. I've heard that again and again and again, throwing it in the face of this problem. But there are still people on the streets. As long as there are still people on the streets, we still have an emergency. I ask you to extend that emergency, that state of emergency, regardless of the money spent.
 Please, please don't tell me. Portland is putting a price on human lives. Thank you. Thank you. Do we have three more? I have Sam Resnick was the last person who signed up. Sam Resnick, why not give us your name and you have two minutes. Yes.
 Hi, my name is Sam, and I'm not going to take up a lot of your time because most of what I'd like to say has already been said and said and said and said again. How many meetings has everyone here and all of you sat here and asked you to give us answers from on high and it hasn't happened? Look at the solutions. The solutions are in the pudding. The proof is in the pudding. Look at what people have actually done. Look at Dignity Village. Look at Right to Dream. Look at Hazen Lake Grove. Look at Forgotten Realms.
 The money for those didn't come from the city. It didn't come from JOIN. It didn't come from TPI. It came from people. It came from the actual houseless folks on the ground spending what little money they had to build themselves a little bit of shelter.
 So let me just ask you, why? Why are we still trusting you? Why are we looking at you for solutions when the proof is obvious, when we can do it ourselves, when we don't need government to tell us how to solve our own problems? The problem right now is that your regulations are getting in the way of us coming up with real solutions.
 Commissioner Fritz, I sat down in your office with you a year ago, and you assured me that people would be allowed to camp in the parks. But every time there's a beer festival at Overlook Park, I see park rangers out there sweeping people out of their homes. So let me ask you, why should I trust you anymore? Why should I trust any of you when you sit up there, you smile, you play on your phones, and then you go and do nothing?
 So let me ask you, why should we trust you? Why should we spend our time coming to these meetings when we could be out there on the ground making actual change ourselves? Thank you. Thank you. Okay. So we have a substitute on the table? I suggest we vote on the substitute, and then this carries forward to a second reading next week. Okay. I think that's right.
 Okay. But we've moved and seconded the substitute. Okay. So let's have a roll call vote, please, on the substitute. Novick. I'm going to sort of say something that Commissioner Fish normally says, which is that it would be nice if we had more help on these issues from other levels of government. There was an article in the New York Times. Okay, we're voting. What? Okay.
 Okay. There was an article in the New York Times a few weeks ago that said that neither Hillary Clinton nor Donald Trump, they both barely mentioned housing in the course of their campaigns. And
 We are trying to do what we can with this issue in the city, but we do need help. I mean, the investment we need to have enough affordable housing for everybody is huge. It's the kind of investment that this country made, for example, during the New Deal.
 And we appreciate everybody who comes here today and talks to us and tells us what we need to do. But I hope that everybody is also contacting state and federal officials and candidates asking for help. Thank you, everybody, for taking time to be here today. And it is something that we all need to continue to grapple with and find more solutions.
 substitute extends the housing emergency for one additional year, that doesn't mean that we won't have a further extension
 It also calls for a report every six months. So it's not something that we should just do and then not have another opportunity for you, the people of Portland, to come and say, have we done it or have we not done it? And how can we make some changes? There are several changes from the declaration a year ago. That's allowing up to five storage units rather than two that were approved last year. Extension of the affordable housing design plan.
 review process as a type 2X rather than type 3, which just means it can be done faster and has a different level of review. There's a hard deadline for the Planning and Sustainability Commission to make a recommendation, pro or con, on inclusionary housing, requiring action no later than November 28th of 2016. So we need that recommendation by state law to be able to change the code, and that's not going to be
 given the volunteers on the Planning and Sustainability Commission a hard deadline. And if they don't, then we will have this proposal directly to Council on December 8th of this year. A six-month report is required, as I said.
 I continue to be concerned about the decisions that the majority of the Councils made in supporting a shelter at Terminal 1, and in particular that the wording in the current ordinance and in the proposed one that we'll be voting on next week, that there can be no temporary, no permanent improvements. And that just seems to me like the...
 the worst of both worlds that we risk being out of compliance with our industrial land supply and yet we also could be wasting money and not really providing good services for people in just basic needs like heat and sanitation.
 So I appreciate that we will have another week to continue to work on this. I'm hoping that we can add an emergency clause next week. If we all agree we could add an emergency clause. In fact, it seems a bit silly to be voting on a housing emergency and not being an emergency. So I'd like us to be able to get to consensus on what...
 is the best way forward. And indeed, we now have to have a lot of discussions on what's the best way forward with Right to Dream 2, with the decision that came down from the Land Use Board of Appeals yesterday that the rationale that we had said that we should be able to move forward, it is not supported by the decision makers, the judges there.
 So, yes, I agree with those folks who said that the community has the answers, and we have to find a way to make the answer of Right to Dream 2, which is my main part in this finding of solutions, we've got to find a way to make that work, and I will continue to have that being my focus, as well, of course, as what happens in the parks and the
 helping people. That's what we're talking about. I heard today is a lot of cries for to be helped. And I did appreciate that I got the information about the landlord at the Ash Street property. And I think that there also needs to be a call for people
 people who are inside, people who own housing projects, to have a heart, have a soul, have a compass, and not do a rent increase of $275 over $825. I don't know very many people who can afford that kind of a jump, and especially if there's already been one. So I know...
 We each have to stay in our lane, as Commissioner Fish often says, and that housing is... And those kinds of ordinances would come from the Housing Bureau, but we do need to do more. We can't. It's untenable. There's so many of the people who have lived in Portland for so long are now not able to afford even Gresham or some of the other places. So we have to do more, and I agree. So this temporary...
 Support for the substitute is the start of us all saying, yes, we've got to do more. I was pleased to join with the mayor and the county chair and some of my colleagues roughly six months ago to express support for the state of emergency and to launch the state of emergency. And I think in some ways it has been important because it's focused our attention on the crisis.
 and it has resulted in some tangible positive actions. What I think we've heard today is that not enough, and we've heard also some very creative ideas for how to address this crisis.
 The vote right now is to adopt the substitute. Next week we will fine-tune and have before us the final action, and then we'll give our comments. I want to thank everyone for taking the time today to come out and testify. And I want to leave you with a sobering statistic because it explains why I decided to spend almost a day a week advocating and helping to lead the housing bond effort.
 In the last three years, we've added about 24,000 apartments in Portland. That number may be a little off, but just roughly speaking, 24,000 apartments. Eighty-five percent of those apartments are classified as luxury. So they are at the very top of the market.
 which means virtually no one in our community can afford them. They are largely rented by people that have means, people that are coming here, people that are fortunate to be able to pay the premium, the top dollar for a unit. So 24,000 units, 85% are luxury. If you – however you define affordable, you can make the most – the broadest possible definition of affordability that you want. Only 3% of those apartments are affordable.
 So we have a crisis. It has many dimensions, and we're just scratching the surface today. But the piece that I'm focused on this summer and the fall is the supply and demand problem. We have a shortage of some people estimate up to 30,000 units.
 That is, there are people out there, families and struggling veterans and people that are homeless and struggling with addiction and mental illness, and our neighbors, our friends, our family members. We're 30,000 units short. So there's a huge problem in the market. And the market is currently building units that don't meet the need. And with all due respect, a lot of the things we're talking about are short-term bridges to getting to what I hope we all agree on,
 which is putting people in homes and keeping them in their homes. Because after all, in America, that's the least that we can expect. A roof at the end of the day. And so that's what we need, in my opinion, we need to focus on, which is why I think the housing bond is so important. I'll reserve the rest of my comments for next week. I thank everyone for their time and joining us today and sharing their views. Bye. Nails?
 I want to thank the council and our resource people who queued this discussion up for us this afternoon, as well as the folks that came to testify. I mean, we've all heard and can't help but feel the passionate concern that people have about what's happening to Portland. We are becoming unaffordable to too many of our friends and neighbors, and it is contributing to homelessness.
 and we are in a crisis. We have not done enough. I certainly agree with that assessment, and we are doing some things that are making a difference. We need to do more of them. We need to do other things, and we need to do things faster. That's the point of declaring a state of emergency. I appreciate the substitute. I think a year is a reasonable duration for the next phase of this work. The council will have the opportunity at that point to decide what to do next,
 but to say that we are still in an emergency and for the next year we're going to stay focused, as we have been today, on this work is the right thing to do. So I appreciate all that we've heard today, and the call for more action is appropriate, and I hear it. Hi. Saltzman. I appreciate everybody being here today, and these are heart-wrenching issues. I believe every member of this council is committed absolutely to solutions to those for homelessness and for more affordable housing.
 And just to amplify what Commissioner Fish mentioned with respect to the bond measure that will be on this November's ballot, this will dedicate almost half the dollars towards providing affordable housing, permanently affordable housing for people on very low incomes.
 and half of it will also be dedicated to family-size housing, which is another area that the market is not meeting. So half of the units to be built under this bond will be two-bedroom or greater, and there's a screaming need for that as well. So I hope you'll all make sure that you get out and vote and spread the word about the importance of this bond measure in November.
 I'm also happy to say that next week I'll be releasing my proposal to implement the inclusionary zoning proposal that will require new developments to provide affordable housing or to pay us into a fund so that we can develop affordable housing.
 So that is something, thanks to the legislature in Salem, we now have the authority to do. As you can imagine, Portland is the first one out of the gate, the first city out of the gate, and actually implementing it. And we hope that what we implement will provide a model to other cities in the state because this housing crisis is not confined to Portland. So thank you all for being here, and I'm pleased to vote aye. And the substitute is on the table for a final vote next week. And we stand adjourned.