Yes. All right. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Thursday, August 31st afternoon session of the Portland City Council.
 Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman, Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish, Wheeler. Here. And I just want to make note of the fact Commissioner Fish wanted to be here today. He could not be, but I know he listens to each and every one of these on television. So I'd like to thank Commissioner Fish, and I'd like to thank Jamie Dunphy on his staff, who turns out to be an amazing cartoonist.
 and all of my colleagues on the City Council for sending me a very, very nice birthday card. I'm very appreciative of that. And I won't mention the three pints of ice cream that are waiting upstairs in the freezer. And they're probably gone because I'm here and my staff is up there. Well, we're going to reward you and honour your birthday by getting done extra fast. We're going to be so fast today, people are going to be shocked. Carla, please call the first item. We'll give you more time.
 Item 974, appeal of Landon Kroll against Design Commission's decision of denial for design review of a new 5- to 6-story, approximately 70-foot-tall, 17-unit apartment building in the Central Eastside Subdistrict of the Central City Plan District at 1122 Southeast Ankeny Street, LU16,
 That's 1-845-24-DZM. So, colleagues, if I understand the advice of legal counsel correctly, I need a motion to deny the appeal and uphold the decision of the design commission and adopt the findings. Is that correct? No, it's the other one on that page. We need to uphold the appeal. Okay.
 overturned. So this is the one where you're upholding the appeal. Got it. I had a 50-50 chance. A flip of the coin.
 And I still left it on the wrong side. That is just sad. So I'll entertain that motion, colleagues. As stated by Lindley, so moved. So allow me to say it. We're going to uphold the appeal, overturn the decision of the design commission, and adopt the findings that are before you. Correct. And do we have a second? Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further discussion? Call the roll. Okay.
 Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Motion passes. Next item, please. Item 975, appeal of the Goose Hollow Foothills League against Design Commission's decision of approval for design review of a three-building development on two parcels under common ownership on 1.5 blocks.
 in the Central City at 817 Southwest 17th Avenue and 1621 Southwest Taylor Street, LU16-273094DZMAD. So, colleagues, by the process of elimination, I'm looking for a motion that the Council deny the appeal, uphold the decision of the Design Commission, and adopt the findings.
 So may I interject for a moment? Yes, you may. At that hearing for the press blocks, we had three commissioners present, and one of those present was Commissioner Fish. He's not available. Commissioner Udaly is here, and it's my understanding that she has or is finishing reviewing the record for that and is prepared to cast a vote. Yes. I just want to make sure that's clear on the record. Thank you. So moved to deny the appeal and uphold the design commission's decision.
 So we have a motion. I'll second that. And a second. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The motion is accepted. We're done. We're adjourned. Happy birthday. Happy birthday. Didn't get to drink any of my tea. Happy birthday. This thing was even numbered. It was even numbered, and I still got it wrong. It was like, thank you. I think it was numbered on it.
 You did. No, it was totally mine. It was on. I'd like to...