Hey, Carla. Good morning. It's great to see you. Good morning, everybody. This is the September 6 a.m. session of the Portland City Council. We welcome everybody. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Wheeler. Here.
 Let's see if I can summarize this. Number one, everybody please be respectful of people testifying. When people are at the microphone, people come here from a long distance to be heard. Please let them testify without interruption. Same goes true for the city council. Please let us deliberate.
 in the event that somebody disrupts the city council or people testifying, they'll be asked to leave. If people are asked to leave and they don't leave, they're subject to arrest for trespassing. Obviously, we don't want that to happen, so we just encourage everybody, just make sure we work together to make this a safe and respectful environment for everyone.
 There's a couple of opportunities for people to participate. First of all, you can participate during what's called communications at the beginning of the meeting. That's three minutes. You can talk on any subject you want. Because those slots are limited, we ask people to sign up in advance with the council clerk.
 There are also opportunities to testify today on the first readings of any reports or resolutions or ordinances. And if people would like to testify, just see Carla prior to the item being discussed, and she'll put your name on the list.
 We have a hard and fast rule that if you are testifying, please make sure that your testimony is germane to the item actually being discussed. That's very helpful. If you're a lobbyist, we need to know that per council rules. If you're here representing an organization, we need to know that as well. Thumbs up if you like what you're hearing. Thumbs down if you don't like what you're hearing. That's sufficient. You don't need to scream or yell or boo or anything else.
 plus that just takes time. So without further ado, we'll get to the first communications. Could you please read the first item, Carla? Item 976, request of Scott Fernandez to address council regarding public health. Good morning. I have several comments today. My name is Scott Fernandez. I live in Portland. Good morning.
 what we heard in august 2nd there is much more than what mr stirr's comments on epa lt2 judicial ruling that need to be made public today critical lt2 science summary papers were written by me during the year before the trial in 2007 with the agreement that i would be turning them over to the boston attorneys that we had incorporated the documents were supposed to be and are privilege documents
 At the 11th hour, the city and Portland Water Bureau reneged, telling me to make them public documents for the trial. I said no, because if they go to public documents, anybody can see them. These were privileged. So I saved them for the case, and if we were ever going to appeal. The scientific truth would win, but the LT2 case was squashed by the city and by Portland Water Bureau.
 Due process was owed to the citizens of Portland as fair treatment through a normal judicial system, especially as a citizen's entitlement. Ultimately, due process was again squashed by the city and Portland Water Bureau. The whole premise of the lawsuit was based on science. EPA administrators at that time and previous and after determined that science would determine the ultimate outcome. The city and the Water Bureau had no intention of letting our LT2 case prevail.
 They sold us out. Point number two, the EPA protects drinking water by requiring laboratories to become certified to analyze drinking water samples that they use analytical methods approved by EPA. Analytical methods applied in the watershed are not known to be certified. Portland Water Bureau analytical methods in the lab are still not known to be certified in the early months.
 No proficiency known to be demonstrated without certification. No certified oversight of lab techniques. No certification that there was, quote, no contamination of the samples. Samples should be then rejected because of no certification. Point number three. We just got done dealing with the Bull Run water situation and the fire issues. Last night I was notified that the Water Bureau's fire department consists of a pickup truck that consists of a tank
 in the back part of the truck. The Portland Water Bureau resolution to the solution of dealing with fires in the watershed called the fire department. We told you a few weeks ago that Canada has great technology to deal with fires, and we've done nothing at this point. And finally...
 My character has been, over the years, demeaned and disparaged with people saying in this council that I have no background in science and know nothing about microbiology or chemistry. I hope that that stops, and thank you very much. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you, Scott. Mayor, can I just, after he's finished, just want to, thank you, Scott. Why don't you take your seat?
 Okay, but if there's going to be a contradiction about me, I want to be able to defend what I've said. I'm not going to refer to you. Let's move on to the next item, please. Please read the next item. Thank you, sir. Item 977, request of Ann Casper to address counsel regarding Elliott Sewer Street project. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm Ann Casper, and I'm coming here today on behalf of my neighbors on Sacramento Street. People complain of gentrification, but our street is actually really special. We're not gentrified. We have low-income, high-income. We have people with elevators in their apartments. And we have people like me living on $1,200 a month.
 as well as the Volunteers of America Residential Treatment Center for Men, 54 people there, 30 people who work there, they're visitors, so about 300 people. And I'm here today because we actually just want to let you know that we have a message that we do not want the three planters that the Bureau of Environmental Services is offering. It will cause more stress on the street. We don't have enough parking as it is.
 And actually, it doesn't fit the culture of our street because they haven't taught us the importance of having plants on the street and using it to help the stormwater. There are alternatives to do. It's been a little bit difficult working with the Bureau. Our neighbors, we have, and I've sent Nick Fish, we've talked with Liam last year, and we've talked with Elliot. And I think you've seen the email, the correspondence with other neighbors, not just me, for more than a year. Right.
 And it's one of the reasons we made a bunch of changes, including changes about parking and configuration. But go ahead. Oh, no, that's okay. And we still need more talks. And also, because we have people from Somalia, Ethiopia, Eritrea, and there have been, I requested last year and was told by Debbie Chastleton of June 6th that there would be information in the languages Amharic, Oromo, Tigrinya, Somali, and Spanish needed. There's been nothing.
 for more than a year and a half. So our neighbors don't understand. Even Volunteers of America didn't know about this until last month when I came to tell them when we finally received things. We went for a year without information from your bureau. And I understand you don't have enough people or money to do the communications. We're trying to work with you. We want to help you. But there are alternatives that the city can do
 save the stress on our street, save our parking, and you can take care of the stormwater, which is a problem every 25 years by making – and we need more data, too, because when they came on July 10th, we didn't get all the data we asked for of the alternatives. Our cost-benefit analysis is that it's not good for our neighborhood. So, Ann, let me just respond very quickly. First of all, thank you for coming in. Is Debbie here?
 I asked Debbie to be here to have a chance to follow up with you. But she's no longer a part of the case. Matt Gall is. I understand, but she is the top person in the Bureau. So I'm going to ask her to spend a few minutes with you. I understand there are some neighbors that have concerns about bioswales, which, as you know, is the centerpiece for how we manage stormwater runoff. We have changed the design. We have added back some parking. I have looked at some of the back-and-forth concerns.
 And here's my commitment to you. If there's more we can do to address the legitimate concerns of neighbors, we'll keep working at it. And the Bureau is deeply committed to working with its stakeholders. But Debbie's here to have a comment. I can't resolve it today. I just want to let you know, I'm going to ask you, too. On July 10th, Matt Gow came out and did talk to us with the project manager, and they couldn't answer our questions. In fact, their data and graphics were incorrect.
 So we just want the correct information. We were asking you to look at – And can I – this is not the place? Why isn't it the place? Because Debbie is here to review whatever your concerns are. And you have a set of unique concerns that you've raised about this project, and I want to make sure they're dealt with at the highest level. That's great. I have a – we started a petition. I tried to figure out how to do a petition. I've been calling legal people. It's really hard to figure out how to work with you guys. Okay.
 And so it's a pre-petition. We've got 30 people in an hour to sign it yesterday. And Commissioner Fish, I hope we work with you. It's not been easy, actually, in this process. And even if we're going to be a sanctuary city, if people don't understand when they're living here what's going on, that doesn't make sense either. So we just...
 We have alternatives. Why can't we do them? Sure. So we'd like to see the petition before you leave today. If you could get copies to Carla right there, she'll make sure that we get those. Yes. And it sounds like a representative of the Bureau is here to meet with you as well. Thank you. And I'm just doing this in my volunteer time, and people are working. Because I'm on disability, I can come here. But the people in the neighborhood are...
 And also, we need education. Why is it important to have environmental things on the street? People, it would be full of garbage. Our street, even when the people from BES came to visit, our street is full of garbage. So we're just going to have planters full of garbage. The plants will die. It doesn't make sense at this point. We need some more communication. Great. Thank you. I just wanted to add, too, and it's off topic. I just remember, you know, the four people and the baby who...
 froze to death in Portland, and it's been not mentioned very much. So I hope you guys have processed that. I'm still processing that, and thank you. As are we. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you, Debbie. Next item, please, Carla. Item 978, request of Jeff Cook to address council regarding high school scholarship funds and traffic safety improvements. Good morning, humble and honorable servants. It's been 10 years since last I spoke to this august body in this chamber.
 And I told you then that I'd be back if the matter called for it, the matter calls for it. I recommend that you open the packet I left for you immediately so that we can be on the same page. Nick Fish, we the people are holding you in our thoughts and prayers. And I know that you know that you are stronger than disease. And you can and thus will defeat this. In this, the least churched city, in the least churched state in the Union, competing only with Vermont for that ignominious title.
 Our congregation, indeed our communion, is between the curves. That is where we prove our love or our lack thereof. Accordingly, on August 19, 2016, a 20-year-old Saudi Arabian national, a student here on a student visa enjoying the benefits of an education in America at PCC, is alleged to have been driving his golden Lexus.
 westbound on South East Hawthorne Boulevard at 3 o'clock in the afternoon at speeds up to 60 miles per hour.
 It's alleged that he struck and killed Falon Smart, a 15-year-old girl. It's also alleged that he left the scene only to return later and be arrested and held over for his initial hearing, at which, behind the glass in the dock in the court, Abdurahman Nura, age 20, wept like a baby. More for himself, I dare say, than for the crime of which he is accused, manslaughter.
 The bail was set at $1 million. On September 11, 2016, the Saudi consulate in Los Angeles handed over $100,000, 10%. That's all you need of this bail. Abdulrahman Noura was returned to the Sukkur in the comfort of his three roommates, who were with him at the car at the time. In June of this year, just a week prior to his scheduled trial, Abdulrahman Noura cut off his ankle bracelet and has fled the nation.
 You could call it a supreme irony, but I don't believe a supreme irony exists. We have yet to find it. There are so damned many ironies. Let's call it the powerfully poignant truth. Fallon Smart was born on September 11th, 2000. Every birthday she ever celebrated from age one was marred by the intersection of a national commemoration of a day of horror. Let August 19th now stand as a date that also shall live in infamy. We will never get her back.
 We may never get him back, but imagine, if you will, what $900,000 could do. I proposed the Fallon Smart Memorial Scholarship Fund to send our best and brightest, of which Fallon was one, to colleges anywhere within this state. And additionally, we could set aside a certain sum for traffic safety improvement measures, which, by the way, are already underway and for which I actually congratulate you. Well done. Nevertheless, it took the tragic death...
 to put in a pedestrian safety island on Hawthorne Boulevard, I urge you to stand and demand where it takes. Use your bully pulpit. There are one, two, three, four, five bully pulpits all previously used. Use that bully pulpit. Talk to whoever needs to be talked to and bring this money home. We the people don't seek retribution. Retribution would be asking for Abdurrahman's hands, which apparently the Sauds are good at cutting off. We the people demand restitution.
 Thank you. Thank you, sir. Should I return, it will be a matter of great consequence. Goodbye. Thank you. Next item, please. Item 979, request of Sarah Hobbs to address council regarding out of the darkness walk. Good luck topping that, Sarah. Good morning to you. It's good to see you. I'm on medication for lung cancer due to the ash that has me very sick.
 Hence, if I could get an extra minute or two if I needed, I'd appreciate it. As usual, no problem. Thank you. It's good to see you. Thank you for being here. For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs, and I'm a field advocate with the Oregon State Chapter of the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. September is Suicide Prevention Awareness Month. It is easy to get overwhelmed when we consider the enormity of the issue.
 Oregon, out of 50 states, is number 13 for its extreme high rate of suicide out of all 50 states. And out of every city in the nation, Portland is at number 18.
 The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention for the past 30 years has been working to address the issue through funding of research, strategic partnerships, including one with Portland Study Center to address the needs of children and youth who are survivors of suicide loss.
 and the National Shooting Sports Foundation to address the issue of firearms harm reduction at the point of sale, among many others. I personally am proud to be locally partnering with the police bureau's enhanced crisis intervention team, crisis response team, and the city's youth prevention office.
 The big event that the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention has every year is our Out of the Darkness community walk, which will be this year, October 7, 2018, at Veterans Memorial Coliseum. Either you all have personally told me, or members of your staff have told me that I need to officially invite you
 to get you all to come. So please, as of now, consider yourselves officially invited. As well, I was given a suggestion of thanking you all in advance for doing something like posting those flyers, say, in the window by your office front doors or up by your main desk to help us get out the word.
 I am very excited to say that in 2016, funding that came from the community walks funded a $300,000 OHSU VA research grant.
 They're looking at ways to identify Iraq-Afghanistan combat veterans who are at risk for suicide. So I'm going to take you all in advance. I know I'll see you all or someone from your staff in October. Thank you. Thank you, Sarah. We appreciate your being here. Sarah, what time is the march? The walk? Okay.
 I believe it starts at 10, 10 to 1230. I know we've already got commitments from officers from the Enhanced Crisis Intervention Team, Crisis Negotiation Team, people from Antoinette Peace Collaboratives are coming out too. Great. Okay. Thank you. Great. Thanks. And we will definitely post the flyer. Thank you. Next item, please.
 Item 980, request of Catherine Smith to address council regarding issues with the police. Yes, just go ahead. Thank you. Can you guys hear me? Yes, thank you. Okay. Mayor Ted Wheeler and commissioners, about a month ago when I testified here, Mayor, you said we've had multiple conversations about these police issues. One is about me asking you to talk to the police chief to transfer my case to a group of...
 Portland cops will investigate and prosecute. I don't have access to the police chief because his office employees illegally don't give him the certified letters and reports. I've sent him about 12, and most of the emails I sent him about 23, because some Portland police illegally ordered them not to. Well, no, we haven't had any conversations about that.
 Me testifying here about three minutes once a month and you not even asking me any questions or making comments isn't us having a conversation. I've sent you five certified letters and reports and never get a response from you. I sent you seven emails and only got two automatic general replies. I've put in four meeting requests, never getting a meeting with you. Your meeting screener saying you're very busy.
 A Portland Police facilitation of attempted murder cover-up should be one of your highest priorities to stop. When you pass the buck and assume some employee of yours will resolve these issues and crimes when they don't or can't or won't, you are at fault. It is your place, your job as police commissioner to address these issues.
 The last month when I testified, I made a few questions you should have or likely would have asked me if you didn't have what appears to be a gag order on you. One was, if they shoot you remotely, how do you know it's those Tigard cops? Two, what do they talk to you with? Three, what's their motive? Today, question number four you might have asked me is, why do you call this an attempted murder case? Because eight to ten at least Tigard cops have been shooting me 20 to 24 hours a day,
 for more than five years, and to my son at least eight hours a day when he's sleeping, they say, with microwave radiation weapons mainly and often with ultrasound weapons. They're obviously saturating us with radiation to destroy our health and to murder us. They remind me several times every day they are killing me and my son. These kinds of weapons are called soft kill or slow kill weapons, but you can keep shooting someone for a few minutes...
 or seconds in the brain and give them a stroke or to the heart and burn a hole in their artery or cause a heart attack to kill them very quickly. Attempted murder cases are supposed to be assigned to the homicide cops, not to BHU. Question number five. You said some Tiger cops have hundreds of other targets in Portland. Why don't they come here to testify about this since most Portland police don't even try to stop these assaults, tortures, and crimes?
 Because if those target cops don't want one of their targets to testify here or to ask for a meeting with you, et cetera, I just have a little bit more, especially about these weapons. They have all kinds of ways to distract or threaten people from it. They can talk to them and make them think or write down the wrong testifying date. They can give them instant flu symptoms with microwave or ultrasound. They can torture them, then torture them again if they go. They can blackmail them.
 And other things. Even though it may seem nobody else has come here to testify about someone or a tiger cop shooting them remotely, some of their targets have testified about some crime or police excessive force or shooting, some theft, a sickness or mental illness, some animal attack, some super inappropriate actions or behavior that someone or some people did to them.
 Sometimes a cop, tiger cop, made a comment to me saying here they did that. Voiced as cold, that's happened. They love to brag about the violence, destruction, and trauma they do to people, even kids. It's no risk to admit it to me. As you seem to know, they have many cops and other people covering up for them. I'll need you to start, Rob. Okay, thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 Did you have a talk before we introduce it? Yeah. Okay. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Mayor, I think it would be appropriate just to take one minute to give you, my colleagues, and the public an update on the fires in the gorge and the potential impact on our water supply. We've had a number of people ask, given the proximity of these fires, at what point may it have an impact on the Bull Run watershed and our water supply. Here's what I know.
 The city, through Eddie Campbell, who is an official of the Water Bureau, Director Stewart and others, is part of a joint incident command that was established by the county, the state, and the federal government. There has been an unusual amount of coordination among all the players. Those of you that know the Bull Run watershed and know all the protected areas around there know that it is largely federal land
 but there is some state land. We work hand in glove with state and federal partners who are the frontline firefighters, as it should be because they have the expertise. We are allowing helicopters to draw water from Blue Lake. Blue Lake is not a body of water that we supply to you as customers, but it is part of our emergency plan is that that water can be drawn and used for firefighting purposes.
 As of yesterday, there was a breach of the bull run by the fire. There is no imminent threat to actually the water supply, but we have two rangers and other professionals monitoring this closely. And here's the worst-case scenario.
 If at some point it is determined that because of the material in the air that's landing in the water or because of landslides or any other potential risk to our water supply, we will convert to the Columbia well water system on an interim basis. And we may do it earlier rather than later out of an abundance of caution.
 As my colleagues know, we have the two largest supplies of good, clean water in the state, the Bull Run watershed and the Columbia well water. So we can go back and forth. If we are required to go to well water, even if we do so on an interim basis out of an abundance of caution, our capacity is slightly below what we're currently delivering through the Bull Run.
 So there will be an appeal if we do that by the mayor and me for people to exercise prudence around conservation.
 If we switch, this would not be the greatest time to leave your sprinklers on all day or to take your 15th bath or whatever. But we're still going to be able to deliver close to 100 million gallons of fresh water, so it's not going to be an inconvenience to everybody. But that's the current news. The governor reached out to both the mayor and me a couple days ago to give us an update. We're getting regular updates. We'll share it with the public as we know it. But as of today, our water supply is safe.
 and is protected. And if that changes, we will switch to well water on an interim basis. And we're just hoping for some rain, and we're hoping that the winds continue blowing.
 the smoke and the fire away from our water supply. So I just want to give that update, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. And just briefly to add on to that, the city continues to work with our regional partners. We're in communication with the state regional partners. Portland Police and Portland Fire have had personnel on scene. Some of you may have seen...
 what is unfortunately becoming something of an iconic photo of a ladder truck over the Moulton Falls Lodge, protecting the lodge. That was actually a Portland fire ladder truck, and we have personnel on scene protecting structures. The police have been helping with evacuations. The Office of Emergency Management.
 is up and running. I actually have Jennifer Arguinzoni from my office in the EOC in Troutdale, and we're in regular communications with everybody. And if there's a change in the situation, obviously we'll update the public.
 So with that, and thank you for pinging us on that. I think it's appropriate that we did do that update. So thank you, Commissioner Fish. Next item, please, the time's certain. Let's do the consent. Actually, consent agenda first. It's my understanding one item has been pulled by Commissioner Saltzman back to his office per the Tuesday memo. That's issue or item 985 has been pulled back to Commissioner Saltzman's office. Have any other issues been pulled back?
 I do not have any more. Call the roll, please. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Please call the first time, sir. Item 981, appoint Leslie Hilbrun, Eduardo Pielma, and Eve Connell, and reappoint Ozzie Gonzalez and Brenda Metalbecki, please.
 Sorry, to the Board of Directors of the Regional Arts and Culture Council for terms to expire June 30, 2019. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. This is one of our happiest functions as a council. We get to welcome, thank, and ultimately approve new members to very important oversight bodies. And I want to invite Jeff Hawthorne, the Acting Executive Director of Regional Arts and Culture Council, to come forward. Jeff, you want to bring? Okay. No.
 Why don't you bring our guests, Eve Connell, Leslie Heilbrunn, and Eduardo Puelma, who are three fantastically qualified nominees for service on the Board of Directors of RAC. Jeff, why don't you just take a moment to set the context? Thank you.
 By tradition, we'll ask each nominee to say a few words about their interest in this position and something about the arts they're passionate about, and my colleagues will no doubt have some questions.
 Yes, thank you, Commissioner Fish, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Udeli. Good morning. Thank you for having us. My name is Jeff Hawthorne. I'm the interim executive director for the Regional Arts and Culture Council. We expect a new executive director to be in place around January after a national search that will get underway next month.
 In the meantime, I'm here to bring three board members who've recently been adopted and voted on to the RAC board and ask you to approve them as representatives of the City of Portland. We have six slots on the board that are reserved for your jurisdiction out of 22 board members total. I am happy to report that 45% of our board members identify as people of color.
 And among the entire board, they are artists and small business owners, CEOs and program managers, arts advocates, consultants, and community leaders. They bring skills including finance, grant making, nonprofit management, public relations, facilitation, fundraising, evaluation, and so much more.
 But they also bring us important community connections, including communities of color, Native American, Asian and Pacific Islander, Hispanic and Latinx, African American communities, and disability communities as well. And so now it is my pleasure to introduce to you the three board members that we are asking you to approve as representatives of the City of Portland, Eve Connell, Leslie Heilbrunn, and Eduardo Poelma.
 Eve, why don't you start? Yeah, sure. Thanks. Thanks for having us this morning. It's really terrific. I am an educator, a small press publisher, and an arts advocate. And I've been in Portland for about a dozen years and somehow have managed to do all sorts of really cool arts-related activities, including working with RAC over the last decade in various capacities, serving on nonprofit arts organization boards like the IPRC,
 and Art in Alberta. And I'm just a huge advocate for arts in our community, and my passion really is around bringing arts experiences and opportunities to our children, our community members, artists, and arts orgs. So I'm really thrilled to serve in this new capacity with RAC. Thanks. Thank you for being here.
 Please. Excuse me. I'm Leslie Heilbron. I am the director of the business customer group at Portland General Electric, which is, along with its employees, the largest donator for works for art, six years running. So I, along with many of my fellow employees, are incredibly passionate about the arts and want to help support it. I also grew up in...
 in the arts and have been a writer and editor for most of my professional career and just really value what the arts that I've grown up with has brought to me and just think it's critical for us in Portland who want a vibrant community to support the arts. I've been involved with a few nonprofits here that are arts-oriented and –
 I'm a supporter of arts education, and most importantly, the arts are really fun. And I just think it's – I'm honored to be able to serve in a way that can help bring that critical part and make us all well-rounded people and bring us together through the arts. Thank you very much. Eduardo, welcome. Thank you. Eduardo Palma. Thank you.
 I've been here just over 10 years. In the time I've been in Portland, I've really come to appreciate the work that RAC has done for education and advocacy. I think it's very important that RAC has a strategy around inclusion and equity. And for that reason, I think that my experience as a Latino, as a gay man, would help to bring...
 little bit more bring my experience to the board to help improve the board and to Build upon what the board has done so far. I grew up in the arts My father my uncle my grandfather were all artists. I studied art in college I now work with a lot of artists as well in my professional Capacity so this is something that is I
 always been a passion of mine and I want to help the city and the region further the work that the arts community can do. Thank you. Great questions. I actually have to have a question for Jeff. You mentioned that six of the 22 members are appointed by the City of Portland. Who appoints the others? Yes.
 We have slots for all of our major government funders, including Multnomah County, Washington County, Clackamas County, and Metro. And then the remainder of the slots are at large. And is the allocation of members proportional to the funding that each jurisdiction gives? Not directly proportional, but generally speaking, the city of Portland has six slots. Those other counties that I mentioned have two slots.
 That's something to just put on your to-do lists. City of Portland has been a strong funder for RAC throughout its time, including during the recession. I think it's well over $3 million at this point, plus the arts tax. So I want to make sure that we are encouraging other jurisdictions to pay their fair share, since it is a regional arts and culture event.
 Council and not the Portland. So whatever you can do in your professional, personal and board capacity to encourage and help other jurisdictions understand why this is crucial, not only for our hearts and souls, but also for our economy and for jobs and businesses. I will really appreciate that. Thank you. Mayor, I just want to observe that these three outstanding candidates are coming to the RAC board at a time of unprecedented activity.
 I think it's safe to say the single most important decision you'll make in your first six months as a board is that you will vote to hire the new executive director. And after 30 years of service to our community, Eloise leaves very big shoes. You're doing a national search. My guess is this is going to be a very, very desirable job. And you will have...
 the difficult task of selecting the next leader. So that will be, I think, at the top of your list. RAC currently is undergoing the first performance audit in its life cycle.
 something that both the RAC leadership and the city have jointly embraced as an opportunity to sort of take the temperature of the organization and to be able to give this new leader a document that says here's where we're hitting our mark and here's where we may need to pay some more attention. We have a contract with the city that comes up later this fall.
 I think the current goal, Mayor, I talked to the CAO the other day, I think the current goal, given the transition, is to extend that contract until you have a new leader and then to sit down and negotiate it. That would be my preference. There's only so much we can do at one time. Commissioner Fritz mentioned funding. It is, I think, the strong desire of this council not only to protect funding for the arts, and that's also funding at the federal level,
 but to encourage all of the RAC partners to pay their fair share. And I think that conversation about the regional participation is an important one, and one we'll want to tackle. Arts affordability is such an important issue currently as we are at risk of pricing out young creatives, and we're also at risk of making it impossible for our community-based arts organizations to continue to deliver great art.
 programs. It's something that Commissioner Udaly and I feel very strongly about. She has a long-standing affiliation with the Independent Publishing Resource Center, which has been nomadic lately, having to sort of find affordable space. And that, multiplied by so many other organizations that do good work but are getting priced out, really commands our attention. Thank you.
 We have a crack lawyer joining us today who happens to be in the rotation as our council attorney. He's also the lawyer that argued the arts tax. And I've been practicing law for over 20 years and serving on this council for nine. I thought it was the best appellate argument I've ever seen. And he wrote a brief, which if anyone's ever interested in the arts tax, whether you love it or you hate it,
 And he wrote a brief that explains the arts tax and the law under the Oregon Constitution. And it's really a model of good advocacy. So I'm not trying to jinx you on the decision, but we are hoping sooner rather than later to get a decision from the Oregon Supreme Court, which will be the sixth and final legal ruling on the constitutionality of the arts tax policy.
 And then finally, I'd be remiss if I didn't say how grateful we are for the steady leadership that Jeff Hawthorne is providing now. He stepped in, and we haven't missed a beat.
 And it was a pleasure to work with Jeff when he was the deputy director, and it's a pleasure to work with him as the acting executive director. We're very, very fortunate to have his capacity there. And colleagues, Linda McGeady is here. Linda, would you raise your hand? Linda is one of the leaders of the RAC board. And thank you, Linda, for taking time out to be here for this event. Very good. Public testimony on this item? We have one person, Veronica Bernier. All right, thank you. You can take a seat. We'll hear from one individual.
 Looks like we're going to have two, is my guess. Good morning. Is this your computer here? No, it stays with the table. Sometimes people do PowerPoint presentations and whatnot. Okay, you first. Thank you. And if you could just state your name for the record. We don't need addresses. Thank you. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. I do approve of the appointments and the reappointments of all individuals here.
 I think your qualifications are very good and essential for RAC. One of the concerns I have, though, with your organization is that I myself would like to see more of the artists tapped out in the community, in the homeless community. I think you have a group of people out there with a lot of artistic talent, and they need to be given that little more incentive from groups such as yours.
 to explore that talent a little bit more. And I think you have the ability to do that. I think we have many shelters in this city, which we're investing a tremendous amount of money into. I want to see more art on the walls created by the homeless, such as, you know, PNCA went into TPI and painted the doors. This has been very beneficial. It brings...
 a light into situations that is very positive. Art lifts the spirits of people, and I want to see the homeless community involved more to whatever degree, any direction they go, but have that opportunity to look at different things and different ways of doing things and different enjoyment that you can get from art. One of my first art pieces was
 that I purchased was from the late Dr. Nathan Schlimm and Sylvia Schlimm, great friends with the Schnitzer family. And I really enjoyed the artwork. And those are lasting things that you can purchase through people and remember them. It's essential that you reach out to the homeless community and begin seeing the true inspiration from art that it can bring people.
 An example, in the past I went to Dignity Village and it was a Native American. We went out, got a piece of cedar tree. He carved an Indian chief. Spectacular work, absolutely amazing. He carved also with a chainsaw a salmon. People purchased that from him.
 an amazing artist in Dignity Village that was absolutely phenomenal. Reach out to the homeless community and offer more to them. They are in the most need of great art and the ability to make art. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Oh, good morning. Thank you.
 Veronica Vernier, PSU Community Health and Safety and also Recreational Health and Safety in the Parks and School Health and Safety. It's kind of a broad umbrella, but that's how we operate. My background is I'm a former MICU nurse working after retirement in schools and recreation and parks.
 I do support the announcement of the people who came forward. I really commend them. I notice there's some Hispanics there, and that's good, and also a broad cultural blend.
 I think one of the biggest arenas in the city are recreation and parks. It's the reason we watch them. Randy Miller, one of our best instructors from Portland State, was one who instilled in us the idea of participating with the children in an observatory point and coming forward and supporting the kids while we watch them. We do look...
 at parks, regional parks and arts and council and other ways too. There is a Jones Gulch event coming up. I think it's on the 8th, and we'll be watching that too. We like to see people get out and recreate, and I think it's really important. Support the Rose, was it Schnitzer? Can't say that fast. Yes.
 Schnitzer Group and the Middleman Jewish Center, too, for their regional arts support in terms of our park and recreation department. The money is well-funded, and all the time when the kids go to events, you know they'll be well-covered and safe, so that's the main concern. That's why we study it at Portland State, and I do support the idea, and I encourage future study, too, because it's well worth the effort. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Colleagues, we'll entertain a motion. Thank you.
 So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Eudaly? Well, congratulations, everyone, and thank you for being willing to step up and serve our arts community and our city. Aye. Fritz? Thank you very much. It's a big commitment of time and energy to do this. I vividly remember when Mayor Sam Adams and I went to a RAC event and,
 started talking about the need for equity and inclusion in both the board and our community and the people who get the money. So I really appreciate the fact that, what is it, five years on at least, probably six or seven, that the board has not only embraced that concept but expanded on it and definitely that's illustrated by each of your backgrounds and your willingness to serve. I have to add my thanks to Denis as well. Denis was also the lawyer on the paid sick time.
 effort that we did in 2012-13. So obviously you've been involved in some very good things and keep up the good work. Thank you. Aye. Fish. Well, thank you for your service. And please don't hesitate to let us know what you need to be successful. And we are really excited about the prospect of a decision in the early part of next year of the new leader that we will all have a chance to work with. So thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Well, first of all, I'd like to congratulate Leslie, Eduardo, and Eve for stepping up, and I'd like to congratulate Ozzie and Brenda for being reappointed. As you have gathered, this is a very, very important board to the community. The service provided by RAC is one that we all notice and greatly appreciate, so we are so happy that you're willing to take the time to step forward. I feel like I should also congratulate...
 The attorney. And I'll just say I'm delighted to have an attorney in the room who isn't here because he's suing me for something or other. So thank you for that. I vote aye. The appointments are all approved. Thank you for being here, and thanks for sharing your stories with us. Next item, please.
 Item 982, adopt the recommendations contained within the growing transit communities plan. So, colleagues, this is an item by Commissioner Saltzman. He is obviously excused today, but I believe we – oh, good. We have Brendan from Commissioner Saltzman's office is going to speak, and then some representatives from PBOT are here as well. Brendan, should I turn this over to you first? Yes, sure. Thank you, Mayor. Good morning. Brendan Finn, Commissioner Saltzman's office. Yes.
 I feel like I need to congratulate Denise.
 Good morning. Well, first off, Mayor, before we dive into this item, I wanted to, while Dan's ill today, the fire commissioner is monitoring closely the situation that's going on with the wildfires. And since we're giving brief updates, I thought I'd give a very brief update on that because I'm watching the communications between him and the chief right now, and I want to make sure you are all apprised of how we're coordinated. Okay.
 To build on what Commissioner Fish was saying, the chief is out right now with the Sandy District Fire Chief, and they are touring the Bull Run watershed. While we're worried about the water supply, two of the other things that they're monitoring is the power lines that run through the watershed there, as well as some of the stations that are located within the watershed. Some of them are within the Bull Run, some of them are without.
 And as you alluded to, Mayor, Portland Fire Bureau's two engines that were there basically helped save the Multnomah Lodge. Chief Williams has been out for two and a half months fighting wildfires. He's our chief operations officer within the fire bureau.
 so we do have two other trucks that are deployed on the scenes. We have two here ready to go as well, and I wanted you to know, Commissioner Fritz, that we are coordinating with the Parks Bureau as well to make sure if anything happens within our borders or anything close that we're ready to attend to that. So with that, that's the end of my update on that. The chief was supposed to go to Florida this morning to go on vacation with his wife.
 You don't want to go to Florida right now, but he's here. Not a chance. And he's out right now surveying that situation. So I want to make you aware as well as the public. Thanks, David. Transferring to this item before you just briefly, Dan wanted to have this presented to you. The Growing Transit Communities Plan kind of represents a set of values that we have for our infrastructure investment around our transit lines that –
 first and foremost, represent equity, but safety is very important as well as our kind of efforts to address, to comply with our climate action plan. So with that, I'll stop and turn it over to staff here who have been working hard on this for their presentation. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good morning. My name is Mauricio Leclerc, Area and Project Planning Supervisor at PBAT. With me I have April Berthelsen, Senior Planner at PBAT, and the Project Manager for GTC, as well as Jeff Owen, Senior Planner from TriMet, who's going to join us. There you go. We're very happy to introduce you to the GTC, Growing Trust in Communities Plan, developed by PBAT with the community and recommended for City Council adoption.
 This plan is important for us to consider because it helps to identify the most beneficial projects for improving access to transit along three TriMet bus lines where we want to see increased bus service.
 Additionally, as Brandon mentioned, these bus lines serve equity and serve parts of East Portland. Many East Portlanders depend on taking the bus to get to work, school, and their daily needs. Many more people would like to take the bus, but there are barriers that prevent this. They include that the bus doesn't operate at the times they need to get to work or is not frequent enough or is difficult to get to the bus because of lack of sidewalks, safe crossings, and bike facilities.
 If you recall, we were here July 13th, and we had a discussion about transit, and in that case it was enhanced transit corridors. We had General Manager Neil McFarland talk about the importance of transit and how vital it is to partnership with the city to make sure that transit operates well for Trimac, but also for the customers. Then ETC was focused on...
 providing new tools for buses to move more efficiently. Now, with GTC, we're primarily working to provide access, safe access, to the bus and to the final destination. So with that, we want to thank the community representatives who participated in the planning process and the development of the growing transit community plan.
 Your involvement was essential to developing the plans and that reflect the community needs and values. Thank you also to the ODOT Transportation and Growth Management Program for the grant that made it possible to develop this plan. And thank you to TriMet for your coordination with PBAT and support to help development of the GTC plan. Partnerships with TriMet will remain important for the City of Portland. We hope to continue working together to improve transit service and access to transit. And with that, I'll pass it on to April Pertz and our project manager. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and members of the council. Thank you for this opportunity to present to you the Growing Transit Communities Plan. I am the project manager for this planning process, but this really was a team effort. So I do want to take a moment to acknowledge some of my team members that helped to develop
 make this plan happen. That includes Seth Wagner, as well as Shane Valli, and Kevin Donohue, who are here in the audience, as well as Francesca, who is unable, Patricola, who is unable to be here as she is out of the office. And much of what you will see is also the fruits of their work.
 Just to ground us in what we're here for today, we want to inform you of the planning process and the plan recommendations in the Growing Transit Communities Plan, and then recommend adoption of the plan, and then you're providing direction to PBOT staff to amend the transportation system plan to incorporate the GTC plan recommendations and projects during the next update of,
 the TSP. So we wouldn't be amending the TSP today, but there would be direction to incorporate this plan into it at the next update. What's the time frame for the next update? I will defer to you. Well, we're thinking of a technical update, you know, like a keep up with this plan, 2018. 2018. Thank you.
 Building a bit on what Mauricio was talking about in terms of the plans we're working on, the enhanced transit corridors plan that were here previously giving you a midpoint check-in in July that was more focused on the speed and reliability of transit operations. Today's plan is focused more on the safety and access to transit and some on operations.
 And we do believe that this is part of a virtuous upward cycle of transit investment, a positive feedback loop, if you will, that the more that we invest in access to transit and safety around transit, the more people can access it, the more people will take it.
 and the more people are on transit, that reinforces TriMet to add even more service. So as TriMet adds service and as we add improvements,
 these two can work together to then generate more ridership and more investment in transit for better service and onward. So we want to keep that spiral going upward in order to meet our city goals, really, including comprehensive plan goals around providing a good public transit system, transit equity,
 and increasing transit ridership and reducing vehicle miles traveled.
 All of this is also built on the foundation of TriMet service enhancement plans. And Jeff Owen here with TriMet will speak more to some of the transit service improvements at the end of the presentation. But TriMet was a very close partner in the development of this plan and working with us from the beginning and out in the community with us as well. Before you move on, does this map show that,
 Is, especially on the east side, is that where the city lines go? Or why are those big state blank spaces? That is a graphic representation of TriMet's service area for the full region. I think it's made a little blockish, so that might exaggerate some of the boundaries. But that should roughly represent your service area. And so that gap represents that we don't have much north-south...
 In East Portland, is that correct? That's past East Portland. Yeah, sorry, this does include all of the city limits and all of the service boundary from TriMet. So the only white spaces between any space is something outside of the TriMet service boundary. And outside of the city boundary as well? Yes. Thank you.
 So we are also building on a previous model of our 122nd Avenue partnership, which is really formative for what led us to applying for a grant and developing investment plans around additional corridors where we want to see increased transit service. And 122nd Avenue is one of those first ones that we are currently implementing, where TriMet has made commitments to making incremental improvements to service.
 toward achieving full frequent service along 122nd Avenue. And we are making investments on safety and access to 122nd, and that is underway now. Could I ask you a question? This is a bit of a rabbit hole, so I don't intend you to jump in fully, but maybe just dip your toes into it. We had a presentation not too long ago today
 related to the idea of separated bus lanes as being sort of a magic bullet type solution. Is there any contemplation of that kind of a strategy as part of this overall planning process? Sure.
 Dedicated bus lanes certainly could be one tool, but we'll be looking at multiple tools that we, in our presentation we talked about our toolbox, and we have about 20 tools, and some of them are different lanes that give some transit priority as well as signal priority. So that is under consideration as one of those tools? Yeah, but primarily that's ETC. We were here on July 13th introducing, you know, basically we need to do more to make sure that the buses operate efficiently so we can increase the service.
 that is again there are no silver bullets in transportation but you know that's one of the key 20 tools that we can employ through corridors to increase efficiency this is more about access you know people walking to their destination to the bus so we're kind of we have two
 two tracks in which the city can actually improve transit services. Very good. I appreciate it. Thank you. There is some overlap. So 122nd Avenue has both been identified as a location needing additional safety and access improvements to get to the bus, as well as operational improvements to help the bus move along. And this is more related to the safety and access points. Very good. And so that's why you want this as a component of the overall plan, because the plan gets at the actual transportation piece, if you will. Right.
 Yes. Okay, now it's all coming together in my head. Thank you. And that there are some corridors that need both. Okay, very good. Thank you. That's a helpful frame of reference for me. Great. Welcome. Thank you.
 So, kicking off more of focusing in on the growing transit communities plan, the overall goal is to develop investment plans for a few transit corridors to help support frequent transit service and multimodal transit-oriented development.
 and all of these help to grow transit communities. Our key role is what can we do in our right-of-way to help get people safely to the bus as well as help the bus move along. Our planning process kicked off in the fall of 2015 and wrapped up in the spring of 2017. Over that time, we met frequently with our partners, including TriMet and ODOT, our grant manager,
 as well as it formed a technical advisory group and a community advisory group that we checked in with frequently at each step of the planning process. And then we engaged the broader public in the corridors and more generally at key decision and input points with two open houses and two surveys and other efforts along the way, which has then helped us develop a plan and bring us here today.
 In addition to the open houses and surveys, we had eight community advisory group meetings and presented to various committees and groups. So we went out to the community as well as tabling at events in each corridor. And we tried to put an emphasis on reaching out to communities who may most depend upon transit or have a stake in it, including youth.
 and people who have limited English proficiency, low income or underrepresented communities.
 Our community advisory group represented many groups that are listed here. Many of them were transit riders themselves, but also include OPAL, members from the Youth Environmental Justice Alliance, or ASIA, which was included two David Douglas High School students, JOIN, who serves homeless and transitioning them from the streets to homes,
 Rosewood Initiative, East Portland Action Plan, Oregon Walk, Street Trust, AORDA, Pedestrian Advisory Committee, and various neighborhood associations. And I will invite a couple members from our committee advisory group to testify at the end.
 The first step in our planning process was to select some transit corridors, and we used criteria to help us do that, starting from what are bus lines out there today that don't yet have frequent service but are planned for future frequency or full frequent service and tri-met service enhancement plans. So what can we then do to help support that and encourage more service added?
 We started with various candidates that are mapped here and then evaluated them with our selection criteria, which really focused on where is their comprehensive plan zoning in place and land use patterns that would be supportive. This particular slide is...
 Do we have the hard copy of this? Yes, this is actually pulled from the report as well, from the plan. I'm just saying that for some reason it doesn't come across very well. It's very hard to read the chart.
 Could you tell us what that chart is if anyone's looking at home? Yes. So this was a table that shows each of the corridors listed in rows, and then the columns represent our criteria, and then the pie chart, sort of a consumer report style, a full circle if it was fully meeting the criteria versus a
 empty or corner if it was not. On the northern horizontal line, what are in those five shaded gray boxes? Yes. Opportunity, residential density, mixed-use land patterns, access, and equity, which are also the bullet-pointed items on the side there, given it's hard to read. Yes.
 So we evaluated each of the corridors on this, as well as looking at where is there a strong need for additional planning, and a diversity of corridor types so that this could serve as a model if we wanted to apply it in other places and we could learn from different contexts.
 And that led us to selecting these three corridors, notably all of them serving East Portland. This includes a segment of the Line 87 along Airport Way, east of I-205, Northeast Halsey between 47th and 126th along the Line 77, and Outer Stark to Burnside at 82nd along the Line 20.
 And then we looked at a buffer around each of these corridors of roughly a half mile. In each of these corridors, then we moved to an existing conditions and needs analysis where we build upon looking at past plans as well as looking at remaining deficiencies in existing conditions and certainly community input.
 We then evaluated all of the projects in order to try to prioritize and identify the most beneficial projects. And really relied on a data-driven process so that it was not just a popularity contest based on who showed up.
 We used criteria and measures for prioritizing the projects, and we got input from the community on what criteria were most important and double-weighted those criteria. We then evaluated, scored, and compared all the projects and took that back out to the community.
 The top three criteria that we double-weighted included transportation safety. So we looked at where are there issues, crash data, as well as factors that increase the possibility of crashes.
 We also looked at where could it make it easier to get to the bus stop specifically and equity measures. The other measures that we looked at include making it easier to get to other key places, if it was identified in a plan or prioritized previously, if there was a network connectivity benefit for generally getting around by walking or by biking,
 and where would it serve the most people nearby, and whether it could improve bus speed and reliability, and if there was public support. I did not know that. To help us understand the network connectivity benefit, we did get a little wonky.
 and innovative, I would say. We built a routable pedestrian network in our GIS mapping software to help us to simulate what it would be like as a pedestrian along the corridors and trying to simulate where it's difficult to cross the street or walk.
 So the model was sensitive to speed limits, number of lanes, and whether or not there was a crossing treatment signal or whether or not there were sidewalks, for example. And then we modeled each of the pedestrian projects on this network to score their increased access for people and then use that in our overall evaluation. Okay.
 Just this zoomed out shows you, so it's red where it's more difficult to cross, for example. So this is the model trying to simulate the pedestrian environment.
 In addition to our measures, we had some other considerations that helped us in selecting and recommending projects. And that included community support, funding opportunities, cost considerations, and technical feasibility. And then we looked for ways to bundle projects for implementation.
 That led us to developing corridor investment plans for all three corridors, identifying and prioritizing the most beneficial transit-supportive projects. Most of them are pedestrian and bicycle and access to transit projects, as well as transit stop improvements and then a few transit operational improvements.
 In summary, our Tier 1 top priority improvements, we identified nine bikeways, 13 sidewalk projects, 13 traffic signal projects, three corridor safety projects, which would include many improvements within them, four trail projects, 38 crossings, 20 pedestrian improvements on local streets.
 and 10 neighborhood greenway projects. Could I just clarify, the 38 crossings, do you mean crosswalks? What do you mean when you say crossings? Enhanced crossings. And so the treatment may depend upon the street and what our engineers determine is the appropriate level. But it could be an island or rectangular rapid-flash beacons or a hawk signal. So something that enhances the crossing to make it safe for people to cross and mark it. So it would be a marked crosswalk. Or pedestrians.
 And cyclists, of course. And cyclists. Okay, thank you. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a question? Yes, I did. Thank you. I'm sure you do. Was this constrained by any kind of funding dollar amount, or is this everything that you could possibly want in these corridors? Yes.
 It is not constrained to a specific dollar amount, but it is trying to be somewhat constrained in that it is not all of the needs. The needs are greater than this, but we try to find the most beneficial among them. And if we were to do all those tomorrow, do you have any kind of an estimate of what it would cost? Or if you're getting to that, I'll just wait. Thank you. Give me a moment and I'll get to that. Commissioner Newdale has got a question as well. I will come back to that.
 Just really quickly, these are maps from the plant. Could you go back to that last screen, please? So on the sidewalk projects and the crossing projects, I'm assuming that all of these involve curb cuts if they don't currently exist and if there's a curb to cut?
 Absolutely. When our engineers design them, then they would look to see where the curb ramps are required and if a curb ramp needs to be rebuilt.
 So the next three slides are just maps that are taken from the plan, from each of the corridor to represent where the projects are recommended and where some of them are clustered around stations or stops. So Halsey, Outer Stark, Burnside, and Airport Way.
 And the plan also, we looked at each corridor and tried to identify projects that bundled together well, in part by proximity or how they could benefit each other. And then within each bundle, identified Tier 1 and Tier 2 priorities based on scoring and public input.
 and feasibility. And then there's a profile for each of those bundles in the plan. And I just pulled some clips from one of those bundles to show it includes a map, a picture, and a table with the individual projects that are part of the bundle, and then some text around that and each of the projects with potential funding sources.
 This one here is the Stark-Washington couplet through the Gateway area with changes we recommend.
 In addition to corridor investment plans focused on capital projects, the plan does include some other recommendations, and so I just want to highlight those. The first one is recommending some future public connections across what is today private property. We identified four locations where it would really provide benefit and more direct access to transit facilities.
 if there was a future walkway or ped-bike connection through here. These are most likely to happen through the development review process at the time that properties redevelop or add improvements and working with our development services staff. We wanted to identify these so that others could be aware of it. And all of these sites currently do not meet our connectivity policy and standards.
 There are additional recommendations in the plan that are more programmatic or other initiatives and want to highlight some of those examples. One would be an info kiosk at the Juneville Youth Justice Center
 and other transportation demand management strategies, particularly around education and encouragement, as well as better lighting and other crime prevention through environmental design strategies. Better lighting was a recurrent theme, and that's something that we'd want to integrate into most all the capital projects. Thanks.
 Others include murals or other livable streets and placemaking elements. And the transit youth pass, which was a priority of our two youth members of the community advisory group. Can you go back one slide for me? So we're going to be having a big discussion this year about the transit youth pass, including how to pay for it. And I understand that what's before us today is aspirational. We don't actually have a source of funding to pay for it on any of this. Is...
 Is it listed here as a recommendation because you have been tasked with looking for some new revenue source or new way to cover that cost?
 No, I would defer to my colleagues in the Bureau who are working more on this. We identified it as something that was important to community members and reinforced it as a recommendation to pursue. Therefore, they're really not unique to this particular plan because it's a broader conversation. But this plan, talking to the community, it supported the argument that we need to work on this. Yes.
 There's a need out there in East Portland. But by accepting this plan, are we accepting that we have a responsibility to help either pay for it or figure out how to pay for it? That would be a separate action, I think, for now. That would be a separate action. This would be more recognizing the value and recommending to pursue it. To explore it. To explore it. And this is a non-binding resolution, right? Yes. Correct. Thank you. Thank you.
 And given that we couldn't do everything through this planning process, we did identify four future studies that we'd recommend pursuing in the future with additional funding.
 That includes the Outer Star Corridor plan to look east of Gateway more closely. I'm sorry to interrupt. No, that's okay. You know, my brain is on slow-mo today. With regard to the prior slide, I just want to make sure that it is included in the record that we already have an extensive public record around the youth pass. Okay.
 And whatever we do here today, I want to make sure that we are acknowledging that public record exists, and a lot has been said on that subject. Thank you. None of which is changed by anything we discuss or vote on today. Yes. Thank you. Sorry to interrupt. Back to the future studies. So the first one being Outer Stark Corridor Plan to look at the roadway east of Gateway and what are the opportunities there to improve safety and access there.
 the Burnside and 82nd Avenue traffic circulation study, which we would want to look more closely at this area together with ODOT to see if there is a way that we can address a missing link in the bike lane along Burnside approaching 82nd.
 In addition, an 82nd Avenue streetscape plan focused in from the Northeast Holiday to Shuler, which is approaching the 82nd Avenue MAX station in that area. And in addition, an airport way and I-205 transit study to look at ways to get the bus out of the congestion and delay that is happening near that interchange.
 We do have a few early implementation achievements that I'm happy to report. We're making some progress. We do have some funding that we have been awarded and secured for a few capital projects.
 some advancement on the transit use pass, which we'll defer to other days, triumet service increases on the Line 2077 and the 87, which Jeff will talk more about, and new funding for transit service and the state transportation bill, which creates opportunities for more.
 Some of the funded projects that I'm going to highlight, we have $5 million of both local funds and regional flexible fund allocation for the housing, street safety, and access to transit. And that funding will become available in 2019 to 2021. Okay.
 It was ranked the number one recommended project in the region through the metro process for selecting projects. And I want to give props to my colleague, Zeph Wagner, who prepared that application and really hit the ball out of the park on this. So we're really happy to see this funding coming. Thank you.
 This is a map that identifies those funded improvements that are focused around access to the 82nd Avenue MAX station and include a separated bike lane where there is not one. Two ways on the Halsey overpass as well as a shared path along the south side of Halsey and a pathway to connect Halsey.
 to the west of 82nd Avenue and some crossings and sidewalk access to bus stops.
 We have a concept of a mini roundabout included in this project at Halsey and roughly 80th. This is adjacent to the join day space, which were members of our community advisory group and very involved from the beginning and helped us see some of the safety issues for people coming to and from their sites. And we do think that this will make improvements for all and help slow down traffic. Okay.
 and the overpass bike facility and the pathway along the Jones-Moore and Halsey. In addition, we have some funding for making some improvements along Outer Stark.
 Through our Fixing Our Streets program, there's $220,000 to provide enhanced pedestrian crossings, and we have, based on the Growing Transit Communities Plan recommendations, selected two locations at 146, which will serve the Four Corners School, and at 119th.
 In addition, through our Vision Zero team, there are $500,000 of funding for additional safety improvements, and this plan can help inform the selection of those improvements that are still to be scoped, but an opportunity to fund. And that is what I have, and for now I'm going to turn it over to Jeff Owen to talk more about the transit service. Thank you.
 Great, thank you. Just wanted to take a real quick minute to mention a few improvements that have recently gone into service for bus service improvements that are related to this plan. Would you just remind the people watching at home who you are and who you represent? Absolutely, thank you. Jeff Owen, working at TriMet in our planning and policy group. So I'm a senior planner working on these types of plans and other similar related efforts. Thank you.
 So this, what we see on the screen, is just a snapshot of some improvements that have gone into bus service. So line 87, March of last year, 16, more buses were added. March of this year, a few months ago, line 20 also added more frequent buses on weekdays. So these are just some of the types of improvements.
 Just this week, September 2017, saw improvements for line 77, Broadway and Halsey. And then in March of 18, just six months ahead of us here, line 87 in the service area will also be improved, split into two different bus lines to better match the demand and the conditions on the streets. So again, just a quick sample of some of the improvements we're seeing.
 This type of an arrangement that we've referred to here is very powerful for TriMet and for riders all across the region and in the city to really help bus improvements go hand-in-hand with physical infrastructure improvements. That's not, of course, the only way that bus service improvements get added, but these are just a few highlights that really point to the great partnerships between agencies. Can I ask you a couple questions? Yes. Okay.
 So I'm interested in just identifying examples of where these kinds of changes result in faster times for buses, better service for the people we serve. And I think sometimes it's useful to point out what is currently working, what's the model, either here or some other city.
 I'll give you a couple of examples. I went on a best practices trip I think a year or two ago to Denver, and one of the highlights of that trip was taking bus rapid transit to Boulder. And what was cool about it is the whole thing was dedicated lanes, dedicated infrastructure. It was convenient to access. It was fast. It was affordable. But a lot of money obviously went into building out that system.
 But I thought that was sort of state of the art. Obviously, we have on I-5, we have a dedicated lane going north. So on certain hours, we encourage certain kind of use there. We have a downtown, we have a dedicated transit lane where we've essentially –
 taken a couple of lanes and said this is for light rail and buses. So that seems to be a kind of a model. What are some other examples, both locally or perhaps in peer cities, that you look to that reflects sort of the future that we're working towards?
 Absolutely. One way to think about that is, Mauricio, a minute ago mentioned kind of the ETC effort, sorry for the acronyms, but enhanced transit would be very close to the things that you're mentioning of a wide range of tools in a toolbox to dispose that could help transit be faster and more reliable. This effort today is mostly just accessing the bus stops locally.
 But along with your suggestions, I've also been on that BRT between Denver-Boulder. There are definitely a number of applications that something like that could be applicable on. There's also a number of other solutions such as signals that most people don't exactly think of as often that can really help buses get through intersections and serve a stop on the other side of the intersection, for example, if needed.
 and really a whole list of possible improvements that range from lower investment to higher investment. So it's really a pretty complex bucket of solutions out there, especially for this city and around the region. Today's point was really just to highlight a few slight improvements for bus service just to this corridor. Well, I appreciate that. And so just looking forward,
 If there are examples both regionally or in peer cities where you think we hit the right balance, where it's convenient, accessible, where the service, you know, where people can get on a bus to their destination in a timely manner and the like, I would be interested in learning more about that. So I would encourage you, if you had the time, to send out an email with some examples of,
 of homework that we could take a look at and just better understand where is this working, what are the kind of infrastructure investments that have proven to be the most successful, and how does that apply to the choices we're going to be making in Portland in the next 10 years? Thank you.
 Absolutely. There will be many topics definitely coming back, touching on those items. So thank you. That would be a good idea. As part of VTC, we've been looking at what other cities are doing, and we have, for example, a great example in Seattle to the north, the Rapid Ride Network, in a way in which –
 In a way, you want to do two things. You want to continue to invest in key corridors with BRT lines and dedicated bus lanes, but also you want to invest in the workforce of the system, the buses, and some of the improvements, some of the 20 tools that we have.
 They all work. We go out there and we look at the data. We need what the operators are saying. And we begin to look at opportunities, maybe a trans-external priority here, maybe a pro-time lane so that we remove parking during the peak time so the bus gets through. It's a complicated, congested area. So I think we want to have a flexibility for how we implement that. In some cases, it may be complex.
 incremental. In some cases we want to look at a whole corridor and see this potential and go ahead and make a transformative project out of it.
 Some other example cities that we're looking to besides Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Minneapolis is even doing some things. So we're certainly out there looking, and we'll try to collect some more information and share. Thank you. Give it Vancouver. And I, too, hope to go visit this month the Denver to Boulder line. Well, when you go to Boulder, make sure you stop and visit the E-Town.
 and my cousin Nick Warner who has a radio show out of Boulder but that line is actually is extraordinary and again I know they spent a fortune investing in infrastructure but boy is it state of the art
 And we want to look at investments on all levels, both spot improvements throughout the network as well as larger capital projects. So a question for TriMet. When are you thinking you might be able to do north-south service on 148th and 162nd?
 So those are referenced within our service enhancement plans, the graphic early on that gave us a little bit of trouble. I don't have the exact dates in front of me at this time, but they are part of those processes that are adopted by our board and are full of requirements.
 community input. So I don't have the exact answer with me today, I'm sorry. Is it soonish or not soonish? It's definitely soonish. It is part of the improvements that we can be looking forward to in the years to come. Great, thank you. I understand there is plans for one start to that improvement starting in March of 2018, I believe it is, to introduce a new service on 1-60-second.
 not full frequent and weekdays only. So I know there's interest in extending that to the weekends, but this would be a first step. That's a good start. Thank you. So I know we want to get to public testimony. When you come back after testimony, if I could...
 know the number for the total estimated cost of this? Not now, though. And then also, could you tell me where it references Youth Pass in the report? Because I haven't been able to see. I can answer both of those now. Okay. The total cost of the capital projects improvements is roughly $75 million. And the Youth Pass recommendations...
 You can tell me later, that's fine. I'm sure we'll have other questions. In that $75 million, now I'm speaking to Chief of Staff Finn as well, I would like in the budget presentations from PBOT to understand how you're going to allocate the new money we're going to get from the state via the increased state gas tax, the $16 to $30 million that was referenced, and then all these other things. How do you make the decisions? Does council have any input into the decisions on how...
 projects are prioritized. I know we want to get some public testimony. Thank you. The youth pass is on page 88. Thank you. Very good. Carla, do we have people signed up for public testimony? I think she had some invited testimony first. Oh, we do. Very good. Thank you for the reminder. I would like to begin by inviting two members of our community advisory group to testify and that includes Jim Howell and Kim Marks. Very good. I don't know if they would like to come up.
 Thank you. And gentlemen, if you could introduce yourselves again for the record, we'd appreciate it. And I will say that there are others who planned to attend to testify but were unable to this morning. And so they have submitted written testimony and letters. Two of those include JOIN as well as Oregon Walk. So I think you have those letters or they'll be coming to you shortly. Wonderful. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. My name is Cal Marks. I am the Director of Transportation Equity at the Rosewood Initiative. I'm here today to support the growing GTC, because I'm not going to be able to say that, plan today. I...
 We'd like to ask you to adopt this plan, knowing full well that there is no money right now to actually implement this plan. We look forward to...
 working with you and PBOT to find funding for the projects listed in the plan. This plan will help create better access to transportation by creating crosswalks and other infrastructure improvements that will help people in East Portland access
 transportation, and I would note that East Portland has both the most reliant number of people for the system as well as the highest proportion of people of concern.
 I would be remiss if I didn't also address a couple things that Commissioner Fritz asked about North-South service as an aside. The gap between North-South service in East Portland and West Gresham is 2.9 miles. Okay.
 TriMet is planning to start service on 162nd in March of 2018, but I would note that that service is only going to be Monday through Friday and will only have headways or the gap between buses will be 45 minutes.
 Um, sadly, I would not characterize that as a good start. It's more of a disappointing start, because the reality is people will not use that service as it currently exists. That service will have two purposes. One, to get people to the corridor so they can reach, um...
 you know, family wage jobs, but the other is also to make connections to the east-west lines, and that will be very difficult for people to do with those types of headways. Thank you.
 TriMet has said that they'd be willing to look at increasing frequency if 162nd had improvements. That would be primarily north of Halsey to Airport Way along 162nd and 158th.
 We are working to try to get that portion onto the regional transportation plan. And if we can do that, that would be a good access to funds. I would also note that 148th is also in the same situation where there are extensive investments needed to actually...
 get TriMet to put service on that road. It is going to be... It's the same situation. It's Halsey heading north that the improvements are needed. I would... Sorry, I didn't prepare my comments today. So those are necessary improvements
 those oh the last thing I wanted to point out is that the recent transportation bill in out of in HB 2017 has a requirement that TriMet and other agencies are supposed to focus their new revenues on communities with high percentage of
 low-income people. That means, for this area, East Portland. We all have to work hard to make sure that TriMet actually fulfills that obligation. And
 partly through their service enhancement plan, but also through other investments like 148th and 162nd. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for that. I just want to comment, though, that I go on the 44 in southwest Portland. Much of that line does not have improvements along the way, so the suggestion that you have to wait for the improvements before you give the bus service is –
 not proven by that. Secondly, the 44 is great during the week and it's every 15 minutes, but you'll think it's only going to be every 45 during the week even because every 45 is what the 44 ends on weekends and it's really quite useless. If you miss it, you've got to walk a mile or more if you're fortunate enough to be able to walk.
 So seriously, it's obviously going to be a longer conversation, but I want to support what you and the others in East Portland are advocating for. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. My name is Jim Howell. I'm here to ask you to endorse the growing transit communities plan. I was asked to be on the advisory committee to represent the interests of those along Airport Way.
 As you know, no one lives along Airport Way east of I-205, and the people that ride the bus I think probably are too busy to go to meetings, so that was given to me. I'm Rick, I'm a former transit planner, which I met. And so the first thing I wanted to do is wonder why there was so little ridership on Line 87.
 It's a U-shaped route and part of the route is a cross town line on 181st, which is a needed route and needs a lot better service. And then there's a section along Airport Way and then it doubles back on 102nd and 105th back to the Gateway Transit Center.
 I went out there to see what was going on and one way of knowing what's needed is look at traffic. And you go out there at 4 o'clock in the afternoon and you can see cars queued up for over half a mile on Airport Way going westbound trying to get on the northbound ramp to General Jackson Bridge. Probably 90% of the license plates are Washington license plates.
 So a lot of the people working out there are Washington residents. Well, do they have a transit alternative? And the answer is no. There's no way that this line connects to anything that goes across the Glen Jackson Bridge. Okay.
 to Washington. And so consequently, the congestion problems that were mentioned as a problem of getting buses through the congestion are largely due to people trying to get to their jobs with no transit. I pointed this out and made some slight route suggestions.
 change suggestions and connectivity suggestions. I was informed that that was beyond the scope of this project, which I understand, but it is. But those are the things that have to be addressed, and I haven't seen either TriMet or CTRAN or ODOT or a WSDOT addressing these issues. And consequently, I-205 backs up for miles every day
 Again, for traffic trying to get across the Glen Jackson Bridge. And a lot of it has to do with these two on-ramps, one from Airport Way and the other from Sandy, clogging up those lanes. And sometimes there's a fairly simple bus solution to what they...
 a problem like this. I noticed ODOT just was going to fast-track a $30 million widening of I-205 further south, which is kind of like...
 I'm sure you've heard the story of the junk under the lamppost, but they're addressing the wrong locations. But in any event, I hope you support this plan. It does a lot of good to help access transit. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Did you have any more invited testimony, or can we move to public?
 Very good. Carla, how many people are signed up for public testimony? We have seven. Seven. Can people try and keep that within two minutes each? I won't be hardcore about it, but we're running a bit behind here. Thank you. The first three are Terry Parker, Terry Dublinski-Milton, and Alan Kessler. Very good. Thank you. Come on up. Terry, do you want to start? Sure.
 Okay. Thank you. Terry Dublinski-Milton. I will be speaking mostly on behalf of the Coalition of Southeast Uplift, where I'm currently co-chair. I was elected in July with Ruben Demling from Sunnyside. If I could have an extra minute or so just to cover that because we are a large coalition. Very good. I live 61st, 6111 East Burnside. And I would like to thank –
 the City Council, and particularly PBOT, for this. The Growing Trans Communities Project, we haven't endorsed it as a concept, but we've endorsed multiple projects. And because Southeast Uplift feels this will be transformative to the Northeast community,
 quadrant of our coalition. Particularly the Washington bike lanes which received funding will access the Outer 20 with the J District and Montevilla. The 60th MAC Station and the North Tabor Access as part of this was first identified in 2007 and has never been adopted by City Council. The 60th MAC Station is one of the least utilized MAC Stations when it comes to bike and pedestrian access even though it has great
 conductivity through the max system because it's hard to get to. One of the intersections that would be covered would connect the pocket of North Tabor which has no north-south connections out of it because it's disconnected by geography and so it would create a crossing on Gleason.
 And this creates all sorts of needed transit improvements, both the 77 and the 20, particularly Northeast Halsey. We've been endorsing this for several years for the improvements. I would like to thank Zef Wagner in particular for the follow-through for about three or four years' worth of meetings on this to get the Halsey improvements federally funded.
 And so all of this would create a whole conductivity around Montevilla and North Tabor that we don't currently have for active transportation.
 Now, personally, I want to move into my personal opinion right here. Not only do I find this absolutely necessary and as a model, but we also need to move to more dedicated lanes. I like the fact that people have been speaking up on council for dedicated transit lanes. 82nd, Sandy, MLK, all of these are good options.
 And to think a little bit further on this project, it proves a lot of improvements to the frequent bus line and outer Burnside on 20, 20 on the line 20. But between 41st and 71st, we have that dangerous pro tem parking, which is three lanes of travel where the parking disappears and then reappears
 And it's not discussed here. That's Project 70010 on the Transportation Systems Plan. And when you improve all the access in the outer 20, it's going to create more safety problems on the inner neighborhood in the 60s, 50s, 40s.
 So I really would like to thank PBOT and City Council on this. I guess I spoke fairly fast, and I don't need much more extra time. So I'd like to plug one more project, the 60s Greenway, which on this project ends at Davis. If we could continue it all the way to Lincoln, that would encourage income equity to access Mount Tabor Park.
 Because right now there's not a good max access. But this would encourage access to the 60th Max Station so people from East Portland would be able to access the park. We have put a lot of money into with the park spawn, which Commissioner Fritz knows. So thank you, Commissioner Uleday, Mayor Wheeler, Fritz, and Fish. Thanks, Terry. Appreciate it. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor. I want to thank Council. My name is Alan Kessler. I'm here with the Portland Bus Lane Project. I want to thank the fantastic questions that we got from the panel today. It seems like you're all focusing on a need to improve transit, especially in the eastern part of the city, a need to get the improvements that will improve service now, and need to dedicate space so that our buses work.
 We support the plan, we fully support the plan, but we think we should go further. The last two pages of the document, the last two pages of the GTC plan, which talk about future study, were really what we honed in on. And those are right in line with the questions that you were asking. I just want to quote from page 89 of the document. It's talking about two options for the Outer Start Quarter Plan.
 It says in the little paragraph, while option two would provide a much higher safety benefit than option one, it would also have a greater impact on traffic operations and would be a more transformative project for surrounding neighborhoods. I'd argue that when you came at the ETC and ordered PBOT to be aggressive in implementing policies, these sort of transformative projects are exactly what you were asking for.
 So I would ask you to amend the resolution today and fully fund or at least order PBOT to go back and give you a proposal to fully fund this out-restore corridor plan, which will add dedicated lanes to the center and clear up a huge spot of congestion.
 We feel the same way about the transit way in I-205 transit study, which is on the last page of the document. Again, funding the studies that will show us how to dedicate space to give priority to transit will have the best impact, the best return on investment.
 In terms of ROI, we should be thinking about how we can leverage our money to free up money for TriMet. So we saw some presentation from TriMet staff that certain routes will have increased headways, and one of the headways in particular is going to be decreased down to 20 minutes. May I just have a little bit more time? Yes, sure. Go ahead.
 will be decreased down to 20 minutes uh that's not good enough if you're relying on transit uh and a 20-minute headway you have to watch your watch you have to have an app you have to know when the bus is coming if you get those down to 10 or 15 minutes you don't all of a sudden you just show up and the bus is there and that's that's what we need to be aiming for to get try met the funds that they need to make those headways possible we need to get out of their way you as the city
 the space. And TriMet isn't asking you very well for the space that they need to get to that city. I think that you should share leadership and you should say, we want a city where the buses work well. We want a city where transit works well. We need to get our cars out of the way so the buses can go fast, so we stop burning money and congestion, and we can get those 10 or 15-minute headways all across the city to have the sort of equitable city that we want. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Terry Parker. My comments are strictly related to the Halsey plan, and I have written it for three minutes. Starting with Halsey Street ramp over 82nd Avenue, it is too narrow to accommodate both a two-way bikeway and travel lanes wide enough for driver safety. This is especially true at the pinch point of the collapsible crash barrier at the top of the I-84 entrance ramp.
 At 80th and Halsey, a roundabout proposal would have drivers and bicyclists coming from all directions and angles, making the street anything but safe. With an I-84 exit at 68th and Halsey, an eastbound bike lane on the south side of Halsey will ridicule Vision Zero by creating even more safety conflicts between drivers and bicyclists. 68th is also the most direct route to Fred Meyer from the neighborhoods north of Halsey.
 With offset intersections on Halsey and most cross streets on the north side only a block long between 67th and 80th, a far safer outside-of-the-box option would be to construct a two-way multi-use path on the north side of Halsey directly connected to the 82nd MAC station with an easement on the fringe of the old Elmer's Restaurant parking lot.
 Since the westbound peak travel lane on Halsey between 65th and 60th was removed, morning peak period traffic backs up six blocks or more
 due to drivers waiting to turn left at 60th for access to I-84. Far more conflicts between vehicles and pedestrians are also taking place at 60th. One of the top priorities of the Rose City Park Neighborhood Association is for PBOT to install a left turn signal at this intersection. If a bicycle crossing is constructed at 61st and Halsey, it must be designed to not interfere with the ability of drivers to pass stop vehicles in a protected left turn lane at 60th.
 Additionally, two peak period motor vehicle lanes each direction need to be retained between 60th and 57th to accommodate traffic making the Halsey jog.
 The neighbors on my street and myself also want to make sure on-street parking on Halsey is retained between 66th and 63rd, so that overflow from the Providence Home Service's 215-space parking lot that can only be accessed from Halsey will not engulf curb space on the residential streets.
 There is also concern from within the Rose City Park neighborhood about lane reconfiguration on Halsey between 57th and the Hollywood District that would remove peak period motor vehicle lanes and off-peak parking. A bike road is already established two blocks to the north between Rose City Park and the Hollywood Business District. My read of the growing transit community plans is that it is more of an expensive special interest bicycle infrastructure scheme than
 scheme that will increase congestion, add emissions, and actually slow down transit as opposed to a plan that will augment transit connectivity. Finally, the comp plan is upzoning scores of working class single family properties in the Northeast 60th MAC station area. Updated infrastructure needs to be in place before any new development occurs to improve
 To complement PBOT's plan to widen sidewalks on 60th between Halsey and the Mack Station, a vision is being brought forward to make this street become a placemaking gateway of connectivity with the installation of pedestrian-scale ornamental street lighting. Terry, are you close to your three and a half minutes? A grant has been applied.
 To start this vision with a demonstration project. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thanks to all three of you for your testimony. Next three, please. Are Bob Richardson, Matt Ferris-Smith, and Luke Norman. Good morning. Thanks for being here.
 Would you like to start? Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Bob Richardson. I own a home on 60th Avenue, which is about 700 feet from a MAX station serving three MAX lines. It's directly on a bus line and a short walk to two more bus lines. And I encourage you to review the attached images while I read along. All of these are taken within a block or two of the MAX station.
 We've owned this property since 2002 and have been involved off and on in numerous neighborhood and public planning efforts over the past 15 years in an effort to improve pedestrian and bicycle access and safety in the Rose City Park neighborhood, including the 60th Avenue Station Community Project in 2011 and the Sullivan's Gulch Trail Concept Plan in 2012.
 Many ideas from these efforts are reflected in the Middle Halsey portion of the growing transit communities plan. I would like to point out that this proposal will not only bring much-needed and decades-delayed infrastructure to the neighborhood,
 In our immediate area, it will right a wrong which was committed by the city in the mid-20th century when the sidewalks on 60th were narrowed to a substandard 3 1⁄2 feet and the planting strips were removed in an effort to modernize the street for auto and truck traffic. That's correct. The street was constructed with the sidewalks which would meet today's guidelines but were later stripped away in light of views at the time about progress.
 Too often I've watched accidents and close calls as pedestrians have to step into the street in order to pass each other. Wheelchair users often navigate in the roadway as the sidewalk is either too bumpy or too narrow to pass any other users. That's why I'm here today to urge council to approve this plan and to ensure that the funding mechanisms eventually are in place to make it happen.
 This will not only improve the daily lives of thousands of residents, not only help meet our climate goals and increase walking and biking, it will right a historic wrong and provide relief to those who need it most. Please vote to approve the growing transit communities plan. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Matt Ferris-Smith. Members of City Council, thanks for giving me the chance to speak today. As someone who uses our bus system in Portland, I also bike and I walk, I'm a strong supporter of the Growing Transit Communities Plan. The GTC plan is important to me because it will help provide residents in Portland with safer and more reliable transportation choices.
 And the things that GTC calls for, things like making crossings safer, filling sidewalk gaps, adjusting traffic signals, these changes are not flashy, but they are changes that will make life better and safer for Portland residents day in and day out. And while the GTC makes many good recommendations, there are two items in the GTC that I think deserve priority for funding. And these are essentially identical to what Alan was talking about earlier.
 One, I would love to see City Council and PBAP prioritize funding to support bus reliability for people who use Line 20 on Outer Southeast Dark Street.
 The second thing, please also prioritize funding to support bus reliability for people who use Line 87 on Northeast Airport Way. Lines 20 and 87 are both critical for people getting to work, school, and social services. Yet both Lines 20 and 87 are suffering from major slowdowns caused by people driving private vehicles, which are the lowest priority mode under Portland's comprehensive plan.
 Thank you for supporting the growing transit communities plan and for doing what you can to prioritize funding to support the reliability of lines 20 and 87. Thank you for your testimony. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Luke Norman. I want to thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for taking the time to listen to our comments today. I am also here for the Portland Bus Lane Project and as you've heard, we fully support the adoption of the growing transit communities plan.
 In particular, we're asking council to prioritize and fund the future studies that were mentioned towards the end of the plan, specifically the Outer Star Corridor Plan and the Airport Way and I-205 Transit Study.
 These studies will look for ways to increase transportation connections and reliability for East Portland residents, particularly by looking at ways of prioritizing buses and looking at bus lanes, something that
 A number of you have mentioned, even though this plan is focused mainly on connections, it's also looking for the future and saying, if we're doing all this work to get it easier to the buses, it doesn't help if people can't rely on them. If you can't make it to a job, if you can't make it to pick up a kid. So I just want to personalize a little bit what those benefits would bring. If you look at Outer Stark, right now there are 10,000 residents who live there who are commuting somewhere else during the day to get to work.
 Many of those rely on line 20. Even though it's just a couple blocks away from the blue line max, at some of the stops, over 800 people a day get on or get off. However, this line, TriMet and PBOT have identified as one of the most severely congested in our whole network.
 So the study there would look at how to provide bus lanes and other priorities. Similarly, Airport Way attracts 20,000 workers a day there. This provides many wage jobs that allow people to continue to live in our city.
 As Jim Howell mentioned, the congestion there is severe, so severe that it prevents the bus from turning left and getting over to the Gateway Transit Center where people can transfer to other parts of the city. So for both of those, we're asking council to fund that.
 to go to PBOT and say, prioritize these studies and fund them. One additional piece I'd say, when this plan started, we didn't have the state transportation package. This has totally changed the game. This is allowing TriMet to bring a significant new investment. However, if we don't want these new buses stuck in the same traffic that buses face today, the city needs to take leadership and look at how can we as a city work with TriMet to make buses reliable and dependable.
 Thank you. Thank you for your testimony, all three of you. Thank you. The last person I have is Sabrina, I believe it's Goyal. Last but never least. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Sabrina Gogol, and I live in the Rose City Park neighborhood. And like you've heard from testimony from Alan and Matt and Luke, I'm also in support of fully funding those two studies.
 that are in the last part of the growing, the GTC plan. And I have sort of a personal reason to support those two studies. I just volunteered for Sunday Parkways in East Portland a couple weeks ago, and it was my first transit volunteering activity. This is new for me. And so I thought people would be really upset.
 Like, we're in East County, we're blocking lanes, and I was with the Portland Lane Project, and we're talking about buses actually taking the lane. So I was really prepared for people to be angry. And a few people were, but I was there for four hours, and I personally talked to over 40 people in those four hours, and, you know, groups of people. And...
 and most of them were really excited. And they're on their bike, and most of them own a car, but they still thought that it would be a good idea. And I own a car. I primarily take the MAX or bike to work, and bus is a last resort. So for these kinds of progressive studies to really prioritize transit first and create...
 a bus system that me and other East Portlanders can rely on that has headways of 10 minutes would make me not take my car and ride the bus a lot more. And from the people I talked to on Sunday Parkways, they seem to be really excited about that too. So thanks for considering fully funding a really aggressive transit system with right-of-way for buses.
 Thank you. Thanks for your testimony, and thanks for your volunteerism. That was the first time in Outer Northeast, and I thought it went really, really well. It was a lot of fun. I was there with my wife and daughter, and despite the heat, people were having a fantastic time. Mayor, I have one question. Can we get Brendan back for a second? Yeah, why don't we have staff come back up, please? Thank you for your testimony. So, Brendan, we're poised to obviously adopt this resolution. We've had a number of people call out –
 I wanted to put some attention on some studies that are referenced in the report. Could you just give us some guidance on that? Well, by accepting the report, I mean, what Dan wanted to hear was from commissioners and the council right now to say this is the right path to be heading out. We want more study in these areas. So we would be diligent in following through on that with planning staff.
 And then, does that answer your question, Commissioner? I think so. Sort of.
 Well, I wanted to quickly touch on Youth Pass just because it came up. And so I looked at the reference and got briefed on this because I've been dealing with this issue for 10 to 15 years as well, so I understand the lay of the land on it. I just wanted to – I think it's – obviously this is non-binding policy, but I wanted to get clear for you what exactly it means and the reference that it's made within the plan, which I believe is consistent with Council's current –
 on where we stand with it, which basically says that PBOT supports state investment to provide and expand transit access for youth.
 So that's the only thing that touches on any of the issues around the funding issue, which is one that we've debated and talked about for many years. So I wanted to make that clear. And the genesis of this during this process was that a lot of the groups that were involved in kind of the outreach and public process said the transit youth pass is good for encouraging transit for youth.
 That's about all we're saying here. So we're not saying whose responsibility that is, because I know that that's – we already have an established record of that. Very good. So I wanted to just make sure that that was crystal clear. Thank you. Any other questions for our team? Very good. Carla, please call the roll. You, Daly. Well, thank you for the report and everyone's hard work. And thanks to the people that came to testify today. I've never lived outside of the central city in my life.
 Life is rather circumscribed. I take a very limited loop every day, so I'm heartened to see the level of outreach and engagement and comforted by Terry and Alan's testimony and excited to see some of this happen, which I realize this is a non-binding situation, but baby steps. Fritz.
 Well, thank you all for your work. This is tremendously helpful with the amount of community engagement that you've had. In this area of town in particular, there are so many needs, so it's really important that we prioritise, that we go through the criteria. I thought it was fascinating how you chose both the criteria and then the project. It sounds like it's been done very well. With Ken Marks testifying, I know then that East Portland and the East Portland Action Plan have been informed along the way. And I just agree with everything. And indeed, the...
 Youth Pass language is fine and I support what it says. I also look forward to better transit service, especially north-south. I would caution that you can't really call it a pilot project if you've only got 45 minute headways, because there's hardly anybody riding the 14-4 bus on the weekend because you can't rely on it, as was said. So I think we should be prioritising service where it's most needed, and if that means
 giving up some of the service in South West in order to help East Portland as one transit rider, I'd be happy to do that. I obviously have to have more conversation with folks, but we do need better transit everywhere, and that's going to be one of the ways that we're going to...
 really tackle climate disruption. I read something today that said that, yes, the kids throwing fire books were those who started the big fire, and we're all responsible because of climate disruption. It's very rare that at this time of the year we haven't had any rain for over 60 days. So that was very sobering to me, and this is part of how we're going to help guide the city through that. Aye. Aye.
 Fish. Well, it's an excellent plan, terrific report to council. Thank you. Appreciate all the testimony. I learned a lot. For 20 years I lived in northeast Portland, and the northeast Halsey Street stuff really speaks to me because there's tremendous challenges along here, and I appreciate the creative solutions that you're proposing, and now we'll lean in and find the money to fund it.
 And in absentia, I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman for his leadership on this project. Hi. Wheeler. I thought it was a great staff report, and I appreciated the testimony. I was pleased to see there was something of a consensus, or at least certainly a large majority opinion with regard to the possibilities created by separated bus lanes.
 Creating more bus service that simply dumps more bus into already fully congested streets really doesn't entice a whole lot of new riders. And so if we're serious about this transformational approach to transit, then we need to be serious about separation as well. And I'm glad that that is on the table as one of the many tools. Like Commissioner Fritz, I can also –
 get my arms around the language here with regard to the bus pass, but I just didn't want people to forget that we'd had a number of very intense conversations about this during our most recent budget process. So I agree, I support it, I vote aye, and the resolution is adopted. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next item, please.
 Item 983, appeal of the Hayhurst Neighborhood Association against the hearing officer's decision to approve the application with conditions of Vic Remmers Everett Custom Homes for an 11-lot subdivision at 5920 Southwest 48th Avenue, LU16-159-330 LDSEN. Mayor, I move to adopt the findings. Second.
 I wanted to make sure Commissioner Udaly didn't have anything else to add on this. Anything else to add? Please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Just to clarify, we are moving that the council deny the appeal and uphold the decision of the hearings officer and adopt the findings. I vote aye. And the motion is accepted. Next item, please.
 Item 988, authorized application to the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance for a grant in the amount of $385,515 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, Fiscal Year 2017, local solicitation to assist...
 the Portland metropolitan area law enforcement and criminal justice community to prevent and reduce crime and violence. Colleagues, any more discussions? Seeing none, please call the roll. You daily. Um, I really wish we'd had more community turnout for this item. I didn't hear from constituents. I have some questions and concerns about how these funds will be applied. Um,
 So I'm voting no. Fritz. This is something that we do which does bring funding for programs often to help women in crisis, and it's also a mechanism to ask the federal government for money, which we believe we should get. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The application is authorized. Next item, please.
 989. Pay claim of Milan Vance in the sum of $6,000 involving the Portland Police Bureau. So I understand we have one person coming forward to provide testimony on this. Oh my gosh. So we're going to skip item 989 and 990 while Mustafa tracks down our individual. Could you please move to 991? Okay.
 provide a residency premium of 5% to the base wage of all non-represented command staff in the Portland Police Bureau who reside within Portland city limits. So, colleagues, the city has a strong interest in the Portland Police Bureau's commanding officers living within the city they serve.
 The city currently pays a 5% premium to lieutenants who live within the city of Portland. This ordinance expands the premium to all captains, commanders, assistant chiefs, and the chief of police to encourage our command staff to live in the city in which they serve, which, of course, is a national best practice, and it is on the list of many people's top items with regard to police reform in terms of building communication and trust.
 between the people of the community and the police officers who serve that community. We also, as everyone knows, have a new police chief coming to Portland from Oakland, California, in the first days of October, which makes this, I believe, an ideal time to extend the residency premium to non-represented command staff in the police bureau, again, to encourage these high-ranking police bureau staff to live within the city they serve.
 People have asked me what is the estimated fiscal impact of this from the police bureau based on the number of commanding officers who live in Portland now. And assuming that Chief Outlaw resides in the city, the cost of the premium would be less than $40,000 per annum. I don't know if anybody has any further thoughts or questions with regard to this item.
 Is there any public testimony on this item? Five percent premium. Ana's on her way. Will we go back to the previous two? Not right now. I'm in the middle of an item. Is there any public testimony on this item? Nobody signed up for 991. Very good. Please call the roll. Udaili? Yes.
 Well, I'd love to see us explore a residency premium for more public employees. And as the mayor mentioned, this is going to have a fairly minimal fiscal impact. Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 I concur. The estimate is about $30,000 to $50,000. And if it encourages more command staff to live in the city, that would be good. It also seems strange that the rank-and-file officers have this premium and the commanding officers don't. Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 And so that leaves us with 989 and 990. Do we have people here to testify on these matters? Sorry, we have been watching Council tie our monitors all morning, and we didn't expect it to happen right now, so.
 You should always expect the unexpected. That's true. Portland City Council, 989, please read the item. 989, pay claim of Milan Vance in the sum of $6,000 involving the Portland Police Bureau, and 990, pay claim of Lori Weigant-Ray in the sum of $47,250 involving the Portland Police Bureau. Very good, and we will obviously vote on these separately. Okay. Correct. Correct.
 So my name is Randy Stenquist. I'm the Liability Claims Manager in Risk Management. With me today is Karen Bond. She's one of my senior claims analysts. One of these claims belongs to her. One of them was handled by myself. So Ms. Vance was the first one on the agenda, so I'll let Karen speak to that. Very good. Well, go ahead if you want to talk. I'm sorry. I'm Karen. I'm interrupting. Apologies.
 Good morning. It is still good morning. So this ordinance will settle the bodily injury claim that Malon Vance presented against the city, resulting from an auto accident, a rear-end auto accident with the Portland police officer that happened back on March 18th of 2016 over on I-205. Okay.
 Very good. I'm stalling because we need Commissioner Fish back to actually take the vote. Okay. Very well. Would you like me to talk about the next one as well? Please do. All right. Number 990. Do you need to introduce that, Carl? Sure.
 Okay. 990 is another motor vehicle accident involving a police vehicle. The claimant was driving on I-84 back in December of 2014, quite some time ago, and the officer rear-ended her with enough force to push her into the vehicle ahead of her. So the ordinance settles her claim.
 brought by her attorney as well as her insurance company all had a piece of the accident, and we're looking for a resolution of it. So this is how we settle that. Now, so do these types of claims that the city pays and therefore the taxpayers pay, do they lead to changes in policy? Do they lead to different practices and procedures? How do we take into account that?
 into account what we've learned as a result of having to pay out these kinds of claims and operationalize it in terms of training? Well, in terms of the operations of the vehicles by the police bureaus or any bureaus, frankly, all of those are left up to the decision-making processes of the individual bureaus. So for every fleet accident involving a Portland police vehicle, there is a collision review board
 and they go over all of the accidents involving Portland police officers, and they analyze it and make a determination as to whether it was found to be preventable or non-preventable, and depending on what the outcome was, then steps are taken at the Bureau level in terms of what they're going to do next with the officer. My office, of course, provides reporting on the number of auto claims that come in, as well as all of the claims, but we –
 They can tell them what sort of claims are coming in. They get reports from us every month about new claims that have come in in the last month. They get a report for all of their open claims every month. So they can see at a glance exactly what sort of claims they have in terms of meeting with them for –
 policy changes. We do have our loss prevention team working with the bureaus for their safety driver training issues and things of that nature. So we partner with the bureaus with our loss prevention team. My team, the liability team, is primarily involved in making the people who are the victims, if you will, making them whole and getting their vehicles repaired and getting them paid for their injuries. Perfect. Great. Anything to add to that?
 He said it all. He said it perfectly. Great. Any public testimony on these items? No one signed up. Please call the roll on. Commissioner Fritz has a question. No, no. Sorry. Call the roll on 989, please. Thank you, David.
 You daily. Hi. Fritz. So my understanding is at least one of these was to do with a distracted driver of the officer looking at their in-car computer. And just this week, the Portland Police Bureau tweeted out that you're six times more likely to be in an accident without being distracted by a cell phone as if you were a drunk driver. And that's a significant percentage.
 I know that in the future we're hoping that all of the police's computers will be audibles as well as visible so that they don't have to look away from their driving to look at their computer to find out where they're going next. And it's also a good lesson to all of us, just as I think it was an AT&T rep who came to us and said, just put your cell phone in the glove compartment. That way you're not tempted to use it while you're driving. All right.
 Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call the roll on 990. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Thank you for your work in making these folks whole. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. There being no further business, we are adjourned. Thank you very much. Again, apologies for the delay. Anna, we already got through it.
 Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday, September 6th. I can't believe it's September already. September 6th, 2017 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Fish. Here. Wheeler. Here. Just a quick reminder, everybody. Public testimony takes place at the microphones, typically three minutes a person. There'll be a green light when...
 While your three minutes is going, when it turns yellow, that means you have 30 seconds left. Red means you're done or close to it or wrapping up. We request that people state their name for the record. It's not necessary to give your address. If you're a lobbyist, we need to know that per council rules. And if you're here representing an organization, that's helpful information.
 to know as well. Interruptions of people testifying are absolutely not tolerated. Interruptions of counsel deliberations likewise. So let's all endeavor just to make sure that everybody has their opinion heard, whether you agree with it or don't agree with it. Let's go ahead and call the first item. Item 992, approve and terminate limited tax
 exemptions for properties under the Homebuyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program. Colleagues, the Portland Housing Bureau administers the city's affordable housing property tax exemption programs. The Homebuyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program provides a 10-year limited tax exemption to low- to moderate-income homebuyers, making homeownership more affordable for families in Portland.
 The Portland Housing Bureau approves bidder-builder applications. This resolution includes 15 properties that are being approved for the program. Homes with exemptions must sell below an annual sales price cap, and property owners must continue to live in the home during the 10-year exemption period.
 The Housing Bureau staff conduct quarterly compliance monitoring to ensure that homes are lived in by the owners during the 10 years of the exemption. When developers sell a home over the price limit or to a buyer who's over the income limit, the exemption is removed. If a home is not owner-occupied, the exemption is likewise removed.
 Nine properties are having the exemption removed because the property owner was either over the income and the property owner was no longer living in the home. That's eight.
 Before an exemption is removed, owners have the opportunity to appeal the decision made by the city. And so with that, I'll turn this over to the Housing Bureau. Kurt? Thank you very much. Kurt Krieger, Director of Housing for the City of Portland. With me today is Andrea Mathiasson, who is responsible for our homeownership programs and our home retention programs. And this is a routine item, but she can describe the details of it.
 Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners, Andrea Mathiason, Portland Housing Bureau. As Director Krieger alluded to, this is a routine administrative action. We bring this list of properties for both the tenure activation and the compliance terminations before council for review and approval on a quarterly basis before then forwarding these on for further action to the Multnomah County Tax Assessor's Office.
 We've got, as the mayor detailed, a list of both the activations of builder applications and the compliance terminations for a handful of the properties that were no longer owner-occupied. We have made agreements as the city with our Multnomah County partners for ongoing compliance that's
 frequent and rigorous in nature so that we can ensure these valuable foregone revenue resources are actually supporting the intended outcomes. Happy to answer any questions that you might have about this ordinance. Colleagues, any questions? Any public testimony? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Eudaly. Aye. Fritz. Thank you, if you will. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Andrea has been administering this program for a number of years, both in terms of approving applications and ensuring that folks who get the exemption continue to be qualified. You do superb work. Thank you for your presentation. Thank you. Wheeler? This program can only work with the accountability, so I want to second that. Thank you, Andrea. Thank you to Kurt for your leadership on this as well. Aye. Aye.
 The resolution is adopted. Next item, please. Item 993, accept and appropriate a grant in the amount of $3,400,000 from the Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for lead hazard reduction and healthy homes activities. Colleagues, this is what I believe is a straightforward item to accept on behalf of the City of Portland
 a grant from the head office of lead hazard control and healthy homes for the reduction of lead paint and healthy homes hazards in the amount of $3,400,000. These federal resources have been provided to the City of Portland since 1998 and help to address lead paint hazards in nearly 1,800 homes and protect over 3,000 young children from lead poisoning in our community.
 This additional allocation grant fund, the additional allocation grant funds will be available to low-income households citywide and are expected to address lead and environmental hazards for approximately 195 families with small children.
 Resources will be provided as grants to assist households, which will be administered directly by the Housing Bureau staff. Approximately 900,000 in required match resources will be provided from the Portland Water Bureau to conduct education and outreach to households about lead hazards in homes and enroll them in the HUD-funded grant program.
 Additionally, about 40% of assisted homes will be assessed for other environmental hazards, such as radon, asbestos, and indoor moisture issues that can cause or exacerbate asthma. Andrea Mathiason is again here from the Housing Bureau. In addition to bearder leadership, should anybody have any questions? Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to make a very brief comment.
 I am proud that the Water Bureau will contribute, as the Mayor said, approximately $900,000 to support this grant. Since 2001, this is the sixth time the Portland Water Bureau has used funds as a local match to help the Housing Bureau secure a HUD grant for the lead hazard control program.
 The Portland Housing Bureau's Lead Hazard Control Program is an essential component of the Water Bureau's requirement to comply with the federal lead and copper rule. And the Portland Water Bureau is excited to continue our coordinated lead hazard reduction work with the Portland Housing Bureau, serving those in our community that are most vulnerable to lead exposure from paint and dust in older homes. So thank you. Thank you, Commissioner.
 I'd like to just mention one other thing. Of Secretary Dr. Ben Carson. I'm sorry, and who are you? Kurt Krieger, Housing Bureau Director. And thank you for the prompt. This is actually extremely good news because this is a discretionary grant. We compete for this grant against other cities across the country every year. And while we have been successful in doing so,
 This was one year where if I were a betting person and I'm not, I would have bet odds on that we wouldn't have received it. The fact that we did shows that the HUD is not retaliating against Portland, which I think is important for you to know. It is also the single portion of the HUD budget that Secretary Carson persuaded OMB to increase,
 partly because he recognizes that lead, elevated levels of lead in the blood, are problems for children learning and cognitive abilities. So we have our work cut out for us because this is a lot of money that needs to be deployed quickly, and Andrea is responsible for that. Excellent. Thanks, Kirk. Thanks, Andrea. Colleagues, any further questions? Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. You daily?
 Well, always nice to get all good news out of the federal government. Aye. Fritz. I'm glad both they and we are doing the right thing in this particular instance. Aye. Thank you. Fish. I'm sorry. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, and good luck with the implementation. Next item, please. Item 994, amend marijuana regulatory license procedure and requirements business regulations. Commissioner Udaly. Yes, thank you. Thank you.
 So, as Commissioner in Charge of ONI, I'm committed to making sure that Portland's cannabis regulations are flexible, fair, and provide certainty for cannabis business owners. I'm also committed to making sure that Portland has the tools it needs to stand up for our neighbors, our communities, and the legal and regulated cannabis industry. The proposed changes to Portland's cannabis regulations are intended to give cannabis businesses more certainty.
 to allow business owners to get licensed more quickly and to allow our staff to more effectively address concerns with the unregulated cannabis market. There are three main changes in this ordinance that ONI staff will present to you today. While these changes are meaningful, they do not reflect the entirety of the work of our office, the mayor's office and the offices of my colleagues, the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, the Fire Bureau, BDS, and other city bureaus,
 who have been working on this issue for the last several months. We've made it our collective priority to collaborate more closely between city bureaus and to be more responsive to the needs and concerns of cannabis business owners. My office and ONI staff have attended and convened dozens of meetings with cannabis business owners, cannabis industry trade groups, neighborhood groups, city bureaus, and elected officials
 from the state and federal government to make sure we are listening to and acting on the concerns by those affected by both the regulated and unregulated cannabis industry.
 The City of Portland and the State of Oregon have a lot of work to do moving forward. As the cannabis industry grows, continues to grow and thrive, there is and will be more that we can do. From supporting efforts to help correct the inequities created by the war on drugs, to providing options for consuming legal cannabis in safe and legal places outside of the home, to providing education and support for small business owners,
 and protecting the legal and regulated cannabis industry from the unregulated cannabis market. So I want to thank my colleagues for your input and support. I want to thank Bureau staff, in particular Brandon Goldner and Christina Corsi, who are here today to present this update.
 Also, Mitch Nichols from Bureau of Development Services and Paul Jennings of the Portland Fire Bureau have been really invaluable in this process. And to members of the cannabis industry who have also devoted a lot of time and energy to this process and helping us improve cannabis.
 and ensure that Portland's craft cannabis industry is strong, safe, and reflects the values of our community. So now I'm going to turn it over to Brandon Goldner, Program Specialist with the Cannabis Program, to give a presentation about the proposed changes. And in the interest of time, we did keep this very brief, but he's certainly prepared to answer any additional questions that may come up. Thank you. Brandon.
 Thank you very much. For the record, my name is Brandon Goldner. I'm the program specialist at the City of Portland's Cannabis Program. Christina Corsi, Cannabis Program Assistant. And just to start by thanking each of you, your office and your staff, Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Frits, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Frits.
 The time that your offices and staff have spent on this issue, I really appreciate it and look forward to working with you in the future. So as Commissioner Udaly said, I do want to keep this as brief as possible. We're going to talk a little bit about the cannabis program background and what we've done in the last nine months. I'm going to spend the bulk of my time on the specific changes before you today and then talk just a little bit about the future of Portland's cannabis regulations.
 We are charged with many different tasks. The way that I try to frame it is that it's a balance. It's a balance between trying to get business owners licensed as quickly as possible, balancing that with public safety and livability.
 We want to be a resource for the industry and for consumers and for our constituents. We want to provide clear guidelines and expectations. One thing I've learned in this role is that business owners don't have a clear sense of what the rules are and how to follow them. It makes it very, very difficult to make investments, support their staff, and support their businesses. And just to make clear too that
 As we learn more about what the impacts of local cannabis regulations are and the state cannabis regulations, and as the industry changes, my hope is that we do continue to adapt and change. And that's something that has guided my work in this program for the last two years, and I know has guided the work of Commissioner Udeli's office. So I just want to make that point clear.
 Since January, we have been working very hard to collaborate more closely with the cannabis industry, with our neighbors, and with other city bureaus. We've updated our website, made it easier to navigate. We've added a blog. The Bureau of Development Services released a cannabis industry facilities code guide that was helpful to make sure that people who are trying to get their businesses permitted have a clear understanding
 and consistent way to do that. We've also been convening meetings with individual cannabis business owners, with trade groups, and have also convened meetings with consultants and business owners, minority cannabis business owners and consultants, trying to think about ways that we can better correct some of the inequities caused by the war on drugs, and began one-on-one meetings with licensees and applicants to ask them questions
 What about this process was difficult? What was tricky? Where were there sticking points? And what can we do to be better? And specifically, we've met with the Oregon Cannabis Association, the Oregon Retailers of Cannabis Association, Craft Cannabis Alliance, Oregon Cannabis Business Council, and others, provided guidance to temporary events that included consumption of cannabis, which we know with Senate Bill 307 in the last legislative session, it didn't pass, but that is something that is coming on the horizon today.
 And really, again, as I said earlier, trying to coordinate better between our program and our bureau, and with the Bureau of Development Services, the Fire Bureau, and other city bureaus that touch on cannabis issues.
 So, you know, with that, oh, I also, I don't want to gloss over it. BDS began weekly meetings to help specifically with permitting of cannabis businesses. Those meetings were designed to help business owners know exactly how to move forward in their permitting processes, and those have been going on for several months now. By the way, I'll go back, if you would, just for a second. What's been your experience with those weekly meetings? Sure.
 What's attendance like? What has been your sense about the effectiveness? And for those of us who have bureaus that have our own specific issues and challenges where we deal with small businesses, what lessons are we learning about the value of that kind of approach? Yeah.
 Yeah, I think that would be a better question for representatives from BDS who are convening those meetings. My understanding, just to answer your question directly, I'm not certain those meetings have been attended very robustly. Those meetings are available for people to request.
 My understanding is that over the last few months, there haven't been many of those meetings requested by the industry. I do think that part of that is if perhaps we'd had something like that in place a few years ago before some of these businesses got started, we might have seen that utilized more is my sense. But I think for specific questions about that, you can.
 But if I was starting a business and I wanted to come to one of these weekly meetings and kind of do a one-stop shopping and have all my concerns addressed, that's the goal, right? Yeah, that's the goal right there for the permitting specifically. So as we're going to talk about some of the changes to the –
 our program's requirements with respect to permitting, yes, you're correct. If I were a new producer or a new processor, I could go to the Cannabis Program blog and read more about that or go to BDS's website, sign up for that meeting. As you said, one-stop shop with fire, life, safety and other permitting experts to, just as you said, to help business owners through that process. That's correct. Commissioner, Mitch couldn't be here today, although he...
 I thought, I was told you couldn't be here. Oh, okay. Well, maybe we'll hear from him a little bit later. I would love later just to, you know, because we have a, like, for example, the Bureau of Environmental Services has a program called the Fats, Oil, Grease program. And it's, yeah.
 It has its share of critics in the restaurant industry, and we're always thinking about what's the best way to interface with people? What's the most efficient use of our time, their time, and how do we help people learn about not only how to get through all the regulatory hoops but learn about our discount programs, our financing programs, other kinds of things. So I look forward to hearing some more later from your experience.
 We set these meetings up just to address kind of the immediate concerns and issues with the cannabis industry, but we're also bringing back the small business liaison at BDS to help some of the folks that you're talking about. Thank you. Brandon? Thank you.
 All right, let's go into the changes. And there are three major changes. There are also some minor definition cleanup that is not substantive, just to keep consistency with the OLCC. The three major changes are delineating between processor license types, allowing retailers who are open and licensed to remain open and licensed if a school moves within their 1,000 foot buffer, and allowing the cannabis program the ability to inspect applicants and not just licensees.
 Before I chat about this first change, which I believe is the most substantive change, I want to make this very clear. Any changes that we make to our program, or frankly whether or not our program exists at all, in no way affects the requirements and policies of the fire bureau, of BDS, of Oregon structural code, or anything else. So when we're talking about these changes, we're just talking about the cannabis program's licensing requirements.
 So delineating between processor license types, the OLCC has four endorsement types to kind of break down what type of processing is that business doing. Topicals, edibles, concentrates, and extracts. Extracts are the processes that may use substances like butane, hexane, or propane that can be very dangerous and carry a significantly greater level of potential risk.
 So in order to reflect that that risk is greater with that particular kind of processor, what this change would do is it would allow for processors of topicals, edibles, or concentrates to get a license with us before all of their building permitting and associated processes.
 trade permits have been finaled. They still need to show that those permits have been applied for to show that they are in process of getting them. And it's also true that upon renewal a year later, all of those folks will have to show that the permits have been finaled out. So what this does is allows the kinds of processors that carry a relatively lower level of potential risk to get licensed with our program a little bit faster.
 This is similar to the change that you all considered, well, a different council considered in December when it removed retailers, dispensaries, and wholesalers from that permitting requirement for the same reasons, because they carried a different level of potential risk and we wanted to get those folks licensed faster.
 And again, I want to repeat that this in no way changes the requirements from the Fire Bureau or BDS and just affects our program's licensing requirements. So do you have any questions about that? I have just one. And I know Chris Gettelberg could answer that.
 have been more engaged with you from my office on this. But in my recollection, it's the last time we talked about this. This was conceptual. I'm just curious to know what the response of the industry was to delineating between these different types of...
 processors. Yeah, thank you, Mayor. We do have some business owners from the cannabis industry signed up to testify on these changes, and they can give you their feedback, but my sense is that most folks appreciate this change, again, because it does reflect that those kinds of processors carry a lower level of potential risk and will get them licensed faster. So my sense is that that change will be received well. Very good. Thank you. I appreciate that. You're welcome.
 So I have a question. The house that blew up by Peninsula Park, was that a cannabis business or a cannabis processing business? No, it was not. That was a residential home. It was someone who was processing with cans of butane. To the best of my recollection, they were puncturing those cans of butane in a process called open blast processing, which is extraordinarily unsafe, not condoned by the state, not condoned by the city.
 so that was not a business that was just a... It was somebody trying to amend cannabis. It was a cannabis... Yeah, it was an individual who was attempting to process cannabis in a dangerous way, that's correct, but they were not a business. And which of the four categories, if they had been in doing it? They would have been an extract processor, so they would have been at highest level of potential risk. But I do want to make clear that
 From what I've seen, the cannabis industry, the business owners are using closed-loop systems, which are much, much, much safer. But it's still true that because they're using those dangerous substances, we want to keep those folks in a higher-level category of risk, which is why they're not included in these changes. Any other questions on this particular change? Thank you.
 Okay, moving on. Changing our rules to allow for retailers to continue operating if they've gotten licensed and a school opens within 1,000 feet of their buffer. This is a change that has already been made in statute at the state level, and so the city would like to follow suit. There are two exceptions to this rule. One, if you're a retailer who has been essentially grandfathered under this provision and your license is revoked,
 for some reason, and you need to reapply, you would not be allowed to continue operating within that buffer. And similarly, if there's an ownership change of 51% or more, as with the state also requires this, you'd need to...
 apply with a new application and therefore would not be grandfathered. But what this does, it allows business owners who've made investments in their businesses, infrastructure investments, staffing investments, to continue operating even if later, after they've been licensed, a school opens up within their buffer. Again, this is just a change to match how the state is approaching this particular issue. Any questions on that? Okay. And finally, allowing the cannabis program the ability to inspect applicants and not just licensees. So...
 Right now, part of our process to get a license with us is that you do have to get an inspection of your facility to make sure that it's safe and that you've met our code requirements. But this will also allow our program to have a little bit of an easier time with inspecting folks who may be operating as a cannabis business outside of that regulation. And so we can better protect the legal and regulated industry from that unregulated activity.
 I do want to make clear that this change would not allow staff to come into your business without your permission. What we have in existing code language is if that were the case, if we would
 request to inspect someone's facility and they didn't want to let us in, we would have to obtain an administrative warrant and go down that route. But again, this does reflect that if someone is performing the activities of a cannabis business or has applied with our program, it does give us the authority to say, hey, our code language allows us to request us to inspect your facility, and could you please let us in? So that is the third change. I'm sorry to jump around. Could I go back to the prior slide?
 So, first of all, I'll be very clear. I support this proposed change, and I appreciate the fact that you've grandfathered in operating businesses. I'm a little more squeamish about the second part of this, which is should there be a change in ownership, and if a school locates within 1,000 feet, they're required to reapply, but not...
 In practicality, they're not going to get a license to operate now that there's a school within 1,000 feet. Has this cleared some legal threshold? I mean, I assume that since the state already enacted this, at some point the legislative legal counsel chimed in on this. This doesn't constitute a taking? Mayor, I'm not the lawyer on this, but because it's a grandfather...
 The benefit accrues to the person who would otherwise be subject to the hardship. A new owner is, in effect, a stranger to that hardship and would come in with eyes open and could make that judgment. So there's no taking. But the idea is a grandfather focuses the benefit on the party that has –
 an inequitable outcome because of something they didn't foresee? Well, you can't sell a business that won't have a right to operate. So it's not actually the new owner who bears that financial risk. It's the current owner who we've already grandfathered in who bears that financial risk. Or do I have that wrong? I shared your concerns, and I don't believe we have a choice. I think this is as per state law.
 Yeah, and I want to make two points. You're correct, and I even called the OLCC again this morning just to quadruple check this, that yes, if their ownership of the state level changes by 51% or more, they also would not be allowed to continue operating if a school had been moved into their buffer, so that's correct.
 The first point the second point would be that if folks sell their business the license isn't transferred with that So if I'm a business owner and I get a license with Oni I can certainly sell my business But that new owner would have to reapply with our program that the people who are associated with that business Would have to declare who they are things of that nature. So it would be treated much like a new application Okay. Well, I just I want to be completely transparent though if it's a new application and
 We're going to deny it, right? Correct. Under this rule. I mean, the rule states very clearly that we would deny it under those circumstances. Yeah, so the rule really is for the benefit. In part, what we're trying to do here is make this in sequence with state law. But we deny the license for that location, Mayor.
 It's no different than if we had a change in zoning and someone had to move to a different location. We don't guarantee a zip code, but it does not prevent you from operating a business. I was going to ask the teacher, and he may have a comment. I was just going to comment that prior to this, the state of the law was that it was a crime, a state crime to grow marijuana within 1,000 feet of the school. And so...
 The issue came, my understanding is the issue arose when people started a business and then a school moved into the location, and then all of a sudden they don't have their business anymore. So I think the law was changed to allow for existing businesses, but unless and until state law changed to then allow for a subsequent purchaser of that business to also act within 1,000 feet of a school, then they're going to have that issue of violating state criminal laws. Okay.
 Oh, interesting. So I think that's where that change came about, why the change came about initially and then what you're facing. Realistically, there's a test to be had here, right? Right. I mean, isn't that the truth? Somebody at some point is going to have to test this. Well, I'll just state a contrary view. I'm a little squeamish about having one of these businesses 1,000 feet from a school. I mean, I have a middle schooler. There are reasons we have buffers from schools for certain kinds of activity.
 But it seems to me an inequity to say to someone who's played by the rules and the school moves in that they would otherwise be subject to a criminal sanction or some other forfeiture. So I appreciate the idea of grandfathering that person. And if there's a subsequent change in law, we can come back and decide whether we want the benefit to extend beyond the party who's grandfathered.
 That's good. All right, good. Thank you. I think on the same topic, could I just have a follow-up question? And that is what's happening as far as education, because my understanding is from some parents in middle schools and high schools is that there's a lot of youth by youth. And the state was supposed to be doing some education. Our program was supposed to be doing some education. So what's the status of that?
 Yeah, we've collaborated in the past with Multnomah County and their public health division on education, and really the county has taken much of the lead on the education component. I think that moving forward that we certainly can do a better job of that education outreach here in Portland, and that's something I'm very open to discussing and to putting into action. Yes.
 Since we're on camera right now, people under 25 are really strongly recommended not to use cannabis because of the brain damage that can happen for people up until that age. So there's good scientific evidence behind it, and I hope that parents, teachers, and the community as a whole will be having more discussions about this.
 Thank you for helping with that. So I have a question off the next slide. So the mayor took you back one. Let's go forward one. And you're going to feel like you have whiplash. I didn't quite follow what you said about not having the authority to perform an inspection without consent and then the need to get an administrative subpoena. Yeah.
 And I guess I just – can I have a – I'd like to know a little bit more about the legal rights that we're seeking to protect there. Sure.
 Well, so normally you wouldn't have a right to search, as you know, of course, anybody's – the personal – I mean, you could go into any public areas, but you couldn't go into any private areas without consent of the owner. And so generally we'll come up with a process where we will be able to get an administrative warrant if we feel that there's some reason that they're violating one of our policies or codes –
 that would apply to them. And what qualifies as private space? Are we talking about someone's home or their... Well, so for example, the area that may not be open to the public. So if we have the front area where I'm selling things that's open to the public, you can come into that area and you can look around all you want. But let's say there's a back area where you're packaging things or other things of that sort that you may not... The public wouldn't have access to, and therefore we wouldn't just automatically have access to. I see. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Any other questions on the last slide?
 Okay. So just to wrap up, there's a lot crammed onto this slide, but I want to take one moment. The future of our program, having a public involvement process, the cannabis policy oversight team, which in the past has been made up of community and industry members, I'm looking forward to getting that back up and running now that Oney has a new director, and with her input and the input of the commissioner's office, getting that back up and running.
 We supported Senate Bill 307, which would have created a regulatory framework for social consumption, which I believe is something that will perhaps be considered by the legislature next session and that we would continue to advocate for as well. And along with the meetings we've had with minority cannabis business owners to convene meetings with women-owned business owners,
 and consultants to talk about the challenges that they're facing in this industry. Because frankly, when you look at who is benefiting from this new legal industry, it is dominated by mostly white males. And what can Portland do to change that is something our program cares very deeply about. And we also wanna seek to meaningfully lower those barriers to entry, to make sure that people have all the education, the resources, the coordination, the convening power, everything they need to be successful as a business owner
 to protect our legal craft cannabis industry here in Oregon and in Portland, and to disincentivize the illegal cannabis market. And again, just to end, I want to thank you all for your time, and I know that these issues can be tricky, and it's a tough balance to strike sometimes, and we are trying our very best to strike that balance appropriately. If you have any other questions for either myself or Christina, we'd be happy to take them.
 Very good. We'll go to public testimony and you can cool your heels for a while. Okay. Great. Thank you for the presentation. How many people do we have signed up, Carla? I show seven. Seven. Very good. Three minutes each. Name for the record. We don't need anybody's address. The first three are Al Ochoza, Casey Honlehan, and Peter Ratchett.
 Good afternoon, if you'd like to start. Yeah, hi, good afternoon. My name is Al Ochoza. I'm the Director of Licensing and Corporate Relations for Cura Cannabis. We're an OLCC licensed processor and wholesaler with multiple facilities here in the city of Portland. First off, thank you, Commissioners and Mayor, and especially the team at ONI for bringing this forward. Thank you.
 As a company, as an industry, we definitely appreciate all the efforts in helping alleviate some of the pressures that a lot of the folks in the industry have been having. I've actually had, as Director of Licensing, I've had an intimate relationship with ONI and with BDS. I've been here since day one back in 2015, 2015.
 dealing with a lot of the licensing issues. I actually would have been here to testify back in December when the retail and wholesaler ordinance was passed, but because of that snowstorm, wasn't able to come in. But I've been actually advocating, not only as a company, but me personally for...
 for an amendment like this. I've been to several CPOP meetings over the last year, and this was, again, one of those things that I've always pushed because I always felt that there should have been some sort of delineation between the different types of processors. Right.
 Down in California, for example, they actually have a manufacturing license where they split it up between volatile versus non-volatile. The... A lot of the... The...
 the hydrocarbon-based solvent extractors down there are considered volatile, whereas everybody else from the people that mix cannabis oil with chocolate or that fill cannabis oil into vape cartridges...
 Those are considered non-volatile, so I definitely think this is a good step forward for the industry. It's going to allow people to get licensed faster. I know there's a lot of people that have been struggling to pay bills and things.
 because of a lot of the delays at BDS. So I'm glad these things are happening, and I do hope that we go ahead and pass this ordinance, again, to strike the balance between business longevity but also public safety and the safety of cannabis company employees as well. So, again, this is a good step forward, but there's still lots of things to do, and I definitely urge you to go ahead and look at approving this ordinance. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Casey Houlihan. I am here today on behalf of the Oregon Retailers of Cannabis Association. We're a trade association that represents over 200 cannabis businesses across the state of Oregon, many of whom are located within the city of Portland. I serve as the group's executive director.
 As you well know, many of our folks in the city of Portland are directly subject to the policies created by the city and the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. Our members include retailers, producers, wholesalers, processors, as well as a slew of other ancillary businesses operating in the state's fastest-growing economic sector.
 A great many of our members who are not located inside the City of Portland have also felt the impacts of the City's policies indirectly, and it's with that statewide impact in mind that we reach out to you today about some of the pressing issues facing our industry and our members. Portland-based businesses play such a major role in our statewide cannabis economy that some of the licensing delays for processors within the City of Portland have resulted in major shortages of processed and value-added products from our store shelves.
 which in turn has driven up the wholesale price for what few processed products are available. More often than not, the snags in city licensing these businesses are hitting make it impossible for them to begin operating and generating revenue, so many are bled dry of their initial financing until they're forced to close.
 The single biggest complaint that we've heard from folks navigating this process has been just the capricious nature of it as they navigate the different agencies and find it to be so siloed and the communication lacking from one between the other. We feel very strongly that today's proposed changes will help provide more certainty for the folks trying to start out in the cannabis industry at present, and it will allow so many to finally begin operating.
 By delineating between the license types for processors, our agencies have the necessary discretion to allow these businesses to operate so long as there's no public safety concern presented by their operations. Previously, the one-size-fits-all approach to zoning and occupancy that had been taken by agencies like the Bureau of Development Services was the cause for a great many businesses to be held up during licensing. And this new way of differentiating licenses and applicants based on the specific level of risk their model poses to the community is far more sensible.
 Additionally, we strongly support the proposed change to update the city's licensing rules for cannabis retailers to allow a previously licensed facility to have its license renewed in the event that a school moves within 1,000 feet of their location. This technical fix was done by both the legislature and the OLCC in recent years. We strongly urge the City of Portland to do the same. I'd like to echo some of Mayor Wheeler's concerns about...
 instances where a shop may change hands, but I do think that this is the right track for us to be on for these conversations moving forward. And we may well have to wait for a test case to make itself known. Lastly, one area where the legal cannabis industry very much still needs some help from the city of Portland is combating the impact of the illicit market. And there are massive amounts of illicit market cannabis in Portland that can easily be found for sale through popular websites like Craigslist and Facebook. And this undermines our state's licensed businesses that are playing by the rules.
 The reach of the illicit market here in Portland is ubiquitous, and worse, sellers are not checking ID to ensure customers are at least 21, products are not tested for potency or safety, taxes are not collected on those sales, and where the money goes to profit drug dealers rather than our K-12 education system, our law enforcement, and our drug treatment and prevention programs. We really appreciate you taking the time to explore this issue. We strongly support the changes, and I'm happy to answer any questions you all may have. Thank you. I just have one question. You mentioned the illicit market.
 I'm just curious, given some of the statements coming out of the Justice Department in Washington, have any of the, at least at the rhetorical level, has any of that had any kind of measurable impact on your industry? Sure.
 Well, there are different illicit markets that the state has a challenge with, the first being the out-of-state export illicit market. No, I mean, separate and apart from the illicit market, I'm talking about what our federal attorney general has been saying generally about cannabis. Has that had any chilling effect that you've discerned in your industry? No.
 I think it's fair to say that yes, to some extent. And certainly one of the things that's been a great sense of relief and comfort to folks in the industry has been that our governor and our executive branch here in Oregon, Kate Brown, has made it a point to defend our regulatory system for cannabis businesses so robustly and to ensure that the legislative fixes have been in there in recent sessions to make sure that we do have a very strong seed-to-sale tracking system in place. So when we are having those conversations with the federal DOJ, we can point to our system and show that this is not causing leakage into the out-of-state illicit market, which seems to be their primary concern.
 Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Peter Rock with Farmers Friends Extracts, LLC. We are a Portland-based small business. We are a cannabis processor with all of our endorsements. We were the first business to be actually licensed in the city of Portland by OHA. We were given the first initial medical processor license.
 we do differentiate that we are CO2 only. So when you bring up processors or when Oni brought up processors between butane, propane, alcohol, CO2 is definitely a differential in there. When we think of
 extract processors, not the three other topical, edible, and concentrate processors. We think of extraction in a few different ways, and being bulked in with volatile substances or volatile chemicals for extraction is how we had to differentiate ourselves in order to operate in the city of Portland, where at the time barriers were that high. So in order for us to do every one of the endorsements, we had to choose. We can never touch anything, bupane, propane, anything close to that. So...
 Getting BDS, ONI, and the fire chief's office all on the same page with the recommendation that CO2 is not volatile, that we use heat and pressure and not bottle substance to chemically cut, was a big victory. Everybody collaborated and said, well, these huge fire extinguishers that we have to have per mandate for permitting on our walls is the same stuff we're putting in to actually do our processes. So I hope that everybody realizes or at least accepts that when you talk about the extractors, which are the highest risk,
 when it comes to the processing types, that there is a differential between those. And because we were CO2 only, we were able to navigate the system effectively and get issued licenses and our certificate of occupancy. We definitely see the differentiating of the endorsement types being...
 none organic to say. It happened because we all went through the same process of learning together and we saw what the market will and won't take. It wasn't a concerted effort by lobbying groups or even by small business owners to try to do this. Unfortunately, one of the biggest failures and one of the things that Portland actually wants is great topicals, edibles, concentrate processors. It's the extraction that would pose the risk we're talking about here.
 And I think that with the patience and the new updates and evolution to city guidelines, we're going to see a lot more of those businesses come back in because there is that natural update to what processors are and what endorsements are needed. And so we found we fully support this because it's naturally happening. It's who could first survive and get all these things out of necessity, and now what does the market really want and how are we going to encourage businesses to come back in here and say, all right, we know the rules. We now have effective places to –
 get information and collaborate and go through this process together where we all had to do it together. And when everybody's coming from it, from BDS, ONI, fire marshal, small business or large business, there wasn't the opportunity for collaboration. It was more so, well, let's do this together. Let's stumble together and let's work with each other. And I think now the collaboration is coming between government agencies and business owners that wasn't there beforehand because we've all finally gotten our experience together. So we look forward to more of that collaboration.
 Thank you. Perfectly timed, by the way. And this is really interesting, and I had one question. What are the tradeoffs, then, between using a CO2-based process, as you do, versus one of the more volatile processes? Why isn't everybody just using the CO2? I think it depends on your cost-value-profit analysis when you go into business. I think, scientifically, when you can extract something using a chemical cut, you might be able to create a larger volume.
 that you can use as margin. Let's just give an example. If you're using a BHO or PHO process on the exact same organic inputs, you may get 20 to 25% of accrued yield from that. Using CO2 and only heat and pressure, not a chemical solvent to cut the extract, you can only get so much of that. So usually it ranges anywhere from 10 to less than 10 depending on the input types. So because of that,
 Why wouldn't you want a 20% yield to be able to put into more value-added products or put into the market versus getting a less yield if you can? I mean, that's a smart business that almost every other industry would say, yes, we'd want a larger yield in order to decide what we would like to do with it going forward and how to utilize this in our system. We saw the cost-volume profit differently and said, well, we want to do it this way. We know that this is safe. This will always be a food or instrumental-grade process, and we won't have to worry about the same...
 factors that I think extractors that do the other part of the endorsements would find. It's just that's what we saw and we tried to look forward and not in the current moment, which a lot of businesses didn't get the opportunity to do. We can either survive doing this or we are going to have to shut down and a lot of people yield matters and margin matters. We just found that it was
 more pragmatic to look at it in one different way. That's actually very interesting, and I appreciate that. You're welcome. It sort of reminds me of volumes versus organics in the dairy business, but it's an interesting differentiation. I mean, realistically, as much as we don't like to talk about it, marijuana will be treated as a commodity. We're going to be folded into the same cycle as every business, as much as I think we're –
 pushing boundaries and creating a new industry that will change the way everything happens I think most pragmatism sound business people will say no we're going to be folded in that only comes with accepting what rules are there how to operate within them and not for lack of a better word having as much chip on your shoulder it's about starting fresh and going we want to learn the processes we've never been subject to fortunately for us we weren't in the marijuana industry before that we started fresh and we were seeing the opportunity for what it was and the value we could bring to it
 Very good. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you, for your testimony. Next three, please, Carla. Our Logan Leachman, Miranda Weigler, and Laura Valdin. Good afternoon. Why don't you go ahead and start for us, please? Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. For the record, my name is Logan Leichman. I'm here on behalf of Emerge Law Group just here in downtown. We represent...
 cannabis industry across the board, retailers, processors, wholesalers, producers, and some medical that still exists. I first wanted to echo the comments made with regard to ONI with their tireless work. I represent clients all across the state and in no other jurisdiction have I seen the kind of
 positive interactions actually listening to the industry that the city of Portland through ONI has actually accomplished. Most jurisdictions have gotten more regressive, and I feel that Portland is completely the opposite, allowing more participation in the industry from a broader range of participants.
 So I wanted to echo the support for the first proposed change regarding permitting. I understand that is a fantastic change on behalf of processors, and it will benefit the industry overall. I wanted to echo the support with slight reservation about the second change, and I think this mirrors kind of some of your comments, Mayor Wheeler.
 in that the statutory language differs slightly from this proposed ordinance, in that the statutory language is broader and requires an OLCC interpretation to get at that point.
 the requirement that a new owner would not be able to take advantage of this grandfathering. It is not explicit in the statute there, and so OLCC could change their interpretation or could interpret differently based on the situation.
 So as you were saying, I think that it would be appropriate in the code language here to say that when a new application was required...
 but tying it to the 50% requirement, I think it gets a little bit too specific in this instance, where there are some situations I could foresee where there could be a change in 50% ownership or more that OLCC would not require a new application
 where ONI may not require a new application, but if this language were codified, it would trigger that requirement based on the objective and rather than the subjective standard. Can I ask you a question? Because I want to make sure I understand the context for this. Currently, how many licensees are impacted by this change we're proposing? Okay.
 So how many businesses are there that are being, that potentially can be grandfathered in? Because I'm guessing it's a very small universe, or maybe I'm missing something. The universe of licensees that could be impacted by this is potentially every licensee. Since this is for a future event, right, if a school moves in within 1,000 feet of your existing license, well, a school could move in within 1,000 feet of almost any existing retail license. Right.
 Okay. A charter school, including charter schools and private schools. Charter schools, public schools. And public schools. And private schools. Private schools. Essentially anything that meets the compulsory education requirement under state law. So any change prospective potentially impacts a current licensee. So you're saying that there's a – we can't quantify it because there's –
 A number of scenarios where someone could do a satellite school, a new school, whatever. Every existing retailer, yeah. By definition would not have been something that a licensee anticipated.
 Because it happens sometime in the future. That is correct. Okay, thank you. I want to further understand what you're saying. The state doesn't talk about 50% or more? It becomes more of a discretionary review by LLCC? The language in the statute that references, that was adopted as part of House Bill 3400, that references if...
 the eventuality if a school were to move in within 1,000 feet of a retailer does not specifically mention...
 anything about a new application, actually. The way that this was interpreted is OLCC pays particular attention to indefinite versus definite articles and statutes. And so in this particular statute, it says the retailer may continue to operate. And so in those situations, OLCC typically interprets the retailer to mean the same retailer instead of a retailer.
 Yeah, so one question I'll have, Commissioner, maybe Brandon could be thinking about it, is if there's a couple who own a business, they have three children, they decide that they're going to give it to their three children, then that would then be a change in ownership according to this language that we've got in our code. Correct. And the example I was using earlier when I was thinking about this was, say,
 the two of us go into business together. You are the 80% owner. I'm the 20% owner. You want to shift your role, and basically we switch places, right? You become the 20% owner. I become the 80% owner. If this were codified with a 50% requirement, that would require a new application, and we would lose that business. Thank you for explaining. We'll have to talk about that. So I'm not averse to changing the language. We really just want to mirror state law. My concern is...
 I want clarity for that potential buyer because if you buy a business, I mean, the location and lease is a significant part of the value of a business. I mean, you can buy the contents and the branding and everything that comes with it. That would be my concern right now if we don't
 have clarity, someone buys a business, reapplies for the license, and then is informed that they cannot continue to operate in that location. Do you have any thoughts on how we would walk that line? Sure. Commissioner, I mean, this is a complicated subject, and I think it requires us to do more than on the fly. Yeah. But...
 The point that you just made of someone changing the ownership mix either because of tax reasons, estate planning, changes within families, those kinds of things, I would treat that whole category differently than the sale to some third party.
 So to me, what you've just described that could be guided, again, by tax issues, family issues, disputes within families, long-term planning, estate planning, I would look at that differently and would hate to see that there's a legal impediment to doing those kinds of things, which may be for the long-term health of the business.
 versus the decision to sell to Mayor Wheeler, which, you know, arm's length. And so I would want to – Plan B. Huh? Plan B. Plan B. So I'd want to better understand that distinction because, to me, they feel different. Correct. And to address both comments, first, Commissioner Fish, your comments –
 So I think to some extent our hands are tied by state statute and by OLCC's interpretation of same. If OLCC will not give us a license, then this exercise is moot, basically. We could have all the ONI licenses in the world. Without the OLCC license, the state would come in and shut us down.
 Commissioner Udaly, to respond to your comments, I think that the key here would be to, as it says, mirror the statute as much as possible. In that way, we can ensure that...
 The city's interpretation and enforcement and application is the same as OLCC's. And then overall, when we're talking about investment-backed expectations of businesses, as part of due diligence, and we have seen a number of these transactions start to take place already, businesses either lost their will to keep trying or just had a really short-term exit strategy.
 or various other reasons. But in the due diligence period, we would determine whether this would be triggered, whether we could get a new license, because...
 it would require the school to have moved in already. If I purchase and then the school moves in, well, then I'm now the licensee and I'm protected there. So I think that that would be discovered during due diligence and would be easily discovered as long as we have clear statutory and ordinance language. Makes sense. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Thank you for your patience. Good afternoon. Thank you for the platform. My name is Miranda Weigler. I'm the owner and CEO of Little House Foods, a cannabis processing company in Portland, in northwest Portland, recently licensed by the OLCC. And I came today because I am...
 one of the businesses specifically impacted by this proposal. And I wanted to come and say thank you for the conversation. Thank you to Oney for all the hard work that they do. And thank you to Commissioner Udaly's office for the work that they've been doing, especially listening to businesses and trade associations when we've brought up this issue.
 We are a processing company that uses no solvents whatsoever. It took six months to find the space that we use, specifically because we recognize we cook. We needed a type 1 hood. We have grease-laden vapors, and that is the threat that we pose. So spending six months to find a space that is far away from schools and in the right places and has all the security potential in it was already an odyssey. It was...
 difficult when we came to compliance pieces, trying to educate each successive individual within BDS with the different pieces about the differences within processor types, that we don't use solvents, that we don't use closed loop, that all we do is cook. And as a result, because of this confusion,
 our process was longer, much more confusing, and it is difficult to remain patient when you see your bank account just draining without the possibility of any income and seeing the illicit businesses continue to profit to pose a threat, to be a stigma on those of us who are trying to operate legally.
 Today, I just wanted to come and say thank you for the conversation, hugely in support of this differentiation within different processor types, because we want to be safe businesses. We want to be contributing. We want to pay taxes. We want to have it go to all the right places and make sure that children are safe and that we're doing this in an intelligent way. But that's really what I'm here today to do. So if you have any questions, I'm happy to answer them. Thank you. Colleagues?
 Very good. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Laura Baldwin. I am a business owner here in Portland. For the last three years, I own a licensed processing facility here in North Portland. And I came to discuss with you guys just my experience.
 support for this. I think, you know, I had a different situation than you did. I started my, so when we arrived into this community three years ago and started our business, we knew that we would have to deal with the permitting issues. And so, we really began the conversation with BDS very early on before the licensing even took effect. And so, our process with BDS only took about 10 months, which I think is,
 is not that bad for a regulatory body that didn't have a lot of education about marijuana. We make edibles and concentrates, and we did have rare, large machinery that is complicated and hard to explain. Although it does not use high heat or pressure, we do not use CO2, we do use isopropyl alcohol. And so we did go through the concentrate issues with the fire department and with BDS pretty extensively. But I did find that we could easily access...
 and educate them through the gap in knowledge with the appeals and waiver process. And so I think because we applied back in January 2016 for BDS approval and for final certificate of occupancy, it didn't affect our licensing. But I do think that if you're not starting that process early on, you are going to face significant impediments. And that is the story that I hear from people in my position as a board member for the Oregon Board
 cannabis business council. I participate there as their board member, and I hear from membership constantly about the impediments to doing business in Portland. And I mean phone calls and emails, and it's pretty excessive, the problems that people are having, and most of them are not extractors. And so I think it's important for
 for the council to consider that a lot of these people pose little to no risk. They are doing things like any other restaurant, or catering kitchen, or manufacturing facility in general. And many of them do not process.
 extensively or with machinery. And so you really are talking about a group of people who just want to do business. And it's so important right now, considering the great impediments in the Portland area. We want this industry to grow. We want it to be successful.
 And the true issue and the true gap in knowledge is with extraction machinery. Those are the things that BDS does not have a lot of information about and needs to do more extensive looks at hoods and safety and electric. And so those people should really, I think, be...
 subjected to the longer waits and greater overhauls so that we can have safe facilities. We need the public to be safe. So it's very important to delineate that and keep that separate. So thank you for all your hard work. Thank you for listening to us and having us here today. I appreciate it. Next three, please, Carla. I have one more left. One more. Tony Birch. Very good. Oh, boy.
 Good afternoon. Hey there. My name's Tony Burch. I own a processing company here in Portland, Oregon. We have a concentrate endorsement. We are one of the first processors licensed in the city. So I'm here today to give a visual of a concentrate piece of machinery. As the woman before me explained, there's a kind of a gap in knowledge between concentrate equipment and extract equipment. This is a piece of concentrate equipment.
 It plugs into your wall. It sits on top of your table. It's got these heating pads here that are pretty much the same plates on a hair straightener. These plates come together, and they squish, and it squishes out this oil, and that's it. There's no flame. There's no pressure. There's no hydrocarbons. There's no chemicals. It's all natural. When we were going through the licensing process, we were getting...
 grouped in to the same category as extractors, which is very frustrating because they're comparing this type of equipment to equipment that's exploding, that's combustible, flammable, you name it. This is clearly not that type of equipment. So I just wanted to give a visual of what this type of equipment really is and how low impact something like this is.
 Kind of the analogy, and it's very rudimentary, so bear with me.
 It's kind of like a building. You're not going to have someone that's building a hundred square foot shed pull the same permits as someone that's building a large building in downtown. They're very different, though they fall under the same umbrella of a building. They've got a roof, they've got walls, but they're very different. This is very different than the equipment that's used with the extracts, but yet it still falls under the same category because it makes a similar product.
 So I was just here today to explain those differences. So I appreciate your time. Thank you. Appreciate that. Thanks. Very good. Colleagues, did we want to bring staff up? Yeah, I think we should do that. Very good. So Mitch Nichols is joining us after all. I think...
 I mean, the biggest question is around aligning our language with the state language and the 1,000-foot exception. Yeah. So I can have a conversation with our city attorney contact just to chat about that particular issue, and I can loop back as quick as I can. Because, yeah, the intent there was to be consistent with the state language.
 There would be a separate consideration, though, because there are times when potentially the city code would want to go above and beyond what the state is requiring. That was not my intent in this case. But if, for example, if council saw it compelling that they would want to limit that landscape to prevent that grandfathering, that may be a consideration that you make. But if your intention was the same as mine, just to mirror what the state was doing, then yes, I can work with their city attorney on changing that language to reflect that intent. Okay.
 That sounds great. And I mean, this is a non-emergency first reading, so we can introduce an amendment next week. Is that enough time? Because the alternative would be to just pull that piece out, put it on the rest and bring it back later. It seems relatively minor to me, unless we think we're going to need to have a more in-depth discussion.
 conversation. Commissioner Fish? Well, I actually think this discussion, and this is why we have public hearings, this has been a fascinating discussion, and it's, I think, the issues have been framed very thoughtfully. I would urge us to move forward to a second reading. If we have an amendment next week that's teed up, we can slap an emergency clause on the whole thing and pass it. If it turns out there is a policy discussion, debate,
 then I think this is a very discreet issue that could come back for a surgical debate at ASAP. I like the idea, though, of getting this new regulatory framework in place, and then if we want to tweak it, let's tweak it. And I'm open to tweaking it. I heard some very thoughtful arguments today. Why don't we do this, then? Why don't we move it to second, and then that gives us a week to think about the strategy going forward on that particular issue. I just have a question. It's nice to see you again. Thank you.
 How does it work for other non-conforming uses? Are they grandfathered? Is the use grandfathered, or is it just for the life of the current owner that another business would get grandfathered for whatever reason? From a grandfather perspective, and this is to the best of my knowledge, I'm not a zoning professional with the city, but from my understanding, the use is grandfathered, or the occupancy of the structure is grandfathered until such time as a change, a trigger is established
 enacted by virtue of either a permitting process or a licensing process or a zoning change in that area. So when we change, we overlay, do an overlay of a zone, and a new zone is created. The existing businesses or structures in that,
 that are otherwise non-compliant are considered non-conforming, pre-existing non-conforming. And they're allowed to continue in that capacity until they're either destroyed by more than, I think, 50% of the value of the structure, or there's another trigger like a seismic upgrade or something to that effect that is required for them to modify their building. But selling the property and continuing that use is not one of those things, right? It's not a trigger? That is typically it. The grandfather stays with the property.
 So colleagues, throughout our work on the cannabis business, we've tried to treat them as much similarly as other businesses as possible. So I realize that there's state law on this particular one, but to the extent that we can grandfather the use, because if the school chooses to go there, they shouldn't be just counting on eventually this business is going to change hands. They go into the area with their eyes wide open.
 Well, I'm certainly open to the broadest possible grandfather based on this discussion. And if legal counsel tells us that the goalposts are narrower, I'm particularly interested in not putting up impediments to people who are changing ownership structure based on things like tax laws or estate planning or other reasons, because that seems to me to be form over substance.
 Yeah, and just to speak to what Commissioner Daly said a little bit ago, making sure that businesses know what the requirements are at the state and the city level. If we were to move forward with that piece of it that didn't have any of the clarifying language, it just said that you could be grandfathered, we would just have to do a good job of communicating with the applicant, hey, if the state says you can't get licensed, remember that you need that state license in order to operate in the city. And I think that's just a communication issue that we can certainly address. Great. Thanks.
 Well, thanks for clarifying on the grandfather clause because my favorite karaoke bar on Columbia Boulevard is for sale and it's industrial. I know. This is a serious issue.
 It's industrial zoning with a restaurant grandfathered in, so good to know. I want to thank you all again. I want to thank everyone from the cannabis industry who came to give testimony as well. It's really helpful for us to hear this feedback, and don't be shy about additional questions.
 or improvements that need to be done. I would also be remiss if I didn't thank Dave Austin from my office, who was my interim director at ONI and really put in an extraordinary amount of time and effort to the cannabis office, sometimes much to my chagrin because I care about other parts of ONI as well, but cannabis really did take priority, and I understand why. I mean...
 This is a new industry. There's a huge learning curve for all of us, and we want you to grow and thrive. So thank you. Commissioner, if I could also just say, because our tradition is when we go to a second reading that most of you won't be here. So for the benefit of the staff that's here, it was a superb presentation. I think it was you, sir, who began by saying that the touchstones were flexible and fair, right?
 There are a number of us on council which would like to see a lighter touch in how we regulate the cannabis industry. And it's clear that you're taking the time to listen to industry and kind of figure out how we can adapt both to nurture what is turning out to be
 potentially, next great craft industry in Oregon, while also protecting public health and safety along the way. And I really appreciate the work you've done. And, again, we're going to be thanking you next week with no one else here. So I think it's important we say it when the people that you're working with hear from us how appreciative we are. I can only add that this continues the fine tradition of these hearings on cannabis from September of 2015.
 having things come up at the council, the council being willing to listen, everybody recognising that this is a new industry that we all want to succeed, and how can we proceed with as much speed as is prudent and cautionary. So thank you, everybody, for your work on it. Thank you, Commissioner Daly and your staff. Yeah, good discussion.
 I think we need to start the crowdsourcing for Commissioner Udaly's karaoke operation. So everybody be thinking on that as well. This is a first. Mayor, can I also just say that I was very reluctant to say anything about David Austin for the obvious reason that we have to work with him every day. And I did not want a more swollen head, but nice job.
 Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Okay. Next item, please.
 Item 995, amend agreement with CMTS LLC for on-call temporary engineering and technical support staffing services by $4 million for a total not to exceed $5,500,000. Commissioner Fish. Mayor and colleagues, I want to welcome Sarah Culp and Scott Gibson to the table. I have very brief introductory remarks. Okay.
 The Bureau of Environmental Services has more than 400 active capital projects and a capital budget that is planned to increase over the next five years, thanks to this council's support, to repair and replace storm and sanitary sewers, drainages, pump stations, and treatment facilities. To successfully carry out these projects, BES requires temporary professional engineering and technical support staffing services.
 These on-call temporary staff currently represent about 16% of the BES engineering services total workforce and include classifications like engineers, inspectors, technicians, and construction managers that we engage between three months and two years. The proposed solicitation will be a step, we think, in the right direction to achieve BES's equity goals of promoting inclusion, equity, and a diverse workforce at the Bureau.
 The proposed RFP will ask respondents to present outreach and workforce development strategies that complement the BES workforce diversity goals. BES will also request respondents to the RFP to address their interest and capacity in partnering with BES to develop an apprenticeship or workforce training program to attract and train new contract staff from underrepresented communities in the construction inspection field.
 Now I'd like to turn it over to Sarah. Welcome. Before you start, did you want to read both of these together? I'm sorry? Yes. Okay. 996, authorize a competitive solicitation and price agreements for construction management, inspection, and project support personnel for an amount not to exceed $25 million over five years. Yes.
 Sarah. OK. Thank you, Commissioner. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Sarah Kolb. I'm an operations analyst at the Bureau of Environmental Services. And I'm here with my colleague from the Engineering Services Group, Scott Gibson, who is our design division manager. Let's see. I haven't been up here for many years.
 So we have the two items today we're talking about together related to our contracts for on-call temporary staffing. And before I go into each of the items, I want to just give some big picture context. Some of this repeats what the commissioner said. These contracts support the design and construction of projects that are in our already adopted Capital Improvement Program, or CIP. They provide us with supplemental personnel during peak workload times.
 And the supplemental personnel help us with leveling workloads and help us avoid overstaffing on a permanent employee basis.
 We have more than 400 active projects in the capital program at any time. They're all different shapes, sizes, types. They're in different stages of design and construction. And so there's a lot of variability across years. So on-call temporary staff help us level that workload and supplement when we have peaks and valleys in the work.
 And finally, these contracts provide opportunities and partnerships for workforce development. Over the years, we've used contracts such as this, and we've seen many outstanding and diverse candidates, graduates from local schools like the University of Portland Engineering and Mount Hood Community College and other sources. And this helps us because there's a national gap in the wastewater utility workforce. So these contracts are one of several different entry points to BES work.
 Temporary staff can get experience, build skills, and then they often go on to compete well when there are permanent city position openings. And on the flip side, these contracts also help us draw in regional and national pools of candidates with more senior level experience when we have temporary work needs for large, complex projects and need someone with, say, tunneling experience or treatment plant facility experience.
 Just a little bit more context quickly, that this is in the context of the ramp up of our CIP. The light blue line you see is where we have been. As of last fiscal year's adopted budget, we were on a glide path of about $110 million a year CIP into the future and we were minimally staffed and relied on a mix of staff, consultants, and contractors to deliver that level. Now we are at the point where that dark blue line is taking off
 With the new fiscal year's adopted budget in the CIP, we are ramping up and over the next four years aiming for a $140 million CIP level. So these temporary staffing contracts help us as we kind of adjust and right-size to that new level of work. This is a 22% increase over what our past planned CIP was. Thank you.
 So the first item is amending the existing contract with CMTS LLC. This contract is for temporary engineering and technical support. CMTS is a minority-owned and disadvantaged business enterprise. They currently have a contract with us for three years for $1.5 million. We're requesting an increase of $2 million a year over the remaining two years in the life of the contract.
 So that would be $2.5 million a year and not to exceed $5.5 million. There's no impact to the budget of this action in this amendment. The budget is already in the adopted CIP. It's built into individual project budgets. Those include design and construction costs, and that includes an assumption of using either permanent staff, consultants, or contract staff to do the work.
 And this contract primarily supports our project design phase. It's the green box in our project lifecycle there. So it's project managers, design engineers, and technicians to get new projects off the ground and designed. The...
 We're requesting this amendment primarily because the original RFP and contract, which went into place over a year ago, was based on our historic utilization of similar services and based on our projections back in 2015 about the CIP trajectory we were on. There has also been significant market inflation in the cost of engineering-related personnel since our previous contracts for similar services.
 So now we're on this 22% higher glide path with our CIP, and a real key to that is bolstering our design efforts in the next one to two years. So projects right now in the approved CIP will be taking one to two years to go through design.
 This also helps us through a period of unprecedented city position vacancies. Out of 180 positions in our engineering group, we've been running at 16 to 20 vacancies for most of this calendar year so far. We're hiring like crazy. We have, in the last 12 months, hired or promoted more.
 49 staff to permanent engineering positions. So we continue to work through that three- to six-month HR process to hire and fill permanent positions, as well as utilizing temporary staff to help. The second ordinance is to authorize a solicitation for new contracts for construction management, inspection, and project support.
 These replace two existing contracts we have that expire at the end of this calendar year. Our current contracts we've had in place now for five years. They total $20 million. The new solicitation will be for up to $25 million for the next five years. Again, this has no impact to the budget. These costs are already built into project budgets.
 And to put that into context, again, this is related to our 22% CIP increase and anticipating the costs moving forward of these staffing services. And this solicitation in our project lifecycle process really focuses on the construction and project closeout phases.
 So the new RFP will be largely consistent with the scope and utilization of past similar contracts. A majority of the services we've used over the years under these contracts are for construction inspectors. That's very seasonal up-and-down work, construction workload, seasonal inspection.
 Once projects reach the construction phase, it's also really costly to delay them at that point if we have staffing changes and turnover, so temporary staff help us keep things on schedule. And as Commissioner Fish spoke about, one of the benefits of these contracts is we hope to or we plan to continue to enhance our BES workforce development and diversity efforts.
 So a couple of highlights of recent success stories in that regard. Sharzad, the woman in the photo on the left, she started with BES as a temporary contractor several years ago. She's now a permanent city employee, having competed successfully for an engineer associate position in our construction division, and she works as a construction manager.
 And another success story is our past apprenticeship program for inspectors. So this was many years ago or several years ago. The contractor at the time, who was CMTS then, recruited, trained, and provided on-the-job work experience to minority and women candidates in partnership with our BES inspection team so that they could take advantage of job opportunities at BES.
 We had eight participants over the years of that program and five graduated, which is considered a pretty high success rate for folks going through programs like this.
 And those five continued on to work as contract inspectors for us. Three are now full-time city public works inspectors at BES. And one of those includes Veronica, the woman on the far right in the white hat. She started with the training program in 2002 and worked her way up the ranks as city inspector, senior inspector, and she's now our inspection manager where she oversees a staff of about 40 inspectors.
 So as the Commissioner mentioned in the new solicitation, we will plan to continue to build on strategies and partnerships and look to develop a new generation of this apprenticeship program.
 And then the last thought is just that both of these ordinances are, again, in the context of right-sizing our staffing for the CIP delivery at the new higher level. I want to mention that we don't want to over-rely on temporary contractors. This is a concern we share with unions, and we've made strides recently to add city positions to reduce our reliance on contract staff.
 With your support, Council has approved 11 of the new positions we've requested in the last three budget cycles to help us adjust that staffing level. And we've filled all 11 of those positions and continue to actively hire with our other vacancies. And so as we ramp up our CIP work, we're taking a cautious and conservative approach to expanding our city and temporary contractor ranks. And we'll continue to closely monitor the use of contract staff.
 over the long term. So with that. Sarah, you haven't missed a beat. Nice job. Excellent. Thank you. Colleagues? Any questions? Very good. Is there any public testimony on either item? No one signed up. Any other further questions?
 Very good. With regard to item, Commissioner Fritz, did you have a comment? No, I just said thank you. Very good. Excellent presentation with regarding to item 995. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. With regard to item 996, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It, too, moves to second reading. Without further ado, we are adjourned. Thank you. Wow.
 It feels like a dream.