Ready, Carla? Everybody ready? Yeah. Okay, good morning, everyone, and welcome to the September 7th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everybody. We have...
 Five people signed up for communications. We'll do that first in a moment. We have a consent calendar with one item so far requested to be pulled to regular, and that's 998. Is that right, Dan? Right. Anything else that anyone wants to pull from consent to regular? And then we have a four-fifths item that we'll take at the end, which is 1008-1.
 so there'll be a presentation on that, and I guess copies of that will be available for people that want to see it. And with that, we will proceed. As usual, we'll follow the rules of decorum here, and we ask that people not interrupt or make demonstrations in the council chambers. Let people speak their minds. We typically allow three minutes for testimony, and when your time's up, your time's up. If you want to indicate support for someone's position, feel free to give them a thumbs-up or a wave of the hand if you...
 disagree with them, a polite hand gesture to the negative is fine, but please no applause or vocal demonstrations unless it's for visiting dignitaries or students, and if you're one or more of those, you might get a round of applause from all of us. So again, with that, welcome. Let's proceed with communications item number one, which is 990. Request of Lightning Watchdog PDX to address council regarding Superfund cleanup. Let the games begin. Good morning. Good morning.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Just one subject real fast, again, on the foreclosure of homes. I want to make it very clear that my position is that it's okay to proceed with foreclosures, remain impartial, set up the same system as Multnomah County where they have
 Ordinance 275, 275, Chapter 7, where all the money is funded into a fund for affordable housing. And I recommend that you fund all the money into the HIF fund for affordable housing. Then I don't have an issue with foreclosures. Remain impartial. Don't negotiate with nonprofits. And get the highest market value for those properties and leave it at that. Now, pertaining to the Superfund.
 My position is I do agree with the EPA at this time to proceed forward in the direction they're going. One of the issues I have is that I've had a problem on why this hasn't been done for many years in the past as far as on dredging. In my opinion, the dredging issue should have been within a bureau here, that you should have a dredging bureau, have the equipment, have the funding go into this bureau,
 and maintain the river such as you would maintain the roads or a highway. It is used for transportation, and the reality is that it needs to be maintained on a regular basis. My calculation is that you need to remove 250,000 cubic yards every year. That's the same plan that the EPA has. Within seven years, they're talking about. Again, their plan isn't going to go far enough. The costs are going to be a lot higher.
 You need to absorb those costs within a bureau and have it set up to where you just maintain the river, maintain the channels. I'd like to see the river deepened, the channel deepened. I still want to see that looked at very close. I want to see all the marinas up and along, all the way up to the Columbia River, also dredged for recreational purposes deepened.
 There needs to be a dredging system on a regular basis, year by year, and eventually begin to take care of the problem on the Superfund cleanup. And I think the EPA will be very open to this and understands this is going to take a long time, take a tremendous amount of money, and somebody really has to have control of it, such as what Mr. Novick did on the gas tax.
 which I absolutely agreed with him on, and I think it needs to be looked at very close on having it set up like that to really control the overall costs and to get the job done right. It's a consistent maintenance of the river. It has to be done over many, many years. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, item 991, please. Okay.
 Request of Shedrick J. Wilkins to address council regarding spring water sweeps and Terminal 1. Yeah, I'm Shedrick J. Wilkins. The Northwest Examiner did a very good article about Terminal 1, there's copies of it out here, in which the mayor-elect Ted Wheeler supports Terminal 1. He applauds Homer Williams' development. Also, I read that Deborah Kofori and Homer Williams have taken a trip to the San Antonio, Texas area
 center, what are you going to call it, where they deal with homeless people in Texas. I didn't know that either, and it makes me feel good because I actually have given money to Ted Wheeler's campaign. Yeah, I give $50 to a millionaire. It's a joke on Forrest Gump where he's talking to a millionaire. I give $50 to a millionaire. I guess his father made paper plates. He got into paper plates instead of making lumber for houses. He got into paper plates.
 And that's kind of funny. Ted's fun. Actually, I met Ted Wheeler at the Chinatown Neighborhood Association. He came up to talk to me, sat next to me. I didn't know this guy was the head of Multnomah County. Anyway, he would try to – another thing, there's a nursing dynamic. There's a tremendous problem at the bus station. I belong to the Chinatown Neighborhood Association on and off.
 the Chinatown Native Association needs Terminal 1 because they intend to do sweeps and they will not allow homeless people at the bus station to ask construction workers for money. There's also a notice of public on September 22nd. I worked that day, but I may go to the end of it. They're going to start construction on it. There's a hearing notice on the 22nd of September. They will not tolerate it.
 They will not – and also when the Multnomah County Health Center is built, Ted Weaver was there that day three years ago to talk about that. They will not allow people – they want it to look like a Swiss village where you see the train station. There won't be any people camping around the bus station because the homeless people use the bathroom. Even I have. And you get chased out if you don't have a ticket. Trust me. I mean, it's really bad. They use the bathroom there and the Bud Carr Commons. Yes?
 And so I think terminal one is necessary. That area will look like a Swiss village, and the Chinatown Neighborhood Association will make it that way, and I may even help them because it's just – it doesn't look good for Portland. And the Bud Clark Common should only handle people here that are coming from another state with a job skill. They don't get a job, and we need to get them back to where they came from.
 that's not an area to have homeless people hanging around begging for money. They should do it at Terminal 1. Thank you. Okay, let's take 992, please. Request of David Keith Davis to address council regarding war on cop watchers. Okay, my name is David Keith Davis. One thing I wanted to start out with was Judith Mowry, the Senior Policy Advisor of Equity Strategies and Initiatives. She...
 put out a email talking about a bunch of cop watchers and basically saying that we're a bunch of, uh, white supremacists that target black people with our cameras, which is, uh, totally a lie, which is pretty concerning when you have, uh, people that work for the city, even now joining in this, uh, you know, war on cop watchers. You, you know, you're, uh,
 Out-of-town buddy, Greg Moss, came here, not this summer, but last summer, during the Rose Parade and smashed my camera. The DAs had no problem with that. Mew shook his hand afterwards, remember? And I'm out a $400 camera. Okay. So, yeah.
 obviously it's okay for your little friends to come from out of town and, uh, assault citizens in your town. And, you know, and I'm also facing a bunch of criminal trials simply for filming the police. I mean, Amanda Fritz, you were there, you saw me get arrested, uh, two of those times, right? One was here in city hall during, uh, the arrest of Barry Joe stall when he was having his, uh, health crisis. And, uh,
 Then, you know, I got arrested over at the Portland City Building for talking about how one of the COAB members called me a white supremacist, you know, even though I'm Jewish and, you know, I'll never be accepted into the white supremacist gang no matter how white I look. I am not white. And I actually have some black people in my family too. So, you know...
 The reality is, is you guys are scared of cameras and the cops, which you're the police commissioner, right? So you have no problem with cop watchers getting their cameras smashed by your friends that come from out of town. And you also have no problem with falsifying charges against them. And I'm still waiting for the surveillance footage of my arrest here at City Hall.
 which you guys still won't give my lawyer for some reason. And also, you know, you have these homeless sweeps going on, and you're blocking the media from filming them. And, you know, it's nice that you had to go attend your little sailboat. You know, you couldn't put that off for a week. I think, you know, it's more because you don't want to face the media. And, I mean, so you orchestrate one of the biggest homeless sweeps.
 the city's ever seen, and then you just conveniently leave town, you know? And there's this city myth that you guys are actually helping the homeless, but the reality is is you aren't doing things, and you aren't putting those people into housing or anything. You're just moving them along and playing your game. Thank you. All right, let's take 993. Okay.
 request of Sarah Hobbs to address council regarding September being National Suicide Prevention Month and September 10 International Suicide Prevention Day. Good morning. Just pull that microphone down a little bit there, Sarah. There you go. I'm a director of my name is Sarah.
 as they volunteer with the Oregon chapter of the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. I wanted to bring to the council's awareness that this month is Suicide Prevention Awareness Month. The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention has picked this week for their major social media suicide awareness prevention campaign. Thank you.
 The theme for our campaign this week is Be the Voice. Talk saves lives.
 But having said this, I know having a conversation with somebody who could be suicidal is scary. That is why I highly recommend for anybody who lives in Multnomah, Washington, or Clackamas counties, you go to the Internet at www.gettrainedtohelp.com.
 There you can find all sorts of free suicide prevention trainings that are offered through the three-county metro area. I know I am going to be taking the assist training here in the county, and I signed up through www.gettrainedtohelp.com.
 As well, Saturday is World Suicide Prevention Awareness Day. And there is an organization that I've been following that is actually located in Dublin, Ireland. They are a large suicide prevention organization, island-wide, called Cycle Against Suicide. And though they are located in Ireland, I think their motto is appropriate for everyone. Thank you.
 And that is, it is okay not to feel okay, but it is absolutely okay to ask for help.
 I've been here many times. You've heard me speak often about my concerns for the high rate of suicide here in Portland. But I believe if we do work together, if we do be the voice, if people do get trained and be willing to engage people that may be suicidal, we can bring Portland's suicide rate down.
 It is an attainable goal. Suicide is preventable. We just as a city need to have the well. So let's be the voice. Talk does save lives. Thank you, Sarah. Thanks for your advocacy. Appreciate you. Thank you. Okay. $9.94, please. Request of Mr. Eng to address council regarding the game.
 Good morning. Hello, guys. I just want you to know that I'm bisexual, and it's slightly transgendered, so if you want to offer me some feminized, misogynistic harassment on basis of my mother naming me Mary, I would prefer you leave that aside. So, uh...
 I don't really care if you call me a he or a she, but I do want respect. R-E-S-P-E-C-T. You know what? Charlie, it's okay to smile. I know the song. But let's smile. Let's be friendly here. We got real issues.
 Mark Kruger, with his swastika collection, is up there with a sound recording of Deutschland Uber Alles in courtroom 512 in the Multnomah County Courthouse. Fabulous young attorney Joseph Westover is trying to deal with Judge Rita Cobb, I think, delimitations on denazifying the Nazis so as not to prejudice the jury. Right.
 and I was in the same room with him, and I held on to my mother's crucifix for dear life. And at first, I took it off because I feel kind of Jewish, because we have a Kissinger back in the 17th century, and it was a bunch of Jacobs and Abrahams and Stahls and Schaeffers and Waltzes and Germans and Swiss, and I'm just convinced I'm Jewish. I've always felt that way since I was about six, and even if I'm not totally Jewish in the right proper order, I'm Gemischtheit. So,
 So shalom, and I held it together. Nobody splashed water in the face of Mark Kruger. Very difficult to be in the room with him. Very traumatizing. Very triggering. The game, espionage. Mr. Eng, my grandfather, Ransom Ludwig Eng, who had to change his Ludwig to Ransom because of the anti-German sentiment, possibly anti-Jewish German sentiment around World War I and World War II. So.
 went from Navy to OSS to CIA. And CIA was fostered because MI5 was concerned that America didn't have intelligence for global security. When you put, I asked Wagenknecht, the vice chief of your police force, you, Police Commissioner Hales,
 If we had a neo-Nazi national security attack on Portland soil, which side would Mark Kruger be on? And I think I had him stumped. And I'm really nice to people, actually. This is as rough as you're going to see me. Rough and tumble, probably. I don't know. Hopefully. But I brought a carpet bag.
 are the only people that were born in Portland. And I'm not a xenophobe, and I'm not a neo-Nazi, and I'm not a racist. I sent Sieg Heil to Constantine Sevier. I've got lentil soup, so I stabilize my blood sugar. I have a history of eating disorders. Throwing up. What else do you want to know about me? Oh, you want to crush my body and bones with Todd Engstrom, who is under investigation. Jonas Geisler knows it. It's time for me to go. Back to court. Thank you.
 Okay, let's move on to time certain item number nine and ninety five. Let's do sorry consent counter consent counter We have one item pulled and no others. So let's take a vote please on the balance of the consent calendar Which one is full? Oh, sorry you were here. I'm 998 is pulled to Saltzman I know that Fish I Okay, nine nine five, please
 Did you want those read together? Oh, you want those read together, Steve? Yes. Okay. $9.95. Accept a grant in the amount of $5,267,000 from the Oregon Department of Transportation and authorize an intergovernmental agreement for the East Portland Access to Employment and Education Project.
 and $996,000 authorized grant application to People for Bikes, up to $800,000 for outreach and education associated with transportation infrastructure projects. Mr. Novick. Colleagues, technically what we're doing today is accepting money that was actually approved by Metro Council in November 2013 as part of the 2016-18 Regional Flexible Funds Allocation. Okay.
 That's a window into the complexity of transportation project funding. But what we're also doing, saying today, is the culmination, or at least a major step, of a lot of hard work by a lot of people, particularly East Portland transportation advocates. So I'd like to take this opportunity to thank
 the east portland action plan epnos land use and transportation committee everyone that worked to develop the five-year east portland in motion five-year implementation strategy for active transportation and this grant will enable us to fulfill a lot of the promise of east portland in motion east portland businesses and neighborhood associations provided additional advocacy representatives from david douglas and park rose school districts who helped identify priorities for safely walking and biking to school and thank the
 pbot odot and trimet for figuring out how to best use limited resources to quickly implement the right improvements in east portland with these with this grant this script project will include the following improvements all of which originate from the east portland emotion implementation strategy sidewalk and curb ramp infill new bike lanes and southeast cherry blossom drive slash 100 second avenue slash 103rd avenue between washington street and market street
 Sidewalk and curb ramp infill of new bike lanes in Southeast Market between 92nd and 130th Avenue, also known as part of the 4M Greenway. The 100s Neighborhood Greenway extension from Northeast Klickitat Street to Southeast Bush Street. The 150s Neighborhood Greenway from Northeast Halsey Street to Southeast Powell Boulevard.
 that transit safety, comfort, and access improvements to existing bus stops, including 12 newer enhanced pedestrian bicycle crossings, including rapid-flash beacons and pedestrian hybrid signals, on arterial streets including northeast Halsey, northeast Gleason, southeast Stark, southeast Division, southeast 22nd, and southeast Powell Boulevard.
 These improvements will provide safer, more convenient access to employment destinations, including the Halsey, Weidler, Gateway, Division Midway, and Rosewood business districts, as well as five elementary schools, two middle schools, one high school, and eight parks. And for further elucidation, I will turn this over to Stephen Sigothy and Tamor Ender of my office, who have some more details to share on this project and this grant.
 Good morning to the rest of the Commission Council. I'm Steve Sigothy, Capital Project Manager at PBOT. The Commissioner covered a lot of it. We're here with a federal grant, $5,267,000, previously approved by Metro Council and also approving the IGA with ODOT to proceed on this project.
 Some of the background the commissioner noted, this project does build, continues building the projects called for in East Portland in Motion. Transportation strategy adopted by council in 2012 and crafted with a lot of help from some of the community groups that Commissioner Novick listed.
 We further got help in prioritizing these projects subsequent to East Portland motion from those groups, EPNO, Land Use and Transportation Committee, the subcommittees of the East Portland Action Plan. They helped us really prioritize a set of projects to include in this grant, which was then approved by Metro during the last round of the regional flexible funds and is now ready for disbursement through ODOT.
 The original project was actually $8 million and had $3 million earmarked for outer Powell safety improvements, and we agreed with ODOT to have them hold that $3 million and add to their larger pot of funding for the outer Powell transportation safety project, which is a $20 million project on that state road. Thank you.
 Here's a map showing the improvements. The commissioner noted sidewalk infill and new bike lanes on Market Street and the Cherry Blossom Corridor, two new neighborhood greenways on low-traffic streets, including some segments of multi-use trail, and continuing the very important work of providing safer crossings of our major arterial streets, including streets on our high-crash network.
 Halsey, Gleason, Burnside, Stark, Division, Powell, 122nd. So we have 13 locations that are getting either new or enhanced pedestrian bicycle crossings. Sorry, let me stop you for just a second there. I didn't realize the scope of this. So there are actually now going to be continuous sidewalks on both Market and Cherry Blossom all the way to David Douglas High School? That's correct. Wow, that's great. Highlighting one other component of the project that you'll hear about under your next agenda item, the 100s Neighborhood Greenway project,
 It connects to a lot of destinations within Gateway Regional Center, the Halsey-Weidler Business District, the new Gateway Discovery Park that's under construction, Floyd Light Middle School, East Portland Community Center, the Mall 205, Plaza 205 shopping centers, Adventist Medical Center, and destinations beyond. Somewhat unique to these Greenway projects within this larger project, we'll have several segments of multi-use pathway that will be completely free of car traffic in which our
 Our charge is to not only look at traffic safety, but also personal safety along these segments. And we'll also be using some of those rare streets that had pre-existing sidewalk. We have several streets within there that will have sidewalk as well as neighborhood greenway shared bike improvements along these neighborhood greenways. And that's true along the 100s and 150s greenways.
 So after your approval of this grant and IGA, we anticipate being underway in October, proceeding with concept design and final design through 2017, winter of 2017-18, and going to construction in summer of 2018. And with that, I'll take any further questions. Questions, if any. That's great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Steve.
 Now we'll proceed to 996, and Tamora Ender of my staff will explain why we thought that 996 is complementary to 995. That's correct. Good morning. My name is Tamora Ender, Policy Advisor to Commissioner Novick.
 So this is about Portland's Gateway to Opportunity proposal, and we are applying to a nonprofit called People for Bikes, which is a national nonprofit dedicated to better bicycling infrastructure. And some of the goals of this project is highlighting how, with a network of safe biking and walking routes, we can increase intentionally ridership in the area to complement our goals, including climate and health and safety. Okay.
 So the name of the challenge that People for Bikes has put out is called the Big Jump. And basically the goal is to increase ridership, as I mentioned. And the focus is going to be on a distinct geographic area. And we've chosen Gateway in coordination with some of our partners there. And it fits within the population. Our geographic area is a population of 20,000 people.
 And the goal is by the end of 2019 to triple bike ridership in the Gateway area by implementing safe bicycle infrastructure in that area. And the focus is going to be on access to jobs and transit in schools where people go on a daily basis. So similar to the ladders of opportunity that USDOT has mentioned.
 There's no local match required for this project. The city would just provide the infrastructure that it was going to do anyway in its normal course of business. To more specifically, the People for Bikes funding goes towards education and outreach to neighbors in the area to let them know about the projects we're building and how they can use bike lanes. That's exactly right. Mm-hmm.
 so that it leverages the infrastructure we're already doing and notifies people of how they can use this neighboring greenway to get to Gateway Transit Center or Gateway Discovery Park. And what's the current bike ridership that we're intending to triple? I'm going to get to that in a few slides. Oh, sorry. I thought you were done. Oh, no worries. And so the challenge is going to have 10 finalist cities.
 and each city will receive $200,000 per year and will have culturally competent and language-specific outreach materials to reach demographics that are traditionally very difficult for city government to reach. So, yes, we'd be partnering with certain community-based organizations, which I'll mention at the end who those are.
 And so Portland's proposal is going to be called Gateway to Opportunity, and it's going to have a focus on new Portlanders, so immigrants, refugees, people who don't speak English.
 and it's going to be connecting to parks. We have Gateway Green in the area and Gateway Discovery Park as well as the Halsey-Weidler Business Corridor which is the only sidewalk facing retail corridor in East Portland which will have protected bike lanes by next year making it the most bicycle friendly retail corridor in the city.
 And we really chose East Portland in this area because if we can make it work here, we believe that the model will be scalable and replicable in other parts of the country because we have wide arterials and wide streets that are difficult to cross. This is 122nd, which flows north-south, and we know that
 Streets like Gleason and 122nd are dangerous to traverse on foot. Just within the project segment between Northeast 100th and Northeast 130th, in the past decade, we averaged one fatality every two years. And some of the momentum we have in this area is that David Douglas now has a safe house with school coordinator, and Community Cycling Center will be hosting bicycle camps in Gateway Green Park.
 in the near future. And Gateway Discovery Park and Urban Plaza opens October 2017, and that will have programming activities like farmer's markets to really be a community hub in that area.
 And Commissioner Fritz, these are the counts within the project area, our existing counts there, and then it compares that to other locations where we have counts. So I would say we are highly confident that we could triple these numbers within three years, given the extensive amount of high-quality infrastructure we have coming on in this area. And this is our timeline. We expect to submit our application October 28th, and then there will be a national announcement in February.
 And this is our map of the area. So it'll be bounded on the west by the I-205 bike path. And then on the south, it's on East Burnside with the transit line. And then the 130s neighborhood greenway, which will be constructed in 2018, will be the eastern boundary. And then I-84 to the north. And we're looking at certain freeway crossings to connect these neighborhoods a little bit better. And we have a number of schools in the project area.
 And the other thing we're looking at is how to improve our data collection because we know that unlike other parts of the city, the people who commute in this area by bike are not traveling between 7 to 9 a.m. and 4 to 6 p.m. So we'll be looking at different times to do bicycle counts as well.
 So I would say this concludes our presentation. We did have a parent from Sacramento Elementary confirm to testify or submit testimony this morning, but she had a last-minute event. And so I would just want to take a minute to highlight some of the community partners we'll be working with. ERCO, Immigrant Refugee Community Organization, which is in the project area at 102nd and Northeast Gleason.
 Um, we have a letter of support from Park Row School District, and we intend to get one from David Douglas School District, who has expressed, um, very, um, positive remarks about this. And then we're working with Tom Badrick from the Gateway Area Business Association, Michael Tete from Community Cycling Center, uh, Noel McElberry from Oregon Walks.
 and Ron Glanville from the Russell Neighborhood Association, Linda Robinson from Gateway Green, as well as TriMet and Metro. So that concludes my presentation. I have a question, and this is very exciting. And what you're highlighting is all this change that's occurring in Gateway and all the investments you're proposing to make. And the map sort of tells an exciting story with Gateway Green in the works and a new park that Commissioner Fritz is going to unveil and some other things.
 But it still begs a question about how you get from 205 west. And there's a GLSEN. Someone admonished me in my building the other day. It's GLSEN, not Gleason. I defer to them. You know, there's a couple of streets. But the big vision that's down the road is trying to get a bike lane along the Banfield. Yeah.
 And I know that's complicated because there's rail, but that's what's been discussed for a long time. Do we have any hope, Steve, in our lifetime that we'll be able to sort of work with the railroads to move that Sullivan's Gulch vision forward? Sure.
 Which is the most obvious connection from Gateway. Define lifetime. There's always hope. I can't give you a timeline. Do we know any recall? That's what I define. There's always hope. I can't give you a timeline. Are those ongoing discussions with the railroad? Well, argument. Hi. I'm Mark. I'm from the State of California. I'm a member of the State of California. I'm a member of the State of California. I'm a member of the State of California. I'm a member of the State of California. I'm a member of the State of California. I'm a member of the State of California.
 Hi, I'm Margie Bradway. I'm the Active Transportation Safety Division Manager. I was nodding my head in that Sullivan's Gulch does remain a priority. The railroads are complex to work with, but the venue in which we're talking about it right now is within the context of the regional flex fund conversation. Again, looking into the kind of different ways that we could fund this with
 partners, and we think the best way right now to move Salt Lake Gulch forward is kind of partnership with Portland Metro in a planning project development phase with inviting parks as well to the table. So that's what we're currently working on and trying to seek funding for through the Metro process. Yeah, that's great, and I know how complicated that one is, and what I would simply say
 also just observe is that each of us deals with the railroads from time to time separately. Like BES recently had a big project because we had to move some pipes to accommodate a change in the track down where the Banfield splits to I-5. And
 probably we have more leverage collectively than individually. Exactly. So the relationship is a two-way street, and we do do a lot of work with the railroads, and there's this persistent theme about how challenging this particular piece is, but we might collectively have more leverage than individually. Any other questions? Questions. Thank you both very much. Thank you. We'll see if anyone wants to testify on either of these items. Come on up, please.
 My name is Joe Walsh, for the record. I represent Individuals for Justice. On the second item, 996, the wording is confusing. It seems that what you're saying is that they're going to apply for a grant, but you're only going to allow them to spend up to $800,000. Is that a reasonable interpretation? I mean, the first line, grant application to the people for bikes,
 For $800,000. It's a matter of what's a limit on the amount that People for Bikes is making available. Okay. I have a question. Not a limit on how much we would want to spend. If they had a lot more money, we would ask for more money. Okay. Well, it seems that you're limiting them to $800,000. Am I reading that wrong? And I can't figure out why you would do that if they're applying for a grant. Okay.
 Well, actually, if I may, my notes say that it's $200,000 per year for three years. I guess that's what brought this up. Actually, Tamora, could you explain that distinction? We're applying for a grant of up to $800,000, as I think that that's the most that we could get. But, Tamora, actually, that is a good point. Can you explain the distinction between the $800,000 and the $600,000?
 Just come up and stand there. That's fine. So is it $200 a year? It's $200,000 per year, and I included a buffer of an extra $200,000 just so we wouldn't have to come back to council. Okay. But if council wants to limit it at $600, we can. Okay.
 Where would we get the other $200,000 from? We wouldn't. It would just be $600,000. That's just headroom. Yeah, headroom and certain in-kind donations are just kind of factored in. But we expect about $200,000. It's just built in, so we wouldn't have to come back to the council. All right. Thank you. So if you exceed $800,000, you have to come back to the council? Well, that's dumb. I mean, if you support this, why don't you just give them free reign? If they go for a grant and it's a million dollars,
 Why would that bother you? Tamara, it's my understanding that people for bikes isn't making millions and millions of dollars available. Yeah, we're asking for the maximum. Well, if you get a million or you get a million and a half, wouldn't that be a time to celebrate in that limit what they're doing? Well, that would be the reason to come back to council is to celebrate and accept some more money. But they would have to ask you for permission.
 That's the way it works. That's a very weird celebration. When I celebrate, I don't ask anybody's permission. I just celebrate. Thank you for raising the question. I appreciate it. You answered my question, actually. But the wording was bad, and it was confusing, and I wish you would do better on the agendas. Whoever writes the agendas needs to look at it from a citizen's point of view that knows nothing. You know, I know a lot. I've been here around here for 10 years.
 And it confuses me. And I always take that as a temperature. If it confuses me, the people that are watching this must be confused. So, and I ask my wife when I go home because she watches it. And she says, no, you were wrong. I understood. So, okay. All right. I hope you win this time on that one. Thank you. Go ahead.
 Okay, I'm Mr. Shedrick, and I don't specifically know about, but I have ridden bicycles and ridden them to work. I think that bicycles in the wintertime, rain is very dangerous. It gets you can't see anything. And so people who mix recreational bicycling with going to work on these things are two different things. You definitely need to couple them with light rail so that people can do most of their commuting by the light rail and then get on the bicycle. Okay.
 I even thought of myself about...
 Making my own bicycle, which has a solar panel on top on the back bar, so it would maybe help me go uphill, but I don't know if I'd get enough sunlight. But the top bar would also block me from the rain. And at any time, we could change the law saying you have to have a driver's license for a bicycle. I don't have to worry about that one. They used to let people have these four-wheel things, but they changed. So it's something I would work on. It only cost me $1,000 to make a solar-powered bicycle when I want to go uphill.
 and I'm for this kind of thing, and I applaud the orange bicycle thing that Commissioner Novick's doing. It looks very good. What I'm saying is people have this idea that they're going to bicycle to work in a rainstorm. You'll catch pneumonia. So I just have some caution here about some perpetual idea that people are going to commute on bicycles to work. It's not going to happen. They'll get sick. Thank you. All right, anyone else?
 All right. Then let's please take item 995 for a vote. Self-sufficient. Well, it's great to get this very important grant for pedestrian and bicycle safety in East Portland and to apply for funding for People for Bikes for the Gateway Opportunity Proposal. They're both very exciting. And I look forward to these very important improvements. Aye. Novick. I just want, again, to thank the folks in East Portland, Emily,
 Portland in Motion plan to for all of their work identifying and prioritizing East Portland's active transportation needs because with that kind of community support it makes it a lot easier for us to make a compelling case to get funds like this so thanks again and thanks to everybody from PBOT and Crime Added ODOT as well.
 Well, in the interest of transparency, I need to state that my parents-in-law, Colonels Edward and Millie Fritz, live at Cherry Blossom Village, which is near these improvements, so I know that they're going to enjoy walking on them. However, they don't benefit any more or less than anybody else who may be walking on them, so my understanding is that I'm not precluded from voting enthusiastically for it. Like Mrs. Walsh, my parents-in-law do watch these proceedings, only they generally only tell me when I've done something good.
 which is very helpful. So I will say something good too. Commissioner Novick and Leah Treat and your whole team, I very much appreciate the prioritization of going for this grant, significant grant for East Portland and the collaboration of the East Portland Action Plan and the East Portland Neighborhood Organization to make sure that we are doing things in lockstep. And I hope we can do more of the studies like the East Portland in Motion so that every area of the city gets together and prioritizes. Because contrary to...
 to what you might think. It's not just everybody saying, do it in my backyard. Neighbourhood folks are willing to look at where the most the highest needs and to advocate for each other. And so I really appreciate that as well as for the plan to include more communities of colour and translation services as part of the grant. Thank you. I. Yes. It's a great grant. Good process. Thanks for the presentation.
 Commissioner Novick to you and PBOT and your community partners job well done hi there was so much support for this by wild applause a rally just in case but this is great work this really is great work and to have this much new connectivity in East Portland is the kind of thing that we all want to see more of and this is actually making it happen so great stuff thank you very much mr. Novick hi
 Okay, 996 passes the second reading. Let's take regular agenda item S1002, please.
 2002 extend the housing emergency declared by ordinance 1 8 7 3 7 1 to address increased homelessness identify council powers specify one year duration continue efforts to address housing affordability and wave portions of the zoning code and standards an interest in adding the emergency clause to this is my second second
 further discussion well i just think i just have to say that it seemed a bit um odd to be declaring an emergency as a non-emergency ordinance so happy to be able to support it okay that makes sense to me too all right roll call please on the amendment saltzman aye novick aye fritz and the reason for the emergency is is to expedite getting things done as quickly as possible aye
 Niels. Aye. And then on the... Sorry. Just I'll record my vote as aye as well. Oh, sorry. Should I call you? I'm sorry. Okay. I know we need the vote. I just want to make sure I'm... I don't know what I did. I'm sorry. No one takes four runs. I wasn't trying to hold this train up. I just... Sorry about that. Okay. Let's take a vote on the emergency ordinance as amended, please. Saltzman.
 Well, I want to thank Mayor Hales for bringing forward this extension of one year, and it's very important as we continue to work on the issues of affordable housing and helping people who are homeless. So a very strong supporter. Aye. Novick? Aye.
 So I was somewhat skeptical of this ordinance because it does state that it's to allow five storage units. But in fact, when you look at the emergency chapter, it waives the entire zoning code except for the temporary activities code.
 So that was not something that I had understood the first time around, and knowing it now, I'm hesitant, partly because the temporary activities section of the zoning code says you can't do any permanent improvements. And so it means that instead of...
 say, adding a sewer line and a water line for a temporary shelter, you have to do it all with temporary porta-potties and portable showers and such. So I appreciate the fact that Mayor Hales, a long time ago, asked the Bureau of Planning to work on improvements to the Mass Shelter Code. I understand that that's going to be the Planning Commission next Tuesday.
 And I hope that as time goes by, we can have some more conversations about how are we going to spend taxpayers' money wisely, how we're going to protect ratepayers from any suggestion of not paying for homeless services, because that's not allowed. And I know that all our council are very dedicated to doing that. So I appreciate your work, my health. Thank you.
 This is a good compromise. I appreciate the discussion we had as a group of colleagues. I think one year makes sense, and I strongly support the six-month reporting piece. One of the things that I learned in talking to the people on the front lines like Mark Jolin
 is that by extending this to a year, we strengthen the hand of the folks that are looking for shelter sites and looking to enter into contracts. And we've set some big goals in terms of getting people off the street, and it seems reasonable to extend this a year
 to provide that flexibility and certainty. So that's the basis upon which I support this. And again, I appreciate the compromise that was worked out in a collegial fashion by the Council as a whole. Aye.
 Neils. Well, I appreciate the council's focus on this crisis because that's what it is. I appreciate the partnerships that we've built with Multnomah County, with a home for everyone, with the private sector, with people like the Menashe family coming forward the way they did, with people like the Yimby's in Multnomah Village who started making sack lunches for the women at the Sears shelter. I appreciate people treating this emergency like an emergency.
 Because it is. And it's an emergency in both housing affordability and in homelessness. We're trying a lot of things. Quite a number of them are working.
 Quite a number of them need to be modified to work better. But we are trying a lot of things. We are investing a lot. We are spending people's money carefully, although we are spending a lot of it. There's no hiding that. To address both the availability of affordable housing and better access to services for people who are experiencing homelessness. I'm proud of this work. I think it's important that we keep this tight focus. A year is a reasonable time to check back in and say, where are we now? Thank you.
 uh hopefully we will be in a better place than we are today we're in a better place today than we were a year ago so i'm pleased with the progress and i appreciate the solid support on this council for this work hi okay uh let's take 1003 please mayor did you want to take the pulled item
 Later, 998. Oh, yes, if we're ready to. Are you ready to do that? We're ready. Okay, let's take 998 then, please. Update procurement code to conform to new state law that delegates broader authority to the city to protect the integrity of its social equity contracting programs. Okay, Commissioner Saltzman, do you have a request here? Thank you, Mayor. This meeting is kind of illegal at this point. Please, let's let him speak.
 As a city, we are committed to promoting economic opportunity for women and people of color and combating the effects of historic discrimination in the contracting industry. Frustrated by the lack of enforcement at the state level, during the 2015 legislative session,
 the city sought authority to conduct its own enforcement in situations where prime contractors are not using the minority women or emerging small business subcontractors that they presented they would be using when they were awarded the contract. So with the expert guidance of our government relations team and the leadership of Senator Michael Dembrow and Representative Lou Frederick, we were successful in changing the law which gave us the power to protect our own programs from fraud. Thank you.
 You guys have shut down the city to the citizens, so this isn't a legal meeting at this point. Okay, you need to let us continue. Are you going to give the doors to the citizens? You need to let us continue, sir. Go ahead, Commissioner. Okay. Before us today are the changes to our procurement code that incorporate the state law revisions. These revisions will allow us to ensure that our efforts to promote economic opportunity for women and people of color are not undermined by those trying to cheat the system.
 I want to thank the city ombudsman, Margie Sollinger, for investigating this issue. And I'd also like to thank James Posey, a member of the public, who dedicated his time to provide critical testimony to state legislators on this issue, and to Christine Moody of Procurement Services and her staff who brought these code changes to fruition. And we have Celia Herron here, I guess, from Office of Management of Finance. Margie, I don't know if you wanted to say anything or – no? Okay. Okay.
 Celia Heron with OMF and Larry Palat with procurement. We can walk you through the changes. I'll let Larry take the lead on that. Good morning. I'm Larry Palat from Procurement Services. Christine is on vacation this week, so otherwise you'd get a much better report. The changes are...
 truthfully focused on the thought process of allowing the city, as the Commissioner said, the ability to enforce when we have a contractor who has made changes to their certification, something has happened, they've become decertified for any reason, and or we have a situation where there's in essence a pass-through from non-certified to certified firms for the sole purpose of gaining additional points or gaining dollars. Yes.
 So we now have the capacity to move that forward. The city has aspirational goals for... Sorry, let me interrupt you. Mr. Walsh, you need to have a seat, please.
 Thank you. Go ahead. This is an illegal meeting. You locked the doors against students. Sir, you need to sit down. You're a radio student. No, sir, you need to sit down. Bring the cops in. You've got them hidden in a room. You need to sit down. They have an issue with the Portland Public School District. They're actually at the wrong building. I'm going to come out here and talk to you.
 They're actually at the wrong building, but they're free to have an exercise of democracy. They're welcome to talk to me. Sir, go ahead and see. Sir, you are being disrupted. Sir, you're being disrupted. You need to sit down or you'll be excluded. You need to sit down or you'll be excluded. Okay, now continue, please. Go ahead. Why, you're stupid.
 Around that end of the aisle. You cunt! Mr. Walsh, you need to sit down and be quiet now. Shut up! We're recessed. You're excluded. It's never happened before. Okay. I'm back on your fucking boat! Mr. Walsh is doing the citizens a favor. You cunt! You know what a cunt is? You let the kids in.
 You can come to me to clear the chamber completely. Everybody has to get up and leave, please. Pretty easy. You do? Yeah, I can. My name's Stan. What are they going to do? Put crayons on the wall? Okay, and a Oregon bike. Okay. And you might see me here a couple times. Just getting to know what's going on. You've got crayola. Yeah.
 We have some kids that have some Crayolas, and they got some issues. Do you find out when you come to one of our sessions? You have a session, don't you? Oh, okay. Yeah, yeah.
 Are the protesters still out there? I was going to tell them, hey, you're going to... Well, I was suggesting that we should tell them that. Housing bonds and parks bonds, and maybe someday a street bond. They're still out there. Maybe they're having their silent prayer. All right. Unbelievable. Huh? That they came here. Everybody comes here. This is where it's happening. It's the school board. Wow. You're responsible for everything, Chuck.
 Unbelievable. Schools, warranties. Yeah. But that's a change, actually. I think it's not a good change. It's a change in that the consciousness of the details has faded to that. I will say, civics education is not as good. And it's premium. Yeah. Yeah. Like, I forget if it's phased. Welcome back. Well, this is unbelievable. So the school board apparently...
 so please proceed okay that's never happened to me before well if you could tone down your presentation I think you know I'm sure somehow it's all my fault I understand what can I do
 Okay, back where we were, the idea behind the piece of the legislation relative to city-based enforcement is that prior to this, only the state had the ability to enforce any kind of rules, sanctions, or debarment against contractors.
 Now, with this legislation, we have the ability, the city has the ability to work on its own. We don't have to wait for the state to do something or take whatever time they take to work around and get to a vendor who's done something, lost certification, done something as a pass-through, any of that kind of stuff. The city can issue its own sanctions, has its own ability to terminate contracts, etc.
 or suspend the contract or force the change in a subcontractor who has, you know, if you have a subcontractor who's lost their certification for some reason, we could, the city could actually force them to eliminate that subcontractor, force the prime contractor to eliminate that subcontractor and hire a new certified subcontractor.
 It's a great deal of enforcement capacity. You know, the extent to which the city would choose to use it could be different on any given project. And it really gives the city some capacity to we have great social equity programs. They are phenomenal. They're kind of the model for a lot of other agencies in the region. And now we have some teeth in the enforcement and protecting those programs. So that's the big part of our code change.
 The secondary part of the code change is updating to follow state law, which updated the small procurement limit from $5,000 to $10,000.
 And so we're adopting or adjusting code to accommodate that change. This is not an arbitrary rollout of automatically everything goes to $10,000. This is somewhat akin to opening the garage door before you drive the car out. And because we have to update procurement code, you know, not the code, the actual, the manuals. There's some SAP updates that will have to occur. There's some things that will have to occur to get that piece in place. But at least this is the front end of that.
 so if there's any more questions questions i'm looking through the code language so we we're creating a parallel process that allows the state to step in where where with the city to step in where we and historically maybe the state hasn't or hasn't happened quickly enough according to the impact statement there's no budgetary uh impact of this action so it's two questions
 what has to happen to trigger city action? And then how does this – and assuming this becomes more than just an occasional investigation, assuming this thing ramps up and we're involved on a regular basis in verifying information about certification, how do we pay for it? Okay. The probability, at least our feeling, the probability for –
 A significant increase in numbers of enforcement isn't really very high. We do a very good job now of discussing things, working with our contractors. It hasn't been a huge issue. It has been an issue but not a really, really, really big one. So we wouldn't anticipate that we would get a thousand percent increase in the number of enforcements.
 The trigger will come from either the Bureau or Procurement Services itself in our compliance group. We're always constantly watching the projects as they move forward, everything from certified payrolls to making sure that the subcontractor is getting paid timely, all of those kinds of issues. So we have kind of constant surveillance anyway. If there were an issue tied to that, that would be the trigger point.
 So let's assume that it originates from the community, someone who's either providing services or has information, wants to bring a complaint. How will they bring the complaint? Where will they go to bring the complaint? And then how will the council know how that complaint has been adjudicated? Okay.
 The complaint could come forward from any community member. It would – the most logical place to bring the complaint, of course, would be to the procurement office or to the bureau in charge who would then report to the procurement office relative to issues with the vendors. Understanding our – Can I stop you right there for a second? When you say the most logical place to bring a complaint, I'm talking about the public. And the public goes to our website and generally is bewildered by all the bureaus and all the information. So –
 My sense is that we need to have something on a website that is very clear about receiving complaints from the public if they have information. It could be a sub. It could be someone providing services. Yes.
 where they go, how they make the complaint, and how that complaint is tracked. Not assume that people are going to go to our website and figure this out. The other part of that would be the city has an excellent ombudsman's office that receives complaints relative to many, many, many issues of the city. I mean, I think some of us from within the city are a little bewildered by some of the thought process in all of our bureaus, too.
 The ombudsman office would be an excellent place to start. If it was just outside third-party type community member, I think that would be the logical place to start. I don't think they might – would go to procurement. They probably wouldn't know to. Well, the ombudsperson may or may not want that additional burden. Our experience is she normally gets the complaints that have not gotten attention through the normal channel. So I just think this is something we ought to think about if we're –
 If we're saying that we're taking on a new enforcement protocol and we are saying that we're taking this seriously, there ought to be some transparent way that complaints come in and that people can get that information, not have to go to the ombudsman to find out or just call a random bureau. And then there should be some way for us to track over the next year. Do we get more complaints? How has this particular change in the law impacted the community, impacted our work?
 and I encourage you to consider that just as part of the rollout. Well, I think if that's a council directive, that's something we could certainly put in place is, you know, some kind of a thought process we could get back to the council's offices as far as a, you know, some sort of report or some sort of format you'd like to see. Mayor, is this a council directive?
 The mayor's nodding. And I just say that we sometimes hear anecdotally from the community that they have concerns about someone providing services, and we're not really in a position to deal with it, and historically the state does it. So if we're going to have a city enforcement mechanism, let's set up something so that those complaints can be brought to the right person, be dealt with, and I wouldn't start with the ombudsman at her office. She's not really –
 in my view, where complaints should come first. They usually come there after people have not gotten recourse through other means, in my experience.
 Celia Herron with OMF. I think your point is well made in terms of a clear communication, especially if now the complaints are going to Boley or to the State, we want to make sure folks know, well, when do I take it to the City, when do I take it to the County, when to the State. So I think your point is well made in terms of getting information, presumably on the procurement website, and information out to the community members so it's clear.
 Because in addition to syncing up with state code, this is broader than just public contracting. It's where the city has social equity goals. This gives us an enforcement mechanism that we didn't have previously. So I think the point is well made that the communication ought to be very clear. Council's intent with these code changes are more than housekeeping in sync. It's really adding some teeth to the social equity goals that we've got.
 Good clarification. Thank you. Other questions, comments, anything else that you two wanted to cover here? Steve, did you have something? Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. All right. Thank you both very much. Thank you. Anyone like to speak on this item? Come on up. Yeah, I could use my degree in electrical engineering on this thing. I've noticed after the Second World War a lot of construction workers were heavyset white male types that can do physical stuff.
 But there have been improvements lately in like a hammer. They have these nail guns now that use air pressure. A woman can do that. Also, I saw a woman lineman, instead of like going up the pole, right, they just put this thing, and it was raining, and they had this tarp over her. It wasn't so she wouldn't get her hair wet. It's unhealthy for a guy to do the same thing.
 So there's been improvements in electrical technology to hoist people up in the air, do electrical work on telephone poles. Recently, buildings are only like 10 stories high, and actually if you have one of these cranes, you don't have to lift anything. The crane is overhead and lifts things up. So technology has changed things. Just like in the South, they used to justify slave labor by saying, we don't have the machines to do that when the North was pioneering the tractor.
 And I think affirmative action is always helped by increases in technology. Like I say, nobody drives a nail anymore. They've got these nail guns. And women can do that. So women can do these kind of jobs, and you can't just opt out and say, we have to have the guy because he's strong.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, anyone else? Then let's please take a vote on this item as an emergency ordinance. Councilman? Well, this is a very important change to be able to enforce our own laws around procurement and the use of minority women in emerging small businesses. It's very important that we know that...
 when we award a contract to somebody, that they actually are going to use the minority and women subcontractors that they present to us they're going to use, and that those subcontractors are all appropriately certified to do the work. Again, I want to thank our city ombudsman, Margie Sollinger, procurement services, James Posey, and certainly want to also acknowledge my chief of staff, Brendan Finn, for his excellent shadow role in helping this project.
 problem become addressed by our state lawmakers. Please devote aye. Novik. Back when I worked for the Federal Justice Department doing environmental law enforcement, our bosses used to say, you know, the Soviet Union had great environmental laws, but they had nobody to enforce them. A law without enforcement capacity is a meaningless law. So this is an important step, and thank you very much. Aye. And give your work one step at a time, and we'll keep making improvements. Thank you. Aye. Thank you.
 Thanks to the auditor and the ombudsman, to Representative Frederick and Senator Dembrow.
 to you, Commissioner, and your staff and your team, and to Christine Moody and the folks that went down and testified or helped the legislature get there. And I'm pleased that as part of this, we're going to also be thinking about ways of streamlining the receipt of complaints from the public, maybe even have a little icon on the website, and then some way to track that so we can measure our progress. Thank you.
 Thank you, Dan, and thanks to everyone for their good work. Aye. Nails. Good work indeed. Thank you. Aye. Okay, let's go back to the regular agenda to Item 1003. Okay.
 Accept bid of Iron Horse Excavation LLC, doing business as Oxbow Construction, for the Cured-in-Place Pipe Southeast Sewer Rehabilitation Project for $2,882,314. It might not be a demonstration in favor of this one, so you're just going to be on your own. I'll just have to wing it as best I can. Okay.
 Good morning. Larry Pallatt from Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Iron Horse Excavation DBA Oxbow Construction for the Southeast Sewer Rehab Project in the amount of $2,882,314. The engineer's estimate on this project was $2,260,000, and the Bureau's confidence level was high.
 Bids were opened on June 28, 2016. Three bids were received in response to the solicitation, and Iron Horse Excavation DBA Oxbow Construction is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $2,882,314, which is unfortunately $622,314, or 27.54%, over the engineer's estimate. Okay.
 excuse me, the Bureau of Environmental Services, Procurement Services identified an aspirational goal for certified DMW ESB subcontractors and suppliers of 20% of the hard construction projects for this cost. There is a total of $1,932,314, or 67%, DMW ESB participation on the project, including
 including the prime contractor at 58.2% and the certified subcontractors at 8.8%, apportioned as follows, $1,772,314 to DBE MBE prime contractor, $180,000 to ESB subcontractor. Iron Horse Excavation, DBE Expo Construction is a state-certified DBE contractor, DBE and MBE, and is in compliance with all city requirements for contracting.
 If the council has any questions regarding the procurement, I can certainly answer those. There is a representative from BES and the vendor here if you'd like to speak to them. Okay. Questions, either for procurement or BES. Okay. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? And if not, is there a motion to accept the report? So moved. Second. Second. Roll call, please.
 salzman aye novick aye fritz aye fish aye hails aye item 1004
 expand the authority of the risk manager and designees to serve as agents of the city attorney to investigate and settle tort claims and clarify the scope of fair and moral claims for which the risk manager is authorized to investigate and settle. I welcome this distinguished panel. Harry has explained to me this interesting note.
 interestingly named section of the City Code about fair and moral claims all right so let's try to be both okay I'll try to do this I'll try to be quick these are two relatively housekeeping amendments to the City Code provisions relating to the role of the risk manager one the first one is to eliminate what appears to be an unintentional inconsistency between the way we treat employment related claims and the way we treat ordinary tort claims and
 When the risk manager, when risk management investigates employment-related claims, the code treats them as agents of the city attorney, but there is no corresponding language in the investigation of tort claim materials.
 And this has proven to be an issue on occasion when we're in litigation. We don't have the same protection for our claim files from discovery that private litigants have with their insurance companies. So we'd like to kind of level the playing field, clear up the inconsistency, and treat risk management as agents of our office because we work together in a lot of these resolution of all these claims, and we wind up failing.
 with the litigation if they're unable to resolve them that's part one happy to answer questions about that if you have any part two is uh in its current so the charter provides that the council has the authority to settle fair and moral claims which are defined as claims for which the city would be immune under
 Concepts of governmental immunity or claims for loss of or damage to property of city employees incurred in the course of their employment. The code provision that delegates that responsibility to the risk manager is very bare at this point. And the risk manager wanted to clarify that her authority was clear.
 No more, no less than what's in the charter. And so that's just a purity housekeeping amendment to do that. If you have any questions about that, happy to answer them. Mayor, I guess I have a fundamental question, if I could take a moment. Sure. And I had a chance to talk to some of our distinguished guests this morning about this.
 The matter before us is pretty straightforward, and it is, as I understand it, designed to clarify the relationship between the city attorney's office and risk management. And I know, as each of you know, colleagues, that risk management reviews lots of claims that come in that relate to our bureaus.
 They do a very thorough and professional job evaluating those claims, and they often settle those claims before they bubble up. Sometimes they don't settle the claims, a lawsuit is filed, and then it gets more complicated. One of the ongoing challenges in our form of government is trying to be clear about who is the client in any matter that comes up. And I've actually gotten in the habit since I'm the client, or I thought I was the client in some matters,
 I'm just regularly asking that question in meetings, who's the client? And sometimes those meetings last longer than I would have thought because there's a disagreement about who is actually the client. So here's the issue I want to flag. Recently we had a discussion with risk management about a claim that involved both PBOT and the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 And I won't go into all the details, but like a lot of these kinds of claims where a homeowner or property owner is bringing a claim against a city relating to some property,
 claim that the sewer system backed up or during a storm wasn't working properly, whatever. The facts are complicated, and there's lots of different players at the city. There are people in different bureaus answering the phone, being dispatched, doing the work, doing the follow-up, and then woven throughout the tort claim and the lawsuit are different allegations involving different people. So the concern that I have is that
 It's my view that the Bureau should be involved upstream with risk management in doing some of this evaluation for a couple of reasons. The first is sometimes the claims, including the tort claim notices, allege things which Bureaus...
 may want to address sooner rather than later. That is, a claim of some practice or event. It's separate and apart from whether the lawsuit or the legal claim has merit. There may be an interest for the Bureau to say, well, that's not our policy, so let's fix that.
 There are also sometimes allegations that are just so wacky that you want to kind of get your arms around them and make sure it's an anomaly and not a pattern in practice, and on and on and on. Plus, we are all responsible for putting money into the kitty that is then drawn down to settle these claims. So while risk management is delegated to do this, they're settling these cases based on money that we've all been asked to put into a pot.
 to be set aside for these self-insured claims. So the question that I keep coming back to is not this issue of the relationship between the city attorney and risk management, because I think that works actually pretty well in the main, and not the question of does risk management do a good job evaluating and making their best judgment. The question I want to raise is who's the client for purposes of resolving the case at each stage?
 And so at the Bureau of Environmental Services, for example, what we've requested is that we get involved more upstream when the claim comes in so we know what's the claim, is it a one-off or is it part of a pattern, are there things that we can do differently or better as a result. And that's separate and apart from whether Mr. Smith or Mrs. Jones has a viable claim under the law. And I – what I want to avoid, and the reason I'm raising this, is I want to avoid –
 a process within our legal system at the city where because we say the city is the client, ineffectively, none of us are the client. And we've essentially delegated to the city attorney's office and risk management. My concern is not based on any questions about the judgment or professionalism of the people doing it. But my concern is that in almost everything else we do,
 we entrust our bureau directors to be involved in these conversations and to make some judgment. And particularly where these claims raise issues outside of the legal claims that need to be addressed, either as a matter of labor relations or policy and practice or whatever, I think it's important for the bureaus to be involved upstream. So I know that's a long-winded way of getting to the point that I don't
 I don't disagree with what you're asking us to do today, Harry, but I do have a concern about a process that goes on without a clearly defined client and bureau involvement, and I wonder if there's a structural way to fix that. Thank you. That's a very long question to which I will attempt to give a very short answer, and then I'll let Randy Stenquist, our liability claims manager, address it also. And I'm going to – all right.
 In a purely technical sense, the client is the city of Portland, a municipal corporation, and you all as its governing body. And when there are claims that involve multiple bureaus, we do try, risk management does, and when we get involved, try to involve, well, if it's a single bureau or multiple bureaus, we do try to involve the bureaus in the conversation. When we get a tort claim,
 whether it comes through our office or directly to risk management. Risk management will send that notice to the affected bureaus for a couple of reasons. I mean, we've got to find out who has knowledge of the things that are alleged to have gone on. We've got to find out who has records, so we have to preserve all the records that we have that are related to whatever is going on. And we want to make sure the bureau knows what people are –
 saying about it. So it can do. There's nothing, there is no structural impairment to a bureau receiving that notice and taking a look at what it's doing and deciding that there may or may not be something that it wants to change. That is just so ever clear. That's a notice provision that also is part of the investigatory process. But it still doesn't get to the question of who is the client and who is involved in the decision making process.
 Correct. So, well, now you're asking me, you were asking me two different questions involved in that. One is, how do the bureaus get involved in knowing what the allegations are and whether there are things they can do about it? They get the notices, so there's nothing that stops them from doing that.
 Risk management does try to work, and Randy can explain more about how they do that, but they do try to work with the bureaus in evaluating the claims and in deciding whether or not, and if so, on what terms to settle them. And then risk management is charged with the responsibility of allocating responsibility among bureaus if we have multi-bureau events. And so risk management has to make some kind of qualitative decision that says,
 A third of the claim is the responsibility of Bureau A, and two-thirds is the responsibility of Bureau B. That's just kind of what the charge would be.
 And one of the things that really jumped off the page to me is how many claims are small dollar amounts, let's say below $5,000. And I think we would probably all agree that there's a line below which the smaller dollar claims, we'd have a higher degree of deference in resolving those things because they're sort of –
 smaller in scale. There are above that line claims that start growing, and they mushroom, and they have some really big scary numbers. Those claims involve things that are more structural or bigger alleged systems failures or whatever.
 From my point of view, those are the claims that I've asked we now, on a monthly basis, have the Bureau Director review with risk management, A, to make sure that we know what's going on, and B, to be involved in the mix in making the decision. Not the more routine stuff, because I don't think that is appropriate. But I'm highlighting stuff that's bigger, where there may be something we learn before the case is resolved that needs to be fixed in terms of how we manage the Bureau. I think that's –
 I think it's great, and we encourage that. And I try to make sure, and I know our litigators do, that when there are issues of large consequence, the commissioner's offices are aware of what's going on. So, you know, we want to make sure, and Randy, I'm going to turn it over to Randy to tell you how he does this, but we want to be sure that the right people know what's happening, and so we get the right people involved in making the decisions about
 whether or not to settle a case or whether or not to change what we're doing in response to claims that we're getting. Well, based on this conversation, Randy, you might want to, from your standpoint, not only explain how you do this now but how you will do it differently after we make this code change. Okay. How we do it now is every bureau gets notice of the claim that risk management receives –
 When we get the claim, and there are 600 to 700 of them submitted every year on average. So my staff, I see every one of them that comes in. I assign it to one of my adjusters, and they begin the investigation. The very first step in that investigation, two things happen on the same day. A letter goes out to the claimant saying, we've got your claim. We're looking into it. Here's the specific ways that you can reach the adjuster if you have any questions about the process.
 We'd also ask them to provide some additional information if it wasn't included with the claim form. The very same day that that letter goes out to the claimant, a copy of the claim is distributed to the individual bureau that we've decided is the appropriate person from which the claim arises, the appropriate bureau. So –
 Generally, it's pretty clear that it's a BES claim or it's a PBOT claim or it's a BDS claim or whatever it is. Sometimes there is an overlay, and BES is the most common one where that overlay occurs, and that's because of the agreement that BES has with PBOT, whereby PBOT maintenance operations crews provide maintenance
 maintenance operations activities for the sewer system that BES owns. BES has instructed us from a very long time ago that every sewer-related claim, they want to have charged to BES, I mean assigned to BES, if you will, from the get-go so they're aware of what's coming in and then
 If the claim develops in such a manner that it turns out that it is not BES, but rather it is PBOT because of some failure or some lack of activity on the part of the PBOT crews that are doing the work, then that claim can be reassigned. And the reason what he just said is very important in terms of the PBOT-BES relationship because –
 it's not always clear in the claims brought against the city whether it's a maintenance crew or or a bes staff person that is allegedly making a comment to a customer we do this we don't do this we're not going to service you we are and and so uh it isn't always within just under our roof trying to do fact finding so we do it with pbop
 And a recent example that triggered this for me was when there was a news story about an aggrieved person who brought a claim. A letter that we got from that person, lots of messy facts that were hard to figure out because in fact, some of it attributed to maintenance, some to BES. But the case had already been investigated, determined not to be ripe for settlement, and now had a lawsuit pending. And my takeaway from that one was,
 On those kinds of claims, we're going to work with risk management to ensure that that comes to the director early on because it was a big, complicated mess. Whether there's legal risk or not, it's a separate issue.
 But it was so complicated and the claims were big enough that I want my director actually having the conversation with risk at the settlement phase, I mean at the evaluation phase, and then thereafter if it's not resolved, in part because I want to make sure we get a head start on fixing anything that is alleged in the lawsuit that's separate and apart from whether we actually settle the lawsuit. And I guess it goes back to this question of who's the client here.
 We're going to clarify, presumably today, the relationship between city attorney and the risk management. But in our form of government, it is not always clear who the client is. And to say the city is the client is another way of saying none of us are directly the client. And there's nothing that prevents us and our bureau directors from saying, above a certain amount, we're the client and we want to be consulted on this like any other legal matter. And I think it's essential because...
 Because of the information you get in these tort claim notices and these initial processes which separate from the legal liability issue May may involve changes in our bureaus that we need to get a head start on as far as your letter But can I just say two quick things as far as your latter point? I? Agree with you entirely we do this work for you And so if and and the five of you may have different ways in which you want us to process that work They're always receptive to
 giving you whatever input or information you need about tort claims within your portfolio, all you've got to do is ask. And it's probably not a good idea to try to come up with a solution for each council office, you know, a uniform solution for each council office, because each of you wants to process information a little differently. But we'll do it however you want us to do it. We're working for you. And the other thing is that just I want to make sure you also understand that when the council
 About 90% of these claims are resolved without litigation, a little over 90% historically. And so, but in the 10% of them that go to suit, when we see them, our lawyers are looking for systemic issues as well as the things that are particular to those cases. So when we see something that we get, like we used to get...
 claims about a certain kind of play equipment or a certain way of doing things in the sidewalks or something. When we see system improvements that can be recommended that will reduce exposure to future claims, we make sure that the bureaus are aware of those.
 And let me just add that all of the bureaus do receive regular and recurring reporting from risk management as to their open claims and their closed claims. I couldn't today sit here and tell you exactly who the recipients of those are, but each of your bureaus has designated individuals who receive information from risk that contains that data set, some of which I shared with you, Commissioner Fish, last week, specifically.
 It comes out on a monthly basis every month, and every bureau is able to get that. And certainly we can tweak that if there's a desire to expand it more broadly. And I think you do a great job. I think my colleagues are all going to want to have their own process of getting the monthly report. They're going to want to –
 their own threshold for the kinds of things they want the director to have a chance to review. And again, what Harry just said about 90% of the claims being resolved, that's in part because so many of those claims are small dollar amounts and get resolved in the ordinary course. Well, the way I read this, maybe I didn't read it correctly, but I appreciate the discussion because I think I still did, and that is this sets the default mechanism for the
 for how this will be handled, but for further instructions from either a commissioner in charge or the Bureau under the commissioner's authority, right? To say, yeah, you know, I know you've got the authority to settle these kind of claims, but we, BES, want this. And then the overhead bureaus that serve those.
 operating bureaus, namely the city attorney's office in risk, are going to say, okay, we'll handle it that way for you, right? Well, any claim over $5,000, you all have to approve before we can settle it. That's exactly right. It's self-policing by design. The charter says we can't spend that money without coming to you. But it could be a $100,000 claim that risk management says lacks merit, and the first time we learn about it is there's a lawsuit and a claim and a mess. And I'm just saying that for us,
 we've decided to go upstream to make sure that we know about that and can have a dynamic conversation with risk management if we disagree. This doesn't wall off that higher level of care that you're describing. Absolutely not. Let me clarify and say again, our ultimate goal is to help this city reduce its exposure to risk by making prudent decisions about how it operates.
 And so we are here to help you do that every time we have the opportunity to do it. This is one way that helps illuminate things that we can do to help reduce your risk and to make Portland a safer place, which is really what it's all about. So I think we're all on the same page. This whole conversation is very helpful and very useful, but it's kind of divorced from the meat of what's, as I think Commissioner Fish recognizes, kind of bad.
 separate from the precise code amendments that are in front of you today. I'm going to support the code amendments, but I mentioned to a number of you that I was going to use this opportunity to flag the issue because it did seem to me to be another example where there was ambiguity about who the client was and at what point the client was involved in the decision-making process, and it turns out each of us gets to set that standard for our bureaus, and I wanted to make sure my colleagues were aware of that. Right on.
 And that internal dialogue within the Bureau level, I think, is important, and RISC is absolutely here to assist you in whatever way we can get the information out there. Again, currently, every claim that comes in, the Bureau lays eyes on it from the get-go. So if it is a $100,000 claim at the outset,
 the Bureau representative knows about it. If we need a broader distribution, certainly that's an internal discussion, and risk management would be happy to facilitate a broader disposition or distribution of those claims. So we'd be happy to work with you on that. Okay. Other questions? Celia, do you have anything to add? No, I think there's been adequate discussion. Gina, I'm not going to tread into this quagmire any further. All right. Any other questions for these folks? Thank you all very much. Does anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 If not, then it passes the second meeting next week. Thank you. Okay. Item 1005. Expand and clarify eligibility for the System Development Charge Exemption Program and Construction Excise Tax Exemption for affordable housing developments. Mr. Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. The Portland Housing Bureau administers the System Development Charge, or SDC, exemption program
 and the affordable housing construction excise tax exemptions in coordination with other city bureaus to promote the construction of affordable housing by offsetting some of the cost of new development to advance the city's affordable housing economic and equity goals. However, we have not had an explicit exemption for new shelters. These additions in this ordinance to the SDC and construction excise tax exemption program
 Clarify that mass shelters are an allowable housing type to receive exemptions. To receive the exemptions, shelters are obliged to provide services at no charge for a minimum of 10 years. The changes in this ordinance also allow for an SDC or construction excise tax exemption for services space and common areas in affordable housing developments. These changes are fully supported by Home for Everyone,
 and will be important to the development of the new St. Vincent shelter that Multnomah County will open later in the fall. It will also allow nonprofit and faith communities an easier path forward toward helping provide shelters for members of our community. We have Dory VanBakkel of the Housing Bureau here, and Sally Erickson from the Joint Office of Homeless Services to answer any further questions my colleagues may have. Good morning. Appreciate this being brought forward and you being here.
 So this will go into effect. It's an emergency ordinance that will go into effect immediately, right? Yes. So it will therefore be accessible to those projects. Absolutely. Other questions for Dory or our new joint office employee? I hope that's going well. I'll just make a few comments. Please, Sally. Go ahead. I'm Sally Erickson. I'm a program manager with A Home for Everyone and the new Joint Office of Homeless Services. A home.
 A Home for Everyone is very supportive of this proposal. As you know, we're implementing an ambitious goal to open up an additional 650 spaces, safety off the street and emergency shelter spaces this year, and the proposed changes would make that goal much easier to achieve.
 We've had organizations interested in opening shelters at your request. You've asked small organizations and faith organizations to come forward, and they have. But system development charges were a barrier, particularly for smaller-scale programs. The Joint Office of Homeless Services worked closely with Dory and the Portland Housing Bureau staff on proposed language, and it's consistent with our community's investment priorities. So we look forward to working with the Housing Bureau in the future and –
 and to these changes. Great. Thank you. Questions? Thank you both very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up, please. Go ahead. You can both come up. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and last week a lot of people criticized the City Council because when you do a construction, housing, there's an implication. There was a guy here last week that said we ought to get our own little hammer and make our own little building. I don't agree with that at all. There's
 I've been at Dignity Village where they had these little shack houses out there. They were all falling apart. You're not – I don't like to hear people accuse city council of not letting us build our own housing or something. Dignity Village should have stayed as a tent community. I was out there. A lot of them were making drugs like meth out of Dignity Village, and they were using their little shack as a way to hide their –
 Doing that only takes a little propane stove or something like to cook up meth actually I didn't get into digging village, but the year later the person who led dignity village. They tore a shack down for meth I'm saying is that If you're going to build a house or a building you need to make sure that it's safe that's contractors and and it's not like we can all build our own stuff and
 And I resent people claiming that you're only in office because you're getting money from contractors. That should stop. Thank you. You're welcome.
 I'm Linda Jody Vlamic, and I run Community of Hope, which is one of the small faith-based organizations. I'd just like to thank Commissioner Sahlstrom for getting our SDC fees waived. It makes a tremendous difference in our ability to afford the renovations that we're doing to be able to serve families. I'd just like to say that we are trying to serve the community.
 all in the city and doing this and but we don't have a lot of money we are run entirely by donations so my hope is that you can help people like community of hope to to help you provide those services without charging us those fees and again thank you commissioner that's the idea we appreciate your effort and want to support it so thank you thank you yes my name is lightning i represent lightning watchdog pdx
 Again, I've always wanted to see more incentives to the development community and having these certain fees waived. So, of course, I'm absolutely at agreement on this. Now, when we're talking mass shelters such as Terminal 1 in Wapato, I want to point over to Commissioner Novick and say that what I want to start seeing in the future, especially from Commissioner Novick's position –
 is an understanding that these mass shelters, if we say put 100 people into one of these mass shelters and we have an additional 400 beds, that also is a benefit to the Bureau of Emergency Management. And that's why I want you to keep focusing on this, is that when we're talking Terminal 1 at 500 to 1,000 capacity, if they put 250 people in there and we have an extra 600 beds, that's very beneficial for you.
 If we open up Wapato and only put 100 people in there and have an additional 400 beds, that's very beneficial to you in the event we do have a natural disaster that we need to relocate people. And I want you to start really focusing on this to understand the importance of these developments taking place.
 and maybe even focus on getting some type of federal funding for these developments to work together as a mass shelter for the homeless, and also in the event of a serious disaster. And that's why I want a little more emphasis maybe on your side. And I did call you a rookie in the past, and you're not a rookie anymore. You got the gas tax passed. You're not a rookie, and I didn't mean to show you disrespect here.
 And the reality is I feel very confident you will be reelected. And the reality is that there's a lot of areas such as this to look at, to work with the developers, to get federal funding, and to understand the importance of these mass shelters out in the marketplace. It's not just for the homeless, really.
 It's also for people that might be displaced out of their homes due to a disaster. And these developers stepping up right now, it's very important to understand that, of the capacity of these mass shelters and the importance not just for the homeless
 but for all the city itself. And this is a new direction we're seeing now, and I think it's the most important direction to look at in working from your position and working from housing to make sure these projects do go forward and understand it's just not about the homeless.
 It's about having that additional space in the event we have a true emergency out there to truly locate them into these facilities. And I think that's a very important issue at this time. Thank you. Thank you. I have a question of the sponsor. So in the testimony, an issue came up that I guess I hadn't really flagged. And since Terminal 1 North, let's take Terminal 1 North, currently –
 My understanding is we don't have water and sewer services to the warehouse. I don't know what the plans are by the developer in the next six months to a year, but to the extent those plans involve... Okay, 1,006.
 accept and appropriate a grant from the Federal Highway Bridge Program in the amount of $2,512,440 and authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the Oregon Department of Transportation to replace the Southeast 122nd Avenue Bridge over Johnson Creek. Commissioner Novick. Thank you.
 colleagues. I'm delighted that the federal government has given us some money to replace the 122nd Avenue bridge over Johnson Creek, which I happened to see this weekend when I was visiting the Leach Botanical Garden, and
 I note that we've gotten letters from both Pleasant Valley Neighborhood Association and Friends of Leach Botanical Garden expressing their support for replacing the bridge as soon as possible. Now I'll turn it over to Cameron Glasgow to give more details. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Cameron Glasgow. I'm the interim supervising bridge engineer for PBOT, and I'm here today to introduce an ordinance as stated, which authorizes PBOT to enter into an agreement with ODOT to receive Federal Highway Bridge Program funds
 For replacement, the bridge carries Southeast 122nd Avenue over Johnson Creek. During the record-breaking storms of December 2015, a large woody debris pile blocked the flow of Johnson Creek under this multi-span bridge, rerouting the creek into a side channel around the blockage.
 After the blockage was removed by city maintenance crews, a post-storm inspection was carried out, and it was determined that almost 200 yards of bank material had been scoured away, leaving behind toppled footings and eroded support on four of the eight bridge supports. These foundations were observed to be supported on soft fluvial material in extremely undesirable condition. The bridge was determined to be beyond repair and closed to all motor vehicle traffic at that time.
 Soon after, PBOT requested bridge replacement funds from ODOT, which approved the request. The ordinance in front of you today allows us to finalize our funding agreement with ODOT and will allow ODOT to continue toward issuing PBOT notice to proceed so that the design phase of the new bridge can begin. And I have the letter from the Pleasant Valley Neighborhood Association if you'd like me to read it.
 Could you just explain to people watching why it takes so long? Because I understand that it's going to be 2018 or 19 that we're expecting completion. At this point, the expectation is 2019. So it first starts with funding, which we're working towards right now. And once...
 The funding, actually, everything gets signed off. We get notice to proceed. We can start the design. And once the design phase gets going, we need to apply for federal permits. It's an environmental zone, for lack of a more specific term, working over and around the water. So there's several local, state, and federal jurisdictions that we need permits from. But we can't apply for those permits until we hit 60% design to give the permitting agencies a picture of what we plan to do.
 And then the general timeline, the accepted timeline, is about a year for those permits. It could take less time. I don't think it will take more than a year. But once we receive those and permit limitations, we can finalize the design and then get approval from ODOT Federal Highways, go through the procurement process at the city, which takes three to four months, and then mobilize a contractor and get the girders fabricated to bring them to site.
 And so on and so forth, but that's it in a nutshell. So it's particularly complicated because of the multiple jurisdictions that get to say whether it's okay or not. You could say that. It's just part of the process as I see it, but, yeah, it's just something we're faced with in a lot of our projects. Smiling and being ready to do it. No problem. I'm excited about this. Finding road. Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Novick, how will LEACH be able to access their parking lot during this phase?
 because they're my under my recollection is the parking is on the other side of the bridge and if the bridge isn't operable then how do people park and then get to leach i actually don't know the answer so they're working on it um it's a short answer you're gonna have some produce that go across the river so they're uh tram water tax there is property to the north um that
 I don't know who exactly owns the property. I believe it's Parks, but I'm not sure. But they're working on alternative arrangements for parking there, which requires its own land use review process. Or the first city with an aerial tram. It could be the first city with a municipal zip line. Add a new attraction to Leach Gardens. Why not? Sounds innovative. That's going to be on the front page of the paper tomorrow as a serious suggestion. Didn't really mean it. Got that? Yeah.
 Okay. Cameron, it's my understanding that there's limits to the times of year you can work in the water to avoid disturbing fish populations and so forth too. Is that right? That's correct. That plays into it as well. It's a six-week in-water work window that starts July 15th for this particular section of the creek and ends August 31st of any given year. Obvious question, but just in case. So the reason we're in this predicament is there was erosion.
 And maybe that's because there's higher stream flows. I assume we're designing for the climate that we expect to have. Part of it was a significant rainfall event. Also...
 The way the existing bridge is, it's a timber bridge, which timber can't span as far as some other materials, so it had many bents in the water, which collected the debris and then changed the way the water flowed. And the water kind of attacked or eroded some bents or piers that hadn't normally seen water in the past. Helpful. Thank you. Other questions? Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote, please.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Briggs? Well, this, of course, can be part of the grand scheme of a number of improvements to Leach Botanical Gardens with the new master plan, so actually the timing may be very good. Aye. Let's take 1,007, please. Amend fee schedule for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement Noise Control Program. Second reading. Roll call. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 Well, thank you to all the bureaus that worked with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement on this proposal. Thanks to Noise Officer Paul Van Orden and the rest of the staff. It is a step in the right direction. I'm hopeful that we can continue to move this program more into cost recovery, and I appreciate the support of the council. Aye. Fish? Aye. Niels? Good work. Aye. All right, 1,008. Thank you.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement in the amount of $56,250 with the Multnomah County Health Department for program evaluation services of the lead hazard reduction program. Second reading. We'll call. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Colleagues, we serve clean, safe, and reliable water to almost a million customers in the region.
 and the matter before us has to do with our lead hazard reduction program. The contract is with Multnomah County to evaluate the effectiveness of our outreach efforts. This has been a year in which our water quality team has seen the volume of work go up dramatically, a huge spike in customer-initiated requests for water samples to be tested,
 and other related functions. I want to especially call out Scott, Yoni, and Chris for their tremendous service. And we look forward to working with Multnomah County to evaluate the effectiveness of this program as part of our continuing commitment to reduce the level of exposure in the community to lead. Hi. Niels. Hi. Thank you. So now let's read item 1008-1, which is our four-fifths item, please. Yes.
 Declare support for the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and other communities opposing the Dakota Access Pipeline. So the City of Portland intersects...
 We're geographically, culturally, demographically with a large number of Native American tribes. That's why we created the new position of tribal liaison. And here, I think her first presentation to the council is our new tribal liaison, Patricia Gibson, with an issue that she wants us to weigh in on. So welcome and take it away. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. My name is Patricia Davis Gibson. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 And I want to thank you for the opportunity to be here today and also in this position. I'm kind of a Jeffersonian. I like to read what I say because I have a tendency to say things off the top of my head that later I go, oh my goodness, what did I just say? So with your indulgence, I have just a brief comment. This is about the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and how they have chosen their story to tell how they fought for the water and how they did everything possible to keep the water clean for their children.
 In 1868, there was a Treaty of Fort Laramie, and it established the Great Sioux Reservation. It basically was the whole state of South Dakota and the Missouri River, including the sacred Black Hills. This treaty retained off-reservation hunting rights. And in 1877, Congress unilaterally removed the Black Hills from the reservation, and that's still in litigation. In 1889, the reservation was divided into six separate reservations, and that's what we're here today with today.
 Asking for your support in opposition of the Dakota Access Pipeline, or DAPLL. This pipeline is proposed to go through land that is sacred to the tribe and has the capacity to negatively impact their construction and possible ruptures, the tribe's treaty's resources, ancestral lands, natural resources, and sacred sites.
 Through their fight, there is now a gathering of Native people out there at the Sacred Stone Camp, and it equates to what happened back in 1865, which the Lakota call the Battle of the Greasy Grass, but you all know better as the Battle of the Little Bighorn. The UN has issued a declaration on Indigenous peoples, finding that the DPL violates its provisions. Also, Amnesty International is on the ground at the site to make sure that there aren't any human rights violations.
 You have before you a resolution and letter supporting the Standing Rock Sioux opposition and standing in solidarity with the tribe. In 2012, the city council passed Resolution 36941, and I'm sure you're all familiar with that reservation, but it recognized the cultural and natural resources have been valuable and critical to the preservation of treaty rights, cultural heritage, and pursuit of traditional life ways for present and future generations with the tribal government.
 The letter before you is a team effort. I ran it by the Office of Government Relations, Zach Koligoski, Michael Armstrong. Also, I reached out to the Army Corps of Engineers to say, you know, really what happened here. At this point in time, there is a temporary restraining order that's been granted on certain sites of the construction.
 But I think what is the better statement that I can read to you, and hopefully I can read this to you, is a petition written by 13-year-old Anna Lee Rain Yellowhammer on behalf of Standing Rock Youth. A private oil company wants to build a pipeline that would cross the Missouri River less than a mile away from Standing Rock Reservation. And if we don't stop it, it will poison our river and threaten the health of my community when it leaks.
 My friends and I have played in the river since we were little. My great-grandparents raised chicken and horses along it. When the pipeline leaks, it will wipe out plants and animals, ruin our drinking water and poison, the center of community life for the Standing Rock Zoo. Thank you.
 Yeah, so this, I appreciate Patricia putting this together and the council's engagement in this. You know, we have a climate action plan that we're serious about. And frankly, I think the tribal governments are going to continue to be our allies in making that real and to the extent that their treaty rights end up having standing.
 then they end up having real power to assist in that work. So I think this was an adroit move on our part, and I want to thank Patricia for bringing it to us today. Well, I'd like to thank Tara Pearson, listening to the constituents who requested this letter. Good. Thank you. Questions? Concerns? Thank you very much. We'll see if we have some testimony. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item, please come on up. Okay, let me speak first because I'll probably get booed at.
 you know my view about reservation land if indians on a reservation drive around in cars where do the oil come from um i think they should build this if the company says so but they should make sure that it's safe so you know i belong to the sierra club and i don't drive and i hate it when i go to the sierra club and they tell me they drove there in their car and it's the same issue that if you use oil you're going to get a lot of oil and you're going to get a lot of oil and you're going to get
 you shouldn't criticize it. I don't. I wish everything was electrical myself. So I can get booed out for that, but I'm just saying is let this pipeline be built and make sure that it is built and safe. Go ahead. Greetings Council. Dan Saltzman, Charlie Hales, Amanda Fritz, and Steve Novick, it's a pleasure to see you all. My name is Mr. Eng today. I'm for a
 GLBT solidarity and celebration of anti-bullying. I'm in a lot of pain from this hand. This is my primary injury from your brutal illegal arrest that the DA dropped, but what it makes me think about is the video I saw from a filmmaker in Dakota right now where a man has joined his hands with a tube and possibly plaster of Paris.
 And this pretty noteworthy activist, Mike Bluehair is his official appellation, filmed this. And it was almost so graphic it took my stomach. I had to look away because he sort of chained himself onto this apparatus that has some kind of drilling type situation. And there is Native American chanting going on.
 Some kind of deputies are coming to run a chainsaw through it, and they're very concerned, obviously, that his hands are going to begin to actually bleed or be severed or lose a finger. So at this time, due to this pain I have due to your illegal arrest of me, which was unconstitutional harassment and an ADA violation, I'm particularly aware of how lucky I am to have my hands and how much I celebrate them,
 I am aware that journalists in Russia are losing their hands because of their journalism. And so I don't, I want to renounce any privileges that my European ancestors obtained in coming to this country. I want to publicly renounce my Confederate ancestor, Alexander Stevens, who was vice president of the Confederacy. That's been very troubling to me my whole life, really.
 And I want to express solidarity with the indigenous peoples of the Americas and tell them that I don't even understand the depth of their spiritual commitment, but I am so deeply moved and I am so thrilled that I could walk on into city council where we could have a moment of unity, of celebration of this culture and not in any way seek to whitewash the roles of imperialism,
 or colonialism and the devastations enacted by human rights abuses such as slavery. And I think my own sufferings are a small suffering to bear in comparison with
 the desperation and the pain and the alienation that has gone on in the reservation communities. And so I want to unite with them also as Asian, because when the Mongolian people spanned off to Finland, they also came down the Bering Strait, and they are my people in a very large sense, that we are all one family, and I thank them and love them. Thank you. Good morning. Go ahead. Good day. My name is Malcolm Chaddock. I'm...
 a member of Veterans for Peace, currently the chapter vice president in Portland. I am a founding member of Individuals for Justice, Oregonians Against the War, and this shirt I wore in the trial that Bradley Manning faced. I have been witness to many injustices in my life, and I am glad to see that the city council is willing to consider this measure in support of the tribe's,
 who are putting their lives on the line to save their own lives, while, yet again, government not only refuses to help but actively supports the devastation. I appreciate that the city is willing to extend this support, yet I must ask,
 Why the city would not even take a legal risk with 40 attorneys you pay plenty of to try and stop those sweeps, to try and change the laws that made them happen and necessary, and why you just plowed through. Thank you for your gesture, as it is only a gesture yet, here, in this place where you live, your citizens.
 are now looking for other places to go when you could have given them services, when you could have provided law enforcement cover out there on the corridor. Thank you for your support for the Native American peoples. It is long overdue, as is the support for your own citizens on the street. Get it right. Get it right. Thank you. You're welcome. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson.
 And, you know, obviously, considering the history of genocidal warfare against Native Americans, that give us the people that are now in some ways still confined, even though they have U.S. citizenship, in some ways they're still confined to apartheid reservations, Umatilla Reservation up the river, Warm Springs, Grand Ronde, etc.
 Actions beyond resolutions are really what these neighbors of ours deserve amends. In North Dakota, the Standing Rock tribe has some people who've come from our own area to be in solidarity with the people of the Sacred Stone Camp and the Red Warrior Camp. It was mentioned that videographer Mike Bluehair is out there, Sarah Long, Antonio Zamora from up in Washington State, Sweetwater Nanook of San Diego.
 Idle No More, Washington, organizing a multi-tribal canoe solidarity event. So it's important that as people that have stolen and have primary control of the land that we at least acknowledge what happened then and what's happening now, that the Fortune 500 is making war on the Standing Rock Sioux. That pipeline is financed through Bank of America,
 quite possibly both Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. We don't know the specifics. We have a responsible investment policy, and unfortunately, since I was in court with Constantine Sevier and Ms. Malone of the CRC, I didn't get to hear all the presenters' testimony, but I hope that there will be record that will speak to
 the poor investment choices of those major financial players that we've talked about in light of our socially responsible investment policy, that there should actually be a specific statement that says, although whatever, sometimes governments are constrained to only do businesses with certain rated companies, that we're still nonetheless unhappy to know that any institution that we have to have a client relationship with, whether it's Bank of America, I don't know whether it's U.S. Bank, um,
 but that we continue to do what some of the major pension funds have done. And, of course, this will still be an issue when our next mayor, Ted Wheeler, comes in, who has been in that situation of having a larger portfolio to try and leverage for justice, not just social justice, but actual justice for Native people that are under attack very severely in North Dakota. And even though we have good relationships and there are operating casinos in the area, there are ways that home...
 Native people are under attack every day. Some of them are, as Mr. Chadwick mentioned, even members of the Springwater Corridor area swept in other places where houses sweeps are going on. So the resolution should be a catalyst and a first step. Thank you all. Thank you. Anyone else? Any discussion? Then let's take a vote, please, on the resolution. Helpsman? Aye. Novick? Really appreciate Patricia bringing this forward and giving us this opportunity to express our solidarity. Aye. Aye.
 My understanding is that the reason this had to be done on our four-fifths is that there's something about going to happen on the 9th, and so we need to do it this week. I do hope, though, that more people in Portland will know about this and add their support, too. Thanks to Patricia. That's got to be one of the fastest first resolutions in record, ably assisted by Tara Pierce and, of course, Rachel Wiggins. Thank you. Bye.
 Thank you to our tribal liaison, to the mayor's office, the mayor. Also, I want to acknowledge Matt Morton.
 I got a text at the end of last week from Matt who first brought this to my attention and has been advocating out in the community. So thank you, Matt. I'm proud to join the council unanimously supporting this action. Thank you all, and we have a letter to sign, so we might, while we're here, do that. And I vote aye, and we are adjourned. Can I borrow your pen? I'll pass it around. I've got plenty of pens here. There we go.
 I just want to thank you, Dr. Redelius.