Good morning, everybody. This is the morning session of the Portland City Council. This is September 5th, 2018. Is it working, Carla? Is the monitor working? Oh, it is. Okay, ours are still blue. We can work on that in a minute. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman? Here. You daily? Yes.
 Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Wheeler. Here. Good morning. It's good to see you, Robert. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Good morning. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. While testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. And please disclose if you are a lobbyist. And if you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated.
 When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. And when your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. And if you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. Very good. Thank you. First up will be communications.
 Item 926, request of Gary Renberg to address council regarding Harrison Street vacation. Good morning and welcome. Good morning. My name is Gary Renberg. I serve as president of Eastside Plating, a 72-year-old Portland surface finishing business. I'm asking today that the council provide continued access to our facility via an easement that was promised two years ago.
 My purpose is to preserve the 22 manufacturing jobs at our facility within the Central Eastside Industrial Sanctuary. The urgency of my communication is that the city is currently selling the property without first granting this easement.
 In 1963, ODOT acquired property adjacent to Eastside Plating, planned for a freeway that was never constructed. Eastside Plating was permitted to use the property for employee parking for the following 50 years. For decades, the southeast door has been accessed to deliver critical chemistry via tanker truck regularly. In a 2013 building permit, this door was called out as the primary egress point for employees in the event of an emergency.
 In 2015, the City purchased the ODOT property and began street vacation proceedings for the adjacent Harrison Street. Although the Portland Planning Commission did not recommend vacating the street due to the transportation use required by Eastside Plating, in February of 2016, City Council chose to vacate the street anyway. This access was recorded as a Street Vacation Ordinance No. 187591.
 With Harrison Street to be vacated, Portland Bureau of Transportation Engineers developed a workable alternative access immediately to the south of our building that would accommodate the tanker truck. The access plan was agreed to in June of 2016.
 The access alley would be 15 feet wide nearest the street, then reducing to 10 feet closer to the access door for employee egress. The alley would be paved, fenced, and curbed, and would be provided at no cost to Eastside Plating. The City has never completed those improvements detailed in the Harrison Street Vacation Ordinance. Since August of 2016, Eastside Plating has requested an easement to be drafted to ensure continued access to its facility multiple times, but these requests have been denied.
 In April of 2018, Eastside Plating drafted an easement proposal using the same footprint as agreed to in 2016. It was as is, with gravel, not paved, without curbing or a fence, for a price per square foot that approximated what the city had purchased the property for. We were again denied this request. In May of 2018, Eastside Plating reached out to the auditor's office to receive help from the ombudsman. The packet that you have been provided outlines our request for help.
 Additional meetings with the Mayor's Office resulted in no reasonable chemistry delivery or egress alternatives. The Mayor's Office is representing the street vacation ordinance has been completed. However, the details stated in the ordinance ensuring Eastside Platte and its continued access have not been completed. I'm asking for the agreed upon easement defined in the Harrison Street vacation ordinance to be issued. For 72 years, this business has contributed to the vitality of the Central Eastside.
 22 Portland manufacturing jobs at this location are at risk. Without access to the store, Eastside Plating's continued operation at the site is doubtful. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your being here. Next individual, please. 927, request of Robbie Abalos to address council regarding lack of civil rights councils and oppression of activists. Next individual, please.
 928, request of David Keefe Davis to address counsel regarding city-sponsored political terrorism. So I'd appreciate it if you don't have your G4S security goons, like, come up and rush me so I can at least grab my camera and my stuff without me having these guys get my face killed.
 I do have PTSD, and so I don't need to get your retaliatory behavior from these guys getting in my face. So let's start my three minutes. You need to start my three minutes. You're 30 seconds in. Continue, please. No, I'm not, actually. Do you want me to just come to your house, 2028 Southwest Jackson today, so I can finish up my—get my rest of my testimony? Okay.
 Okay, Ted Wheeler, I'll just do that. I'll see you at your house tonight, okay? I'll bring some pots and pans and some loud recordings of flashbang grenades so you can relive the August 4th incident outside of your house in the comfort of your own living room, okay? Well, last week, there was a cop watcher, Eli Ritchie, who's here, and he was in jail at this point. Last week.
 Weak because of Chief Outlaw, because she can't handle a couple questions, so she gets a stalking order. Because she's just like a slimy, slimebag politician like you, Ted Wheeler, you know? A little coward with your little fake-ass beard. I mean, I liked you with your little baby face. It seems like you've gotten more evil the more hair you grow, you know?
 Is that what's happening? Is your beard taking over your mind or something? I'm going to go to your house, though, tonight, okay? To finish up my testimony, since you want to cut me off. But you guys obviously are not in compliance with the DOJ settlement, and the COAB was used as a weapon against the mentally ill, okay?
 which it's supposed to be there to actually help the mentally ill and get you guys in compliance with the DOJ. But, you know, it turned into a weapon of war against the mentally ill. And you know that, right? That's why you guys had to disband it. So you guys are never going to be in compliance with the DOJ settlement. And the DOJ is pathetic anyways. You know, their level of compliance is not like,
 actual civil rights or anything. So you guys can't even reach a minimum standard of compliance with civil rights and not warring on the mentally ill, right? Thank you. Your time is up, Mr. Davis. Yeah, and I'll see you at your house tonight, okay, Ted Wheeler? Don't forget your whatever that is. Yeah. It's called a camera. I know you're a caveman. Okay. Thank you, sir. Carla, can I ask you a question? Thank you.
 Next individual. We don't have something on the screen, but is it broadcasting? Yeah, it's my understanding IT is working on it. Very good. Thank you. It's here. It is broadcasting. It's just we don't have it. Yeah. Thank you. It's broadcasting. So the public can see it. The public can see it. Yeah, it's working. Thank you. Next individual, please. 929, request of Steve Spinett to address council regarding paradigm shift on approach to homelessness. Good morning, sir. Thank you for being here.
 Good morning, Commission and Mayor Wheeler. My name is Steve Spinnett, and I'm a businessman in the city of Portland. I was also the former mayor of Damascus. So I want to talk to you about pretty much just giving my opinion on the homelessness. Two years ago, before the homeless sweep at the Springwater Corridor, I made friends with the homeless community.
 My automotive business borders about 500 feet of the corridor near Southeast 92nd Avenue. When I say made friends, I really did. I provided water, electricity, even had a barbecue for them. But mostly my relationship was an ongoing thing with them. I was known among them. I was allowed into any camp. They let me in.
 I knew their issues. Six months of almost daily visits, I spoke hope into them. I told them their true identity. Most of them, all of the women that I talked to, but most of them began to cry when I told them who they really were. I don't believe they're really drug addicts. I believe that there's something deep inside of them that's far greater than that. And I spoke that to them. I gave them hope.
 I told him that most, okay, I was able to put a long-time heroin user into a home with a family. I love my homeless neighbors. I also had the safest business in town. On one side, and there was no fence separating my property with the homeless camp, was just a few feet away. It was just right there, lots of homeless people, and $100,000 Porsches and Mercedes right on the other side.
 And I had no problems. I found out almost all of those who were out there were drug addicts. I found this out only after I made friends with them. I saw what the young ladies went through, having to sell themselves for the next dose. I saw the perpetrators almost with the same M.O., men from their early 20s to early 40s.
 almost all with black bags and old motor homes and the rape that happens in them. This is the point I want to make. 95% excuse me, 95 plus percent of these folks were drug users, primarily heroin and meth. I only met two families who didn't appear on drugs, to be on drugs. Shelters and affordable housing
 I want to hear this right because I don't want to be combative. Shelters and affordable housing is like giving pain meds to someone with an infected foot, hoping the infection goes away. We must deal with the infection.
 I just have some suggestions, but I haven't delved down deep into how the city operates as far as homelessness, but I see certain things that have raised a concern. First one, correctly identify the problem. I say over 90% are drugs and mental illness. Work with the state of Oregon and other municipalities on the mental illness concern.
 Treat drug dealers as criminals. Small drug dealers, big drug dealers, they're all the same to me. Give Portland a reputation of a bad place to be if you're going to sell drugs. If possible, reappropriate money away from affordable housing and build prisons to incarcerate the dealers through due process, of course.
 Channel money to drug rehabilitation facilities. Oh, they're at the – okay. And did you provide us written testimony? I do, and I can hand it to you. Okay, and I extended it for security reasons. You mentioned you were going to be competitive, and we don't want that. I'm not going to be competitive. Okay, great. I thought I heard that. Okay, thank you for your testimony, and I'll appreciate your written testimony. That's a good idea.
 Next individual, please. Item 930, request of Tamara DeRitter to address council regarding short-term housing enforcement. So, folks, people are trying to make me the microphone cop today. Let's not do that. All right? Three minutes is plenty of time to be able to make a statement. Let's stay within the three minutes so that we don't have to do it. Thank you. Good morning. I'm Tamara DeRitter. I'm the chair for Rose City Park Neighborhood Association, and I'm here to talk to you regarding housing.
 our call for short-term housing enforcement to address Portland's housing needs. This is Neil Chowdhury. I'm a member of the board as well of the Neighborhood Association. Nice to meet you. And he's a 15-year mayor of Prince Edward Island? In Prince Edward Island, Canada, many years ago.
 So he's here for support and questions if you have any. Thank you for the opportunity. I'm just a little concerned. I think we now have an unlawful quorum of mayors in this chamber. I'll go to my room. I'm here to talk to you regarding the issue and one that you can act on today. Okay.
 Yes, we are in a housing crisis here in Portland. That part is not new news, but many of you have forgotten that the weak regulation and lack of enforcement of the Airbnb-type rentals has increased house scarcity as well as rental prices. Think about that for a minute. It's been four years ago now since the City Council approved this ordinance. Since that time, the number of rentals has grown to 26% annually in Rose City Park neighborhood alone.
 Over four years prior to that, the rental properties remained virtually the same as growth rate, zero. In general, we can all agree that more rental properties is a good thing. It's more space for new residents in our community. However, in this case, according to ARD&D, over 50% of those rentals are available all of the time, meaning they are short-term rentals. And in addition, 72% of those rentals are entire homes.
 The rampant use of whole house rentals does not meet the code. Accessory short-term rentals must be accessory to the household living use at the site. It is time for the city council to step up its game and either enforce short-term rentals as an accessory to the primary use or get rid of this option. In a city where 80% of the short-term rentals continue to be unregulated, I can only say shame on you.
 for continuing this abject failure of policy. Yes, short-term rentals can bring some needed income to families trying to deal with increasing costs just to live in the city. But a homeowner providing the public short-term housing as an entire house is not acceptable. Providing short-term housing is a privilege, not a right.
 If your BDS staff is unable to do this enforcement, we recommend that the city offer a finder's fee for a legal unit and turn it in. It is an unfortunate reality that the City Council trusts its staff to provide truthful documentation.
 in their ordinance proposals. But as a community, we can ill afford supporting short-term housing at the expense of our residents and livability. With increasing density, such as the proposed residential infill project, there is no guarantee that the majority of these new units will not end up as short-term housing. It is this day and age of realizing unintended consequences that is important for us to keep an eye on who will benefit the most out of creating more units per lot in a single dwelling zone.
 Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you both. Commissioner Udaly. I'd just like to respond to some of your comments. As the very recent commissioner in charge of BDS and perhaps one of the most vocal critics against short-term rentals on council, I want to tell you that I share your frustration, but explain to you how challenging enforcement is when we –
 don't have the data we need and we are still waiting on it. It's surprisingly difficult to prove that someone is not living in a house they claim to be living in. There are certainly some flagrant commercial renters on these platforms and I don't understand why they're
 They're not being shut down by the platform themselves. It's also an incredibly expensive endeavor that we don't necessarily have resources for. That's why a finder's fee is good? Yeah, I am happy to entertain that, although it's not my bureau anymore. But I just want to...
 I feel like I need to defend BDS staff a little bit because they don't have the information and tools they need. And we've been, we're in, I think, still in negotiations over getting host data that was part of an agreement we made in a lawsuit that's supposed to apply to all the short-term rentals. But I absolutely agree that it is a rampant problem, and we have to do better at enforcing it.
 And once we have that information on the host, it will become exponentially easier to do that. But it's been four years. And the fact is, if they don't come through, we should shut it down for a whole host. And I have two sites that have permits, but they're doing a whole house. Yeah. I wasn't meaning to engage you because...
 I understand. Yeah. I just wanted to respond, but I'd love to talk to you further. Good. Yeah. Thank you very much. I'd love to follow up on this conversation. Sure, yeah, if you're going to be around. I mean, I'm stuck up here for the next few hours, but okay. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Appreciate it. Carla, have any items been pulled off the consent agenda? No.
 none have been requested. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. So folks, there is a little bit of overlap in today's session in that
 New Bureau assignments were made on Tuesday. So in a couple of cases here, we have – you're going to hear from commissioners who actually put the items on the agenda.
 and they will introduce an item. You will also hear from commissioners that are new in some cases as well. So I just want you to be aware that there's sort of an awkward dynamic for this session and maybe the next one or two sessions as well. So our next time certain is not until 1030, so let's go for the second readings on the regular agenda. Could we start with item 940, please? That is the second reading.
 authorize the Bureau of Transportation to permit construction of sky structures serving assisted living and retirement centers outside of the Central City District. Colleagues, is there any further discussion on this item? Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. So again, Commissioner Saltzman, thank you for bringing this to council. This is another step in making our city an age-friendly city, and I'm very happy to support it. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Wheeler. I enjoyed the conversation we had on this the other day, and I appreciated not only Commissioner Saltzman's bringing it forward, Commissioner Fritz, I think you made a really good point as well, about let's try and be holistic in our approach to this question rather than focus on individual centers, and I agree wholeheartedly. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, number 11.
 947. Yeah, it looks like 947. That is correct. Please call the roll. 947, ratify a successor collective bargaining agreement between the City and Portland Police Commanding Officers Association relating to the terms and conditions of employment of police lieutenants for 2018-2020. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz. So I stated my opposition to this early regarding the level of salary increase. The market comparators don't support this level of increase. I found the arguments about compression with lower positions unpersuasive. There was good testimony last time we heard this about that we haven't gotten any policy improvements in return for this 4% increase. And I am very troubled by that.
 Thank you, but that's really distracting. Folks, again, and some of you know this because you've heard this before. You heard the rules up front. Rather than interrupting the meeting, a simple thumbs up or a thumbs down works. Very good. Thank you. Appreciate it. And this is a small item in total, but increasing a clothing allowance from $390 to $700 a year for people who are making over $100,000, that just doesn't seem reasonable to me. No. Fish. Aye. Wheeler.
 So I support this. And first of all, I want to thank Labor Relations, and I want to thank HR Director Cyril de Somers-Magee. They worked very, very hard on this. This aligns the PPCOA with the PPA to resolve the compression challenges. And I hear what my colleague is saying, that in her opinion it doesn't go far enough, and I think that's a fair opinion.
 It aligns the PPCOA with the city regarding the preventative care initiative. That's health care. I think that is a very, very important get in this contract negotiation. It's a cost-effective contract in that it shifts the wage scale as opposed to giving across-the-board increases. I think over the long term, that will serve us well.
 It identified underutilized resources and repurposed them to pay down the cost of the 2018 to 2020 contract, and given that the total budget for this contract increases $128,000, I thought that was worthwhile.
 There was a very – it was reported to me both by PPCOA and HR and Labor Relations that this was a very collaborative effort, that there was a good back and forth, that it was long-term. Both sides felt that they were heard.
 And it memorialized current practices that weren't in the contract previously, including performance evaluations, the vacation VEBA contribution, and the sick leave VEBA contribution. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please, 948. Thank you.
 Create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Southeast 102nd Avenue and Woodstock Boulevard local improvement district. Any further discussion on this item, colleagues? Please call the roll, Carla. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Good work, everybody. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. And the next item is 9-5-0.
 Authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to acquire certain permanent and temporary property rights necessary for construction of the Hillsdale Crest Rainfall Derived Infiltration and Inflow Project, number E10941, through the exercise of the City's Eminent Domain Authority. Very good. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye.
 Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please, will be 941. Appoint. Appoint.
 Bob Galacio to the Plumbing Code Board of Appeal for a term to expire September 4, 2021. Today we're appointing Bob Galacio to the Plumbing Code Board of Appeals. Currently the board has two members, Victoria Haynes and Vernie Santos, and we appreciate their service. Terry Whitehill with BDS is going to present the proposed appointee who is here with us today, and we appreciate that.
 Mayor Wheeler, thank you for letting us be here today and to bring this forward. I'm pleased to have Bob Galeasso with me today. Bob has been in the plumbing business for over 40 years, currently a contractor. He is vice president of the Cascade Chapter of the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials and a veteran of the U.S. Air Force. If you have any questions, Bob or I would be more than happy to answer. Colleagues?
 First of all, I just want to say thank you very much for being willing to step forward. I know the pay is not very good. You come with deep experience. Could you tell us just a little bit about why you wanted to be on this board and what you think you're going to do?
 to be able to accomplish or what you hope you'd be able to accomplish as a member of this board? Well, as an active contractor of commercial and residential in this city, most of all of my work is here in this area, and I'm pretty versed on issues and adverse plumbing conditions and obstacles that may come about because of code or other problems.
 pretty passionate about my trade and trying to instill that in the trade is to have an understanding of what goes on in this world of plumbing. It could be adverse, but I'm involved, as Terry said, with the IATMO committee in trying to introduce new things and new ideas to that trade, and so it's imperative that somebody that's...
 you know, versed can give a pretty fair opinion of what can happen and what can't. I had a history of 17 years of being a plumber at the airport, the only plumber they had. And then during budget downturn and all that, top pay goes out. That's it. You're done. And so I started up on my own. So as far as adverse conditions and being versed and known in the community, I think I could be a pretty good plumber.
 Pretty good addition. Sounds like it. Great. Thank you, colleagues. Any further questions? I'll entertain a motion. We'll move adoption of the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Well, thank you for your willingness to serve. Appreciate it. Udaly. Thank you for your service. I... You're going to let us speak? Excuse me. This is a report. You're Mr. Walsh. This is... It's optional. Excuse me. You make the decision. We'll take a recess for a moment, please. Okay.
 Mr. Walsh. Delay. We did not get a chance yet to call the roll on item number 941. Carla, please call the roll. We're on Fritz.
 And the pressure is really on. I've had 15 minutes to come up with a really dynamic speech. And, yeah, I'm just going to say thank you very much to the volunteer who's willing to serve on the Plumbing Board. If you're interested in serving on a city board or commission, please look online on portlandoregon.gov. There are many, many, many boards and commissions that we need volunteers for.
 Wheeler. I am very, very pleased with this appointee and very happy that somebody with 40 years of experience, hands-on experience, is willing to volunteer their time and their energy at the height of their career to come in and help us do things better. So this is great.
 And Commissioner Fritz is right. For just about any skill set in this community, there is a board or a commission where we could really benefit, and the public at large could benefit from your experience. So we always encourage people to get in touch with us and find out what kind of appointments are available, because there's a lot of them. I vote aye. The appointment is approved, and the report is accepted. Item number 942, please.
 reappoint Zeri Santner and Karen Loper-Tracy and appoint Janice Mason to the Portland Parks and Recreation Board Oversight Committee for a term to expire December 31, 2020.
 Colleagues, the Bond Oversight Committee is composed of five distinguished community members. Each of them was selected by one member of the council. In making our selections, we looked for skill sets in finance, construction, community involvement, budgeting, and park services.
 Today we have the pleasure of announcing a reappointment for two of the members and an appointment of one community member to our Portland Parks and Recreation 2014 Parks Replacement Bond Oversight Committee, as well as the appointment of a new member. The Bond Oversight Committee members are serving multi-year terms.
 Commissioner Fritz will speak to the charge of the Oversight Committee. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. The implementation of the 2014 bond measure has been part of my focus since it was passed, and I'm very proud of the work that we've done. I appreciate each of my colleagues for appointing me.
 appointing a community member to this committee that provides independent oversight to make sure that we are doing what we promised we would do to the voters when they approved the bond measure in November of 2014. $68 million to fix some of the most urgent needs in our parks, although we still need another $300 or $400 million to bring everything up to standards.
 So Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fischer's appointees terms expired in June. Both of them have offered to serve on the Bond Oversight Committee again, and this action will reappoint both of them. Both Zari Santner and Karen Loper-Tracy have worked in parks as employees and have been involved in promoting parks throughout the city.
 Dion Jordan, who was my appointee, has decided to step down. And Janice Mason has been nominated as the replacement appointee. Janice Mason is currently the chair of the Philippine Chamber of Commerce and has been involved in increasing opportunities for minority-owned businesses. And I welcome our staff here and our nominee. Thank you for joining us. Good morning. Good morning. Sorry, we're late getting back. Thank you.
 My name is Robin Laughlin. I'm the Bond Program Manager with Portland Parks and Recreation. With me today is Janice Mason, our candidate for the Bond Oversight Committee. With your approval today, Janice will be joining the Bond Oversight Committee and helping to serve to help guide the Parks Bond moving forward. We appreciate the committee's keen insight and active volunteer service to the community on this important endeavor. Currently serving on the committee...
 Arkan Richardson, the current superintendent of David Douglas School District. Jonath Kalan, the former business development coordinator for Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber. And Karen Lober-Tracy, a former longtime parkie who served in several different capacities, including volunteer coordinator, outreach and communications manager, and assistant director of Portland Parks and Recreation.
 Zari Santner is also on the committee currently. She is the former director of Portland Parks and is a landscape architect who oversaw the 1994 Parks Bond. The reappointment of Zari Santner and Karen Loper-Tracy and the appointment of Janice Mason to the Bond Oversight Committee is the purpose of our agenda item today.
 Ms. Santner was the Director of Portland Parks and Recreation from 2003 until she retired from the City of Portland in 2011. Her nearly 30 years of park service were exemplified by her commitment to equity and design.
 The highlights of her career are varied and include such projects as the Powell Butte Nature Park, the Vera Katz East Bank Esplanade, managing the 1994 Parks Bond, and a strong public policy direction to make certain that parks are considered critical infrastructure in all citywide budgetary decisions. A landscape architect by training and a native of Iran, Santner brings a unique and comprehensive understanding of Portland Parks to the committee.
 She's served on the committee since its inception, and we're asking now the council reappoint her for an additional year and a half term so she can see the program to the conclusion. Ms. Loper-Tracy grew up in Portland and spent her entire career with Portland Parks and Recreation. Starting in college, she held various positions, including volunteer coordinator and outreach and communications manager.
 Her broad exposure to virtually every aspect of our programming makes her an invaluable member of the Bond Oversight Committee. She understands the roles and responsibilities of employees and volunteers and understands how upgrades to the park system help staff respond to our community's recreational needs. She also understands our budgeting protocols and how to monitor and manage funding to meet Bureau-wide objectives.
 She retired in 2012 after four years as assistant director and has served on many bond and levy programs during her time. Ms. Loper has also served on the committee since its inception, and we are also asking that she be reappointed today. And today, I have the pleasure of introducing Janice Mason to you. Since 2009, she has worked as a marketing and communications leader at a Portland-based regional engineering and architecture firm.
 Her responsibilities include serving as a liaison for small business partnering and utilization in her company's corporate responsibility initiatives. She has worked in the A&E industry for more than 30 years, including time spent as a project manager on public and private landscape architecture projects. Through this experience, she has grown a depth of understanding of the design and construction process that we hope she can bring to our committee.
 Ms. Mason is also a Filipino-American and has resided in the Portland metro area for 20 years. In the community, she has served on the board for the Philippine-American Chamber of Commerce since 2013. The board's mission is to promote economic opportunities and goodwill for minorities and serve as a liaison for government agencies. Janice has supported the board with rebranding, increasing communications and visibility, and supporting minority-owned businesses.
 She was also recently appointed as the co-chair for the International Committee for the Oregon Association of Minority Entrepreneurs. I'm really excited to introduce you here today, and she'd like to share a few comments with you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Councilors Udaly, Fish, Fritz, and Saltzman. And also thank you to Robin and the other members of the Parks Replacement Fund. Thank you.
 As a volunteer in the community, a woman of color, I'm so excited to participate in this process. It's very important to me.
 As a young girl, I have some fond memories of going to the park across the street and playing with the neighborhood kids back on Guam. And so the park was practically my backyard. So now as an adult, I'm eager to apply my knowledge in working in the architecture, engineering, and construction industry to this process with the Parks Replacement Fund.
 enabling transparency of taxpayers' funds is an important work, and I intend to do my best to my ability and in a small way help young and old alike have fond memories in neighborhood parks. Thank you very much. Thank you. We appreciate it. Thanks for your service. Thank you.
 So with your approval today, we look forward to continuing to work with and receive guidance from the Bond Oversight Committee with the support of Zari Santner, Karen Loper-Tracy, and Janice Mason. Mayor, I move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman. Well, I want to thank Zari Santner and Karen Loper-Tracy and welcome Ms. Mason to the Oversight Committee. Hi. Thank you.
 You daily. Thank you for your service. I. Fritz.
 So it's been four years since we passed the bond measure. I'm really proud of the work that you've done. Thank you, Robin Laughlin, for your leadership here. I'm particularly impressed with Pioneer Courthouse Square and all the improvements there. That's a $10 million project, really well done, and I appreciate your diligence and leadership. Thank you, Janice Mason, for being willing to serve as my appointee to this important committee. It's crucial that we have independent oversight to make sure that –
 taxpayers and voters know that we've done what we said we were going to do with their money, spent it wisely, and hopefully then they'll support further investments in Portland's parks and recreation system. Thanks also to Dion Jordan, the retiring former chair of the committee. He's been an absolute stalwart, and we appreciate all of his service to Portland Parks and Recreation. Fish? Well, the parks bond measure has been an unqualified success.
 And that's a testament to Commissioner Fritz's leadership. And so as the new commissioner in charge, we pledge to continue the momentum.
 to make sure the money is spent wisely. I was adding up doing the math on Zeri Santner and Karen Loper. I think together they have about 300 years of experience in this field, so we're very lucky to have them. And, of course, Janice Mason, you honor us by accepting this appointment and serving on the oversight body. I look forward to working with you, and I'm honored this morning to vote aye. Wheeler.
 So one of my favorite aspects of Commissioner Fritz's leadership of the Parks Bureau has been her diligence with regard to the bond. And at virtually every opportunity, both in this chamber and in our one-on-one meetings, she has repeatedly stated the importance of this bond being successful.
 and that we meet the absolute commitments that have been made to the voters who overwhelmingly supported this bond. And an important part of that accountability is the work that you will do and the work that you already do on this committee. And I would argue that you have been extremely successful and diligent in your oversight, and the public is better for it, the city is better for it,
 And I know the public feels well served. And so I appreciate Commissioner Fritz, your diligent leadership over many, many years. Commissioner Fish, I know that you'll continue that important tradition. And all of you who have stepped forward to serve as volunteers in our community, I won't give the same speech twice except to say we're really lucky.
 As a community, we're fortunate that we have people of your caliber who are willing to really engage in a personal way to help make it a better place for everybody. So I vote aye. The report is accepted. Thank you. We're going to move Item 949 up. Colleagues, this item was noticed on the Tuesday memo as being referred to Commissioner Fish's office. Carla, could you please read Item 944?
 949? I'm sorry. It's 949, correct. Amend the Park System Development Charge Code to improve and clarify implementation of the program. Commissioner Fish, it's my understanding you're pulling this back to your office? Yes, ma'am. Very good. Item 944, please. 944, adopt a new nonrepresented employee classification structure and compensation plan.
 Colleagues, the city charter section 4-201
 requires periodic review of the classification plan of all city service positions. The classification and compensation of non-represented positions have not been reviewed as a whole since the year 2002. Portland is rapidly transforming into a major city. In order to be responsive to the city's business environment, recognize changes in work that have occurred over the last 16 years and
 and recruit, retain, and motivate qualified employees, the City of Portland requires the development and implementation of an updated classification and compensation system for non-represented positions. A classification and compensation study of non-represented positions in the city has been conducted excluding positions in the offices of elected officials."
 The City of Portland is rapidly transforming into a major city. The proposed classification structure and the compensation plan will allow the city to both assign non-represented positions and compensate non-represented employees. With us today to discuss this in further detail is Classification and Compensation Manager Elizabeth Nunes and Chief Human Resources Officer Cyrilda Summers-McGee. Welcome, both of you. Thanks for being here. Thank you.
 Good morning, everybody. As stated, I'm Elizabeth Nunes, the Classification and Compensation Manager for the City. And I have a story to tell. It starts in June of 2014 when you, Council, approved a contract with Schoberg Evachank Consulting to assist the Bureau of Human Resources to review and update the City's non-represented classification and compensation plans. Thank you.
 The classification review portion of this study resulted in the recommendation to create 107 new nonrepresented classifications and replace and abolish the 418 current nonrepresented classifications. Thank you.
 After concluding the contract with Schober-Givishank, the class comp unit internally in BHR conducted a compensation market survey based on the new classifications. What is before you today for consideration are the final new classifications and compensation structures resulting from this four-year effort. There is no direct cost to create the new classification and compensation structures.
 No employees will receive an immediate increase to their current compensation. Some employees whose current pay is above the new maximum will have their pay red-circled. What this means is they are not eligible for pay increases, including cost of living increases, until the pay rate is within the new pay grade for their assigned classification.
 For the record, my name is Cirilla Summers-McGee, Chief Human Resources Officer for the City of Portland, and I have a few statements in closing. The current class comm structure that we have lends itself to perceived and sometimes real have and have nots.
 With this new system, which has one quarter of the number of classifications, you will create parity across all bureaus for similar work. This allows small bureaus, newer bureaus, and bureaus that share similar work to be compensated fairly and consistently.
 This structure creates parity based on scope of work, responsibility, autonomy, and risk. And it is a unified system based on how we value and support all employees across the system. And it removes speculation regarding how someone's classification or body of work is different from someone else's. This will streamline this and clarify it.
 The new system also allows us to revisit our current class comm structure and maintain its market competitiveness and equity. We're proud to have completed this work for the city of Portland, and I'm grateful to the heavy lift that the team made to establish this new structure, as well as the work of our workforce and our directors and managers who shepherded this process along. And I thank you. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Commissioner Saltzman? Well, I have an amendment I wish to offer.
 So your presentation, that's it? That is it. Oh, okay. So, Sirelda, maybe you could just remind me. I know this came up in conversations we've had, but what percentage of non-REPs
 get the full merit increase of 4.1%? So not all non-REP employees are eligible for a merit increase. Anyone who's at top of scale does not get a merit increase each year, only the COLA. So of those who are eligible for a merit increase, approximately 60% are receiving the 4.1% merit increase. Okay. And with this new –
 scale, I mean, there will be employees now who are topped out that will be eligible for further merit increases. And I ask that question because that does relate to my amendment. And my concern is that merit increases are not really being treated as not being awarded based on merit. They're being awarded based on sort of peer group pressure. That's the way it's done here. Everybody expects to get 4.1% on top of the COLA. So last year...
 an average non-rep employee got an 8% increase in salary. And so I want bureau directors to really take some responsibility, and I want the Budget Office to help in that regard, and the CFO to develop some guidelines for bureau directors to be more selective.
 as I think what is meant by a merit increase, that it's not automatic. If you're just living and breathing, you don't necessarily deserve a 4.1% increase. It should be based on merit, on your performance. So there should be a scale of merit increases from 4.1 to 2% or something like that. So my amendments are designed to ask two things. One is to ask the city budget officer to report annually to council on changes...
 in the average hourly rate for nonrepresented employees by Bureau. I'm sorry, I didn't hand out my amendment. Yeah, you did. Yeah, we got it. You've got it? No, I don't think I got it. So that's the first part of the amendment. And the second amendment is to ask the City Budget Office and the Chief Financial Officer to develop amendments to financial policy that would provide bureaus with the guidelines for budgeting and reporting on merit increases at the Bureau level.
 And I think this will help, as I said, I think it will help bureau directors be more judicious in awarding merit raises. Bureau directors and other managers within bureaus, I should say. That's correct. It's not all bureau directors. And I do, because otherwise I worry about the fiscal impact of the automatic 4.1% increases as they've come to be handled. Right.
 And so I quote from the CBO analysis we all received this week about this item, and it says, at this point, the fiscal impact is unknown, and while the new structure does not require an immediate increase to an employer's pay, it does increase Bureau's exposure to higher personnel costs because employees who were previously at the top of range will no longer be, and unless Council explicitly provides greater funding for,
 bureaus will have to more actively manage the awarding of merit pay increases, particularly in the short term. So I think these amendments are good. I hope they turn into financial policies that, as I said, will help bureau directors and other managers bring more focus and be more selective in the award of merit increases. So I offer those amendments. Second. Commissioner Saltzman moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds the amendment. We'll leave it open for testimony, and then we'll take it up.
 as a vote afterwards. Does that complete your presentation before you disappear? Any further questions? Yeah. Have you had a chance to see these amendments? Yes. We worked in concert with Commissioner Salcedo. So do you support these amendments? We do support the amendments. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Public testimony, Carla, please. Yes, we have two people signed up. Very good. Nico Haney and Charles Bridgecrane. Good morning.
 Good morning. I was hoping that Nico Haney would be able to testify for me, and maybe back in some post-amendments. As to the amendments, I want to thank outgoing Commissioner Schultzman for bringing up a point. I think that what we would really like to get to is away from the nickel-and-dime paranoia and talk about ways that the most meritous city employees... I mean, it's nice to say that every city of Portland employee is a great employee.
 but they're not cookie cutters and they're not homogenous. So we should reward the best of them with more than just a plaque. They should get the greatest increase in pay. And so I hope that all of you commissioners will work with your assigned bureaus to come up with structures that...
 recognize the outstanding and truly excellent employees and make sure that those employees get the greatest merit pay increases. There's a big gap there. If we get a 4.1% for merit pay, then the top performing employee can get the 4.1%.
 and the employee that hasn't quite reached that level is still able to get one, two, or three percent annual increase on top of their COLA. So it does add a little bit of work burden for you as commissioners and for bureau chiefs, but I think that that is the most important work for all of you to do, is to help us continually raising the bar for excellence in municipal employment. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning Super Disrupt Attack Dog.
 I want to put a... When did you change the name? When did I? Yeah. That was just recent. Okay. Thank you. I'm a close observer of this. I've gone one week and all of a sudden I don't recognize the name. I'm not going to be the most popular person in this room. I'd like to see a freeze put on all city employees. I want to see an analysis done from the private sector
 to the city employee jobs, and I want to see a balance created in line with the private sector. When we're talking fiscal responsibility, and if you watch what your good friend President Trump is doing on the federal level, he's beginning to analyze the jobs from the private sector to the federal employees, and he's trying to balance that out.
 And when we're looking at trade agreements with China and USA and we're looking at these trade agreements, we understand now is the time to begin to balance fair trade and begin the balance process. And this is what we need to do at the city. We have directors at this city making outrageous amounts for their salaries. And I think it's too high. I honestly do. And I've been one of the only people that has ever sat up here
 And looked at the commissioners and the mayor and said, you're on the low side. Yours should go up.
 So we have to create a balance. And if anyone's going to do that, when we're talking fiscal responsibility, if we're talking more money going toward the homeless and getting more people off the sidewalks and getting more people into housing, there has to be a balance created. Somebody has to make a stand, and that's a tough stand to make. And trust me, you'll...
 You could very well end up having a special counsel in Robert Mueller overlooking you when you make those kind of moves. But it's time to make those moves. So if we're talking merit pay increases and all this COLA, I say put a freeze across the board and to begin to create a balance from the private sector to the city employees and look at that very close and balance it. Now is the time to do it.
 That's what they're going to do on the federal level. That's why they want Trump out of office. That's why they're going to push very aggressive to get him out of office. But it's not going to happen. He's going to get reelected fiscal responsibility. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, both of you. So, Mayor, I have a question. Commissioner Fish. We could have the professional team back. Come on up. Thank you. So, Elizabeth, I don't know whether you know this off the top of your head, but...
 In thinking about Dan's amendments, it occurred to me that I don't know the answer to the following question, so if you could shed some light on it. The chief financial officer position, the chief administrative officer position, head of HR, head of legal, head of procurement, who is tasked with determining merit pay increases for those positions? Yes.
 From my understanding, and I could be corrected, whoever they report to is supposed to complete a performance evaluation and then based on that performance evaluation determine what percentage they should receive. So could you send me an email follow-up to this proceeding just to let me know who is the person who is tasked with doing an evaluation of the head of
 the chief financial officer, the chief administrative officer, head of procurement, legal, and head of human resources? I can tell you right now. So the CAO receives one from Mayor Willard. The CFO, the CHRO, receives...
 an evaluation and a subsequent merit increase from the chief administrative officer, so Tom Reinhart. And the procurement officer receives an evaluation and then a subsequent, if appropriate, merit increase from the CFO, Jennifer. And then the head of legal? And the head of legal receives it from Mayor Willard. And your position? The CAO. Myself and Jennifer Cooperman, we receive it from the CAO.
 Okay. And also, could you remind us how many non-represented employees do we have? Around 1,600. Thank you. Very good. And how many of the non-represented employees are changing from being salaried to hourly under this reorganization? We're still working through the final details, but... It's down to what at this point? It's, I think, maybe down to between 30 and 50. Okay.
 Thank you. And I very much appreciate that we've got a report coming back to Council in six months with details of all of those positions. Thank you. Absolutely. Yeah, very good. And I just wanted to reflect on something that was raised during testimony, which is the comparators to the private sector. Could you talk a little bit about that and how the Class Comp study does that? I could start. Sure.
 the city as well as other public jurisdictions when they go to look at compensation and determine who the comparables are. Historically, for very good reasons, we only compare to other public sector jurisdictions. And why is that? That is because when you look at the employment agreement, which includes benefits, retirement, all the other things that come into a contract of work, if you will. Okay.
 They are different between the public sector and private sector. The private sector offers a lot of perks and special things that the city cannot do because we have tax dollars. We are governed by a lot of rules that the private sector doesn't have to do.
 What that does for employees, however, is provide a much more balanced quality of life. It also provides a level of security that does not exist in the private sector. And the kinds of work that are done generally don't go across the board to the private sector.
 So there have been discussions about, well, there are some things we should compare to private sector. And if we were unable to find comparables within other public sector jurisdictions, we would actually then go look to see what we could do to compare to private sector. Fortunately, that hasn't happened yet.
 All the work that we do exists in other public jurisdictions. So there are competitors. They are the people who have similar employment understanding that we have. They offer similar benefits. They have a similar quality of life.
 And so we've never had to go to private sector. Very good. And I'd also like to, I'm not trying to encourage our workforce to go to the private sector, but the private sector pays.
 significantly more than we do in a variety of disciplines. And so we can't compete, and it becomes a major challenge for the city when they're saying, how do we compete with an Intel? How do we compete with a Microsoft or a Google for engineers, for legal counsel, for technical experts? And we just have a different ecosystem we express to them, but we definitely don't pay more than the private sector.
 So in summary, then, it could be a difference of wage versus what I'll just loosely call benefits, health care, retirement, security, that sort of thing. And quality of life. Very good. Yes. Thank you. Appreciate that. Any further questions?
 Very good. So first we'll call the roll on Commissioner Saltzman's amendment. Actually, before I do that, I want to acknowledge the work of Commissioner Fritz. She had had an amendment that she discussed previously, and that has actually been worked into the ordinance, and it requires reporting the results of each position classification within six months. And so I want to acknowledge that work and the fact that that amendment is now incorporated in the body of the ordinance. So thank you for that, Commissioner Fritz.
 And now we'll take up the roll, please, on Commissioner Saltzman's amendment.
 Saltzman? Aye. Eudaly? Aye. Fritz? Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for these amendments. I will note that Parks already has guidelines as to how to do the merit increases, and to me it's the Commissioner in charge responsibility as well as the City Budget Office and Human Resources. I would hope that when the guidelines are developed that they would allow for some flexibility, bureau to bureau, plus...
 and indeed include has the employee completed their work plan from the previous year, which is always something that I look at in my performance measures. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. I strongly support this package of amendments. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for bringing it forward. The amendments are adopted. To the main motion, any further discussion, please call the roll. Saltzman. Well, I want to thank...
 Sirelda and Elizabeth and the Bureau of Human Resources and the consultants that worked on this study. It is a significant achievement, I think, to reduce our number of classifications so dramatically as is done in this new ordinance we're about to adopt. And while I do have concerns about the right amount of discretion, being concerned around merit increase awards, and I think these amendments will help
 develop better discretion in that regard. You know, I do want to say that in general, I think our bureau directors are underpaid, even though they all make more than we do up here. I do think they are relatively underpaid. I mean, the top bureau directors in the city, I think, make around, under this new scale, make maybe $212,000 a year. I think that's about right. Which, you know, for being a police chief or something like that,
 You know, I know police chiefs in other cities take in a lot more money than our police chief, just to pick one top paid official. But in general, I think that's true of most of our bureau directors. I think they are relatively underpaid relative to what other public sector bureau director positions for these positions in different cities. But, you know, so it is. And I do appreciate the work that's been done on this. Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 Well, thank you. Sorry, I'm losing my voice today. Thank you, Sarolda and Elizabeth and HR staff and consultants. I know this was a Herculean task. I think that our workers and the city as a whole is really going to benefit from everyone having greater clarity on what their job descriptions actually are, as well as...
 what they may be entitled to as far as pay and raises. Thanks for working with Civic Life on our concerns. I did feel like some of those positions had kind of fallen through the cracks, and I'm glad that you saw that issue. Still a little concerned about the budget impact to such a small bureau with a teensy budget. So we'll see. We may be asking for some help in the spring bump, but overall I think it's,
 really good, important work. Fritz. Thank you, Director Summers-McGee, former Director Anna Canwit, and Elizabeth Nunes, who's seen it from beginning to end, and you must be really happy to have gotten to this point today.
 I appreciate all of your work. It's been a very challenging process and one which employees have rightly been very concerned about. And so I appreciate your engagement with our employees and your willingness to continue to talk and help figure out some of the kinks with 1,600 employees and all these different positions there are...
 probably some things that we're going to need to fix along the way and you can count on me to support things that then as you bring them back as you find them out i thank the bureau directors for their input particularly interim parks director kia sally
 I do support this ordinance. I do have some misgivings. I understand that what we have now basically evolved over many, many years and was in great need of updating. And the Bureau directors want this passed because it will provide greater certainty, improve their ability to recruit for open positions.
 I'm concerned about the number of unresolved issues around individual city employees' classification assignments. I appreciate the ongoing work on that. This project was not intended to change the scope of anybody's work in particular positions. And so if it turns out that the way it's worked, it's...
 the sausage making works when the handle is turned has the effect of doing that I know that you're willing to address that as well we certainly appreciate the work that our employees are doing and are not intending through this to tell people to stop doing some of the things that they're currently doing if we do need to do that then we're going to need to figure out how to create additional positions to take up those work assignments and this is particularly in parks. Thank you for the promise for the written report within six months
 I am concerned about how the city is going to pay for the increased costs that will be generated in the compensation structure. We know that one of the reasons the Bureau Directors want to get this passed through is because some of the positions are severely underpaid. And so it seems reasonable that those pay grades would go up fairly quickly, particularly where people have had...
 many years of excellent performance and yet have been capped out. And so we as a council are going to need to grapple for that. And, Commissioner, I think you daily agree with your concern about small bureaus. It just actually doubles in the big bureaus because you've just got more employees who are then needing to go up. And there isn't parity between different bureaus. An engineer in parks doesn't necessarily earn the same as an engineer in one of the utilities. And so we need to grapple with that.
 I will be supportive of some kind of set-aside for the increased costs to general fund bureaus.
 I will continue to be concerned about cross-bureau pay equity. In particular, I'm curious how the city will comply with the Oregon pay equity statute, where these wide ranges between minimum and maximum salaries within each pay grade will exacerbate the problem of achieving equal pay for equal work and how we're going to monitor that so that we don't get further out of whack is something that we're going to have to grapple with together. But a very, very good first step. Thank you very, very much. Aye. Aye.
 Fish. You know, if someone was here for the first time at one of our council meetings and they saw this on the agenda and they said ten minutes was set aside, they would think this was a fairly inconsequential matter pro forma that we're taking up. And the truth is this has been a very substantial piece of work. It's taken a long time and a lot of people to bring us to this moment. So, ladies, thank you for your leadership and for the teams that you've worked with and for all the people that Commissioner Fritz –
 has identified. This is really a significant update to our compensation structure. And the goal from the beginning has been to help us recruit and retain the best talent. We have a problem in this city with a lot of people planning to retire in a short period of time. And I've heard from each and every HR director since I've been on this council that one of the things we don't do as well as we could is succession planning. We've
 So perhaps this will help us in both regards. I agree with Commissioner Fritz that we should have a conversation about a set-aside during the budget for some of the additional costs that general fund bureaus will incur. I had a five-year honeymoon from having general fund bureaus. Now I'm back in the thick of it, and so my views will evolve accordingly.
 I appreciate the amendments that have been offered and the collaborative way they were worked out with the team in front of us. So thank you for your good work. I'm very pleased to vote aye. Weezer. So I have the opportunity, and maybe this gets back to some of the public testimony, to take this and show it to some folks who I guess, Cyril, I'd say they're your colleagues in the private sector, and I just wanted their opinion.
 what was said universally was, why haven't you done this sooner? Why hasn't this been done in an environment this competitive when you need to recruit talent and you need to retain the talent you have and everybody else in the world is trying to scrape off your top talent? Why haven't you done this before? And the answer, of course, is because it's only one of many dominoes
 that fall in place. And Commissioner Fritz put another question on the table around equity, and now that question will be front and center, and we will have to address it.
 Commissioner Fish raised the other question around succession planning. That is something we also need to address, and again, this moves this front and center. But more than anything else, the next domino to fall is this. Once we have decided that we want to be competitive in recruiting and retention of the best employees, particularly in those classifications that we know are the hardest to fill and the most competitive,
 both to recruit for and keep those employees, it raises the question of priorities because we have finite resources. And I agree with those who say there are some near-term financial strategies that we can use to help ease the transition
 into this new paradigm, if you will, with regard to classification and compensation. But the longer-term question is really this. We are going to be paying more in those classifications where it is harder to recruit and harder to retain. Okay.
 And quality, particularly long-term employees who are at the top of their classifications currently, will find they now have headroom within those classifications. And so there will be additional costs in our years. And that puts more pressure on the city council and on bureau directors to really think long and hard about what our priorities are going to be in terms of service delivery.
 What do we want to be, what business do we want to be in? What do we prioritize? What works? And perhaps which business we should de-emphasize or potentially exit altogether. And I think that's one of the reasons why this doesn't get done more often, is because by addressing the first questions around recruitment and retention, you're creating a whole long list of,
 of what I will describe as politically awkward issues that you are then forced to confront. And I'm glad that the City Council has finally moved this issue through. We have accepted it. We've worked it hard. We have limited the number of issues that are still outstanding. And I too appreciate the fact that HR is going to continue to work with specific employees that we can now identify that will have issues that result
 I'll call them anticipated consequences that will result, and I think we need to exercise some flexibility since we're talking about a relatively small number of employees. But we've really put down a high bar for ourselves collectively by completing this process, and I believe you said the last time it was done was 2002. Right.
 It probably won't happen again during my tenure, but I hope it won't be this many years before the city does it again because it leaves this long gap where we are losing quality employees and we are failing to recruit quality employees. And we're seeing some of the consequences of that lag now. So thank you to the myriads of people who worked on this over a period of many years. And I just want to thank my current council colleagues for...
 having the, I'm almost tempted to say the fortitude, but really just the good management sense to get this over the finish line. So thanks to all of you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you. Thank you. Next item, please. Can we go to the time certain? Yeah, time certain is next. And colleagues, just so you know, I'm going to have to do a hard exit at 1130.
 Time, certain 931, please. Assess benefited properties for street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Southwest Gulf Court Spring Garden Street Local Improvement District. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. I am pleased to bring this item before council today in collaboration with Commissioner Eudaly, who is the new Bureau of Transportation Commissioner in charge.
 This local improvement district at Southwest Dolph Court and Spring Garden Street will allow us to continue to improve our sidewalk infrastructure, which helps to increase equity and livability in the area. And also, completion of this project does help, as we were talking yesterday about the Southwest Corridor Light Rail Project, begin to rectify deficiencies in advance of the anticipated high-capacity transit on Southwest Barber Boulevard.
 And then finally, I just would like to recognize Suzanne Stahl for her leadership on this project. Sadly, she passed away on November 14th of last year before this project was completed, but her leadership and voice as an advocate for this project will be remembered. And with that, I'll turn it over to Andrew Abbey. Thank you, Commissioner Selfman. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator.
 brief presentation for you. So this slide here has an overview map on the left of where this project is located in southwest Portland and then on the right is a detailed map of the local improvement district.
 So I want to just share with you three pictures. We combined construction of the park improvements with construction of the street improvements for economies of scale. This was the first of several pictures taken on the day of the grand opening. The city acquired land for the park in 1999, and my colleague Travis Rubal, who's sitting here in the audience, delivered that project this year. So that's been 19 years in the making.
 The combining of the construction of the park and the street improvements was beneficial to the property owners. The property owners along Dolf Court realized a 15.8% savings on their LID. And this is the final picture from the grand opening. This park now serves 1,359 Southwest Portland residents who previously did not have proximate access to a park.
 So I really wanted to thank former commissioner, Pivot Commissioner Novick, and former Park Commissioner Fritz for their leadership and their willingness to engage on this LID. One of the things that we were looking at three years ago when we were considering whether to do this project, as Commissioner Salsman pointed out, was the extent...
 of the infrastructure deficiency in southwest Portland. There's sort of this notion that east Portland has most of the infrastructure backlog when, in fact, it's in southwest Portland. So we felt a real sense of urgency to do something. And just to put a picture with statistics, this is what Dolf Court used to look like before we did the project. So very narrow street, steep, no safe place to walk. And then really what we were trying to do is to –
 in conjunction with the park improvements, build a more hospitable place for people to walk where it would be safer and more welcoming. In addition to the pedestrian improvements, we're also trying to deal with the stormwater issues on the street. If you look at that picture to the right, you can see that people were just piping water out to the street and dump it on to their next neighbor below them. We really wanted to deal with those issues on this deep street with grades up to 9.5%.
 And then this is an after picture showing what the improvements look like. These two pictures were taken at the bottom of the hill. The owner of this property did submit an objection to final assessment, and his representative will be here to speak on that, and I'll be happy to answer any questions you have. So that's the project in a nutshell. We've got a few people here to testify, and happy to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
 Very good. Colleagues, any questions before we get to public testimony? Very good. Public testimony, please, Carla. Yes, we have three people signed up. Very good. Amy Gearhart, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and Lori Sinton. Thank you, Carla. Good morning. No, no, no, go ahead.
 All right. Can I start? Go for it. Great. Thank you. Good morning. I'm Amy Gearhart. I'm an attorney at Sussman Shank, and I represent Essany Properties LLC, which owns the property at 8619 to 8623 Southwest 30th Street that's within this LID. Thank you.
 We're here to object to the allocation and specifically the methodology of the allocation and the number of exempt properties included. And that's the whole body of the objection at this point. So under Oregon law, the city is required to impose a fair and equitable allocation of LID improvements. And it's long established premise in Oregon law that one person's property cannot be improved at the expense of another.
 and then one owner cannot be forced to pay for improvements that benefit exempt properties, which we believe is happening in this case with my client.
 So with that being the standard, we think that the proper allocation in this sense is total square footage in the OID as opposed to EDUs. So right now, the allocation is based on the equivalent dwelling units in the area. And so my client has a multifamily property with 22 units, which is one of the higher density properties in the OID. Okay.
 And so what that's done is shifted a lot of the excess cost to my client as opposed to other areas. So on the front of that presentation, there's a colored map there. And the blue areas show all the exempt properties that are benefiting from access to the transit center for access to the park. And none of those properties are being charged anything for these assessments. Instead, the allocation is based on EDUs, which is transferred to my client.
 along with some other clients. What that's done is my client's being forced to pay for almost 19% of the improvement costs, whereas total square footage in the LID, excluding exempt properties, is only 12.5%. So we're paying a much bigger percentage based on this method of allocation. As an example, the park is...
 about 65% of the total square footage, and it's paying for 57%. And as we just heard, there's 1,300 users to that park that are benefiting by the excess pedestrian access, and no one's being charged, really, but the multifamily development and some city costs. And so we think that that's not fair and equitable as required under Oregon law, and that the appropriate methodology is total square footage.
 Additionally, the exempt properties are benefiting despite that I'm not necessarily having sidewalks right in front of their house. They have sidewalks across the street now. And as we saw from those pictures, that gives them much better access to transit, to parks. And just because they have sidewalks across the street doesn't mean they're going to access it any less. In fact, what my client has seen is people now loitering, standing, smoking, littering on his property and on the sidewalk near his property now that that's the access point.
 And so we just ask that the methodology and allocation be reassessed. Thank you. Thank you. Hi. My name is Lori Sitton, and thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I come today as a user representative of the disability community and the advisory committee that advises Portland Parks and Rec that meets monthly with different bureau representatives
 representatives and architects and landscape architects and PBOT and reviewing plans and of the 144 parks, this one in particular I think has the amenities that include access for little toddlers and children up to elderly. The pathways are
 There's some gravel. There's some sawdust. And there are flowers and clover. And the elevation changes from Dolf Court down to Spring Garden Park. And it is 4.6 acres of spectacular vegetation. And
 The birds, the butterflies, and there's so much for the children to do. They can access...
 The transfer areas, the swings, there's the rubber eye surfaces. The children can just go from one element to another and just crawl and climb and slide and enjoy the music features. So they can bang on the metal aspects. And when we were there for the two hours, I think we must have seen and visited with...
 a dozen different people, dogs, the little children, just enjoying going from
 the higher level down to the bottom and back up, and the pathways intersect, and the people are just, it is spectacular. I would encourage anyone to go and visit. I think it's one of the park, the gems of the Portland Park system. It doesn't have any programmed access, but it is just a wonderful place to go. People are laying in the sun. People are having a picnic at the picnic areas, just enjoying the swings.
 and the spinning features, little children playing with cars down in the water. And it was almost like a little moat that they were running little cars through. And the little kids would go up and press the button to make the water feature go again. Just, I have to applaud in all the years of participating with Portland Parks and Rec in the advisory council, since 95 and even before, wonderful job.
 with limited resources. Commissioner Fitz. Thank you very much for your service on the committee and thank you for coming today. You just made probably my week or year, never mind just my day. Thank you very much. It was just spectacular. Good morning, Commissioner. For the record again, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. It's been probably over a year since I was here to talk about these wonderful micro-socialisms at Rabia. It's been about a year since LID was something that I talked about and
 It's interesting to have counsel for the multifamily unit presenting. The real reason for concern here is not, of course, multifamily landlords, but the impact they have on cost burden renters. So I don't think the total amounts here are going to justify a lot more time to wiggle and jiggle the financing, but I do think that,
 When I talk about local improvement districts as micro-socialism, the council has raised an interesting point about exemption. When we're talking about private property owners who own single-family or multi-family dwellings, we would hope that everybody has the financial stability and the means to contribute. So blanket exemptions.
 while a place that has tenants, and I'm totally unfamiliar with this multifamily unit, so I don't know where it fits in the spectrum of rent and the cost burdenness of those tenants. We know that there are tenants, more and more tenants in Portland are not at all cost burdened. They're buying extremely expensive luxury apartments that don't even take up 20% of their income, while other people are facing paying up to 50% of their income for rent.
 But I do think that it's important when we have a local improvement district to not be overly generous with exemptions for private single-family homeowners who really do have the means to contribute to something that benefits their whole neighborhood. So I hope that there'll be a fairly simple solution. I don't think it's going to be anything where the bottom-line dollars are going to justify any kind of litigation.
 But it's a chance for us to get to know these people in this neighborhood and know what their income situations are, wealth disparities and stuff like that. So I hope you'll take Council's point to heart as well as the beautiful story about the actual wonderfulness of the park. For those of you who didn't notice, Commissioner Schaltzman specifically...
 gave credit to the excellent community advocacy of a former candidate for this commission, maybe it was county, Sue Stahl. Stahl for all. Facebook.com, sue.stahl.327. Our community is a little bit sadder, more difficult place without Sue in here encouraging us to all do our best and make Portland even better. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you all. Was it just those three, Carla? That's all who signed up. Very good. Colleagues, anything? Could we get Andrew Abbey back to talk about the issue raised by Legal Counsel, please? Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. Commissioner Frith, the issues that were raised were summarized in Exhibit F, and there's been pretty detailed findings to all those I hadn't planned on.
 recapping all of those in detail. The ordinance is written containing the directive to overrule the objection, but I want to make just a couple of very brief points if I may. The way this process worked is that when parks first looked at developing this park, PBOT
 put forth a set of requirements to the Parks Bureau to comply with the condition of getting a building permit for the park. So what we did is we estimated the LID for the cost of parks meeting their required frontage improvements and then we also estimated the marginal cost of the improvements along
 Dolph Court down to Southwest 30th Avenue. So what we have here is a zoned assessment methodology where parks paid the same amount that they would have paid anyway, and then the other property owners then pay the marginal cost of doing the rest of the project. The other thing I just wanted to share is that the combination of the cost savings and a lower interest rate than what applied at LID formation is that on a per-equivalent dwelling unit basis,
 If financed over 20 years, it was estimated to be $76 per month at all ID formation. It's now $62 a month with the savings. And then finally what I would say is that the properties that were exempted in the all ID do not receive any frontage improvements.
 And I think we start looking at a little bit of a slippery slope if we start pulling in properties that didn't receive frontage improvements, particularly if that is not done during the formation stage. And we're now coming in at final assessment and wanting to make a change. These are types of issues that really should be raised at the formation stage. But that said, I'm very comfortable with the assessment methodology. And I think the fact that we had another property owner with about a 9% less assessment
 who did not object to the final assessment as an indication that the assessment methodology is fair. Thank you. Any further questions? This is the first reading of the non-emergency. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you so much. I just have to comment on this project.
 I was one of the community members advocating to Commissioner Francis Coney in 1999 to purchase this property from the school district. I used to live on Dolph Court. I'm really glad I don't anymore because I probably couldn't have authorized building this project because it would have been a clear conflict of interest, although my children are now all gone. Anyway, that's my history with this project. If you just, colleagues, indulge me, look at page 4.
 This park is called Spring Garden Park, and this is what it looks like in spring with the clarkia and the clover. If you look at it now, it's not quite so spectacular in terms of the flowering because it's not spring flowers. It's going to be wonderful next spring, and I very much appreciate Miss Sitton describing all of the interesting different things that you can do on a hillside slope.
 It's amazing, amazing engineering work. Travis Riebel from Portland Parks and Recreation is here. He was the project manager. I just have to also tell you that a couple of weeks ago we opened the splash pad at Fern Hill, which like this project was done with system development charges or impact fees. Travis designed the splash pad art. It's in the shape of a fiddlehead fern, which for Fern Hill Park is quite impressive.
 Impressive. And not only that, but he and the contractor for that project were able to save, I think in the region of half a million dollars, under budget. And so they're able to add other elements to that park. So, Travis, your work is absolutely spectacular. I know that this particular spring garden park is one of the jewels of the crown, thanks to you and your team. And I just am really, really excited that...
 over a thousand people have had this new park thanks to Suzanne Stahl and the
 advisory committee within Portland Parks and Recreation for their advice on the accessibility issues. This isn't a Harper's playground or a fully accessible playground, but every one of the playgrounds that we have done with either parks development charge, park system development charges or the parks bond have many many aspects of accessible inclusive play and I'm happy about that. And finally I do need to thank Laurie Howell who was the chief neighborhood person who really pushed for this project, got people excited about it and rallied the community and
 It wasn't always easy. I can remember a particular time of going out to this project where I was lucky to escape with my life, it seemed like. But we've come through it, and I think it speaks for itself now. Please go visit it if you can. Excellent. Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, Andrew. And colleagues, I am due at the Metropolitan Mayor's
 alliance. Today we are taking a vote on affordable housing, so I'm going to make sure I'm there for it. Thank you. Commissioner Salson. It's all yours. Thanks, Mayor. So our next item is 943. Would you read that, please? Accept bid of Skyward Construction, Inc. for the 1900 building restroom upgrades for $1,488,592. Welcome, Larry Palat. Want to give us the overview of this?
 Good morning, Commissioners. Thank you very much. I am Larry Pallatt, Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Skyward Construction for the 1,900 building restroom upgrades in the amount of $1,488,592.
 The Chief Procurement Officer advertised the project on the City's electronic procurement system, received bids. The engineer's estimate on this project was $1,325,792 and was included in the authorizing ordinance. Facility's confidence level at that time was listed as optimal.
 Bids were opened on July 31, 2018. Two bids were received. The low bid from Skyward Construction was responsive to the solicitation requirements. It is recommended that the bid be accepted at the estimated lump sum total of $1,498,592, which is 162,800, or 12.28 percent over the engineer's estimate.
 The basis of the project and part of the reason for the overage, we are mitigating some ADA deficiencies, which we are required by federal law. We added some general neutral restrooms, which are pursuant to not then current city policy, and there's some additional energy efficiency upgrades. Skyward Construction, acting as the general contractor, identified the following areas as opportunities for participation, cleaning, HVAC repair, and painting.
 There is only $46,900 or 3.2% certified firms subcontracting on the project. Abortion does follow. All of the money is to DBE or disadvantaged business enterprises. Three firms performing all three areas of work, cleaning, HVAC repair, and painting. The Skyward Construction did meet the subcontractor equity requirements for outreach and effort. The current...
 Current market is such that a lot of times subcontractors are just not ready to bid. I mean, they're busy. Everybody's busy in the marketplace. Skyward Construction is located in Ridgefield, Washington. They are not a State of Oregon certified disadvantaged minority women or emerging small business. They have a current City of Portland business tax registration. They're in full compliance with all of the city's contracting requirements. If the Council has any questions regarding the bidding process, I can answer those or
 Or we do have Randy Salik from Facilities and Erica Cheek from Skyward Construction in chambers if Council wishes to call them up for questions. Yes, I'd like to hear from Skyward Construction about their outreach efforts regarding the disadvantaged women and minority businesses. Yes, ma'am, Erica. There you go.
 Hello. Good morning. Can you tell us your name and just talk to me a little bit about how you try to get more? Erica Cheek with Skyward Construction. So usually what I do is I go through the, I think it's the COBID website. Do you have any idea what that's called? It's COBID. It's the state certification website. Thank you. Yes.
 And I look for the classifications that we need to reach out to. I create a spreadsheet and I email all the trades so they have all the documents, the specs, and the plans. And then usually within a week I follow up to make sure they're bidding. This time for this job, most of my calls went to voicemail.
 But I also leave a message to make sure they know that they can call me back. But we just didn't get a lot of participation for this. A lot of people usually tell me they're very busy. They don't have time to bid on this job. That's usually what I hear. And have you had better success in other projects? Not at this time of year, no. Everyone's very busy. Thank you. We are finding the same thing, that so many subcontractors are overworked.
 Well, they're getting lots of money, but they're very, very busy. And we are having all of our vendors, almost all of our vendors, are having serious issues with retaining, getting to certified subcontractors. Yeah, there's obviously some business opportunities for more firms to enter the market. But that takes a lot of capital and a lot of know-how and building those businesses. So thank you for your efforts and thank you for being here. I appreciate that.
 More questions? Any more questions? Okay. Accept the motion to accept the report. Second. Okay. Move to second it. Please call the roll. I'm sorry. Who moved the report? Dan moved it. I moved it. Thank you. Eudamie? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Okay. Thank you. Thank you all very much. And our next item is 945.
 authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide for payment for major retrofits for replacement of fuel facilities project. Great. I'll just introduce the OMF facilities construction project manager, Sharon Raynor.
 Hi, yes, as stated, Sharon Raymore with OMF Facilities. I'm the project manager that's overseeing the design and the construction of this project on behalf of City Fleet.
 And this project that's before you is to upgrade four of the existing city fuel stations, one at the Columbia Wastewater Treatment Plant, one at Interstate Water Bureau, and the other two are at Jefferson Garage and the Kelly Penumbra Building over in East Portland.
 is replacing out-of-date and well past their life cycle infrastructure components related to the fuel delivery. So we're replacing fuel tanks, pumps, pipes, and actually increasing capacity of fuel storage at these sites as well. So it's a long time coming, and I know that we're pleased to have it at this point where we're ready to bid. Thank you. Any questions?
 Okay, is there any testimony? No one signed up. Anybody wish to testify on this item? Okay, is this an emergency? Yes, it is. Okay, it's an emergency, so please call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Thank you for your welcome for coming to explain it. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Thank you. Aye. Okay, the item is adopted, and our last item is 946.
 Authorize $15 million of long-term bonds for local improvement and sidewalk repair projects and financing of system development charges plus additional amounts for issue costs.
 I'll turn this over to our debt manager, Eric Johanson. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. First of all, if I could take just a moment, I wanted to introduce Matt Gearock to you. Matt is the city's new debt manager. As you may know, I'm stepping down at the end of October. Matt is filling in and has been around for a month now, and we'll have a couple more months of shifting what I know into his brain.
 Matt comes to us from D.A. Davidson, an investment banking firm, very well versed in the bond world, and I think he's going to do a great job as the city's new debt manager. Welcome. Thank you.
 So the ordinance this morning is a non-emergency ordinance. It authorizes the issuance of up to $15 million in limited tax improvement bonds to finance assessment contracts for local improvement districts, sidewalk repairs, and system development charges. Under Oregon law, the city is authorized to construct publicly owned and operated local improvements that specially benefit properties to assess those properties for the cost of the local improvements and to issue limited tax bonds to finance the cost of the improvements. Thank you.
 The city is also authorized to offer financing to property owners and developers for sidewalk repairs and system development charges, and to issue bonds to finance those charges. The bonds that will be issued are expected to be repaid from these assessment contracts. Although the bonds are secured by the city's full faith in credit, the structure of the assessment program is such that we don't expect the general fund will be called upon to support the debt service on these bonds.
 We are asking for $15 million. It looks like the actual amount now will be closer to $11 million, so it will be a little smaller issue than we originally thought. We expect to sell these bonds in a competitive sale late in October and closing 1st of November. Happy to take any questions. Questions? Okay. Well, thank you very much. Welcome. Any testimony on this? No one signed up. Anybody wish to testify? Okay.
 Seeing none, this is a first reading, so it will move to a second reading next week. And with that, we are adjourned until 2 p.m. Everybody, this is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council on September 5, 2018. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Here. Here.
 Legal counsel, do you want to give us our intro statement, please? What's that? Okay, yes. Thank you. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during the City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Do you participate in council meetings? You may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to speak briefly about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you're a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you would like to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. All right. First up is Resolution 951.
 direct staff to enter into the city's commitments for the Lentz Stabilization and Job Creation Collaborative Oregon Solutions Declaration of Cooperation. Colleagues, this resolution is focused on the Johnson Creek floodplain in the Lentz and Powellhurst-Gilbert neighborhoods, an area that's facing interconnected challenges relating to flooding, environmental health, economic development, and housing.
 In 2016, the Lentz Collaborative was designated and tasked with exploring strategic and cost-effective ways to keep the flood-prone areas of the Lentz and Powellhurst-Gilbert neighborhoods affordable and diverse, support job growth and business investment, mitigate flooding, and restore natural floodplain functions along Johnson Creek.
 Over the last two years, the city team, comprised of staff from 10 different city bureaus and agencies, and Oregon Solutions have engaged multiple state and federal agencies, researchers from educational institutions, stakeholders from community organizations, and hundreds of business owners and residents in a process to identify solutions to advance the community's goals.
 The result of this process is a declaration of cooperation, outlining priorities for action and specific commitments of each of the project partners. Going forward, the City will continue to work closely together to develop timelines and milestones to ensure that we're delivering on these commitments.
 My office convened participating bureaus for an initial implementation meeting the week before last and will be holding another in the next couple of weeks. In addition to addressing issues related to flooding, the city's commitment in the declaration also include measures to help create jobs, preserve affordable housing options for residents, and enhance and improve community access to natural areas such as the Foster Floodplain and Beggar's Tick Marsh.
 This project successfully highlights how Portland can take a coordinated approach towards the creation of more resilient and thriving communities and exemplifies what we can accomplish when we work together as a community, as a city, and as a state. At this point, I'd like to pass this over to Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Fish.
 I'm a little surprised that you did that, Mayor, but thank you. I'm just going through my talking points, so welcome. Good morning, Nick. How are you today? May I say that the beard is really coming in very nicely. I disagree with some of your critics this morning, Mayor, but why don't I kick it back to you? Great. All right. So we have staff to come up and talk us through this.
 We're figuring it out. Greetings. Hello. Hello. I guess we're not as coordinated today as we should be. It's a short week. Afternoon session. We'll make it, though. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Representative, thanks for being here. Mayor Wheeler, members of Portland City Council, my name is Jeff Reardon, State Representative for District 48 and serving people in southeast Portland and Happy Valley. And I really appreciate your having us in today for this important meeting.
 I am here today as co-convener alongside with fellow convener Michelle Rudd to recognize the work of the Lentz Stabilization and Job Creation Collaborative and to thank the City for their continued commitment and investment in the Palo Verde, Gilbert and Lentz communities.
 I believe the first time that we testified was August of 2016. And our collaborative had just been declared an Oregon Solutions Project by Governor Kate Brown. And we were here asking you to put your faith in us and support us in our mission to keep the neighborhoods affordable and diverse, to support job growth and business investment, and to enhance the Johnson Creek floodplain and wetlands. I'm very proud to say that two years later, we are on track to reaching our goals and have accomplished much already. Thank you.
 A little over three years ago, when this project was in the beginning stage of development, I looked at the large list of collaborators and the interested parties and thought, how on earth is this going to stay on point with a group this large? We all know how challenging it is to work through a large bureaucracy. You do it every day.
 But from the beginning, I saw complete, dedicated commitment of everyone involved. I truly wish members of the public could experience what I did and see how dedicated and talented the people are that work on this project. And I think they're a reflection of folks that work for our cities and other agencies across this great state.
 With the leadership of the Oregon Solutions Project team, the steering committee, and the city leads, this collaborative has produced a clear vision for the future of these neighborhoods and has already begun to make substantive improvements. Not only do I consider the collaborative a success on reaching our goals, but it also demonstrated that government can work together, and I hope that each of you will build on the accomplishments of this collaborative as we tackle the critical work that is still to come in Lentz and Palahersk-Gilbert.
 The way that the collaborative has navigated within different cities and state agencies, different jurisdictions, and different opinions and ideas has been impressive. It can be done.
 I'd like to let the group share with you in detail our accomplishments and commitments. They are the backbone of this collaborative, and I would like to recognize all of their dedication and hundreds of hours to the ongoing process of helping the most vulnerable residents stay in their homes, maintain family wealth, minimize flood risk, and to prevent community instability that comes with economic displacement.
 Mayor Wheeler, members of the council, thank you again for your investment and support and believing in my community. Thank you. And it goes without saying, Representative, that you have been a primary mover of this entire process over a period of many years. And, in fact, I want to just point out it was you who personally brought this to my attention for the first time a long time ago. So I want to thank you for your diligent leadership.
 at the state level and more importantly from our perspective as city commissioners thank you for your attention to your constituents needs thank you thank you for your remarks it's a wonderful partnership thank you afternoon good afternoon i'm michelle rudd i am a member of your planning and sustainability commission i think that's how i came to be involved in this um i've
 initially volunteered to be part of it because I saw it as an opportunity to really put some meat behind what we said we were doing in the Portland plan in terms of wanting to support healthy connected communities, promote having a healthy economy, supporting our youth, and doing it through an equity lens. And it's lived up to all those expectations. It's been very encouraging to see the bureaus working together and people not being wet to certain outcomes. You know, being very data-driven and looking at
 What do we need to know to really best shepherd the city's resources, both in terms of talent and money, and then charting a course forward? So I'm hopeful that the city will maintain that type of investment and keep this moving forward. We often create plans, and there's always this worry that the plan will just sit on a shelf. And this is a case where...
 work has actually been done. We have plans for moving forward and we'll need the city support to keep going. To highlight some of the real results we've seen here, part of the concern here was that with FEMA trying to get to cost recovery with flood insurance, people have their flood insurance rates screaming out that
 significant rates. And so you have the Lentz neighborhood, which is the most diverse part of the city, I think, and also has a lot of naturally occurring affordable housing. And the city saw an opportunity and the collaborative saw an opportunity to help people before they are on the track toward homelessness, to keep people in their homes proactively. And working with the Housing Bureau, there was an ability to...
 some very targeted resources into that community and help people right-size their insurance premiums because they were actually paying more than they should
 I know with the Portland plan we also talked a lot about being more efficient with how we use our industrial land and getting greater density of employment on the lands. And I think we have a much better understanding of the industrial land resources in that area now and are going to be in a good position to leverage that when opportunities arrive. Also from the planning perspective, I know that we've viewed East Portland as park deficient,
 and to the extent we're able to continue to do these flood restoration projects, when they're not serving as storage for flood water, they also provide a green benefit to those communities. So when I'm not serving on the planning commission, I'm a land use lawyer, and so in that capacity I've sometimes had frustration with government where you feel like everybody's in a different silo, people aren't talking to each other, and that really hasn't been the experience here, and it's a
 Great model for how things should work going forward. The last thing I'll say is I was mentioning to Jeff before we came up that this was a situation where we knocked on the door and people said the government is here to help, and it actually was. There was really concrete benefit to people living within the floodplain, and I hope we'll continue to do that. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Nick Christensen. I'm a 10-year resident of the Lentz floodplain, and back of the napkin calculation, I've paid somewhere around $15,000 in those 10 years in flood insurance premiums. There's a lot of work that you've heard from already. You'll hear more from your staff, and there are reports on your desk. I don't want to talk too much about the successful short-term efforts that have been identified by the Oregon Solutions Project.
 I want to talk more about the future and the people who are living in the floodplain right now. It's very easy, first of all, to ask, why didn't you know this was going to happen? Why didn't you know you bought a house in the floodplain? There are a lot of folks in my neighborhood who bought their homes in a time when there was a mistake by FEMA, and that area was out of the floodplain.
 mistake was corrected and when people have gone to refinance or when their mortgage lenders have noticed, they're required to pick up flood insurance premiums that top $3,000 a year now. Those numbers are going up 18% a year because of decisions by the Tea Party Congress to match...
 FEMA flood insurance program to the actuarial rates. In my case, I found out the day before closing, surprise, your house is in a floodplain, and the cost was about $1,500 a year, and given that it was January 2009 and the world was collapsing and there was stability that was being dangled in front of me, that seemed like a cost that we could eat.
 And then it went up 18% a year after that. And I started talking with BES about how we could work as a community and as a city to address this situation. So we have a situation where the city encouraged development many, many decades ago, more than a century ago, in an area that was believed to be safe but turned out to have some risk. And the city and the county and Gresham and other places allowed development in other areas of Johnson Creek and the watershed, increasing runoff and flood risk. And here we are today.
 First off, I want to commend your staff on finding really innovative short-term solutions. They really drilled in and came up with creative, out-of-the-box ideas to cut the premium risk and to make homes more flood resilient. Given the uncertainties of climate change, however, it's essential that we not stop there. I want to, in particular, call out Jacob Sherman, Marie Walkowitz, Allison Wicks, and Andrea Mathiason for going above and beyond in their dedication and creative thinking on this project.
 Moving forward, through this process, we learned that the current flood map may not be accurate. And I'm one of those homeowners who may be paying premiums unnecessarily. Others may have increased risk, and they may not know it. So it's essential that we have accurate floodplain maps. And it's important the city work on resources to support those homeowners who may find themselves unexpectedly in the floodplain to help ease the burden of potential insurance requirements.
 This process has helped to illustrate how previous mitigation and restoration work on Johnson Creek have been effective at reducing risk. If you look at the East Lentz floodplain, it's been dramatic. If you've been out there during a flood event and you don't see Foster Road flooding, the work that BES did out there has really helped cut the 10-year flood risk. That doesn't solve our problem, but it does help make things better and less traumatic.
 This city has a long track record of successful mitigation and restoration projects. The city spent $16 million, for example, on Crystal Springs and Westmoreland, removing 33 acres from the floodplain in that area. That's the kind of commitment that I think we in East Portland would like to see.
 I would like to see the council talk about Beggar's Tick moving forward. It's an unfortunate name for a really important natural area. It's owned by Metro, which in full disclosure is my employer, although I am not representing them today. But its management is contracted to Portland Parks, and access is limited. Even though it's five blocks from my house, it's more than a mile walk to go enjoy that area.
 So it would be great to see Parks, BES, and Metro work with the community on a Baker's Tick master plan, looking at access, environmental quality, and public safety in the area. You can't talk about Baker's Tick without talking about what's around it. The junkyards to the south that flood, releasing auto chemicals into the creek. The industrial lots on the west side that are on cul-de-sacs. These are all important things that need to be a part of a future discussion.
 And finally, we need to know, we need to remember that climate change continues to cause dramatic weather events and build resiliency into whatever happens going forward. We can't have this discussion without talking about gentrification. One of the reasons this project was underway was because displacement was happening in our community. People were selling their homes because they couldn't afford the insurance premiums. Developers were scraping them and building $450,000 homes that were above the floodplain.
 We all know change is going to occur, whether we act or not. So it's best to manage that change in a way that's consistent with our values. I want to reiterate that it's important for the city council to lead on this. I don't think right now we can expect Lentz to come together as a community and try and find a solution. Right now, my neighbors can't agree on what color the sky is.
 And so, unfortunately, we really need some help from City Hall on organizational capacity to try and move bigger solutions forward because of the amount of distrust that's come up in the last few years, especially in the wake of some citywide crises. Despite that, Wentz is on the rise. You all know it. You've seen our town center with the new buildings, the new businesses, the affordable housing, and no copper penny.
 And with the exception of crime, Lentz is a better place to live than a decade ago. The city's commitment to the community is working. Your commitment to my community is working. And now it's time to focus on the next stage, improving the environment, ensuring obscurity and access to nature. So thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. Any questions for this group, folks? I just have a comment. Thank you all for your work on this, and it is a great project. And, Mr. Christensen, fun fact about Beggar's Tick, we have a contract with Metro for parks to manage it, but Metro doesn't give us any money to do so. So I think in addition to your comments about doing a master plan, which would be a good thing, there needs to be some agreement about helping pay for services for
 for all of the properties at Metro. So if you could – I know you're not at work right now, but just keep that in mind. Thank you. Well, if I could add to that, you know, Metro – well, you know this, Nick. I mean, you work at Metro. But for the benefit of the broader audience, Metro is thinking about another levy or bond effort in 2019 for natural areas. So that may be an issue that we can take up then. Okay.
 And I appreciate that, Nick, you took a moment to talk about Lent's on the rise, because while I was listening to the testimony of all three distinguished guests today, I was making a list of all the things that have changed in the last ten years in Lent, and it really is staggering.
 it's not just a more complete and healthy neighborhood. It's a destination for some of the great things in our community that are only going to get better. And that is a direct result of the kind of advocacy represented here and in the audience. So I congratulate you.
 Thank you. Great. We'll take public testimony. Carla, how many folks do we have signed up? I believe staff is going to present. Oh, they are. Okay. And I'm sorry. I obviously didn't get the current run of show. We're sort of flying by the seat of our pants. That works. We'll get through it. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. My name is Mike Jordan. I'm the director of the Bureau of Environmental Services. I'm pleased to represent...
 The city's involvement on the Lentz Collaborative. With me today is Shannon Callahan from the Portland Housing Bureau and Kira Strassman, the Director of Development and Investment from Prosper Portland. They'll have some comments after mine. My comments will be a little bit abbreviated. There was a PowerPoint, but we're having a bit of technical difficulty, so I just plan to wing it a bit if that's all right with you. It's working for me. It should work for you too. Great. Thank you.
 This project started before I was with the city and will go on a lot longer as you are beginning to hear. It has been a breakthrough project regarding our ability to collaborate both within the city, among bureaus, and interjurisdictionally with other levels of government and other local governments. So...
 some of the things that came out of this project as you've heard it is certainly at its core a project to deal with flooding and floodplain restoration however the approach by this collaborative has been a more holistic approach for the whole neighborhood we are looking at
 not only investments of capital to be able to mitigate for flooding, but programmatic investments to be able to work with homeowners to deal with what you heard is their major problem. Flooding, while annoying in this neighborhood, is not catastrophic. We found through our modeling that the heaviest floods would be no more than three feet and in most of the area only a few inches.
 And so flooding, while disturbing in the area, as Mr. Christensen noted, has gotten a lot better with some of our work. But what is really a challenge for many of the residents is the cost of flood insurance, this flood insurance program. And Shannon's going to talk a little bit about her program.
 And I also have your PowerPoint. You also have my PowerPoint. But I think I'm on a roll. And so if it's all right with you, Mr. Mayor, I think we'll just continue forward because I think we can abbreviate this a bit.
 Again, the really high points about this program, we are going to continue to make investments in flood mitigation in the area through BES's work in collaboration with parks and with Metro and with other bureaus. We will not make as many investments.
 large capital investments as we were planning on making because while they may mitigate some flooding in a minor way, they won't mitigate against very large flooding. And you heard Mr. Christensen also mention climate change. And we are in the process of trying to understand what the impacts of climate change will be over the long term in this area. And
 that will go a lot to the mapping of the floodplain as we move forward also. So that's where BES will be. We will continue to be committed to this area and make improvements. They also will not only be
 helpful to homeowners, but you'll also hear from Prosper that businesses will be benefited in this area. They are already significant employers of family wage jobs in the area, and our job, I think, is to help them mitigate against minor flooding, continue to do that, and perhaps help with some of the infrastructure investments that they'll need to grow their businesses in the future.
 With that, I think I will turn it over to Shannon and Kira to talk about their involvement. Thank you, Mike. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioner. Shannon Callahan from the Portland Housing Bureau. It was the Housing Bureau's privilege to actively participate in the Oregon Solutions Project. We were able to engage hundreds of community members, build effective partnerships, and ultimately reduce housing costs for low- and moderate-income households in the floodplain.
 During the early stages of our community outreach work, we heard specific concerns from the community regarding the rising costs of flood insurance. The Housing Bureau and Habit and Green Lens pioneered a flood insurance savings program to help stabilize owners, homeowners. The program offered free and low-cost elevation certificates, home assessments, and insurance counseling to help community members save money. The program was a success.
 It provided more than 30% of the active flood insurance policyholders in the floodplain assistance and saved low- and moderate-income homeowners an average of $650 a year on their flood insurance program.
 In our work on the project, we also learned a lot about the lack of knowledge and information that insurance agents had about flood insurance and the intricacies of the National Flood Insurance Program. Working with Representative Reardon, we were able to advocate for new state rules to balance.
 to better protect flood insurance policyholders, resulting in Oregon becoming just the fifth state in the nation to require continuing education regarding flood insurance for insurance providers. I'd really like to thank the entire collaborative team that we were able to partner with, the co-sponsors, and acknowledge the hard work and dedication of the Housing Bureau's project lead, Mr. Jacob Sherman. So thank you very much.
 Good afternoon. I'm Kira Straussman with Prosper Portland. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners, for inviting us here to present. I want to thank our Bureau partners and Oregon Solutions. We at Prosper are dedicated to continue to work collaboratively to see Lentz continue to thrive.
 Both the Prosper Portland Strategic Plan and the Lentz Five-Year Action Plan are clear about our commitment to support existing businesses and middle-wage job growth in the Lentz industrial area. The East Foster industrial area is home to nearly 100 businesses, close to 12,000 workers, with an annual payroll of $45 million a year.
 The mix of construction and manufacturing businesses includes auto-oriented firms, food manufacturing, and distribution. Our studies as part of this project concluded that industrial and employment lands have low vacancy rates and are well utilized with middle-wage jobs for East Portland. Those are jobs that pay $42,000 a year or more, but require less than a bachelor's degree to attain.
 Middle-wage job growth is especially important in low-income neighborhoods, for communities of color, for East Portland. Prosper Portland will continue to support property owners and businesses in this area so they can invest in their properties and grow. Continue to provide good-paying jobs for the community and when they can build, build in a way that doesn't impact the floodplain or the Johnson Creek.
 Prosper Portland supports the work of our bureau partners and will continue to work collaboratively as the Declaration of Cooperation moves forward. I want to thank my colleague, Allison Wicks, who did the bulk of the work on this project for us at Prosper, and the Lentz community members who helped us to understand the challenges of working and living in the floodplain. Mr. Mayor, if I may close.
 All of the content work that the bureaus have been involved in, that other public partners have been involved in, and that other nonprofits have been involved in, in this collaborative, the substantive work is all important, and much of it will go on. I think the most important thing about this is that we've proved to ourselves and to each other that we can work together over a long period of time and persist in a neighborhood that has some challenges.
 And our commitment, I think, as bureaus going forward is to continue that collaboration, continue to persist in engaging with the community on solutions that can work.
 I think that's the biggest learning in this for us, and it's inspiring. And I want to thank Marie Wachowicz and Lisa Huntington for their work. I'm a latecomer to this process, and they've done Yeoman's work over a number of years.
 And this doesn't happen without great leadership and someone who will persist and keep us at the table and keep us working. So I really want to thank Representative Reardon and Michelle Redd for their leadership throughout this process. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Thank you.
 How many folks do we have signed up, Carla? We have four people. Very good. The first three, please come on up, are Noel Natusil, Daniel Newberry, and Carolee Harrison. Name for the record, please. We do not need your address unless you want to give it to us. Let us know if you're a lobbyist. And other than that, the mics move around in about six to eight inches is about right. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council, thank you for the opportunity to testify. My name is Noelle Winnettisle, and I am the Stanley H. Cohn Professor of Economics at Reed College. I have also participated on the Lentz Collaborative Project Team. For the past 20 years, my research has estimated the effect of environmental amenities and land use practices on the sale price of properties in the Portland area.
 My current research explores the effect of the FEMA 100-year floodplain on property sale prices in the Johnson Creek watershed. I estimate that from 1988 to 2014, properties in the 100-year floodplain sold, on average, for 21.5% less than those outside the floodplain. What caused this discount? My findings point to the cost of flood insurance. Thank you.
 This highlights the importance of reducing flood insurance rates, which the Mayor and City Council have supported by funding the Flood Insurance Savings Program. This program decreased the average cost of flood insurance for participants by $650, which translates into a net present value of savings for property owners of almost $13,000 over the life of a 30-year mortgage.
 As stated by one program participant, quote, the flood insurance savings program has enabled me to keep my house, unquote. This innovative program has received national attention because it enacts a key principle to reform flood insurance using a property-specific risk-based assessment to determine a property's flood insurance rate.
 Publicity about this program attracted the attention of the two leading flood insurance economists in the United States at Wharton's Risk and Decision Center at the University of Pennsylvania. A research team comprised of myself, two researchers from Wharton, and Jacob Sherman at the Portland Housing Bureau have developed a survey that will investigate flood literacy, perceptions of flood risk, and willingness to pay for flood insurance in the Lentz and Powellhurst-Gilbert neighborhoods.
 The survey is ongoing, but preliminary results show that a majority of homeowners in the 100-year floodplain learned about their property's flood risks and insurance costs at closing or after moving into their new home. Transparency in real estate transactions is essential. I urge the Council to consider mechanisms that will allow buyers and sellers to have full and complete information much earlier in the process.
 I commend the agency staff I've worked with as part of the Lentz team for their outstanding work and leadership. Their evidence-based approach to developing public policy is the approach we need to ensure that public funds are being used in a way that has the maximum possible benefit. Thank you. Thank you, Professor. Can I ask you a question, Professor? We so rarely have someone who's a representative of the dismal science of economics. Oh, thank you. So I want to take full advantage of it. We heard from someone previously today,
 that transparency would be wonderful, but we still have some questions about mapping integrity, who's in and who's out. Right. So how do we resolve those questions?
 There was some very good work done by Gary Wolf as part of this process, and that was presented to members of the Lentz Collaborative Project Team that showed, using the most advanced hydrological models, what the 100-year inundation levels would be. And having the
 Much greater transparency a lot of our survey respondents talked about getting access to information about the flood plain through Portland maps comm which is was great through FEMA Through outreach from the city, but having that information Are you in a floodplain? Yes, or no, but even more continuous information because it's not this You know you've step afoot outside of the hundred-year floodplain and all of a sudden the risk goes to zero. It's
 It's a continuous measure of flood risk. Yeah, you know, not long ago this council mandated that you get an energy score on your house, and that, as you might imagine, faced some resistance in the industry, but is now the law of the city. And it seems to me that when you look at the Declaration of Cooperation and you can sort of project forward as the things we can tangibly do where the city can add value, we can put this issue in our legislative agenda. Right.
 to make sure that there is pressure in Washington to have reasonable and fair insurance. The idea that those rates are galloping at 18 percent annual increases is not sustainable for any family, so that's a problem.
 We certainly have within our authority to deal with these transparency issues and making sure there's full disclosure. But one of the things that I will be interested in, because I now have both BES and PARCS, and we're looking at some partnerships between the two bureaus. And from what I've learned about this cluster of issues, I think there's a couple of candidates here where we can bring PARCS and BES to the table collaboratively.
 is how we get the mapping right, because it shouldn't depend on whether on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, you get a different read at closing. We should be able to have some real clarity about whether you're in or you're out and what's the consequence of that. And then who bears the risk and the liability if it's wrong. So thank you for being here. Thank you. I also had a follow-up question. Thank you for your testimony. You mentioned that there is a disclosure problem.
 people mentioned that they're hearing they're in a floodplain either at the closing or perhaps even worse after the closing. Are there any prohibitions at the state level that would preclude us from taking a look at that at the local level that you're aware of? I don't know the answer to that. Okay, thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Daniel Newberry. I am the Executive Director of the Johnson Creek Watershed Council and
 and have been a stakeholder in the Oregon Solutions Project for the past two years. So thank you, Mayor Wheeler and city council members, for this opportunity to voice my support for the Lentz Collaborative. Environmental justice is a concern of the Johnson Creek Watershed Council, and it's a term I think that's been given a lot of lip service in the past couple of years. But I think this project is a really good example of how you can really take the principles of environmental justice and put them into action.
 We've heard from several speakers so far about the benefits to low-income housing owners of the flood insurance work that's been done through this project. You've heard that for many Lentz residents, that has been going up 15% to 20% a year, in some cases in excess of $2,000. So I think this program may actually be helping some Portlanders staying in their homes, which I think is very, very positive.
 Another important piece of work that the Lentz Collaborative has been working on is floodplain restoration to reduce flooding for homeowners and businesses. This work really goes back 20 years for the City of Portland to the Willing Sellers Program and subsequent creation of Foster Floodplain. I think it's interesting to point out that in December 2015, when we had the last big flood,
 that the peak flow in Johnson Creek was actually higher then than it was in the big 1996 flood. And I think that's really important to point out because I think a lot of it is really a result of the floodplain restoration work, both Foster Floodplain and some other places upstream.
 that's actually worked to reduce flooding for a lot of residents. And it's, I think, worthwhile work that the City's Bureau of Environmental Services has been doing. And it's science-based work.
 It's continued through the Lentz Collaborative here, and I just want to thank all of you for making available the staff time for the three bureaus that have been involved here, the Housing Bureau, Bureau of Environmental Services, Prosper Portland. And I'm hoping this work can continue, especially with support and blessing, including financial support from the City Council, so I wanted to say thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. My name is Carolee Harrison, and I've lived in Lentz for 10 years. I'm on the classified staff at Portland State University, and I'm also a graduate student in urban history there. And my master's thesis research has to do with floods, flood control, and suburban development in the neighborhood. I'm here to tell you about my experience with the Flood Insurance Savings Program as a resident. And I don't believe it's an exaggeration to say that my participation in this program has enabled me to keep my home safe.
 I recently heard a realtor refer to Lent as Portland's last affordable neighborhood, and I believe that that was true for me when I bought my house on my own in 2008. But I quickly discovered that my situation there was potentially unaffordable. I didn't know until closing my loan that flood insurance was mandatory for my location or that the cost of insurance that I was required to buy would rise at a rate that would outpace my income and my ability to save money.
 In 2008, my annual premium for flood insurance was just over $900 a year. But by 2014, it had risen to $1,400, and it was projected to rise at a steeper rate in the future. So as my payments climbed, I lost the ability to save towards maintenance of my home, and my daily budget, my everyday budget, was significantly tightened. This insurance, by the way, is against a flood that has only a 1% chance of occurring in any year.
 So the danger of losing my home because I could not afford to insure it was much more real to me than the risk of losing it to a 100-year flood. The elevation survey that the flood insurance savings program provided to me, which is a cost I couldn't have absorbed, showed that my house or the insurable part of my property was on higher ground than the 100-year flood plain. So representatives from Inhabit quickly communicated with FEMA about that information on my behalf
 and with the help of an insurance agent who specialized in flood policy, I'm now released from the obligation of paying flood insurance. Without this support, I and many of my neighbors would still be paying an arbitrary and expensive policy, which is based on an outdated federal map, rather than having our insurance needs determined by the actual lay of the land. My research as a student has revealed many ways in which the federal and local governments have worked with property owners on the problem of Johnson Creek's flooding for the last 100 years.
 Floodings never stood alone as an issue on the Lentz flood plain. But going household by household is only part of the solution. But if I'm an example, this individualized program has changed my fortune as a homeowner and as an actor in the neighborhood's economy and its environment. I'm very grateful for the support I've received, and I hope that the city and the state government will continue to invest in programs like this that help all residents and businesses in Lentz thrive with Johnson Creek as our neighborhood grows.
 Thanks for hearing my testimony today. Thank you. Great testimony, all three of you. We appreciate it. And there is one more person. Is that right, Caroline? Very good. Judy Lowe. Call me Lonesome Lowe. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and city council members. Thank you for having me here today. Today, I think, is a celebration about the Lentz Stabilization and Job Creation Collaborative. But I do want to mention that in 1996 I was here, I think you were also, when we were talking about the Lentz Urban Renewal as a potential project.
 as a potential, and now it has come to be. And now Lentz is, I think it's on the move. However, and the Lentz neighborhood is comprised of non-white and American citizen applicants primarily. But today it's a celebration, and I want to focus on the festivities and confine my remarks to that topic. So I'm going to read this to you. It should take less than a minute, and I hope you find it somewhat amusing. Thank you.
 Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me. I lift my lamp beside the golden door. I share initials with the author of that quote, which happens to be on the Statue of Liberty. Thank you.
 That could describe Lent, except we don't see ourselves as being the wretched refuse of a teeming shore. We're proud of our floodplain and of our neighborhood. I've had the privilege of being a volunteer member of the Lent Stabilization and Job Creation Collaborative. And I'd like to stretch that out a little bit. It's the Lent Stabilization and Job Creation Collaborative. Those words are significant when strung together because together it represents what I'm here for.
 asking you to help me celebrate. I admire and respect the expertise around the table and the dedication demonstrated by Michael Mills and Deb Myhoff and their team for doing the heavy lifting. I'd like to express gratitude to Governor Kate Brown for establishing our floodplain as an Oregon solutions project, which I believe she signed it on July 16th. So we're very, very close to that anniversary.
 To co-conveners Jeff Reardon and Michelle Rudd for devoting their time and energy to keeping us on track, and to the city bureaus that have earned their pay at the drawing board, seeking solutions, restoring the floodplain's natural habitat, and their persistent efforts to assist lenticels with budget-breaking flood insurance costs.
 The Lentz Stabilization and Job Creation Collaborative is an example of what can be accomplished when focused effort is devoted to an issue. I'm looking forward to focusing on the job creation segment of this project. Disaster preparedness for something that's difficult to imagine is not a priority. Preparing for the yearly rise in Johnson Creek and the resulting tangible ramifications is something Lentz is concerned with every rainy day.
 It's no easy task to protect us from ourselves in anticipation of a natural disaster. Mother Nature wasn't at the table, so we don't know when she'll deliver the 100-year flood. A Cascadia subduction event could wipe out these efforts. At least now, some of our lenticen's homes are stabilized in the floodplain, so we've done the best we can with what we've had to work with.
 It's not over yet. There's still the job creation portion of this project to tackle. I'm looking forward to working with the Lentz Stabilization and Job Creation Collaborative as much as possible. I'm just one Lentz resident doing my part, and I thank you for doing yours. Thank you. All right, with that, colleagues, if you don't have any further questions, we'll call the roll. Saltzman? Well, this is a very exciting Oregon Solutions project, and it sounds like it's really producing results.
 good tangible results in the terms of removing people from the floodplain who didn't belong there in the first place or reducing flood insurance premiums as well as community building. So a lot to like about this. Hi. Eudaly. Well, thanks for the presentation and everyone who came to testify today. This is a great program. I'm happy to vote aye. Thank you.
 Fritz. Thank you in particular for the citizens of Lentz, and by that I mean everybody who lives in the former city of Lentz and who now is proud to be there. This has been a long time, as it was mentioned, 100 years or more. My involvement was started about 20 years ago with Ivy Francis of the Bureau of Environmental Services developing the Brookside Project, which was, I think, one of the first projects
 combination, let's make a park at the same time as we're making a flood storage facility, and it has really blazed the way. And when I first moved to Portland 32 years ago, flooding in Lentz was several times a winter. It seemed like, never mind just once a winter. Now it hits the headlines again, and that's a good thing, that if it floods in Lentz, it's unusual.
 And so really remarkable changes over the course of time. I think Commissioner Sam Adams and then Mayor Sam Adams put in a tremendous amount of effort into buying homes in the floodplain and also doing these flood storage projects. So they have created good jobs over the years, which has been another thing. But this is really an example of people say that city government can't have the bureaus work together.
 Well, yeah, we can. Actually, we could do quite a lot, if the truth be known, and not only have the bureaus work together well, but other jurisdictions and the community has as well. So thank you for celebrating with us. Thank you to my colleagues who've been leading this project over the past several years. Fish? Well, I've had the – in my 10 years on this council, I've been involved in a number of these Oregon Solutions projects myself,
 Two that come to mind are the Thousand Gardens and Gateway Green. And what was a little different about the declarations of cooperation that came out of those processes is they were a little more prescriptive. And I would say that this document is more aspirational. And so what I want to encourage the leadership, and I want to thank Jeff Reardon and Michelle Rudd and everybody who put so much time into this,
 is to think in terms of the next steps and what are the concrete things. I don't have to say this to Jeff because he's not shy about coming forward to counsel, but, you know, we have areas of influence, and it may be as you come back and do the 6th and 12-month checkup, which is required under the terms of the Declaration,
 It may be that you have on your wish list our legislative agenda, perhaps some research into how far we can push the limits of disclosure in real estate transactions. There may be some other things around mapping and making sure that people have some confidence about, you know,
 where they are or are not when they purchase property. But I would encourage you to go from the more general case that this is framed in terms of to the specific initiatives that you want. And in that regard, Commissioner Saltzman reminded me a few minutes ago that the last time that we had both parks and BES together was when Dan had both.
 And just like the last time we had the utilities under a single commissioner that was under Dan Salzman, I seem to trail him in terms of these leadership opportunities. It's not lost on me as I listen to the testimony and review the documents that BES and parks are going to be, along with the Housing Bureau and Metro and others, really critical drivers of the next chapter of the success of Lentz.
 And so what I would encourage my friends that are here today to do is start thinking about what are some partnerships between parks and BES that can drive some of the things that you want to see as the next chapter.
 I mean, the obvious one is what Commissioner Fritz alluded to a few minutes ago, which is the beggar's tick master plan. You know, you've got now two of the three key partners now unified. Metro needs to be brought to the table. But, you know, where does that rank in terms of a priority? Yeah.
 how we deploy parks rangers in terms of managing our natural areas and our parks in that area is an important question and one that impacts both assets of DES and assets of parks.
 It could go on and on and on. Under Commissioner Fritz's leadership, big investments have been made at Leach Botanical Garden. Zanger Farm has some aspirations about expanding its footprint. There's a lot of cool stuff going on in that greater area. The one thing I'm not sure about is whether it's the most diverse community in our city. And I think I'd have to take a look at the most recent data on both the New Columbia and on Cully. But it's got to be top five.
 And there's been so many changes in the neighborhood, but it is an important place. So my commitment as the freshly minted commissioner in charge of both parks and BES is to work with you to identify some priorities. And I think we do our best work when we move from the aspirational to the concrete. We pick a couple of projects to work with, and we say let's spend the next couple years getting it right. So I look forward to doing that. And then finally, I'll just say that...
 A number of people said that Lentz is on the rise. I felt that uniquely when I joined with the mayor and many of you at the dedication of the House of Love and Kindness. And I wish that we could cut the ribbon on a House of Love and Kindness in every neighborhood in the city. And this, of course, was the Asian Health and Family Center, Dr. Zito's longtime dream. A beautiful building, but I love the name.
 If we ever in our history needed more houses of love and kindness, it is today. So thanks to everyone who brought this to this stage. I'm a big fan of Oregon Solutions and the work they do, and thanks to the governor for prioritizing this and putting the A-team on it. And let's get to work. Hi. Wheeler. So I am very pleased to be perhaps the Johnny come lately to this process. And, again, I want to thank Michelle and I want to thank
 Representative Riordan, I want to thank all of you who participated in the tour when I had a chance to come out and take a look at the neighborhood, look at some of the assets, evaluate the floodplain. And I have to say, I left feeling highly energized.
 about not only where the community is today, but where it is headed. And let's not forget the opportunities around job growth and job creation in Lentz. I think there are many, many tremendous opportunities there as well. First of all, thank you.
 I want to just react to some of the things we heard today, because I think they're very important. Number one, it is very clear that the folks that we represent are not getting full information when they are purchasing real estate in Lentz. And I don't want to dissuade.
 anybody from living in Lentz because I think it's a terrific family neighborhood. But there should be full disclosure because there are consequences, real financial consequences to living in a floodplain. And given the amount of time that this council spends talking about keeping people in their houses, this is not an inconsequential cost, as we heard from one of the folks who is testifying today.
 Number two, we heard that there are people who are actually paying for flood insurance who should not be.
 And as Commissioner Fish rightly points out, that is in part due to the fact that the data is not quality data. And while we could all quibble about what are the core responsibilities, what are the core obligations of government, I hope we could all agree that at a minimum we should be providing accurate information. And I'm pleased that the city has taken a leadership role in trying to provide that accurate information.
 I obviously want to thank not only Jeff and Michelle. I want to thank everybody who was on the collaborative. I want to thank our city staff at Prosper Portland, the Planning and Sustainability Bureau, the Housing Bureau, and the Bureau of Environmental Services. I want to second what everybody said. When I got here, I was told, oh, the city of Portland, it's siloed. Nobody talks to anybody, and nobody's accountable for anything.
 There are probably areas of policy where we could do better. In fact, I will say factually, there are areas of policy where we could do better. But this is an area where the collaboration has been strong. The leadership of the bureaus is aligned and shares the passion of the community members who brought this forward.
 I want to thank the Oregon Solutions staff, and I want to thank the governor for recognizing this as an important project in our community. And I want to thank the staff at the regional solutions and the state and federal agencies, both that provided technical assistance along the way. And most importantly, I just want to thank the hundreds of community members who are engaged and involved in this process, not only those on the collaborative, but those who provided support.
 There are insights that helped inform this process along the way and has been said many times, so I'll just underscore it one more time. This is our entry card to begin the process, to begin the real work of
 of providing those solutions, those tangible solutions. And the presence of State Representative Reardon as leader of this project here in this council chamber, I hope demonstrates a commitment at both the local and the state level to work together with our regional partners, with community organizations to continue to push this work forward.
 and I look forward to seeing what we can do in the next 10 years. I think it's going to be fantastic. I appreciate your all being here. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you, everybody. Should we take a two-minute break just to clear the room? Two-minute break. We're in recess for two minutes. All right. We are back in session, everyone. Thank you. Can you please read item number 952?
 Yes. Approve changes to plan for Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing and Establish Committee. Commissioner Fish, just kidding. Colleagues, we're here today not only to approve changes to the PSAP plan, but also to formally establish the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing by resolution.
 In the coming week, I'll make my final selection for the members of the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing, also known as the PCCEP, sometimes PSEP. I have to say, I'm energized by the future of PSEP. This has been a long road. Some would probably argue, not inaccurately, maybe a little bit too long.
 But the work has culminated in these amendments, and the thoughtfulness and creativity in the work of the PSAP facilitators reassure me that this was the level of community engagement initially contemplated by the settlement agreement.
 I want to take a moment to single out and thank the Albina Ministerial Alliance for Police Reform and Justice, otherwise known as AMAC. They've been a necessarily critical voice in the development of this committee, and they've worked with my office and the PSAP facilitators to arrive at a place of understanding and collaboration. Their role in the settlement agreement is an important one, and it should not be understated.
 We need the AMAC's voice in this process, and I'm appreciative of the time they've spent considering the PSAP plan and offering their input. I'm confident that every single applicant I interviewed has the experience and the perspective to take on this challenging and meaningful work. The changes to the PSAP plan we're talking about today are largely based on the recommendations of our excellent facilitators.
 I see Brandon Lee here from the Training for Transformation. Thank you for being here, Brandon, and for all your hard work on this. I'd also like to acknowledge Hun Teng of Training for Transformation and Brad Taylor of the Brad Taylor Group, who unfortunately could not be here today. Together, they are the three PSAP facilitators. Our facilitators propose changes based on best practices and their experience in doing this kind of work.
 The proposed changes give us a chance to maximize community engagement, as well as to make changes that will make it easier for PSAP members to fully participate in the process. This is not business as usual. We have a chance to make a truly effective and transformational committee. In order for this to happen, I want to make sure that we're creating a smart framework for this committee based on the recommendation of experts.
 The PSAP facilitators began this work in May. They took a trauma-informed approach to outreach and prioritized outreach to people with mental health conditions, people with a disability, youth, the houseless community, the LGBTQ community, immigrants and refugees, and the black, native, and Latinx communities. We received over 100 applications for the PSAP board. Thank you.
 I completed the interviews last week with 17 adults and six high school-aged youth, and I'm happy to share that I have a very difficult decision to make. All of them, all of them were exceptional candidates. I'll be announcing my appointees and alternates within the next two weeks. Until then, I'm thrilled to move the work of the PSAP forward by supporting these amendments.
 Nicole Grant, who is my senior advisor, is here with the PSAP program manager to explain what these amendments will accomplish and to answer any questions my colleagues may have about these amendments and the committee's work or the facilitators or the work itself. So with that, I'll turn it over to Nicole. Thanks for being here.
 Mayor, Commissioners, good afternoon. I'll introduce myself for the record. My name is Nicole Grant, Senior Policy Advisor for Mayor Wheeler. I'm here today with Mandy Hood, Project Manager for the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing, affectionately known as the PSAP. As the Mayor said, this has been a long road. In August 2017, Council approved amendments to the settlement agreement, notably the framework for the newly conceived PSAP.
 In April of this year, the city presented those amendments to Judge Simon at a status conference and fairness hearing. With the exception of the PSAP plan, all amendments received approval from Judge Simon. The PSAP plan was conditionally approved by Judge Simon pending an uptake to be given next month.
 We're here today to offer changes to the PSAP plan at the recommendation of our outstanding PSAP facilitators, Training for Transformation and the Brad Taylor Group, and to establish the PSAP formally for the Portland community. I'm also happy to report that the DOJ has formally approved the changes to the PSAP plan. Before delving into those changes before you today, I've asked Mandy Hood to set the stage for those changes and the resolution that you are approving.
 Mandy has been instrumental in her work as the PSET project manager. She brings with her institutional knowledge from her work with the Community Oversight and Advisory Board, the COAB, and a keen understanding of issues affecting those with mental health conditions. In this work, she has been a partner, a critical voice, and an advocate. She has shepherded this process from the selection of the facilitators by the Facilitator Evaluation Committee to where we are today. Thank you.
 Before passing the microphone on to her, I'd like to formally thank her in this setting and on the record for the commitment and sheer heart she's brought to this process. Thank you. You didn't know I was going to say all of that. I didn't. Thank you so much, Nicole. That means a lot to me. Good afternoon, Commissioners. My name is Mandy Hood. I'm the project manager for the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing.
 In April of this year, an evaluation committee selected Training for Transformation and the Brad Taylor Group to serve as the PSAP facilitators.
 That evaluation committee was comprised of Frida Caesar, Director of Equity and Inclusion at Central City Concern, Dana Coffey, Portland Commission on Disability, Jan Friedman, Attorney for Disability Rights, Oregon, Janie Gullickson, Executive Director of the Mental Health Association of Oregon, Kalei Lubin, who is in the audience today and is a member of the AMAC, Daniel Curtis-Cathers, a member of the NAACP, and myself. Thank you.
 Though the city initially sought one facilitator, the evaluation committee felt strongly that the top two candidates working together would best serve the PSAP in the communities of Portland. Training for Transformation, led by Hun Tang and Brandon Lee, is an Oregon State-certified minority business enterprise that specializes in equity-focused community building between law enforcement and the diverse residents they serve.
 Hoon is a peace builder whose background includes art, reconciliation, public involvement, and conflict transformation. Brandon brings lived experience as a survivor of numerous racial profiling cases, served as Legal Redress Committee Chairman for the NAACP, and worked to fund the Community Police Review Board in Oakland, California. The Brad Taylor Group is an Oregon State-certified emerging small business specializing in developing communication strategies through training seminars, conflict resolution, and facilitation services.
 Brad Taylor has worked as a direct line social worker, empowering residents living in supportive housing, as a homeless outreach worker advocating for some of Portland's most vulnerable residents, and as a mobile mental health crisis response worker for Multnomah County.
 The PSAP facilitators began work on May 10. With a limited amount of time, they hit the ground running. Their outreach strategy focused on removing barriers to participation for historically marginalized communities and empowering Portlanders with lived experience to take lead in city processes. An emphasis was placed on obtaining quality applications instead of simply amassing a large number of applicants.
 Per the PSAP plan, a selection advisory committee comprised of representatives from each council office was selected to develop the written application and selection criteria for the PSAP. The selection advisory committee members are Dr. Cynthia Fowler, psychiatrist and chair of the health committee for the NAACP, appointed by Commissioner Saltzman. Julie Ramos, mental health advocate and recent vice chair of the citizen review committee, appointed by Commissioner Fritz.
 Museo Lull, Chairman of the Somali American Council of Oregon, appointed by Commissioner Udailey. Bobbin Singh, Executive Director of the Oregon Justice Resource Center, appointed by Commissioner Fish. And Daryl Walker, Psychologist and Executive Director of Cascadia Behavioral Health, appointed by Mayor Wheeler.
 In addition to the facilitators' outreach efforts, the Selection Advisory Committee, Council staff, and I all engaged in a broad outreach strategy to reach as many Portlanders as possible. This included presenting at community meetings, hosting informational sessions, and having targeted and informal conversations within our networks. Because of this effort, as Mayor Wheeler said, we received over 100 applications from the Portland community to serve on the PSAP.
 Outside of the development of the written application, neither the Mayor's office nor Council offices were involved in any part of the Selection Advisory Committee's selection process. Discussion around who to interview and final recommendations to the Mayor were the sole responsibility of the Selection Advisory Committee. The process was intentionally structured this way in order to ensure the fairness and preserve the integrity of the process.
 When reviewing written applications and interviewing candidates, the selection advisory committee focused on the following areas when assessing applicants. Lived experience as a member of a marginalized community, lived experience with mental or physical health issues, interpersonal skills, experience working within or advocating for marginalized communities, and experience utilizing social services and engaging in government processes. Thank you.
 The Selection Advisory Committee provided its recommendations to the mayor, listing the candidates they believe should be on the PSAP along with alternates. The mayor's office consulted with the commissioner offices before the mayoral interviews and will be meeting with the Selection Advisory Committee and council offices this week to discuss the candidates. In addition to the mayor, of course, each mayoral interview was attended by Nicole Grant, Jared Hager from the U.S. Attorney's Office, a PSAP facilitator, and a member of the Selection Advisory Committee.
 The PSAP facilitators and I are currently working to confirm retreat and training plans for the PSAP. The retreat will provide PSAP members with the time and space to get to know one another, begin to coalesce as a group, and gain clarity on their work and mission, as well as develop an organizational structure for the PSAP. Training will continue beyond the retreat process. The facilitators and I will be connecting soon with community members and stakeholder groups to discuss and receive feedback about training ideas and resources.
 In addition to the training topics outlined in the PSAP plan, topics will include training on institutional racism, understanding mental health from the perspective of those with lived experience, and lessons learned from the CoAB process. Given the importance of the work of this community and the need to thoughtfully build relationships with community members, the PSAP will spend October and part of November continuing their training and engaging the community with the expectation of holding their first community meeting in November.
 The Mayor's office has agreed to continue holding monthly forums on public safety until the PSAP has its first meeting in order to keep the community engagement and conversation continuing.
 Thank you, Mandy. So in the interest of time, I'd like to walk you all through the major changes being requested today. These changes have been reviewed by the AMAC and Portland Police Association, and we have incorporated their feedback. Our facilitators also met with the AMAC on two different occasions to discuss their plans for the P-STEP as well. Last August, at
 City Council, excuse me, made a commitment to the AMAC to establish an 11-member committee. So if you recall, the PSAP plan calls for 9 to 11, so we made a formal commitment for an 11-member committee. The eligibility criteria for the PSAP permits Portlanders who are 16 years and older to serve on this board.
 Knowing that there was a possibility that high school-aged youth would apply to this board, it was important to place intention behind the call to action that we extended to that generation. We needed to meaningfully facilitate youth participation. With these amendments, the committee will be expanded from 11 to 13. The additional two seats are reserved for youth who will serve together during the school year.
 A separate process for youth has also been carved out in order to adhere to best practices for youth-adult partnerships. So rather than one-on-one interviews, interviews will be conducted and have been conducted in a group setting. Like the adults, youth members will be voting members. Though this is not spelled out in the plan itself, our facilitators will work to ensure that youth voices are honored and respected, and adult mentors will be identified for each youth member.
 Prior to the first meeting, this is another change, members are expected to attend PPB's Community Academy and participate in a ride-along. That said, these changes contemplate the provision of reasonable accommodations for each. Though the PSET plan sets forth options in this regard, the City recognizes that reasonable accommodations must be established through direct engagement with the affected person.
 These changes in the PSET plan provide a floor for those accommodations, rather than setting parameters around what they may be. Additionally, meetings will now be held on a monthly basis instead of twice monthly out of concern for the time commitment that we have been asking of PSET members. And they will generally be open to the public with an opportunity for public comment before the conclusion of deliberations and voting.
 PSF facilitators will ensure that no votes are taken without the public having the opportunity to be present. Wrong page. PSF will also now be able to form subcommittees that meet at other times during the month. Subcommittee meetings must be open to the public and allow the public an opportunity to provide input.
 And I'll use that as a moment or a point to say, opportunity to say, that the PSET plan really is a floor for this work rather than setting kind of finite parameters around kind of the work of committee members.
 So to that end, rather than requiring the format of town halls and round tables, the facilitators are looking to break the mold of community engagement around policing. Their focus will be on gathering input from Portlanders in culturally responsive ways. So with that said, I would like to invite Brandon Lee of Training for Transformation to introduce himself, his work, and the facilitators' plans for community engagement. I have one question before we move on. Sure, Commissioner Fitts.
 So I understand you mentioned there would be training materials and a retreat to –
 set clear expectations of all members of PSAP. Given the work we've done in creating reforms of our system of boards and commissions, can I assume that this is being coordinated with Judy Prosper? Correct. So that we're doing all the hard work at the front end of making sure we understand what's the status of people who serve on this body, what body rules apply, and that people understand what they can and can't do with e-mails and other kinds of things? Yes, absolutely. Thank you.
 Brandon. Hello. First, I want to acknowledge the mayor and all of the commissioners. Thank you for your time. All right. So I'll begin with, is there a particular question, or do you want to begin with the introduction? Mr. Lee, can you just identify yourself for the record? Thank you so much. Thank you, sir. So my name is Brandon Lee. For the record, I am co-founder and president of Training for Transformation, LLC. So we began this work. Our brand is referred to as community conscious policing. And one of the...
 jobs that I've taken on is I began as someone who suffered from racial profiling and when I was at Oregon State University as a faculty member this is a few years ago there were not only in the media a lot of conflict between police and community but even on our campus there were hate crimes occurring and there just wasn't support for the students that I worked with.
 It was through that process that I reached out to our local law enforcement agency, and through our engagement at that time, I was with NAACP. Working together, we came up with this, what we refer to now as community conscious policing, where we offered training opportunities where we brought law enforcement and community into the same room.
 So we hope to bring the skills that we have gleaned through those processes to the PSIP. And you've heard some of the recommendations that we've made in terms of processes to bring community and law enforcement together here in Portland. And I'm here to offer any more details in terms of how we can support this PSIP process. Thank you.
 Thank you, Brandon. So I gave Carla earlier a list of proposed amendments, additional amendments to the PSAP plan. These are fairly minor. I'll wait until they're handed out. Thanks, Carla.
 So the First Amendment follows our conversations with the AMAC. We wish to clarify that community gatherings will happen on a quarterly basis. These changes are not meant to reduce in any way the level of community engagement initially contemplated by the PSET plan. So the First Amendment is to simply add language that ensures the gathering of input from Portlanders on a quarterly basis.
 The sentence would read, under members' responsibilities, on a quarterly basis, gather input from Portlanders regarding experiences with and perceptions of PBB's community outreach, just to ensure that there is regular engagement with Portland's communities. Thank you.
 The Second and Third Amendment are being made in recognition of the fact that the Office of Neighborhood Involvement is now the Office of Community and Civic Life. And so the amended language would read, under the paragraph reference in the First Amendment, General Consultation with the Office of Community and Civic Life, Civic Life. And then on the last page of the plan, the final paragraph, essentially doing the same.
 So I would move these amendments. Second. We have a motion and at least one second. So we'll keep these on the table and open for public discussion. Great. This concludes our presentation. I'd like to thank you all for your time and listening to us and for your support, particularly your council staff.
 And I'd also like to express my gratitude to the AMAC for their continued collaboration and advocacy over the course of the last two years, because I've been here for a while. The PSAP plan would not be what it is without their work. So thank you very much to them. And with that said, I'd like to invite Dr. Leroy Haynes from the AMAC to offer testimony. Can I ask a question first? Oh, yes, please. So what safeguards are built in?
 are being built in to prevent this committee from becoming dysfunctional. So I'll kind of work with Mandy and kind of explaining this but one of the key factors is having a retreat and
 and substantial training. The COAB did not have the opportunity for that level of training that we are planning, and certainly did not have a retreat prior to being seated. And so there wasn't an opportunity at that point for interpersonal relationship building. And so that in itself functions to protect the group. And then beyond that, just the structure of meetings. And we're working with the facilitators
 plan something that is functional, we'd like for the PSAP to have an opportunity, when necessary, to conduct their work without concern for public disruption. And, you know, to the extent there are disruptions, they would have the opportunity to have a hold-a-closed-door meeting. And that was language in the PSAP plan amendments that we worked with the AMAC to craft. And what kind of time expectations are there on members?
 I think we said eight hours a month. That was the approximate time. Eight hours a month, and then each meeting would be three hours in length. So eight hours on top of three hours? No, no, no. It would be included. Okay. And then on top of that, you know, subcommittee meetings as they're formed, and then just reading literature. That's bordering on the high side of time commitments, in my mind, in terms of truly trying to get broad participants, broad sector participants.
 We, during the application process, we said at the outset what the minimum time commitment would be. And there was broad understanding that it could be more. That would likely be determined by PSET members and also the facilitators and working with PSET members as the work plan is fleshed out. Okay. Okay.
 I think one of the problems before was that we guessed wrong and we didn't say up front, can you commit to this? Some of the other things I was pleased when I met with this group yesterday to hear is that we're going to be providing much more support, both individual, personal, one-on-one, how are things going type support, but also childcare, travel expenses, dinner and such like that. So really...
 giving the volunteers the support that they need to dedicate that amount of time. I'll just add one more. They tend to be modest, but these three facilitators are outstanding, and they will readily agree I put them through the ringer when I first met with them. I wanted a good, hard shakedown to make sure they understood that.
 that this is not just like any community meeting. This is one where there's a lot of history. For many people, there's a lot of emotion. For others, they are members of vulnerable communities. And so the idea that they proposed to actually work together on this and they come with different strengths, I thought was a really compelling opportunity. And it is fundamentally different in the ways they're thinking about
 And I should probably let them talk about it. But I was really excited to hear them say they didn't want to just do the old community meeting thing exclusively. They wanted to find ways that people could feel comfortable participating. And for some people, maybe it's just picking up a phone and talking into a voicemail and not having to be there in person. Or maybe it's via video or Skype. Or maybe it's through some other means.
 And I just like the fact that these facilitators were very open and creative and innovative in terms of trying to find different ways to engage people. At the end of the day, though, I really think it's going to come down to good facilitation. The training is super important. Clarifying the expectations right up front, that's really important. These facilitators know they're going to earn every dime that their contracts prescribe. And I'm appreciative of that. Thank you.
 Well, thank you all very much, and I'll use this as the time to invite Dr. Leroy Haynes to the dice. Very good. Thank you, Dr. Haynes. It's good to see you. To our distinguished Mayor Ted Willer and to our illustrious members of the Portland City Council,
 I am the Dr. Leroy Haynes, Chairperson of the Abana Ministerial Alliance Coalition for Justice and Police Reform. AMAC, as it's often referred to, has been engaged in the leadership effort on the community perspective of police reform since the Kendra James case in 2003.
 We have led the effort to bring the Department of Justice in the present lawsuit on the settlement agreement that the city of Portland is presently under. Now in this transitional period of amending the original court settlement by replacing COAB with the Portland Committee,
 for engaging policing, PSAP. AMAC and Citizens of Portland, I want to correct one aspect of the historical as both a theologian and historian, that during the appeal level, we were not a participant in the creation of the PSAP.
 but we were called in in the latter stage. I think historical reference is critically important. Then we were allowed to give input to the PSEL proposal that had been drafted. It was in this council chamber that many of the proposed changes were actually made during that particular time of the council hearing.
 Item 952 represents many of those changes, and we are thankful for the Council for hearing the voices of not only AMAC, but the many voices of the citizens in the community. Yet we still have some concerns on process that we have shared with the city. Number one, that in the...
 and the process of handling meetings, meetings,
 We are concerned that the public be given voice, opportunity, not just in terms of very electronic devices, but actually face-to-face meeting and open sessions and prior to the decision-making of PSAP board. Secondly, that...
 PCEP established internal procedures and protocols for carrying out the work of reviewing this settlement agreement with intentionality. Third, that PCEP, which I am glad to hear, will provide other opportunities to hear the voices of citizens throughout the community on police reform.
 Finally, we believe it is the responsibility of COCL to provide an opportunity for the public to review its work prior to the presentation to Judge Michael on its update on the settlement agreement. AMAC believe as PSAP go about the process of building relationship with the community
 diverse communities that these additions will help build trust in our much-needed community between the Portland Police Bureau and the citizens of Portland. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. We appreciate your being here today. Okay. Nicole, does that complete your? All right. Very good. How many folks do we have signed up, Carla? We have three more on the list. Very good. Phillip J. Wolf.
 Dan Handelman and Charles Bridgecrane. Sorry. Oh. Hi, Mayor Wheeler and Council Members. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Copwatch. I want to make clear that even though I'm a member of the AMA Coalition Steering Committee, I'm speaking on behalf of Portland Copwatch today. We attended the community forum last Wednesday where Ms. Grant brought the concept of these changes forward, but there were no physical copies for anybody to look at.
 And I pointed out at the time that then nobody in the community could see those changes until Friday afternoon before three-day weekend. There were a lot of people here last August when we were contemplating these changes, this committee in the first place, and there's not as many people here today because this happened over Labor Day weekend and a lot of people didn't even know this was happening.
 And this is a committee on community engaged policing, but a lot of the discussions about what's going into this change plan now didn't involve a full engagement of the community. So we generally are not opposed to expanding the committee to 13 members. Many people, including us, talked about how you can't have a real diverse representation of the community with only nine people and four.
 got the council to expand that to 11. I'm glad to see it now expanding to 13. That you clarify the length of the terms in these amendments is something else we talked about last year.
 We raised concerns at this meeting last week about the accommodation for people who don't want to necessarily attend the community academy or go on a ride-along. It was presented as something that was being done for ADA purposes, an accommodation in a legal sense. But there's a member of the COAB who refused to fire a weapon, a gun, during the community academy and then was treated differently by other members of the group and the police after they did that. And I think that it should be...
 clear that if you don't want to participate in certain parts of that training that you shouldn't be forced to if it's a moral thing and not an ADA issue. I'm glad to hear about the re-institution of the quarterly town halls. That was great, something that we were going to mention as a concern.
 although they're not being called town halls. And it's very good that, as Dr. Haynes said, that there will be public input before any vote. There was mentioned something here and last Wednesday about electronic participation. If somebody can clarify that, because it really is important for us to be in the room, watching the deliberations, and then having input just before the vote happens. I want to make sure that that's being done in a community-engaged way.
 There is also good that the subcommittees are going to be open to the public. I think that's very important as well.
 In general, we express concerns constantly when these kinds of groups go on retreats that somebody has to make absolutely sure they're not actually discussing any business that should be being discussed in a public forum and any training materials and anything that's going to be coming up at the retreat should also be made public so that everybody knows what's happening at those.
 Mayor Redekopal, did you have a couple more there Dan? What's that? Did you have more? I did have one more thing. Sure, go ahead. Which is that we were told also last Wednesday that there are going to be three alternates. And you said, Mr. Mayor, I think just now that you have to choose among 17 adults and a couple of youth.
 All five alternate members of the COAB got burned through within the first year, and then that's why they start running out of people to re-seat, to fill those empty seats. So I would think about having a larger pool of alternates, and maybe that way you can actually keep all the people who have made it to this stage engaged. Thank you, Dan. Appreciate that. Thank you. Any questions for Philip? Thank you, Philip.
 Good afternoon. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. It's an honor to testify here after Philip and have at least one co-op survivor come here. I think that on that note, it was good to hear that there's a plan to better support the community members who will be PSET members. I know that under the co-op structure, there was maybe not even any expense reimbursement for co-op members while the co-op COCO person –
 elevated their salary from $70,000 to over $120,000 a year. So I'm glad that we've learned a lesson from that. In preparing for this, one of the things that came up is I ended up back at a link on the city's own website, the portlandoregon.gov website, slash police, slash article, slash 33708. How did I get there? Because I went to a search engine and I typed in Kendra James murdered by police.
 So the people that won't be testifying here definitely include Quanis Moose Hayes, Terrell Kareem Johnson, Aaron Campbell, Brad Lee Morgan, James Chassie, unarmed persons, one accused of having a knife or a fake gun, who are dead because we haven't perfected policing in Portland. They're not the only ones. We have had armed people in mental health crisis in parking garages, once in the Lloyd, once over by Good Sam Hospital. Those armed people
 We would still like to have a resilient, trained police force that gets us down to the level of lethality that we see from police in all the civilized countries of Europe, where the number of people killed by police in Portland exceeds the death tolls of some countries. So I hope that all of you as council members will fully support, even better than you supported the COAB members,
 these people who are volunteering for the PCEP. I want to particularly thank Commissioner Amanda Fritz, who's appointee to the COAB, Dr. Silver. She persisted. But that's not to fault anybody that went into the COAB. There were some, maybe some people think it was a little bit rushed, maybe some people weren't aware of the burdens, but definitely I think everybody who was on the city council at that time, back in the times when Mr. Novick and Mr. Hales were sitting up there,
 that they probably could have supported those community members better. And so it will be interesting to see what November brings after the hopeful blue wave, the PSIP can get on and hopefully find a constructive way of engaging with people. I noticed that we're going to have Daryl Walker, CEO of Cascadia. They deserve a little special credit. It used to be when you went to Cascadia's website and looked at their board of directors website,
 It was alphabetized, so Officer Burley from the Portland Police Department, who was on the board at that time, came up, and that's not really a great way for people with mental health issues and police dealings to face things.
 So the proof will be in the pudding in November. I'll be looking further into the better cost balancing as far as the administrative expense versus reimbursement for just parking and stuff that those good citizens volunteering will be facing. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Thank you. That's all who signed up. Very good. Colleagues, did you want to have Nicole come back up? Did you have any questions? We'll go ahead and call the roll.
 Give the amendments and then the resolution. That's correct. I'm sorry. Thanks, Nick. So we'll do, there are three amendments. And move them as a package. Commissioner Fish has moved them as a package. And we have a second from Commissioner Fritz. Let's call the roll on the amendments. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendments are adopted. Thank you. And thank you, Nicole, for working hard to draft those. To the main motion, please. Call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz.
 You daily? Aye. Fritz? This is phenomenal work. Nicole Grant, you deserve a lot of credit for this. Thank you for persevering also. You know, I think everybody did the best we could with the pre... We're not on captions? Are we good? Thank you. Everybody did the best that we could with the information we had available. What's good about this is that we have learned from what didn't go so well in the past, and I...
 I was sceptical when this was introduced and it has really become something that I'm very hopeful can succeed. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for your leadership on this. Thank you to the facilitators. I think that we are going to be set up really well with this new process. Thanks to Christina Nieves on my staff who continues to help me on police issues. Julie Ramos was my appointee to the selection committee and former chief.
 work on the Citizens Review Committee. There's still a lot of other aspects of the Department of Justice settlement that we need to continue to work on. And I do believe this is a good step forward. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler.
 I think I'll keep my thank yous brief. There are a lot of people in this room who worked very, very hard over many, many months to bring us to this point, and a lot of the same people are going to be engaged in the long term making sure this is successful. Nick, thanks. You've done a fantastic job. I appreciate it. I want to thank everybody who has worked so diligently on the selection committee. Thank you.
 I want to thank our friends at AMAC. I want to thank the USDOJ. Jared, thank you for your leadership and your participation. I want to thank our legal counsel, all of my colleagues who've worked hard on this in one capacity or another. To the facilitators, you've got your work cut out for you, but you're up to it. And to the members of the community.
 My pledge to you is to make sure that you do have the support you need to be successful in this process. I think you all know what's at stake. There's a lot riding on the success of this, and Portland needs to be one of a handful of communities that can show the rest of the country that we can make progress, and we will, and this is an important milestone in getting us there. So I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Thank you. Next item.
 9-5-3. Amend Police Review Board Code to implement stipulated discipline provisions for Portland Police Bureau members in accordance with amendments to the settlement agreement between the United States and the City of Portland. Colleagues, this ordinance makes changes in the Police Review Board Code to allow for stipulated discipline as authorized by the Council last August when the Council approved amendments to the DOJ settlement agreement.
 Stipulated discipline is, in short, an off-ramp from the regular discipline process that's currently in place. It will only apply in very narrow circumstances. As agreed upon by the Council last year, it will not apply to the use of force cases, officer-involved shootings.
 in custody deaths, retaliation, or disparate treatment cases. It allows involved officers to accept full responsibility for their actions and resulting discipline without any negotiation. This is not plea bargaining. This is due process.
 I have here again Nicole Grant, one of my senior policy advisors, who will provide further information on this item, along with Captain Jeff Bell from the PPB. Thank you for being here. And Mark Amberg from the City Attorney's Office. Thank you for being here.
 Take it away, Nick. Good afternoon again, commissioners. And I'll just state my name for the record, Nicole Grant, senior policy advisor for the mayor. As the mayor stated, this ordinance makes changes to the police review board code with the implementation of stipulated discipline. In August 2017, council approved amendments to the settlement agreement, which included the provision of a stipulated discipline process that would allow PPB members with the concurrence of multiple parties to accept the findings of an investigation and discipline.
 The conceptual approval of stipulated discipline accompanied the approval of other changes to PPP's discipline process, which had suffered under the weight of its complexities. Per the settlement agreement, this option would only be made available to members following the implementation of code language adhering to certain parameters. In April of this year, Judge Simon formally approved this amendment to the settlement agreement at the Fairness Hearing and Status Conference.
 The ordinance before you today follows up on the plans laid out in those approved amendments to the settlement agreement. It is the result of several months of conversation and negotiation with the Portland Police Association. The DOJ has advised the City of the need to have a stipulated discipline process in order to achieve substantial compliance with the settlement agreement. With that said, I am pleased to report that the DOJ has formally approved this process.
 I'm here today with Captain Jeff Bell from PPB's Professional Standards Division and Mark Amberg from the City Attorney's Office, who will delve into the specifics of the code language and the process.
 For the sake of clarity, I just want to note that the process we are asking you to approve is just that, a process. It does not predetermine or influence discipline for PPP members. It's just intended to improve efficiencies within the system and provide both complainants and involved officers with procedural due process. And with that, I'll pass the mic to Captain Bell. Thank you.
 Again, Mayor and Commissioners, thank you for your time today. Again, I'm Jeff Bell, Captain with the Police Bureau in the Professional Standards Division.
 And so I'd like to provide just a little bit of context for the implementation of this proposed stipulated discipline. This kind of goes along with the package of amendments to the settlement agreement and the related code changes back in August of 2017. Some of those changes were we revamped our supervisory investigation process, which at this point now is –
 is in full swing and allows non-disciplinary complaints, a rather quick resolution through the officer's direct supervisor, along with investigators now providing recommended findings. The approved stipulated discipline process, or I'm sorry, the stipulated discipline process as a concept was approved by city council, but the city still needed to negotiate the specific terms with the Portland Police Association.
 So part of the reason why we're doing this is, as we do as well, but the DOJ has had concerns about the timeliness of our internal investigations. And this will allow us to improve the timeliness of certain cases and
 one of the main issues and one of my chief concerns when this was first talked about this this takes place at a time after the investigation is complete and it after proposed discipline and proposed findings have been made so this is not a process that occurs early in the process this is a process that would only occur after uh
 Bureau management and the other partners in this know all of the information they need to know about what happened. This process would occur prior to a case going to a police review board. So again, it's after findings have been made and discipline has been proposed. If an officer selects to go through this process of stipulated discipline, their case would then not go through a police review board anymore.
 and it would not go to the chief and the police commissioner for further consideration on the discipline. However, they would have the final say about whether or not the proposed or the stipulated discipline process can be used for any particular case. So in summary, in order for this to happen, everybody has to actually agree, and that includes the officer, police bureau management, IPR, and...
 I think IPR provides a lot of...
 the community's voice in this process. Ms. Irene Konev, I saw in the back of the room, is an excellent community outreach person. But then, of course, the Chief of Police and you, Mayor, as the Police Commissioner would have the final say about whether or not we could actually proceed with stipulated discipline on any of these cases. Mark Amberg is going to go into further details about what cases are exactly allowed, but
 I think it's important to note that once stipulated discipline is agreed to by all parties, there is no grievance or appeal of that stipulated discipline. The process ends at that point. Officers must accept those findings and the proposed discipline as presented to them. As you said, Mr. Mayor, this is not a plea bargain. This is all about if the officer agrees to what the Bureau has proposed, they may accept that decision.
 If they don't accept that, then the process continues as it normally would. I think it's also important to note that this does not affect the ability of any citizens to still appeal these cases to the Citizen Review Committee. So if they have any issues with any of the findings and they want to appeal these to the Citizen Review Committee, there's nothing in this that would interfere with their ability to do that.
 Again, I think it's hard for us to estimate because we don't have this system in place. My personal feeling and folks that are familiar with the system that I've talked to anticipate this will be used very infrequently, that this is something that
 will probably only happen a few times a year. But in those cases where it does happen, I think it's beneficial in that it gives both the officers involved and the complainants more timely closure rather than dragging out the process. In these cases where everyone agrees kind of, and the officer is willing to take responsibility for their actions.
 And again, overall, it shortens our timelines and administrative work on the part of the Professional Standards Division and the Bureau in general. Again, in these cases where everyone agrees that the findings and discipline are appropriate. So I'm going to pass it off to Mr. Amberg, who will discuss the technical details of the...
 Thank you, Captain Bell. Mayor, commissioners, for the record, Mark Amberg with the city attorney's office. As was noted, this stipulated discipline process actually started with negotiations with the U.S. Department of Justice over some amendments, a package of amendments, so to speak, to the settlement agreement agreement.
 that were approved by this council last August and then approved by Judge Simon at the Fairness Status Hearing last April. The stipulated discipline process is an important part of this.
 uh... is viewed as an important part of improving the police discipline process the police accountability process to have an offering of so to speak in cases where the officer acknowledges uh... they there's been a policy violation agrees to accept uh... proposed discipline under the uh... proposal which as ms grant noted uh...
 The language that's in the proposed amendments to the code were negotiated with the Portland Police Association. They've also been approved by the U.S. Department of Justice. Under the proposed code amendments, which are under the police bureaus, the code that governs the police review board, that was the place where we needed to insert this process –
 There are certain types of cases that are excluded that's been discussed, cases involving alleged use of excessive force, alleged discrimination, disparate treatment or retaliation, reviews of officer-involved shootings and in-custody deaths, and importantly, any case in which the police chief or the mayor or the police commissioner does not agree to accept the member's proposed stipulation to findings and recommended discipline.
 None of those cases, regardless of – I'll talk about the discipline guide in a moment. None of these cases, regardless of where they fall on the discipline guide, would be eligible for stipulated discipline. The types of cases under the code amendment that would be eligible for stipulated discipline –
 First of all, any first-time offenses that fall under Category A through Category D of the Police Bureau Discipline Guide, which the Discipline Guide is also, as counsel is aware, came out of the U.S. Department of Justice Settlement Agreement, is a requirement of the Settlement Agreement that the Police Bureau...
 come up with and implement and follow a discipline guide. The police bureau's current version of the discipline guide went into effect on March 1st, 2014, and has been in effect since that time. So the categories that are referred to in this amendment, categories A through D of the guide are defined under the, under the guide. The other, and there, I would say also the, the guide actually goes up that has categories E and F each,
 As you go up in the letters, then they're more serious offenses. The lower-level offenses are Category A. The higher-level offenses go up all the way to Category F.
 The stipulated discipline would not apply, with one exception that I'll note, to any case that would fall under a Category E or a Category F on the Discipline Guide. Categories E and F on the Discipline Guide are where the first time on the Guide where there could be a potential termination of an officer's employment for whatever the misconduct was.
 Second time offenses that fall under category A, the lowest level of discipline on the guide would be eligible for stipulated discipline. Again, with the review of everybody involved, IPR, the member's assistant chief, professional standards, and also the police chief and the commissioner, police commissioner. The other categories of discipline.
 cases which would be eligible for stipulated discipline, which is they actually fall under Category E, and these would be first-time off-duty driving while under the influence of fences that fall under Category E. To be eligible for stipulated discipline for an off-duty driving under the influence of fence, it has to be a non-aggravated offense. There can be no other driving-related offenses.
 violations or charges such as a reckless driving charge or something of that nature. And the member must comply with all court-ordered. They must enter into a diversion in here in Oregon or in the state of Washington. It's referred to as a delayed prosecution. They're essentially the same thing.
 The member would have to enter into that program and would have to comply with all court-ordered conditions of a diversion or delayed prosecution to be eligible for stipulated discipline. If not all of those conditions are met, they would not be eligible for stipulated discipline for an off-duty driving into the influence offense. So those are the categories of cases that would be eligible for stipulated discipline.
 A couple of notes. First of all, when there's a number of cases involved multiple claim violations of policy, in those cases where there's multiple sustained violations, the violation would be set at the highest category on the discipline guide for purposes of determining whether the case would be eligible for stipulated discipline guidance.
 So if you have multiple violations and one of those violations fell into an E or an F, even though other offenses might fall under in lower categories would not be eligible for stipulated discipline. There's two other parts of the proposed code amendment that I want to note. One is that...
 With the exception of excluded categories, in negotiations with the Portland Police Association, if there's some other category or type of case, for example, the one that we have here in front of us is the off-duty non-aggravated driving into the influence charge, but if there's some other category or type of case...
 that the police association, the police commissioner, the police chief, believes should be eligible for stipulated discipline, there is the opportunity to agree on that category of cases being eligible for stipulated discipline. Finally, one other amendment that's in the code that really doesn't have anything to do with stipulated discipline, but since this code section is coming before counsel...
 This is in certain sections of the code as it currently reads, where the code talks about the types of cases that have to be reviewed by the Police Review Board. One of the categories of cases that's defined in the code at this point in time are less lethal incidents where the recommended finding is out of policy. Under police bureau practice,
 And under police bureau directives, all use of force incidents, whether they're less lethal uses of force or a deadly use of force or some other type of use of force, all use of force incidents go before the police review board for review.
 And so we've offered a cleanup amendment to the code to clarify that all use of force cases, regardless of the type, not just less lethal use of force incidents, will go before the Police Review Board for review. And that's it, unless there are any questions from counsel. Commissioner Fritz.
 So, thank you. This is the third time I've had this explained to me and I think I may be starting to get it. So let's give it this. Let me see if I'm understanding. Because the Mayor said at the beginning, this is not a plea bargain.
 And one of the concerns I have about this is looking at the discipline guide and thinking that the discipline imposed doesn't seem to be severe enough in some instances, in my opinion. But what you're saying is that this process, the discipline would be the same whether they go through the police review board or not. But in this stipulated agreement process, they say, yes, I did it, and I'll accept the discipline on the guide. Is that correct? Yes, that's correct. If the proposed discipline that would be initiated by the,
 The members are your responsibility or reporting unit manager. If the member did not accept that, that is the proposed discipline that would go through the review board process. There's no guarantee what the review board is going to do with that or ultimately the chief and the mayor, but that would be the proposed discipline that would go to the review board. Okay. So...
 significant divination from policy resulting in a vehicle crash, first offense, letter of reprimand. And the officer would say, yes, give me my letter of reprimand. I'm on my way. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. So then I can support this process. My question and concern is I don't support this discipline guide.
 And this is the first time that it's come to the council, including when we were promised a discipline guide in part of the DOJ settlement and when we paid a $9 million raise to the police bureau, to the police officers. So, you know, in my opinion, a vehicle crash is an assault with a deadly weapon. And so I don't think you should get a letter of reprimand for a significant deviation of policy that causes a crash.
 And so what is the process for changing this discipline guide? Sure. Captain Bell can speak to it as well. But currently there is a police bureau directive in place that addresses the discipline guide and allows for a process for change. And the process for that change is it can be changed by the police chief with concurrence with the police commissioner
 really at any time, but there's a review process where the Professional Standards Division of the Police Bureau in conjunction with the City Attorney's Office is supposed to review the guide and make recommendations to the police chief on proposed changes. Now, that's the official process that's in place under the directive and is designed to ensure there's some kind of at least annual review of the guide and looking at potential changes there.
 But ultimately, it's the police chief, again, in concurrence with the police commissioner, who would make changes to the guide. And there's no limit on the...
 Does that have to be bargained with the Portland Police Association? That is a good question. There are some questions about the extent to which it would have to be bargained with the police union. We've taken the position in the past that it's a guide, it's a management tool that does not have to be bargained. I think the police association would certainly take the position that because it impacts discipline and job security at a minimum...
 that it does have to be bargained. So we would likely we would enter into bargaining with the union over significant changes to the guide, but that's a That is a bit of an open question.
 Well, Mayor, are you willing to commit to having a conversation with me into reviewing this? I'm willing to have the conversation, but obviously I'd like to have more insight into this. But, yes, certainly. Yeah, because just throughout this guide, I appreciate that we did pay for getting terminations to stick for Category F violations. But there are several – throughout the A through D categories –
 The discipline seems to be more of a slap on the wrist than a significant deterrent to doing the behavior again. So that, but I'm now understanding that's not, we're just saying that in some instances you can, the officer can agree, yes, I'll take the discipline. And then we use a different process to change what the discipline is. Yes. Well, Mayor, just let me be clear. If we're going to get into the question of discipline, I think it has to come up through some regular order.
 It has to be part of a process where recommendations come to council. This is not a conversation to you and Commissioner Fritz, with all due respect. Oh, it's a stock conversation. It's a council discussion, and it may very well involve collective bargaining. I mean, we don't have such a great track record on those issues. And so, but let's be clear, the...
 There are benefits to us of having a stipulated discipline provision independent of whether you think the discipline tree is correct. That's the issue before us today, and I think we should keep a clear demarcation between the two. This is something that has a benefit to us, has been approved by the Department of Justice. I think we can take this action and still go through a thoughtful process of determining whether or not
 the proposed discipline for any particular action is, um, is, is adequate. And I, I, I also want to caution us in a public hearing commenting on whether any particular matter is an adequate discipline that these, this is a, this, this is a, uh, carefully calibrated system that requires a certain level of fairness and due process on both sides. And I don't think it should be driven by anecdotes. Is that a couple of questions? Commissioner Saltzman. Um, our, uh,
 that are subject to stipulated discipline, are those public records? Well, I mean, yes, they are public record, but there is an exemption under the public records law for cases that result in discipline. So whether they would be released publicly, it really is determined on a case-by-case basis. Normally –
 What if the media requests the records? Do we make that available or not? Normally, we do not make those available. In the normal case, in a discipline case, we usually claim the exemption and claim those records as exempt from public disclosure. And, of course, it depends on a number of factors, the egregiousness of the conduct involved, the rank or position of the employee involved, and –
 if there may have been some otherwise public notoriety about the particular event involved. But those are all factors we look at. But generally, I would say we— That would be applied whether it goes through stipulated discipline or it goes through the full police review board? I mean, it's the same policy about releasing it to the public? Yes. Whether it was stipulated discipline or discipline through the regular process wouldn't change that at all. There wouldn't be any change to that.
 And then I guess I was wondering about issues around an officer involved in domestic violence, stalking, violating restraining order, having sex with a subordinate. Are those eligible for stipulated discipline? They almost certainly would not be eligible because they would fall under a Category E or a Category F on the discipline guide. So, I mean, I suppose I can't think of a circumstance. Maybe Captain Bell...
 Give his thoughts, but I can't think of a circumstance where it would be eligible for stipulated discipline. So none of those actions would be subject to a stipulated discipline avenue? Correct, and I think the other fact that he...
 A domestic violence issue or sexual subordinate or whatever could be subject to this.
 Stipulated discipline when it's clearly not anticipated right now, but could be by those players. I can't remember all the players you listed. I suppose it is possible, but that would have to be their commanding officer, an assistant chief, myself, Director Sevier from IPR, and then if all those people agreed, it would still go before the chief and
 and the mayor as the police commissioner for a final approval. So all those people would have to agree? All those people would have to agree. If one of them objected, that would derail? That would kick it back to a normal process where it would go through a police review board. The default is always going through the normal process, of course. So in any case along the way, any of those individuals can say, no, this case, I'm not comfortable with this case going through it.
 through a stipulated discipline process. I think it needs to go through the full-blown review process. Any one of those individuals can make that happen. Thank you. Mayor? Ms. Hugh Daly. I am also interested in the conversation about the discipline guide, so please add my name to the list. And I do have an amendment to propose.
 So in the stipulated findings and discipline section under subsection 2E, it states that categories or types of cases eligible for stipulated discipline may be expanded upon by agreement of the commissioner in charge, the chief, and the bargaining unit representatives.
 I feel since disciplined procedures for the Police Bureau are a matter of great public interest, that I would strongly prefer them to be subject to full council approval. And this is meant to increase the transparency of these processes. So here is the...
 Amendment number one language in section J subsection 2E to delete the commissioner in charge and add and city council. This is the code as amended. E, with the exception of the categories of cases listed in subsection 3.20.140J.1,
 The categories or types of cases from the Police Bureau Discipline Guide eligible for stipulated discipline may be expanded upon mutual agreement of the Chief Bargaining Unit Representatives and City Council. Second. We have a motion and a second. Thank you. And, Commissioners, I would also like to offer an amendment to the proposed code language.
 So it may seem strange for me to offer an amendment at this stage given the negotiations with the Portland Police Association. Mark Amberg flagged an inconsistency or potential inconsistency between the PRV code and the language for this process.
 And when this issue was raised with the union, there was a refusal to return to their board with any changes. And so we're bringing it before you for approval. The PRV code requires that certain incidents involving use of force – actually, I'm sorry. Carla, could you distribute the amendments? I apologize. Yeah. Yeah. And then I'll be happy to move them for you. Thank you.
 So the PRV code requires that certain incidents involving use of force must go before the PRV. They include all officer-involved shootings, physical injury caused by an officer that requires hospitalization, all in-custody deaths, and any use of force where the recommended finding is out of policy. Within the current version of the code, officer-involved shootings and in-custody deaths fall under a general umbrella of uses of force.
 Both the settlement agreement amendments and these code changes list among the excluded categories alleged uses of excessive force, officer-involved shootings, and in-custody deaths. So in this most recent language that we're adding, officer-involved shootings and in-custody deaths are distinguished from cases involving alleged use of excessive force.
 So what that potentially means then is that outside of officer-involved shootings and in-custody deaths, which are already explicitly excluded by the new code language, it's arguable whether physical injury caused by an officer that requires hospitalization and use of force where the recommended finding is out of policy would also be excluded.
 So the amendment I'm offering is a simple clarification of 3.20.140J1, that those two additional categories I mentioned, both involving uses of force, are explicitly ineligible for stipulated discipline, excuse me, preserving the original mandate that they go before the PRB and are subject to the regular discipline process. And you all have copies of that amendment in front of you. So I move it. Second. We have a motion and a second. Thank you.
 Thank you. Do you have any other questions? So I, Commissioner Udaly, I apologize. I didn't, I'm just tracking as you were reading your amendment, which I see as part of my package, but I haven't taken it. So could you just, would you walk us through your amendment one more time, just so I get it? Oh, sure. It's fairly simple. It's just amending the language in Section J, the same section Nicole just referred to, to say that rather than saying,
 stipulated discipline being expanded upon by the commissioner in charge, the chief and the bargaining unit representatives, that it will be the full council. It will be heard by council. Got it. Got it. Thank you. Very good. And does that conclude your presentation? That concludes our presentation. Fabulous. Public testimony, Carla. Thank you. Appreciate it. So we have two people signed up. Excellent. Come on up. Dan Handelman and Charles Bridgecrane.
 Hello again. Well, city council members and mayor. I'm Dan Handelman from Portland Cop Watch as I was a few minutes ago. These amendments have, in terms of the timing, the same problem that I expressed around the last item, which is they were only noted and posted on Friday afternoon, so a lot of people in the community who are very interested in this issue probably aren't even aware that this is being discussed today. The fact that
 the police review board code is being opened up again and a cleanup is being done in one area where a lot of other issues that the community has been asking for around this process for years are not on the table is very frustrating. We have very rarely get a chance to change this code and you know some of these changes are being made because of the DOJ agreement but there's another one being made not because of that and among other things
 We have long asked for the person who is harmed by the police to be allowed to speak to the police review board and that's not being completed today. One of the things, and Commissioner Saltzman came very close to getting at this, one of the things we raised when these changes were being proposed to the settlement agreement is that the cases that are resolved through stipulation should be reported on in the twice a year public reports. That's not listed in here, it's not clear if they're going to be reported on and I would like council to make a firm
 decision about that before you leave today. Those are the reports that we made mad libs out of because they're so redacted you can't even tell the gender of the people involved. So it's not going to expose the name of the officer or anything. It's just that the people need to know what kind of violations are going on that officers are being disciplined for. And if they're excluded from that report, then we're losing out on that information.
 On that note, this discipline guide was actually posted also, it was actually posted on Saturday of Labor Day weekend along with 16 other directives for review. And we only have 15 days, so that didn't even give us one day per directive to look at them. But that directive is up for public comment right now. And I don't know why the Bureau released so many directives at the same time.
 We also have asked that the media and or the public be allowed into police report meetings, which I think would be
 useful. But another thing that is actually in this settlement agreement, and we've repeatedly asked that it be added to the code, but it has, I believe that it's in the directive but it's not in the ordinance still, is that if the Police Review Board sends a case back for more investigation, that whoever investigated IPR or IA has to do more investigation and return to them within 10 days. That's part of the settlement agreement but is not listed in the code.
 And I don't know why that's not being fixed at the same time since we're fixing this around the settlement agreement issues. The review board, by the way, Commissioner Fritz, I believe, could recommend a higher discipline because a lot of these categories have this one, two, or three kinds of discipline that are possible. So it's possible the person will stipulate to something lower than what the police review board would recommend, which would still be in line with that guide. And also, just one more thing, that...
 One of the advantages of the police review board hearings is that they, including the civilian member, which is a very important part of the process, get to make recommendations around policies that come up to these cases, and that's going to all be lost by the stipulation. So, Dan, what are these twice-a-year reports? I guess I don't know what those are.
 the police review board reports come out as well actually i'm glad you asked me that question because they're supposed to come out twice a year uh and the last one that came out was in november of 2017. they usually came out in january and july each year and they it has a summary of the police review board hearing uh laying out how many votes there were not who voted which way what the outcome was what the recommended discipline was and then
 There's usually a cover sheet, but I think they've changed that now to say whether the final discipline differed from what was recommended by the board. This is a very important report because those hearings are closed to the public and even the person who's there.
 So that's those reports and the one that was supposed to come out in January, I was told by the police PIO was handed to the city attorney's office in early July and it still hasn't been released and I'm not sure why. And are the officers names? No, that's what I said. We made a joke out of it. It's so redacted you don't even know the gender of anybody involved.
 So I think it goes overboard in protecting everybody involved. But, yeah, there's a lot of information that's redacted. Even what precinct it was in, for instance, sometimes gets redacted. And so you're saying the stipulated discipline should also be contained in that summary? I think it would be very helpful because that way we'd know these are the offenses that have happened and these are the disciplines that are being doled out for those people.
 So you get a bigger picture of what's going on in terms of the transparency we keep talking about. I think that's a really good point, and I think you're correct that it's specifically not listed as something that needs to be in the report, so I'll make an amendment after we've heard the rest of the testimony. Good afternoon. Thank you again, Councillors. Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson for the record. And it's very encouraging to see your attentiveness there, and I think that's important in the context that we've just talked about the PCEP
 Will the PSAP have full access to unredacted information from the PRB? Probably not. If we want the PSAP to do a good job, we need to find a way to get the PSAP to have, ideally, we need to improve public access to the PRB, but at least for the PSAP. As Commissioner Saltzman's excellent question noted, where is the self-analysis data from the police? Yes.
 How can we talk about the quality of policing in various neighborhoods if they redact the precinct? We need to know by zip code or more specific information where problem policing is happening. So...
 I think maybe you've overloaded your plate. You've got some amendments from the mayor's staff, from Commissioner Udaly. I think you can probably move and pass those amendments. But I hope that you'll very strongly consider bringing this back again for a better look to get longer period of public input, to nail down ways so that, you know, it's not just about attacking the police. It's about making sure...
 the police and yourselves and the PSEP have data to find out where mistakes, problems, possibly racist incidents are happening and being able to take corrective action. So I thank you all for your attentiveness and the robust discussion you've had around here. I hope you won't just stop with approving today's amendments, but you'll soon on the agenda and maybe possibly this should be on the PSEP agenda when they start meeting in November. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you both. Let's get our staff back to... Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Saltzman, did you have a question? No, I wanted to move an amendment to include the stipulated discipline items to be included in the Police Review Board's semi-annual or twice... I actually have the language, but I'd like to ask the staff about it. Okay.
 And I believe this goes in Section I, and it would be a new number three, which is Section I starts on page seven and goes to, this would be on page eight of Exhibit A. And I'm suggesting that it would add a number three to say any stipulated agreements where a final decision has been reached. I'm just wanting to get your opinion on that.
 I have no objections. I fully support that. Could you read that again? What was it? It would add to Section I, number 3, on page 8 of Exhibit A, number 3, any stipulated agreements where a final decision has been reached, or if Mr. Amberg has better language...
 I would be happy to take it. I wouldn't say that for sure. But, yeah, I think that seems like a fair amendment. It conveys what we're trying to get to. It didn't occur to me until Commissioner Saltzman brought it up, and I actually agree with Mr. Handelman. I think it's totally appropriate to include those in the biannual PRB reports. So I move that amendment. Second. Very good. We have a motion and a second.
 So we have three amendments on the table. We have Commissioner Udaly's amendment. We have my amendment that Nicole has worked with us to put on the table. And now we have a third amendment, Commissioner Fritz's amendment. Why don't we take the amendments up in order, unless anybody has any further questions? We'll start with Commissioner Udaly's amendment. Any further discussion? I'm sorry? The order was actually Wheeler amendment? No, it was. Okay. It says Wheeler was first. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you. Very good. Commissioner Udaile, Carla, please call the roll unless anybody has any further questions. Very good. Saltzman? Aye. Udaile? Aye. Fritz? Thank you. Really good catch, Commissioner Udaile. Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. Next up is Wheeler Amendment 1. Please call the roll.
 Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Absolutely the wonkiest amendment of the afternoon. Thank you very much for catching it. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. And this is why lawyers are important. I vote aye. The amendment's adopted. Thank you. For the record. Thank you. And the third and final amendment is the one that Commissioner Fritz just outlined with Commissioner Saltzman. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Well, I have to mark this occasion because I don't know how often, if ever, a member of the Portland Police Bureau has expressed agreement with Mr. Dan Handelman, and I think it's a notable occasion and one that I think we're probably all going to agree on. So I vote aye.
 Fritz. That's a really important comment because we are making progress, I believe. And thank you, Mr. Handelman, for your ongoing diligence. We can always count on you, and you often come with a great suggestion. So thank you. Aye. Fish. Maybe we should get like a CD and burn it and frame it for dance. Aye. Wheeler. This is common sense. I appreciate it. I vote aye. The amendment is adopted. Now to the main motion. Any further questions or comments? Colleagues? Aye. Eudaly. Aye.
 So we know that disciplinary actions lose meaning if they occur too long after the violation of the policy. As the DOJ pointed out, a drawn-out accountability process reasonably makes it harder for the public to trust that there are consequences for officers who act in violation of policies. Today's ordinance reflects a common-sense approach, and I appreciate the number of checks on power that are included here. I'm also encouraged by the Independent Police Review's approval of this policy. I vote aye.
 I concur with some of the testimony that we heard, particularly Mr Handelman's, that it's unfortunate that we're not fixing some of the other things which are outstanding. I hope we will continue. It seems like we're building some momentum here. Thank you, Nicole Grant, for going the extra mile to help me understand this, and also Mark Amberg for your briefing yesterday. It's an important step forward, and it's finally brought to the light today the discipline guide, which obviously I think needs some work. Aye. Fish? Aye.
 Wheeler. In my role as police commissioner, obviously a number of police discipline cases cross my desk on a regular basis. In my review of each case, it's impossible not to notice how far back some of the cases extend between the date of the incident or the beginning of the investigation to the final discipline letter that is sent to the involved officer.
 Some of those time frames are unacceptably long, ranging from a year to two years for cases in which the officer accepted responsibility long before. This doesn't just mean that officers are left wondering when their cases are going to be resolved. It also means that community members who've brought complaints forward don't see a resolution for substantially long periods of time.
 Again, that is not due process. The result of this is lower morale and a vote of no confidence from the public in a Byzantine system that doesn't seem to do much to right the wrongs that they experience. One of the key areas of focus for my administration has obviously been strengthening our police bureau and making the bureau more accountable to the public that it serves.
 Due process and accountability demand that officers and community members are given closure with their cases in a timely manner. We need to continue supporting a system that treats all involved parties fairly and respects them throughout their engagement with the city.
 Accountability means clarity for the public and bureau members at all stages of the discipline process. As a city, we can and should provide better service for our constituents. We should provide more clarity for our officers.
 We all agree we need to do better. We will do better. And I believe this process is an important waypoint in getting us there. So I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Thank you, everybody. Nicole, again, thank you.
 The resolution is adopted, it's amended, and we are... Are we going to talk about tomorrow? Adjourned. Before we ring out, did we reach a resolution on tomorrow, Mustafa, in the council session? Okay, colleagues will hear more about that. Apparently we have a couple of absences for tomorrow. Let's just tell the public that it's possible we might not be meeting tomorrow. And that's fine, but you will still need to reconvene tomorrow to make that...
 You can warn that that's a potential, but yeah. Okay. And then, Mayor, can you, sorry, you just said that the resolution was adopted as amended, but it was an ordinance. So I just wanted to clarify that for the record. Okay. Take two. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Very good. All right. We are adjourned.