Good afternoon, everybody. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council on September 7th. And for those of you listening in the Petty Grove and Lovejoy room, if for any reason the audio for the video does not work, please send somebody immediately to the council chamber, and we'll resolve that expeditiously. But we won't go on without you. I promise that. Could you please call the roll, Carla? I'll get it.
 Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Here.
 There is a statement of decorum we read at the beginning of each council session. I'd like to abridge it today if I could. Lots of people are going to testify. They may or may not have the same opinion as you do, but everybody has a right to be heard, to feel safe, and to feel respected in this chamber. So when people are testifying or when the council is deliberating, we ask that people...
 not interrupt. If you do interrupt, that is a violation of council rules. You'll be asked not to do so. If you continue to be interrupting, you'll be asked to leave. And if you're asked to leave and you do not leave, you're subject to arrest for trespass. Obviously, we hope that doesn't happen and everybody feels respected and heard. If you are a lobbyist, I
 You must state so as part of council rules. If you're here representing an organization, that is also helpful. If you'd like to sign up to testify, there are sign-up sheets either in the chamber with the council clerk. There are also sign-up sheets outside the council chamber. You'll have plenty of time to do that. When you testify, could you please state your name for the record? We don't need your full address. Okay.
 When your time is 30 seconds from being up, you'll see a yellow light come on and it beeps. When your time is up, the red light goes on and you'll hear more beeps. And we ask people to please be to the point as much as possible. Sorry, we've lost captioning. Is the captioning off again? It's back up right now. Okay, thank you. Yeah. Yeah.
 I guess nobody's starting. I will. Hi, I'm Susan Lindsay. And, well, I think it's very interesting the conversation I was listening to about the view corridors because I'm here to talk specifically kind of about the same thing in a different perspective. And that is I'd like to request a kind of a revisit on the allowable heights on Southeast 12th and 11th
 looking west because many of us who have lived for a long time in the inner southeast actually enjoy the view of the Portland Hills. And the new plan will allow for a 125-foot hard limit. Right now there's a 50-foot there with – I'm talking about from southeast Morrison northeast.
 to Burnside Street. So if we could just sort of, I don't want to take up a lot of time here, but it is a concern. And unfortunately, it was one I've had a kind of an ongoing family tragedy this summer and I wasn't able to kind of deal with it
 as much behind the scenes, and I thought I'd wait until council. But we're very concerned about it. We're talking 10 or 11 stories right there across from a single story or a historic neighborhood on the other side of 12th. So I'd like to revisit that height if we could. Thank you so much for your time. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Heidi Moore. I'm a vice president at AltSource, a locally owned and operated custom store
 software development company. We provide development, production, and testing of computer software to other businesses. We are currently rehabilitating a building located at 1120 Southeast Madison to use as our future headquarters. Our attorney has submitted a letter into the record and I will not restate those comments here but wanted to offer some additional comments on the issue from our perspective.
 Altsource started in 2004 from our basement in northeast Portland and we've continued to double its staff size every year and we're on track to double again. We currently employ over 90 full-time employees spread across three different buildings in the central east side district. The ability to expand our operations at the future Altsource headquarters
 is vital to the continued growth of this company as the inner southeast location is a key factor in recruitment and retainment of highly talented and highly compensated high tech workforce. Additional height restrictions may force us to restart a search for a long term home for AltSource elsewhere, most likely outside of the city of Portland, rather than expend additional money on improvements that will only serve the company's short term goals.
 For these reasons, we strongly support the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommendations. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon, Philip. I'm John. I'm John. I'm John. $453 million. $456 million. $456 million.
 Thank you, Philip. Thank you, Philip. Carla, since the minutes the captioning was not captured this, is there a way to save that document to make sure? Okay, before it gets deleted. Thank you, Lauren. And if that's all, that's all I had noted, so we'll go to the regular list. The first three are number one, four, and five. Terry Dublinski-Milton, Angus Duncan, and Joe Cortright.
 And they will be followed by 6, 7, and 8, Aaron Brown, Stephen Siegel, and Charlie Tissell. All right. Very good, folks. And two minutes will go quickly. Thank you. Bill. Handouts. Go ahead, Terry.
 Go ahead and start. Okay. I'm Terry Dublinski-Milton. I'm testifying for myself. I am supportive of the Central City Plan. I would like to offer a couple amendments. First of all, the Gibbs Street overpass ends in a dead-end three-story elevator. It is not good for large numbers of bicycles. It can be clipped off and then an extension like a Copenhagen snake to connect to the west side waterfront path.
 to handle higher levels. And if we got really creative and wanted to open the Ross Island Bridge, we could carry it over the river, but I know that's aspirational. I'm highly, highly supportive of the Green Loop.
 but we have to, with the green loop, connect to the outer neighborhoods and have extensive, high-quality access all the way out to I-205. Now, the Rose Quarter expansion. I am in support of it, but because of several amendments, one particular one I think is important. I agree with Saltzman. You're going to hear a lot about congestion pricing. It's important.
 It's important, but I think we need to take this into account, preparing for the big one, seismic upgrade. Okay, when the Cascadia subduction zone snaps, 405 is going to be collapsed, all the overpasses are going to be gone, and the Markham is probably going to be standing in midair. So if you look at the map, what we need to do, in my opinion, is do a study of moving I-5 over to 405, and then removing the East Bank Freeway.
 This would allow for a redesign of all the interchanges beginning to Lair Hill on the south waterfront. It could create a slip lane from the tunnels to the Ross Island Bridge. You could create a max bypass connecting PSU to Goose Hollow, which would cut 20 minutes off the commute from Clackamas Town Center to Beaverton Transit and no transfer. Call it the Purple Line. And then we could remove the East Bank Freeway completely and open up the river to the east side for the first time in a century.
 So I would offer you an amendment that you put this study into the Central City Plan as predicated on the Rose Court expansion. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, members of the Council. My name is Angus Duncan. I'm president of the Bonneville Environmental Foundation here in Portland, and I chair the State of Oregon Global Warning Commission.
 And while I would like to, I ultimately can't argue that urban planning has to be all about climate and greenhouse gases, but these have to figure centrally in those kinds of plans and always have in the plans that the City of Portland has adopted.
 Nationally and in Oregon, we have shifted our electric utilities, our largest sector, onto a course to lower their carbon content in energy solutions. This council participated materially in our efforts to do that, and I think successfully. And the state of Oregon is grateful to you for your intervention.
 nationally and in Oregon, though unfortunately transportation emissions are up. They've always been the largest sector in Oregon. They are now the largest sector nationally in emissions. And we understand why. It's the end of the recession. People feel flusher.
 Gasoline is less expensive, people can drive more, and the consequence, and they can also drive larger cars, and the consequence is that for every electric vehicle that entered the fleet last year, approximately 80 SUVs, internal combustion SUVs, entered the fleet.
 V.M.T. in both nationally and in Oregon are up, and there is a modest but disturbing shift from central city growth to suburban growth. So we need to deal with that. Planning needs to address that.
 its housing and transportation factors combined. The 2017 Transportation Bill from Salem, I think, helps us materially with transit, bike, pedestrian solutions, and with electric vehicles. It also addresses congestion, but airspeed.
 ambivalently, offering both congestion pricing authority and new freeway lanes. The council and the state of Oregon need to figure out how to deal with those. I just offer one observation from our historical experience in the electrical industry.
 industry, and that is we have learned the lesson time and time again. Apply demand-side solutions, reducing demand. First, it's much less expensive and much more effective before you go out and build something. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Joe Cortright with No More Freeway Widening. Expanding urban freeways has never solved traffic congestion. That's the one eternal verity of urban transportation that we know. In the extreme, Houston has expanded their Katy Freeway, so it is now 23 lanes wide. Less than two years after opening a $3 billion freeway widening project, travel times on that freeway were 50% longer than after they had expanded it.
 Even in the case of this project, ODOT admits that this will not solve what's called recurring or everyday traffic congestion. They hope it will reduce the number of crashes, which are mostly minor, but it's simply any additional capacity is going to stimulate more traffic. This is a terrific way to waste $450 million. Next.
 Now, Commissioner Saltzman has offered something on the order of a compromise of doing both of these things, of moving ahead with pricing, which we strongly think would be a good idea and is the only solution that's proven to reduce congestion, and to also do this project. That is a recipe for wasting a half a billion dollars. Let me give you the example of Louisville, Kentucky, which did pretty much exactly that.
 They had a freeway, not unlike I-5, that connects it with northern suburbs. It was six lanes wide. They doubled the size of the freeway bridge. And to pay for that bridge, they told that bridge between one and two dollars each way. And after they told that bridge, the traffic on that bridge dropped from 120,000 vehicles a day, virtually the same as the I-5 bridge, to about 60,000 vehicles a day. It dropped by about half.
 So tolling, if you spend money on new capacity and then toll it later, you run the real likelihood that you will not have any demand for the facility that you need. So the critical point here is there is no reason to go ahead with this proposal, even if you think it might work, until after you have implemented and observed the effects of
 of tolling because that will show you that you do not need to spend money on this project and that you can relieve congestion by charging a price. Perfectly timed. Thanks, Joe. Thank you all. Next three, please, Carla. Aaron Brown, Stephen Siegel, and Charlie Tso, and they'll be followed by 9, 10, and 11, Tony Jordan, Kim Marks, and Izzy Armenta. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Mayor Whaler, Portland City Council. My name is Aaron Brown. First, disclosing myself as a registered lobbyist of the No More Freeway Expansions Anti-Highway Industrial Complex. First, highway freeway expansion has never solved traffic congestion. You're going to hear that frequently today.
 Second, a short story. When I was in college, I spent a couple years living next to a Super America. It's a Midwestern equivalent to a plaid pantry. As an Oregonian unaccustomed to humidity, I found summers really brutal. It didn't take me long to learn that this convenience store sold 48-ounce slushies for 50 cents.
 You can imagine the joy accompanied by the opportunity to walk less than a block to spend less than a buck on nearly a gallon of corn syrup and ice. If someone had asked me 10 years ago, perhaps, I don't know, the Oregon Department of Slushies, if I was willing to spend a lifetime supply of sweet, refreshing slushies, a card to have slushies whenever I wanted for a low price of $450 million, I'd certainly have considered it.
 Now you and I know it's entirely possible that my demand for these slushies might have been, say, induced by its heavy subsidy, my proximity to the convenience store, my youthful ability to enjoy empty carbohydrates with reckless abandon. But maybe I'd take a couple nutrition classes in college and learn I needed to significantly alter my habits to be healthier, like a diet change.
 Maybe I'd decide I'm done with corn syrup. A vision zero for corn syrup in which I really decided I can't have corn syrup anymore. Maybe I'd want to buy slushies in other parts of town. There's some cool slushy shops opening in other parts of town that actually have had historic disinvestment of people to buy slushies from. In any circumstance, I would have to be absolutely certain I really wanted a $450 million card to buy slushies at my local Super America. It means I wouldn't care about my health.
 Wouldn't care about any of these other things. So the question before you, Mayor Wheeler and Portland City Commissioners, how certain are you that you really want to buy a $450 million slushy card? You know how difficult it is to raise money. $64 million for the gas tax, $250 million for the affordable housing bond. This is seven times the gas tax, twice the affordable housing bond for a project that, again, has no demonstrable benefits that they are ostensibly claiming to be provided. Okay.
 I hope that you are certain enough, and I hope that the 375 community members who have signed our letter, including the public health groups, social justice leaders, neighborhood associations, and environmentalists, I'm wrapping up, I promise. I hope that that has sowed some doubt before you eventually turn around and give that $450 million to the Oregon Department of Slushies.
 Please work with the community to help us buy something other than corn syrup. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for that testimony, which was very entertaining. I challenge everybody else to live up to that. But secondly, thank you for not sending me 375 identical things, just for putting the petition together and telling me that there's that. It's very helpful to be able to see how many people are supporting and also not to have one's emails completely buried by the same email. Thank you.
 Hundreds of times. I appreciate it. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, this isn't our first rodeo. We've learned how to work together, so thank you for your support. I appreciate that. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Steve Siegel. I'm here on behalf of the Downtown Development Group. In our written testimony, we've asked for four amendments to the Central City Code. I'll focus on two or three of them, depending on time. The first issue deals with the undersupply of transferable FAR in the West End.
 The West End is about half the size of the Pearl District and the downtown district. It contains disproportionate amounts of surface lots, which are prohibited from transferring FAR, underutilized parcels, which will not transfer FAR, and a disproportionate amount of historic landmarks, which can only transfer FAR after seismic upgrades.
 The city identified an undersupply of FAR in the University District and fixed it by allowing transfers from the downtown district into the University District. We ask that the same thing be done for the West End. Second issue addresses a site we own on Southwest First abutting the Morrison Bridge ramps.
 The proposed plan prohibits parking access off of Southwest First where the light rail operates. On this site, Southwest First divides. The light rail dips under the bridge ramps while an auto circulation lane stays at grade. That auto circulation lane is known only at a different grade. It's also physically separated from the light rail alignment.
 We ask that parking access be allowed subject to an adjustment off of that portion, that segregated portion of Southwest 1st, and by doing so it will be able to avoid having the parking access on Southwest 2nd, which is a city bikeway. Another issue I will raise is the height limits on the block directly north of the Galleria.
 That block had its height limits reduced because of a viewpoint, which is not iconic. It's a new viewpoint. The city's own analysis rates it as isolated, remote, lack of access. And as a result, a swath of height through downtown is reduced, including on this site. And this site is particularly important for the city because it is a site of a—
 anticipated major mixed-use development that's supposed to anchor the west side of the retail corridor. Thank you. Thanks, Steve. Mayor, can I just ask a question? Commissioner Fish, you're back. Thank you for laying out the four amendments. I want to go back to the west end for a second. So you're asking for an adjustment on the current limitations on the transfer of FAR? Yes, we're asking that, similar to the University District, that the –
 that the FAR can be transferred into the West End from the downtown district. What would be your view if the council fashioned some kind of amendment that allowed some transfer of FAR, provided it was to a building that was residential and where the inclusionary housing requirement was met on site?
 Well, I don't know that I have a problem with that amendment in and of itself. However, it doesn't solve another problem, which is those buildings that might be mixed use. I mean, one of the objectives of doing the West End plan 15 years ago, I was involved in that, was to make it mixed use. Fair enough. And, of course, the inclusionary housing requirement is only a percentage of the residential. But I'm curious.
 I appreciate you laying out some concerns you have. I would like to get some feedback from you at some later point about whether this could be done in a targeted way that ensures we get more housing with inclusionary housing investments made on-site and not in lieu. Yes, Commissioner, we'll get back to you on that. Thank you. Thank you. Please go ahead.
 Good afternoon. My name is Charlie So. I'm a member of Portlanders for Parking Reform, and I'm also here with No More Freeway Expansions Coalition. I'm here to tell you that urban freeway expansion has never solved congestion. Numerous research studies have shown that adding more road capacity results in more driving. This phenomenon is called induced demand.
 and it makes freeway widening projects fruitless by eroding new capacity. In 2015, the California State DOT publicly acknowledged that widening freeways inevitably creates more traffic. Research shows that a capacity expansion of 10% leads to an increase in VMT by 6% to 10%. So why does adding capacity create more traffic?
 When driving is inconvenient because of congestion, many people respond by driving in off-peak hours or on alternative routes or traveling by different modes or not taking the trip altogether. So when we add new capacity to make driving easier, we're incentivizing people who previously make other choices to avoid congestion to drive on the freeway during rush hour.
 So what is the alternative to investing $450 million in a freeway widening project?
 Well, to ensure that our existing transportation system is working efficiently, we need to implement congestion pricing. We also need to invest in affordable options like public transit and bicycling. The transportation is the second largest household expenditure after housing, and we need to make living in Portland more affordable by enabling people to not depend on driving.
 We are at a crossroads here today, and we have to decide what kind of city Portland will become in the future. Will we build more freeways and let our city be choked by cars, or will we take rational and responsible actions today to ensure that Portland remains livable and affordable? For these reasons, I urge City Council to take the I-5 roads quarter expansion project out of the central city plan. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next three, please. Are Tony Jordan, Kim Marks, and Izzy Armenta, and they'll be followed by 12, 13, and 14, Stuart Emmons, Walter Weiler, and Dan McFarling. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Tony Jordan, the founder of Portlanders for Parking Reform, and I also believe that urban freeway expansion has never solved congestion. Thank you.
 Our planet is convulsing. We're drowning and burning at the same time. Our federal government is in denial, and our children are looking to us to take responsible action. Against this backdrop, we're considering a 20-year plan that expands highways and builds more parking garages. This is not a responsible action. This plan and its action plans calls for public resources to build or incentivize more car garages in Chinatown and Central Eastside Industrial Districts.
 These garages will be full of stalls that are very expensive, $50,000 or more if we take the Convention Center as an example, and we'll be paying for them for decades. These are no-wing garages. If we meet our mode split and climate goals, we won't generate revenue and we'll lose a lot of money. If they are full, that will signal that we failed in our more important climate goals.
 Prosper Portland and Peabot say the garages can be converted to other uses. I say prove it. I ask the council to require that any garage built, leased, or purchased by the public be 100% convertible to active uses. Housing, offices, retail, not storage. I also ask you each to think deeply about the message that building these garages send and the legacy it will leave.
 Mayor Wheeler, you've been outspoken on climate and I really appreciate that. And you're also the Commissioner for Prosper Portland. If you think that these garages are the right thing to build, I challenge you to name them after yourself. So in 20 years, Portlanders can look upon the Ted Wheeler parking garage and determine if it was a good investment or wonder why we're still paying for something that no one uses and that undermined our climate goals for 20 years.
 So please remove the amendments in the action plan that call for more structured parking and require that any new public parking be 100% convertible to active uses. Thank you. That was very clever. Well played. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Ken Marks. I'm the Director of Transportation Equity for the Rosewood Initiative. Excuse me.
 Rosewater Initiative supports the concept of value pricing or congestion pricing on the I-5 corridor, as long as there are mitigations for low-income people. However, we do not support the expansion of this corridor. We need to excuse me. Mayor, the captions are off. Yes, please.
 I'm sorry? The captions are off. We have to wait. They're probably switching at 3.30. Okay. Yep. Okay. Are they up? Almost. They're back on. I apologize for the interruption. No worries.
 We believe that the monies from congestion pricing can be used for other purposes as long as there are, again, mitigations for low-income people. Yesterday I testified in support of the Growing Transit Communities Project, which you approved. We also talked about upgrading 148th and 162nd
 so that they would be accessible for people using public transit and create north-south transit corridors. Earlier, a couple weeks ago I believe it was, you also approved the enhanced transit corridors plan. In both conversations, the question kept coming up, how can we pay for these plans? Yes.
 Congestion pricing on the I-5 corridor and on I-205, I would add, can help pay for these projects and then some. A couple numbers to think about when thinking about how to spend half a billion dollars.
 $500 million would buy, if I may, 500 linear miles of sidewalks, 5,000 crosswalks that are signalized depending on the amount of treatment, or 1,000 buses.
 That's a lot of effort towards safety. That's a lot of effort towards reducing congestion. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your testimony. Mayor, I'm going to claim naming rights for the eco-roofs. Thanks for that, Tony. That's good material. Did Izzy Armenta, did I get that? Izzy Armenta, number 11.
 We'll go with Stuart Emmons, number 12, Walter Weiler, and Dan McFarling, 12, 13, and 14. Thank you. And they'll be followed by Bob Sollinger, Mary Coolidge, and Jim Labby, 15, 16, and 17. Stuart, why don't you go ahead, please? Okay. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 It's nice to be here. We are Portland. Our history of progressive urban ideas is impressive. We are a city with a level of livability that is the envy of many U.S. cities. We're growing. We might have 600,000 new residents in the next few decades. Our freeways are already clogged. Finding affordable housing close to where people work is more and more of a challenge.
 Freeway expansion is hugely expensive and proven not to reduce congestion. Mobility is a large component of our livability. We need to prioritize mass transit and bikes and not add freeway lanes.
 The half a billion dollars for the roads quarter is a terrible investment in our future. The money should be reallocated to four things. One is to make mass transit faster, like going underground in downtown, and increase service to East Portland. Two, to improve bike and pedestrian safety and increase bike lanes. Three.
 Three, congestion pricing that is equitable. I'm very concerned about congestion pricing for people who have lower incomes in outlying areas. And four, a long-term plan to get I-5 off our central east side waterfront.
 Please reallocate all funds dedicated for freeway expansion in Portland to improve mobility, improve livability, and improve our environment. Let's do a Portland solution. Let's not add a half a billion dollar freeway lanes that's only one mile long for two little lanes. Let's add bike lanes. Let's add mass transit options. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Nicely done. Thanks.
 Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, thank you for this hearing and thank you for your dedicated service. It is recognized and appreciated. I'm Walter Weiler. I'm an owner of property and resident in the West End. My comments concern the South Park blocks, a unique oasis and treasure of Portland's pedestrian-friendly culture. This green walkway deserves special protection as it ultimately becomes a key segment of...
 of the inspirational Green Loop. Two suggestions. Move the South Park and bordering blocks into the West End Planning District, thus removing this sensitive oasis from the high-density plans of the central city. Number two. Limit building heights bordering the park blocks to 75 feet for reasons of sunlight, density, and preservation of park blocks' peaceful, welcoming neighborhoods.
 to avoid the creation of a park and a canyon. Thank you for considering my suggestions. That is my one-minute story, and I'm sticking to it. Very good. Thank you, sir. Good job, Walter. The next three are Bob Sollinger, Mary Coolidge, and Jim Labby, 15, 16, and 17. And they'll be followed by Michael Alina, Ed McVicker, and Sadefumi Uchiyama.
 18, 20, and 21. Bob, on behalf of the council, we want to express our condolences about your VW bus. It had a good run. Tragic. Thank you. It had a good run. I suppose in the scheme of things, the loss of a VW bus to a fire is a very small thing these days, but sad nonetheless.
 Good afternoon. My name is Bob Salinger. I'm the conservation director for the Portland Audubon Society. We participated extensively in the development of the central city plan, served on a couple of the committees. We're excited about this plan. It's been a while since the city of Portland has really brought forward new, innovative, green plans.
 initiatives. We're a national leader, but we've been in sort of a slow period in recent years, and this includes some really exciting things. Bird-friendly building design, reduced light pollution, expanded greenway, district tree targets, green loop, and green roof mandate. We submitted extensive comments on this plan. We urge you to support all of those things, but we're also asking you to consider a few amendments that we think would make them stronger. I'm going to highlight a couple, and then Mary Coolidge from Audubon will highlight a couple more.
 The first is the greenway expansion from 25 to 50 feet. This is absolutely essential to meet our ecological goals, our access goals, and our recreational goals. But unfortunately, that expansion doesn't come with any mechanisms to actually get existing development when it redevelops out of the greenway. It's likely, and most of those second 25 feet are already developed, it's likely that those will continue to be developed over time. Unless we either put in regulations or incentives to encourage people to move back,
 And so we're really urging you to consider including some sort of mechanism to do that. The second thing that I want to highlight is the green roof mandate. We support Commissioner Udaly's recommendation amendment to expand that to 100%. 60% really is too low.
 We also encourage you to bring back the incentive program for buildings under 20,000 square feet that are not covered by this mandate and to focus primarily on projects that have an equity component to them. It's important that we get green roofs on all of our structures, and I think the incentive program for buildings underneath 20,000 square feet would be very helpful.
 Finally, we are a member of the No New Freeway Coalition. We strongly oppose the expansion of the freeway. I want to focus really on the climate change impacts and on the air pollution impacts and on the equity impacts. This is not consistent with our equity goals, our climate change goals, and it diverts funding from places that really do need it. So we strongly encourage you to vote.
 to go beyond simply the congestion pricing and to eliminate this project altogether. Thank you. Thank you. So is it Audubon's position that solar installations and eco-roofs can coexist? Absolutely. All the data shows that actually they are not only compatible, solar panels function better on top of an eco-roof because of the cooling effect that they have. Thank you. So they can go together. Thanks. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 I actually think I'm up next. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Mary Coolidge, and I work for Audubon Society of Portland. We applaud the inclusion of a bird-safe glazing standard and exterior lighting standard in the Central City 2035 plan, which demonstrate the city taking steps to ensure that we are maintaining the ecological integrity of our urban landscape.
 We strongly support the establishment of a new bird-safe exterior glazing standard to address window strike hazards on the glassiest buildings in the central city. Window collisions are among the leading killers of birds worldwide, and across the United States, strikes account for up to a billion deaths annually. As Portland grows and develops, it is important to address the ever-increasing hazard of unmarked glass, especially in light of glazing increases designed to activate ground floor uses.
 Adoption of a bird-safe glazing standard is consistent with the City's green building policy and will help meet comprehensive plan policies calling for bird-friendly building design. The Central City Plan also includes requirements to limit light pollution along the Willamette River Greenway. While we appreciate this step forward, we would like to see the City take a more significant step to comprehensively address the growing issue of light pollution in our region.
 There is a large body of evidence demonstrating that artificial light at night has negative impacts on human health, fish, wildlife, and plants. Poorly designed inefficient lighting also represents tremendous wasted energy and obscures stars that migrating birds rely on to navigate. The cumulative impacts of light pollution are not limited to areas along the river, and addressing light pollution across the entire central city is critical, given the amount of development that is projected to occur in our city in the coming decades.
 We urge City Council to take a step forward to apply best management practices in exterior lighting to the entire central city in order to meet comprehensive plan policies, climate action plan goals, and to minimize a broad range of unintended health, safety, and ecological impacts.
 Written comments submitted yesterday by Audubon Society of Portland reflect specific recommendations for expansion of the exterior lighting standard. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, City Council. My name is Jim Blabby. I'm here today as the new interim director of DPave. DPave is looking for a new executive director, if anyone's interested.
 I hope to save some time. We want to second the comments from the Urban Forestry Commission Policy Committee and Audubon Society of Portland. We're also signatured to the No More Freeways Expansions Coalition as an organization that's dedicated, dedicating our sweat, blood, and tears to removing unnecessary pavement.
 For people, wildlife, and water, we really are disappointed to see unnecessary pavement going in, especially with so little results to expect in the new freeway expansion.
 There is a lot to support in the Central City Plan, and we thank you for that. It could still go a long ways to really achieve the aspirations in the new comp plan that envision a new relationship between green infrastructure and the built environment really for public health at its core. We really appreciate and support Commissioner Udaly's amendment to expand the eco-roof requirement requirements
 provisions. And we've submitted written comments. I would just want to highlight the issue of the canopy targets in the central city. We really feel like they fall short and accept the existing limitations without aspiring to something larger in terms of what we can do, especially in
 The opportunities are particularly fruitful in the public right-of-way, and I think if the council moves forward with the public right-of-way task force, inter-bureau task force that you're going to be looking at in November, we can start looking at those opportunities.
 There's a lot there we can do to expand the urban forest canopy. The last piece I wanted to really emphasize is removing those exemptions in Title 11 for the commercial industrial lands that were meant to be temporary and really allow the extension of really toxic neighborhoods by giving everything we know about what trees and how they function for public health.
 not requiring just the basic standards in Title XI to the entire city is to continue to allow that. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks to all three of you. We're going to go back to number 14, Jim Howell, and we'll do Ed McVicker and Sadafumi Uchiyama, and they'll be followed by 22, 23, and 24, Burton Francis, Wendy Rahm, and David Dixon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. I have some testimony to hand it out. My name is Jim Howell. I also agree that expanding freeways does not solve congestion, but public transit does. The transportation system plan and the central city plan do not address the travel needs that are...
 of commuters that are not destined to downtown. Most jobs in the metro region are outside the central city, yet inter-regional commuters must travel through it if they choose public transit. These commuters will continue to drive around downtown on crowded freeways because taking buses or MAX through downtown will continue to be slow, crowded, and unreliable, and MAX lacks capacity for future growth.
 The interlockings at the approaches to the steel bridge are at capacity today. Max needs an additional river crossing and must be able to bypass downtown streets if it is to meet the public transit needs of the future. Unfortunately, these vital needs are totally ignored in the TSP and the CC-2035 plan.
 An east-west MAX tunnel between the Lloyd District and Goose Hollow, with subway stations at Rose Quarter and Pioneer Square, plus a north-south MAX viaduct across the inner east side connecting the Rose Quarter to the MAX station at OMSI, could provide this infrastructure. The cost would be substantial, but probably no more than the cost of the proposed southwest corridor project, with its many flaws.
 Ridership growth on TriMet peaked three years ago. Last year, it dropped 2%. Fewer people are riding buses than they did 20 years ago. And ridership is even dropping on max. Meanwhile, traffic congestion is increasing on both city streets and freeways at an alarming rate. Why, then, is a freeway expansion the only significant transportation project in the CC2035 plan?
 The IFI Broadway-Weidler project proposed by ODOT will be a total waste of taxpayers' money because even with much-needed congestion pricing, it does not provide an alternative.
 And since it's beginning, I won't talk about the alternative. There is one. But I say until an alternative analysis is completed that models the comparative costs and benefits of each mode in the corridor, please eliminate this project from the plan. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Udaly, Fritz, and Fish, for the opportunity to speak before City Council today. My name is Michael Elena, and on behalf of the Portland Japanese Garden, as a volunteer and trustee on the board, I would like to address the CCSW 06 view corridor as proposed by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. In testimony before the Planning and Sustainability Commission, I felt our message...
 and request for a protected view corridor for the Portland Japanese Gardens view of Mount Hood, looking east from the Garden Pavilion building, was misunderstood. To that end, the BPS approved a truncated view corridor, which does not address the potential impact of trees in the environmental zone between Southwest Sherwood Boulevard going east to the South Reservoir in Washington Park. On behalf of the Portland Japanese...
 I am asking that the current view corridor as described by BPS be amended to extend the Portland Japanese Gardens view corridor through the environmental zone between Southwest Sherwood Boulevard to the South Reservoir in Washington Park.
 The Portland Japanese Garden request this change because we believe the mature height of western red cedars and Douglas firs can reach well over 300 feet. That potential will impact the view looking east from the pavilion in the garden to Mount Hood. We look at this issue from a perspective of 50 to 100 years out.
 Please refer to the attached drawings which illustrate current recommendations from BPS and the Garden's request for the corridor extension. A protected view corridor, including this extension, is instrumental in our ability to protect one of the most iconic views in the city, a view that is near and dear to hundreds of thousands of Portland citizens and visitors to the Portland Japanese Garden every year.
 We appreciate your support and assistance in moving this cause forward. It is an unselfish pursuit whose intent is to preserve a treasure for all time. Thank you. Very good. Michael, if I could. Michael, thank you for the presentation and the materials. And I had an opportunity to go up to the Japanese Garden and actually see for myself what you're proposing. And I have to say, and the mayor now has offered an amendment, which would be...
 meet this objective. And I'm hard-pressed to find a reason why we should not support that, but I'll be listening carefully to the testimony, and when the planning staff comes back, I have some questions. This does not give you license to do anything. This just creates a corridor so that there are opportunities to manage the view in
 I do believe that this particular view corridor is one of the treasures of our city, and it ought to at least be protected so that the Japanese Garden and other stakeholders can have a say in how it's managed. But I'd be interested to hear if there's any opposition to this from any of the public. I would as well, and I want to reinforce the fact that we're doing something looking 100 years out. We want to protect this for generations to come. Well, thank you. Thank you.
 Was there an Ed McVicker? Okay, he's number 20. And we'll go with Sadafumi Uchiyama and Burton Francis. And they'll be followed by Wendy Rahm, David Dixon, and Rick Caskey, 23, 24, and 25. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Ed McVicker.
 I'm a resident of Portland in the Crestwood Edition. I'm also a volunteer at the Japanese Garden. I'm on the board. I go there once a week and clean the moss, and I've grown to love the place. I'm here to support and give a big thumbs up to the amendment that you offered, Mr. Mayor, and feel that it's a wonderful opportunity for us to include in our planning process for the next, as Michael said,
 100 years, I think more than 50 because that seems more manageable to me, but it's still a wonderful opportunity to help us plan for the future. Incidentally, I would also like to support Mary Coolridge's notion about birds and the idea of non-strike whenever possible, avoiding that or at least mitigating that as much as possible and also the light pollution issue, not very often spoken of but highly important.
 So with that, I say thank you for your hard work and your consideration. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Sadahumi Uchiyama. I'm a private citizen and garden curator of Portland Japanese Garden. I just don't want to take any more time, so I would like to support Mike Erina's testimony. Thank you. Thank you, sir. We appreciate your being here. Thanks for your great work. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Burton Francis. I'm a resident of the Pearl, and I'm an attorney.
 Oregon State Planning Goal Number 1 mandates that land use actions must occur through a broadly representative cross-section of affected citizens in all phases of the planning process. And yet, according to the Northwest Examiner analysis, 24 out of the 33 West Quadrant SAC members were developers, architects, or other related interests. And also importantly, I think it's important to point out that few actual residents of the central city were a member of that SAC.
 So the composition of the SAC was not broadly representative, but it was rather heavily skewed towards the development interests that are financially directly benefiting from the activities of that SAC and from the economic changes that occur from this plan. Thank you.
 An ethics complaint was filed, as you know, regarding the West Quadrant SAC, and the ombudsperson found that the SAC members are public officials and thus required to disclose conflicts of interest. And the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability attempted to rectify that failure by requiring after-the-fact disclosures.
 Yet, as recently stated by one of the SAC members, and I quote, the issue was not simply SAC members voting in their own undisclosed interest, but actively advocating in their own interest for increase in height on properties that they controlled without any disclosure, either before or after. So since there was no transparency in the face of quite robust conflicts of interest, the process itself produced recommendations that are irredeemably unscrupulous.
 So regarding after-the-fact disclosures, the facts as set forth in Plan Volume 6, Attachment B, show that almost 10 percent of the SAC didn't even respond to the after-the-fact disclosure request. So the remedy didn't work. Thus, the conflicts are not even of nondisclosure, that they didn't even dignify this counsel with disclosure. Okay.
 are a complete unknown. They can't be fathomed. So I would request that the council reject and redo the West Quadrant portion of the plan because of those unfathomable unknowns that can't be corrected by the council. I would just add that I wholeheartedly endorse the mayor's two view corridor proposals. We could call them the Wheeler view corridors. That's fine with me. Okay.
 And also, Commissioner Fritz, I endorse your step-down proposal. If you remember my prior testimony before this council, I am a big fan of that design criteria, and it's very centrally set forth in all the design criteria that we have. Thank you. Thank you. Have you compiled a map of WIPA?
 which particular properties in the West End you feel have a conflict of interest on them? There has been some work done on that. I haven't done it myself, but I know that it's out there. But my request, and I'm glad you're asked, my request would entail that I think to do a complete do-over is unmanageable and we've got to move forward. But I think that if there's a two-step remedy where there's an investigation that identifies those things, and then there are recommendations that say, well...
 despite that they still make sense, or there are alternatives. That would be the true remedy of this situation. Thank you very much. I appreciate that suggestion. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. The next three are Wendy Rom, David Dixon, and Rick Caskey, and they'll be followed by 26, 27, and 28, Richard Lowenstone, Andrew Plambeck, and Shelley Romero.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Wendy Rahm, a West End resident and a board member of Architectural Heritage Center Bosco Milligan Foundation. Over the last five or six years, I've attended most of the meetings of the Central City Concept Plan and the West Quadrant Plan. There was no voice for the West End on the West Quadrant Stakeholders Advisory Committee, also called the SAC. More important, there were serious conflicts of interest on the SAC, as was confirmed by the Ombudsman's finding.
 In my view, this is serious enough to call for creating a new committee with a higher percentage of central city residents and excluding non-Portland residents to review the flawed conclusions contained in this plan, especially regarding building heights, FAR, vistas, and unmet open space needs of the West End as it densifies.
 Most important is that the maximum building heights in the West End need to be lowered to 100 feet. The result will be to discourage demolition, encourage rehabilitation and reuse, both of which will help preserve a large number of existing affordable housing units in the district, a top priority today. See examples of affordable housing on pages 2, 4, and 5 in my detailed recommendations.
 This area is also dense in pre-1935 buildings, whose architecture tells Portland's story. As award-winning West Coast writer Wallace Stegner said, if you don't know where you are, you don't know who you are. Place is not a spot on the map. The West End's distinct sense of place consists of over 100 vintage Northwest buildings,
 The West End has been praised in national travel magazines and newspapers as a unique place worth visiting. There is economic value in its sense of place, never quantified in the height calculations for this plan. And Portland is known for its historic vistas, most of which disappear in this plan. Please consider reviewing the conclusions on these topics prior to final report.
 approval. And I would also like to add I support Wheeler's view corridor amendments and Commissioner Fritz's bridgehead and Commissioner Udaly's green roofs for sure, and Mary Coolidge's light pollution and bird amendments. Wendy, can I ask you a question? Yes. First of all, do you have a position on any of the proposed naming opportunities? No.
 No, I wish I did. Just kidding. Dan's not here, so feel free to... He can have the freeway. Yeah, well, there you go. But I would put your name on something. So I want to... Since you're the second person that's talked about the process question... Yes. ...and then how it affects what we're doing... Yes. First, I want to let you know that...
 My colleagues and I are working on a comprehensive update to how we deal with boards and commissions of the city. I am aware of that. And it is going to include new requirements, training, ways of tracking things. And it, frankly, was long overdue and has been informed by a number of examples that we've looked at. So thank you.
 I don't want you to think that's fallen on deaf ears, because I do think there's some things we need to do, standards we need to establish. I also think we need to do a better job of training, creating uniform bylaws, and giving the volunteers the tools they need to be successful. Absolutely. It's not just on them. It's on us, too. Yeah. But I want to go back, because we're going to hear from time to time people say, well, because there was a conflict of interest, we should start over. And I...
 You may agree or disagree with this, but let's say there was someone on the committee that had an undisclosed conflict and cast a vote. The concern that we have as a policy matter is that that person may personally benefit from something they're acting on, and we don't have the benefit of knowing that. So that is something that we need to curb in the future. Okay.
 But the recommendation that that person's voting on, whether a building should be 100 feet or a setback should be 25 feet or whatever,
 Those things to me feel like more objective kinds of standards that we're going to grapple with. And so it may be that someone supported a proposal because they saw a personal benefit, but I still think through this process we as a governing body get to look fresh at the recommendations. And so if you were to say that you're concerned about the conflict, fair enough,
 But what really resonates with me is, and I think the heights should not be above X in the West End, or I don't agree with the transfer of FAR, or I think this, because we have a chance to look at this fresh. So I just want to draw that distinction, but also let you know that there is a big update on boards and commissions. I really appreciate that. And, in fact, before coming to Portland, I served on a lot of different –
 advisory committees and one thing or another. And in the state of Virginia, they have very strict conflict of interest laws. If you have a conflict of interest first, you must disclose in writing. And then if that property comes under discussion, you must leave the room and you may not vote on it. Mm-hmm.
 And those are the kinds of things. So those are other possibilities. And frankly, again, I don't want to let us off the hook here. Yeah. I think there has been some...
 chronic confusion about who does qualify as a public official and what body of law applies. Yeah, I think that's fair. And I don't think that's on citizen volunteers to figure out. I think the city has to be much clearer about what we're asking someone to do, what their role is, what body of law applies, whether their e-mails can be obtained through public records. Right. And so –
 There are some long overdue changes coming, but I don't think it prevents us in this forum from addressing concerns you or anyone else have about the specific recommendations. I think that some of the conclusions, specifically, as I said, and certainly for the West End Heights,
 They were never really discussed because there was nobody at the table to discuss them. I was part of the public and came in and was limited to two minutes each session. And those issues that I raised were never discussed. Those things were passed on consent agenda.
 as a consent agenda item. So I do think that the building heights in the West End, the FAR issues, they've raised the FARs, and actually RX and CX, there are a number of issues that were just never discussed.
 So there I will. Thank you, Mayor. And they weren't discussed all that much at council either. Commissioner, I agree with everything that you said. Also, this process was identified as how we were going to correct the problems that the ombudsman found. So it is up to us, and that's why I was asking the question about which particular properties...
 should we look at more closely in this process? We've got two new members of the council. Yes, I appreciate that. We really do need to take a fresh look at the whole area. Yeah, that would be great. Very good. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm David Dixon. As a West End resident, I love to walk north along 10th Street to the library or Powell's, to the First Unitarian Church on 12th, to Artist Repertory Theatre on 15th, to the Portland Thorns Games
 at Providence Park. I love the old churches, the restaurants, the shops, the apartments, the occasional historic residence. They all come together in a slower-paced, comfortable, and walkable part of town that is unique to this city.
 Often when I head south on my return trip, I catch a streetcar. It's generally packed with a diverse group of Portlanders. People are always considerate to make seats available to the many elderly residents of the West End who do their business in the city by public transit. The West End is one of the densest areas of affordable, subsidized housing in the city. Many seniors, low-income people, and people with disabilities are my neighbors.
 I treasure my community and fear what would happen if more and more older structures were to be torn down and replaced with tall residential or commercial buildings. Would elderly people find space on overcrowded streetcars? Would they dare walk on busy streets? Would Section 8 apartments be replaced? Would they be able to live in a home that was not a home?
 By market-priced residences depriving Portland of an already inadequate supply of low-income housing, would my walks become more perilous through Pearl District-like traffic, sunless wind tunnels, and cold concrete and glass storefronts?
 I don't assume that affordable housing would survive this change. I urge the council to protect affordable housing and the unique livability of the West End and set 100-foot limits on building height. Thank you for listening. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. And first of all, I would like to thank the city council for all the time and effort you've put into making our city such a wonderful place.
 My name is Rick Caskey, and I have recently immigrated from the Pearl District to the West End. As a resident of the West End, I very much want to encourage the City Council to enact and enforce the 100-foot building height limit in the West End and to keep the FAR at 6.1, ratio of 6 to 1. And the reasons are it makes the area comfortable and accessible and friendly for locals and tourists.
 It helps preserve the feeling created by the many historic buildings that we have in the area. New buildings will then blend in and reinforce the existing field of the neighborhood. And it will reduce incentives to demolish the historic buildings in the neighborhood and encourage their rehabilitation and reuse. And it will provide a transition from the tall buildings in the downtown area to the shorter buildings in the neighboring districts.
 My second favorite city on the planet after Portland is Paris, France. The central part of Paris is an excellent example of the positive effects of limiting building heights and encouraging utilization of older buildings, which they in France have done for decades.
 On a similar topic, one of the wonderful aspects of living in the West End for locals and for the many visitors that we have is the South Park blocks. To allow tall buildings on the sides of the blocks would totally change the ambiance, making it more cave-like than park-like.
 and tall buildings would block the sunshine and therefore run the risk of negatively impacting the trees, plants, bushes, grass, and other vegetation that make the park blocks so appealing. So I highly support the concept of limiting the heights of the buildings that border the park blocks to 75 or 100 feet. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. The next three are Richard Lowenshone, Andrew Planbeck, and Shelley Romero.
 and they'll be followed by 29 30 and 31 steve leathers courtney ferris and adam sigal good afternoon mayor commissioners thank you for the work you've been doing and i
 Thank you for allowing me to offer my testimony on the draft. I'm a property owner and resident of the West End, and as a resident, I think it's very important to preserve the community feel that comes with a limitation on height for the many new buildings expected in our area in the coming years. Could you give us your name for the record, please? I'm sorry, Richard Lowenson.
 Many of the older buildings in the West End are attractive and should be saved. For this reason, I support the proposition to explicitly encourage reuse, rehabilitation, and seismic upgrade of buildings within this area. I also support the proposal to require protection of sunlight for the park blocks. Greenery and light are important to our community and very much at risk from the shadows of tall buildings such as that of the Ladd Tower.
 For the west end, I support an FAR of 6 to 1 with 100-foot maximum building height, which would still meet the city's density goals. At the same time, it would discourage demolition of these older buildings and support renovation. I have protested earlier against the conflict of interest among the developers who voted on the liberalization of building heights and zoning, and that's been amply covered here. I would just...
 reiterate that I think the height and zoning recommendations in that area should be revisited and residents of the communities involved should have a voice in the decisions.
 As anyone who has visited Europe will confirm, the most attractive urban areas are those that have been spared aggressive development through the ages, and thus retain some of their original character. An occasional tall building could be a landmark. A grouping of them creates sunless, windy canyons without views for anyone. The West End is both a cultural and a residential area, and tall towers bring a population density far beyond what this area was designed for.
 Totally off topic. I just want to support strongly the opposition to building a half-a-million-dollar freeway. I've lived in Los Angeles and San Francisco and Chicago, and every time a new freeway got built, all it did was create more density on the freeways and more expansion of traffic. Thank you. Half a billion.
 I have a billion. Yeah. My apologies. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Andrew Planbeck. I'm the Region 1 Government Liaison for the Oregon Department of Transportation, and I'm here to talk about the I-5 Rose Quarter project, which is the result of the I-5 Broadway-Whitler Interchange Plan, which was adopted unanimously by the City Council and the Oregon Transportation Commission in 2012. The project received funding in state gas tax dollars from the legislature earlier this year. Thank you.
 It'll add an auxiliary lane and shoulder to I-5 between the Fremont Bridge and I-84, creating a direct connection that will reduce weaving and merging to improve safety and operations without adding any additional through lanes. In addition to the highway improvement, the project will remove the Broadway and Wydler overcrossings, rebuilding them as an innovative lid over I-5, creating new open space and better east-west surface connections through the area.
 The project also includes a bicycle and pedestrian bridge at Clackamas Street, a key connection for the city's Green Loop concept. As ODOT moves into the environmental assessment on the project, we look forward to the city's partnership and an equitable process that builds on the planning work the city and ODOT have already done. At the same time, we are investing $130 million to build the Outer Powell Transportation Safety Project in one of the most diverse and underserved parts of East Portland, with that road being transferred to the city's ownership upon completion.
 We are also paving and rebuilding sidewalks and ADA ramps on Southeast 82nd from Foster to King with a $14 million investment and working closely with the city to build out safety improvements on North Lombard. Finally, ODOT is working to submit a proposal for value pricing on I-5 and I-205 to the federal government by the end of next year. Our advisory committee for guiding that work includes strong representatives for equity, social justice, and environmental justice to ensure that the proposal does not place the burden of managing congestion on those least able to afford it.
 We look forward to the City of Portland's partnership in all of these projects and hope the I-5 Rose Quarter project can be a solid foundation for the city's implementation of the other elements of the Central City 2035 plan, providing a catalyst for the vision shared today.
 Thank you. Can I just ask a question? Oh, of course. I'm sorry, folks. This is obviously a big issue here. If we didn't do the freeway widening bits of the project and we did all the others, would that still be funded by the state? My understanding is no. That's not what the legislature has provided funding for. And we can't just take that money and use it for something else? I do not believe so. Thank you.
 Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Shelly Romero. I'm the Public Policy and Community Affairs Manager for ODOT Region 1, and I'm here to kind of tag team on Andrew's remarks. I wanted to let you know that ODOT is leading an environmental and public process, which includes a robust understanding, research, and engagement strategy of the historically wronged African American community and other communities of color.
 We understand the historic inequity concerns and will engage all communities in this project. ODOT's work on the outer powell environmental and public process provided us with the opportunity to successfully engage upwards of about 100 folks from equity populations, including the Russian, Latino, Vietnamese, and Chinese communities, and also economically disadvantaged stakeholders, resulting in a project that is reflective of feedback from all communities. Thank you.
 ODOT, as part of any environmental project, is required to examine the benefits and burdens to environmental justice communities in how and where projects are being constructed and how decisions are being made. We follow this legally prescribed process, but we don't limit ourselves to only including additional. We look at additional tactics and strategies that will proactively, innovatively invite broad participation insights.
 As Andrew mentioned, we're investing $130 million for Outer Powell alone, not to mention 82nd Lombard, and some significant improvements on I-205 between the Johnson Creek Bridge and the Glenn Jackson Bridge, headed northbound and then also southbound. And for us, it's really not about is it East Portland versus Central City. It is and should be and can be about both.
 Several people have brought up the issue of congestion pricing, but there has been very little mention about how equity considerations when you look at congestion pricing on this section of I-5 would be taken into consideration. Finally, we invite the city to join us to find equitable transportation solutions and to work with us to implement this project.
 It's a quick opportunity for us to take a look at implementing multimodal transportation improvements and how these may facilitate zoning changes, development opportunities, and housing. And we welcome the city as a partner to examine, aside from transportation improvements, what other opportunities may present themselves to advance the central city plan. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three. Commissioner Fritz. One more personal provision. I just want to thank ODOT for all your work on the freeway barriers that we've seen going up all over the state. It's really much appreciated. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next three are Steve Leathers, Courtney Ferris, and Adam Segal, and they'll be followed by 32, 33, and 34, William Smith, Randy Gregg, and Steve Bozzone. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Steve Leathers. I'm here on behalf of Design Week Portland. Thank you.
 This spring, Design Week Portland completed its fifth year. The festival started as a grassroots collective of independent programs by and for Portland's design community. With over 300 events that span all disciplines, Design Week Portland has become the central address for design in Portland. With the community organized and activated, the festival has begun to act as an interface between the city, designers, and its citizens. Music
 The Green Loop served as a prototype for how competition and exhibition could function as a program of civic engagement through design. This year at the Red, we worked with Untitled Studio and created an exhibition, and there was a civic engagement that received over 400 responses in regard to the Green Loop and its future. And the sentiment was overwhelmingly positive. Positive responses outnumbered negative 2.8 to 1. That's really all I have to say.
 Thank you for your time. Thank you. Good afternoon. Mr. Mayor, missionaries, thank you for your time. I'm Courtney Ferris. I'm part of the team Untitled Studio that collaborated with Design Week Portland and others to pull together this design exhibition on the Green Loop. Our team spent the last year and a half thinking and listening to Portland's ideas and concerns about the Green Loop and how it could affect their community and their city. And I want to talk to you a little bit about what we've heard.
 So over the course of one week in April, an old warehouse in Central Eastside played host to a myriad of interactive activities and interventions focused on the Green Loop. From panel discussions to workshops, charrettes, prototypes, and tours, this experiment to engage Portland in the Green Loop resulted in participation of over 3,000 people.
 what we heard was overwhelmingly positive. The majority of people we talked with had collected comments from, were excited and supportive of the Green Loop's potential, but were concerned about the manner in which it is carried out. So to us, what we heard from the exhibition was not that we should pull away from pursuing this project, but instead dig in further and find ways to address these concerns, listen very carefully, and be critical and open to trying new ideas.
 It's been a very exciting, eye-opening, and humbling experience to speak and interact with so many about this project. As you begin to unpack the breadth of comments you've heard today, I hope you'll take a quiet moment to read through our final report where we have gone into more detail and dream for yourselves about how the Green Loop could be part of crafting the vision and values you hope for the future of our city. Thank you so much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Adam Siegel. I'm part of Untitled Studio with Courtney.
 And it's an honor to be here. Some of you are familiar because we've done a project together. And actually, in preparing these remarks, Mayor Wheeler, I thought a lot about your comments in the State of the City address this past March. In that speech, you spoke of a potential new West, a West Coast that will advocate progressive values in order to, quote, affirm our highest values and abandon our basic interests.
 basic instincts. You continued, quote, in the year to come, our city will show what it means to master the basic requirements of governance and address challenges that seem intractable. We will show what it means to live our values and generate new compelling ideas. I really...
 Love that. And in an interview this past January, you expressed to us that the Green Loop is, quote, exactly the kind of innovative vision that Portlanders can get around, and it's a long-term vision that could really do a great job of defining what we want the community to be in the distant future. Yeah.
 It's no secret to anybody here that Portland is facing a number of challenges. Rapid growth, displacement, crises of unaffordability and houselessness, which continually raise the question, who exactly is this city for? The feedback from our exhibition this spring revealed that those who are critical or concerned about the Green Loop are seeing it through this lens.
 Will the construction of the Green Loop continue to price out and displace longtime residents? Will it benefit only the wealthy? Will it homogenize Portland's unique character and make underrepresented populations feel unwelcome?
 As my colleagues have been keen to remind me throughout the past few years when we've been working on this, no matter how incredible the Green Loop is, it won't be able to solve all of these issues. But as an innovative vision for Portland's future, it can be built with a strong set of core values that define the Portland we all want to see.
 So I'm here today to ask that the Green Loop be built truly for everyone, that it be physically and culturally accessible, that it be developed through extensive community input, especially by those whose voices have historically been muted, that it feels welcoming and safe even for the persecuted, that it feels as if it belonged as much to the resident of the central city as to the resident of the outer neighborhoods, and that everyone, the houseless and the housed, feels a collective ownership of this unifying space in the central city. Thank you. Excellent testimony. Thank you.
 The next three are William Smith, Randy Craig, and Steve Bazone. And they'll be followed by 35, 36, and 37, Thomas Ray, Martha Sharp, and Dave Woodall. Very good. And colleagues, just while they're coming up, at what time do we think we lose the quorum?
 We've got a 4.30 time certain, right? We're going to stop on that one. Just to update people, we're obviously not going to get to everybody's personal testimony today. Again, there will be other opportunities for those of you that we don't get to today and we'll of course take written testimony anytime. I apologize that we're not going to be able to get through everybody's testimony today. We will move into the next item and it may be that
 How many people are signed up for the last item? I do not have that sheet. Okay. Or is that it right there? That looks like – do you have the other one? Well, we'll worry about that in a minute. One person, it looks like, signed up for 430. Sorry? So we only have one person signed up for that one? So we can maybe keep going. Yeah. So why don't we do this? Why don't we – let's add at least another 15 minutes and go to 445 and see where we are.
 And then it would be your intention, Mayor, that people who've signed up would be called in the order that they signed up for next time? Still, absolutely. Yeah, that would, I think, be the equitable thing to do. Good.
 Thank you. Sorry to interrupt. Can I just clarify one point that was made? The written testimony, the record, the way it was noticed, the record closes on the 15th. Correct. And then it can be reopened in the future when council is taking amendments. But there is a time when the record will close for written testimony. That is correct. And that is 5 p.m. on September 15th. So thank you for that reminder. Sorry. Thank you.
 Hello, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. My name is William Smith, and I'm the last member here from Untitled Studio. There are a wide range of issues being discussed in today's City Council throughout the metro area, and compared to the scale of some of these concerns, it could seem easy to write off the Green Loop as something built only for those living in the central city. But I am here to express that the Green Loop is, in fact, something that should matter to all Portlanders across the metro area.
 We understood the Green Loop as a beginning, as a prototype to test a new way for residents to decide for themselves how the public commons in their neighborhood is developed. Already expressed by my colleagues, this brings added potential and responsibility to the project. The Green Loop could be Portland's chance to redefine and update how it does urbanism throughout all of its neighborhoods.
 People in all parts of Portland are starting to get tired of the old methods of public engagement, and we all know that we need to find new approaches. We need to find a new model where residents have ownership over their local commons. That is why with our Assembling a Mosaic exhibition with Design Week Portland, we pushed so hard to share an open framework approach to urbanism where engaged residents are given the power to develop their public spaces as they see fit.
 This would be a model that could be replicated by different communities throughout Portland. This means a unified public work reflecting the localized needs of many communities, all run directly by Portland residents. That's what the Green Loop could be. It's our once-in-a-generation opportunity to actually try something truly new. It's about far more than just the central city. It's about how Portland as a whole can grow.
 In coming years, Portland will have to add more alternative transit infrastructure throughout the metro area through both new and old established neighborhoods. The Green Loop, then, is our chance right now to test how to do this appropriately in a way that not only allows communities to survive but helps them to truly thrive. I am strongly for the creation of the Portland Green Loop, but only if it is truly used to push the boundaries of how Portland enables its residents to have ownership over the growth of their communities, both in the central city and throughout the metro area.
 The Portland Green Loop will set a precedent for decades to come for better or for worse, so let's make sure that it's one we can believe in. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Mr. Mayor, Madam Commissioners, my name is Randy Gregg, and I conceived and oversaw the Design Week Portland's international design competition for the Green Loop.
 We had over 50 entries from four continents for this, and the idea captured the country's imagination of designers. $55,000 of investment leveraged $400,000 in in-kind services for an exhibition on the loop that drew more than 3,000 people. People love this project.
 All of this talent and enthusiasm represents an opportunity of a generation to create a powerful new place in the city, but also a powerful new image of Portland. Great cities survive over the decades and the centuries through booms of growth and depressions and profound social change and even wars through the enduring power of their public spaces and the perception of a city they create.
 Part of that is a ground game of trees and paths and benches and fountains and such, but part of that is kind of an air game of simple, easily recognizable acts of major placemaking that are visible from a hilltop or on a map. Barcelona's Los Ramblas, Jerusalem's Ben Yehuda Boulevard, Boston's Emerald Necklace. The dominant image of Portland on a map was drawn by Robert Moses in the mid-40s, the I-5 and I-405 loop.
 The Green Loop could change that dramatically. Untitled Studio took a concept of the Green Loop and gave us a strategy for how we can come together as a community and make that image together over time. It begins as a loop in the central city, but it can easily expand into an outward web that will knit us all firmly together.
 There is a campaign afoot to stop all investment in the green loop until, quote, advancing similar investments driven by frontline communities and areas of the greatest need. I wholeheartedly agree with the second part of that statement. But public investment is really about the leverage of public good, but also about the further private investment for that public good.
 The entire city is going to see unparalleled growth. Let's use public policy and investment to leverage our ground and air game so we can connect the entire city by building the green loop into a green web. Thank you. Very well done. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioners. My name is Steve Bazone.
 Expanding urban freeways has never solved traffic congestion. I'm a small business owner, and I sat on the I-5 Rose Quarter Project Stakeholders Committee back in 2012 and have closely followed the project since. I drive, bike, take transit, and walk along the I-5 corridor daily. I breathe the polluted air along with my neighbors, and I sit in the same traffic.
 I participated in the public engagement process for the I-5 Rose Quarter expansion project every step of the way. I am here to tell you the process was abysmal. The local community surrounding the project area was not well represented and mostly ignored. Albina's black community, who bore the brunt of the negative effects of I-5 bulldozing through their neighborhood, vaporizing 1% of the city's housing stock, were curiously not at the table. Freight companies, industry, and developers dominated every meeting.
 When I tried to build relationships with ODOT staffers that designed charrettes and asked for their business cards, they laughed at me. I joined with the Elliott and Irvington neighborhoods to vote no on the project. This was purely a highway expansion project from the start. ODOT knew what they were doing. They kicked things off by proposing huge flying diamond interchanges and giant off-ramps. Really scary stuff. Peabot was in the room, but ODOT was in the driver's seat.
 Alternative proposals submitted that did not include freeway widening were quickly swept into ODOT's recycle bin and deemed out of scope. The effect is that we are supposed to be relieved ODOT didn't bulldoze half of the Lloyd District.
 including assurances of basic service improvements alongside the freeway widening, was simply an effort to sugarcoat the highway project for skeptical Portlanders. It is a myth that we cannot improve the service conditions without the highway portions. We do not have to accept freeway expansions in the urban core as the ticket to service improvements. There are no guarantees the service improvements will be funded or delivered.
 Try tolling first. Focus on where the real safety problems are. Expanding highways does not improve congestion. We know these things now. For our children's sake, I hope you don't repeat the mistakes of the past. I urge City Council to support the request made in the No More Freeways letter. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all three. Next three are Thomas Ray, Martha Sharp, and Dave Woodall.
 And they'll be followed by 38, 40, and 42, Ron Buell, Kerry Richter, and Rose Kowalski. Good afternoon. Thank you, and thank you for your time. I'm Thomas Ray, speaking on behalf of more than 500 residents at the American Plaza Towers Condominiums at Southwest First Avenue in Lincoln in the South Auditorium neighborhood.
 The Halpern open sequence defines our 50-year-old neighborhood and challenges us to extend its legacy. American Plaza, the southern anchor of the Halpern blocks, was participating in its evolution since 1970.
 proposed tripling of building heights and far limits from 75 feet and a 2 to 1 far, under which we were built, is now proposed with bonus and transfers to a maximum of 250 feet and a 6 to 1 far.
 It runs counter to the open sequence scale and concepts and exceeds right sizing needed for sensible neighborhood growth. It jeopardizes our pedestrian character, erodes the open sequence theme, violates planning policy of building height step downs to the river.
 threatens existing Green Boulevard streetscapes of First Avenue, Nato Parkway, and Lincoln Street, and the planned Greenway Loop. It will restrict viewpoints, sunlight, air, and space to the detriment of the neighborhood and promotes further congestion of two commuter roadways impacting pedestrian and light rail traffic.
 Our association letter to the City Council proposes two alternatives. I can only highlight one, and that is we propose to increase maximum height to 150 feet and increase far limit to 4 to 1, including bonuses and transfers, from 4th Avenue east to the river and from Harrison Street south to the 405 freeway. We welcome growth, education, commercial and residential development as we have.
 We seek improved services for a more complete neighborhood, and the goal is to preserve our Halpern heritage and the livability of the South Auditorium University District. Thank you, and we respectively request consideration of these options. Thank you, sir. We appreciate your being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I am Martha Sharp, also representing the 500-plus residents of American Plaza Tower Condominiums.
 Tripling the building height to 250 feet and far to a ratio of 6 to 1 in the University District south downtown is not compatible with Portland-style living. Currently, Portland enjoys national prominence for its balance of blending people, nature, and urban development in its Halpern open space sequence.
 American Plaza was built at its south end as part of an urban oasis on a plaza podium design using a 2-to-1 FAR. This green vision was revolutionary, merging development within a hardscape that mimicked the river valleys beyond, complete with waterfalls, mountain paths, shade, sculpture gardens, and serenity.
 Importantly, towers and people were given space to breathe. In stark contrast, Portland could become like any other American city with monolithic blocks and deep canyons flanked by tall towers. Portland could not afford to turn the historic south downtown into another anonymous city.
 The lessons from landscape architect Lawrence Halperin must be heeded, as he stated, it isn't nature I'm after, it's humanity in nature, in culture, related all together. The proposed tripling of building height is to as much as 250 feet, and a six-to-one FAR aims to undo this ethic of Portland's civic pride.
 It is our wish that you take this into consideration. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Mayor, councillors, good afternoon. My name is Dave Whittle. I'm also one of the 500 residents of American Plaza Towers Condominium Association, and I represent the board here today. I want to thank you for hearing our testimony and for extending the session. Really appreciate that. I've been a Portland resident since 2012, and I moved to the city because of its reputation for progressive sustainability and livability. It provided a really welcoming alternative to other West Coast cities.
 In my former home, I served on three comp plan citizen committees. And while that doesn't necessarily make me a planning expert, well, it doesn't make me a planning expert, I've seen the tremendous amount of work that goes into crafting a comp plan that has to coordinate policy across many disciplines. And I appreciate your careful consideration of the revisions that may not reflect that same type of careful coordination today.
 American Plaza has been tied to Portland's urban renewal legacy for almost 50 years. We're eager and willing to work with the Design and Review Commission to maintain this legacy, but we also recognize the need to accommodate growth. We support responsible growth through the enhancement of neighborhood livability, so we're surprised to see a tripling of current allowances for Hithe and Farr in the South Auditorium District. Of course, it's home to the world-renowned Halpern Open Space Sequence,
 and the last two designated upland viewpoints in the central city. Central City 2035 prioritizes the protection of these quickly evaporating resources through the application of responsible and compatible maximum building heights and FARs.
 Such actions preserve our spectacular vistas, they ensure one-of-a-kind open spaces remain filled with sunlight and breeze, they support responsible growth, and they enhance our legacy of fostering a unique bond between people, nature, and urban spaces. Tripling building height than far in the South Auditorium District is at odds with our legacy, as well as the goals of Central City 2035.
 We support the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability's originally recommended increases to maximum building height and a four-to-one FAR as a responsible compromise, aligned with the vision we all share for Portland as one of the world's most livable cities. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, my understanding is that the staff presentation –
 On item 1,000 is only about five minutes, and we only have one person currently signed up. Do you mind if we continue this testimony until 5 p.m. and then take a brief compassion break and then come back for 1,000 at 5? Will that be accepted? Very good. Okay. So that's what we'll do. Next three, please. Ron Buell, Carrie Richter, and we'll go with Suzanne Crowhurst-Leonard. Thank you.
 and they'll be followed by Susan Bliss, Bill Failing, and Lincoln Puchow, 44, 45, and 46. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Ron Buell. For 50 years, a Portlander, and urban freeway expansion has never solved congestion. I was at the hearings in Salem for the transportation package, HB 2017. It was sold nonstop.
 as congestion relief in those hearings. And in my mind, that's a joke. One can look at the 50 million widening from two lanes to three at Victory Boulevard on I-5. Travel times in that stretch of highway have done nothing but go up since the widening. Or one can look at the widening from two lanes to three of the Sunset Freeway 26 from 185th to Sullivan Street.
 Travel times on 26 have done nothing but go up since that widening.
 Even PBOT, who would certainly love to have this alleged $453 million from the state for this project, won't claim that recurring congestion on this stretch of I-5 will be reduced by this widening. They won't claim it. They didn't before the Planning Commission. And the money hasn't been allocated for this project.
 TriMet hopes to package new taxes for Portlanders with TriMet's Southwest Light Rail Corridor measure in 2018, which would pay for this measure. Look, I support congestion pricing on all six of the freeways in our area.
 And we should insist that we want to see the results of congestion pricing before we expand any freeways, including this project. But that's not enough. This city council needs to develop some transportation backbone. Don Hamilton of ODOT said in the Portland Mercury that you were going to do what ODOT told you to do.
 And we just heard from the ODOT gentleman saying, gee, you can't transfer this money to something else. So I don't have time to read you my list of six other projects I think you should transfer this money to, but they're there. And I'm telling you, when we transferred the money from the Mount Hood Freeway to the light rail system,
 And we started the 50 miles of light rail that we have in this city. I was there. I was part of that.
 consideration. And the City Council and the Mayor Neil Goldschmidt did not have a low-level bureaucrat from ODOT tell them that they what they could or couldn't do with that money. They went to work to fight for it and we got it done. And we didn't build that freeway and we started 50 miles of light rail. And frankly I think that you
 get some guts, have some backbone. You know, say, we don't want this project, but we've got some things we'd love to spend this money on, safety things, and...
 the protected bikeways on state highways, I could go on. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Honorable Mayor and City Commissioners. My name is Carrie Richter. I'm an attorney at the law firm Bateman Seidel. I'm testifying this afternoon on behalf of Condah LLC and David Lichen. They are the owners of the Roseland Theater Building located at 810 Northwest 6th Avenue.
 This property is located outside the new Chinatown, Japantown Historic District. It is six blocks of a comfort property that is adjacent to the Historic District and north, directly north of West Burnside. Yet the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommended reducing the total building height for my client's property from 260 to 250 feet.
 The Council should reject the PSC recommendation and retain the existing height limits for a number of reasons. First, it will severely interfere with the existing redevelopment opportunities for this property. At the existing 460-foot height limit, Mr. Lichen could potentially save the existing Roseland Theater, transfer the FAR from the historic building to the remaining quarter block,
 and build a pencil tower on the remainder parcel and potentially join with the adjacent owner, David Gold, to realize the lost returns from retaining the three-story historic Roseland Theater. Cutting the potential building height to nearly half of what it is today will so severely impact the development expectations as to require maximizing development potential and potentially losing the Roseland Theater.
 I've submitted a letter into the record, but I would point out that there are a number of the city's central city plan goals that call for supporting tourism in this area, and the Roseland plays a key component. Second of all, the property is ideally suited for accommodating more intense development. It is outside a historic district. It is not in a view corridor area. The MAX train runs along Northwest 6th Avenue, abutting this property to the west, and it...
 Butts West Burnside, with the conversions of bus service, it's hard to imagine a more transit-friendly location. This site is across the street from the U.S. Bank building, which is 42 stories and 536 feet tall.
 A tall tower in this area would be entirely compatible. For these reasons, we ask that you reject the PSC's proposal to reduce height on the Roseland block and retain the existing 600-foot height limit. And I apologize for my little friend. No worries. Commissioner Fritz. I have a question. The conventional wisdom would be that having more height would be more likely to get demolishing and start over demolition.
 So what's the reason that you think it will preserve the existing structure rather than not? The Roselands Theatre is a designated historic resource. And the idea is you have a designated historic resource on a quarter block, and that leaves three-quarters of the block of non-contributing structure and parking lot. And the ability to maximize the growth there would be to save the Roseland, which Mr. Lakin has the intent of doing.
 And is it possible for a property owner to just get rid of the historic designation? Sure. Sure, there is. There's demolition review. Yeah. So, yes, it's possible. But it's hard for me to understand why this height reduction is proposed in this six-block area. Okay. Because it is in a view corridor, is not adjacent to a historic district, and is –
 I can't imagine why you can't think of what you wanted to say. Kerry, could you... You've been very patient, young man. Thank you very much. I was making notes as you spoke, but just tell us again, the proposal is to reduce it from what to what again? It's from $460 to $250.
 We're looking to it. Thank you. And the other thing I should point out is that this property doesn't carry with it the transfer of development rights as it does in historic districts. In the historic district, these folks can transfer their development rights, but these six properties were left out. And I think that that was a mistake. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your patience. Mom, I have a question. Let's go outside and you can tell me the question. Okay.
 A wise man. Thank you very much for your patience, Yama. That's a hard act to follow. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners Udalli, Fritz and Fish. I'm Suzanne Curris-Lenard, co-founder and director of the International Making Cities Livable conferences, but I'm here to read a testimony from Michael Mahaffey, who is executive director of Sustasis Foundation, who's out of the country speaking at a conference on urban planning.
 I previously testified, he says, about cautionary research into the impacts of tall buildings and the dangers of what I called voodoo urbanism. That is over-concentrating attention on the expensive cause of cities and neglecting the capacities of their many other neighborhoods to grow in a more benign way.
 As we see in so many other cities on the West Coast and elsewhere, the result too often is even more runaway loss of affordability, livability and heritage, displacement, over-gentrification, homelessness and other serious urban ills. I do believe the central city plan has significant defects in this respect. However, my focus in this letter...
 is on the failure of the plan to comply with statewide planning goal one. I believe the council is well aware of the potential conflicts of interest identified by the city auditor's office requiring the remedy that members of the West Quadrant Stakeholder Committee must file conflict of interest disclosure forms after the fact.
 Five members refused to do so, two of whom appeared to benefit financially from the increased heights that will go forward under the current plan. I believe it is therefore urgent that we restore the integrity of the planning process in perception and in reality. I believe this will require at a minimum a reconvening of a new stakeholder committee charged with reassessing the heights and fars of the West Quadrant,
 comprising a, quote, broadly representative cross-section of affected citizens as goal one requires. I suspect they will be convinced on the evidence that building heights of no more than 100 feet will be fully adequate to accommodate a more benign, diverse, diffuse form of urban growth and so preserve Portland's priceless livability and heritage. Thank you.
 The next three are Susan Bliss, Bill Failing, and Lincoln Tuchow. And they'll be followed by 47, 48, and 49, Tracy Prince, Liz Cooksey, and Eric Mason. Good afternoon. Hello. Thank you. My name is Susan Bliss. I moved to the West End 11 years ago because of its convenience and pleasant livability.
 But aspects of the plan on the table appear to threaten our neighborhood by inviting massive development at odds with its character. The issue is building height. Allowing structures 200 and 300 feet and higher in this area, now largely made up of residential units and low-rise small businesses, will drastically change our neighborhood and, by precedent, Portland overall.
 Expanded height limits will give developers the incentive they need to uproot trees, demolish many historic structures, and replace them with look-alike glass towers.
 Rehabilitation and expansion on a human scale is preferable to demolition, but if the city raises height limits in our downtown neighborhood, there is little hope for saving the current building stock. Not only do our older buildings give variety and texture to the urban scene, but many are also home to neighbors who cannot pay the awesome cost of high-rise living.
 Most sustainable and affordable is the structure that exists, not the tower that replaces an historic building after it has been demolished. According to Gerald Mildner of PSU, a building higher than five stories requires rent some two and a half times the rents from garden apartment developments.
 A major changeover to residential towers will put more Portland citizens at a loss for homes and add to our already burgeoning homeless population. In order to curb the raising of historic buildings and affordable housing units and to preserve the character of our neighborhood, please consider limiting West End building heights to 100 feet.
 I also wanted to say that I support the amendments announced by Mayor Wheeler to preserve site corridors from Salmon Springs and Japanese Garden, as well as Commissioner Fritz's call for changes in height restrictions at the river level. Thank you. Good afternoon. How's that for a segue going from bliss to failing? That's good material, Bill. That's good.
 I want to thank the commission today, first of all, for giving us the opportunity to express ourselves. And also, I really appreciated the eloquence.
 of those who have testified today and the passion for which they have. So it's been a very rewarding afternoon. And thanks for extending the time a little bit, because I'm glad you're going to have a chance to hear Tracy Prince, who's got a dynamite presentation. Time. Time. Time.
 I'm really here today to just address the, I think, the potential threat to the view corridors, and I really want to speak up about that. I think that planning with its best intentions is letting some of the soul of the city slip away.
 In particular, the quarters that I think matter the most to many of us is keeping the Jefferson Street view of the Vista Bridge as you come down Jefferson. It's one of the most iconic bridges in the Pacific Northwest, maybe, and it's being threatened. And right now, there
 There's a developer who is convinced that the corridor should be moved a little bit over to the left and it still doesn't work. And we need to take a close look at that. Mount Hood.
 Connecting Mount Hood to Portland, going back, it goes back to the very earliest days here. I was looking through some old records. I'm going to not be out of time here, I hope. But just a couple of lines from a letter from one of my ancestors describing to East relatives Portland as it was in 1863.
 The town itself looks as though it was dropped into a valley, the horizon being girded with a continuous belt of fir trees. The only peep of the outside world is Mount Hood, which looks up grandly beyond our fir ramparts, even then. So I say this, that we really need to pay attention to the viewpoints of...
 of the Mount Hood, the corridors that take the eyes to Mount Hood. One other point is when I drive up Vista Avenue, the name of the renowned Olmstead Brothers, named by the renowned Olmstead Brothers for its panoramic view of the city and of Mount Hood, I wonder today why it's still called Vista Avenue. Okay.
 It's impossible to see Mount Hood from there. So Mount Hood belongs to the entire city. I think that the view corridors are being manipulated to accommodate developers. Current views of this proposed draft are compromised. Also, please support the proposed changes to Salmon Springs to keep Mount Hood visible to all, as our mayor said earlier. Remember, once a view is lost...
 It's lost forever. Thank you. Mayor, may I make just one comment? Fish or fish? We do have time for Tracy, so I'm not cutting into your time. I have a comment to make about Bill that has nothing to do with his testimony. But I was channeling Bill failing today because this morning I attended a press conference
 where Restore Oregon officially announced that the Jansen Beach carousel had not only been found and saved, but it had been donated to Restore Oregon. Right. And now our beloved carousel is in the hands of a custodian that wants to be a good steward. And the challenge will be for our community to determine where we want to site it permanently,
 and to enter into a fundraising campaign because it's going to need a structure to protect it from the elements. It turns out it is of the 5,000 to 6,000 historic wood carousels built during the Golden Age, there are only 150 left. And this is – 1906 World's Fair in St. Louis, Nick. Right. And this one is arguably the greatest living example of that great tradition. Right.
 And the reason I say I was channeling Bill failing is that the last time we had a similar challenge was when the city that owns three steam locomotives did not have a home for those locomotives because they were evicted by a railroad tenant, a landlord.
 And Bill Failing and Mike Lindberg and a host of wonderful citizens got together. And through their efforts, we now have a new museum next to OMSI, which is home to our three steam locomotives. And I hope this city can summon the same spirit to create a new home for the Janssen Beats Carousel. Thanks, Nick. You had a lot to do with the rail museum also. Thank you, Bill. Very good. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Afternoon. My name is Lincoln Tuchel, and I'm a member of the Advocacy Committee for the Architectural Heritage Center. I'm also a broker with Urban Nest Realty.
 I would like to propose the following amendments to the 2035 Central City Plan. One is to reduce the building heights to 100 feet throughout the west end along both sides of the South Park blocks and in Goose Hollow. And two, to lower the floor-to-area ratio back to the original 6-to-1 from the 8-to-1 or 9-to-1 that's been in the latest draft. Thank you.
 Why reduce the maximum building height to 100 feet and the far to 7 to 1? There are several benefits to this proposal, but I want to focus on just one. And this being it will preserve low and middle income housing in the neighborhood. The West End has a plethora of medium rise vintage apartments, buildings that are not only architecturally beautiful, but affordable.
 I went on Craigslist just the other day to do a little experiment and compared rental prices between the older character buildings and the new high-rises in the West End and other downtown neighborhoods. And you know what? The difference is dramatic. Rents in the old buildings range from $800 to up to, say, $1,400 for studios and one-bedroom apartments.
 The prices in the new construction, the tall glass towers, tended to be much higher, often well over $2,000 a month and going much higher than that. If the current max heights of the CC2035 are kept in place, there will be tremendous market pressure to demolish these vintage buildings, and we will lose some of the best affordable housing stock in downtown Portland. This proposal also supports the goal of the draft of preserving housing diversity and no net loss.
 The City Council, you folks have made very impressive efforts recently to address the affordability crisis and I applaud you for that. And this way we can continue that. The character and historic flavor of the neighborhood will be preserved and affordable housing can be provided. It's a win-win.
 Remember, the greenest and most affordable building is often the one that is already built. We can accomplish two great Portland goals with a single policy decision, and I hope you will implement this proposal. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Why don't you do three more, and then let's do three more. The next three are Tracy Prince, Liz Cooksey, and Eric Mason. Thank you.
 I'd like to answer the question that Commissioner Fritz had about the map. Just put your name in the record, please. What's that? Oh, Tracy Prince. I believe the Northwest Examiner did a map of properties of conflicted SAC members, but I don't think it was complete. Thank you. I'm Dr. Tracy Prince, the board member of the Architectural Heritage Center, vice president of the Goose Hollow Foothills League, which is the neighborhood association.
 We're very proud of the fact that half of our board is low-income and half are renters. We're presenting the unanimous GHFL position. In the past decade, we've seen that the more Goose Hollow fights for what's best for all residents in ways that cost developers millions of dollars, the more vicious the personal attacks. I was defamed this week on social media.
 I have a 105-year-old house that I bought 15 years ago, and like most of my neighbors, I could not afford to live in my neighborhood today. I have a view of Mount Hood, but none of the proposed heights will affect my view of Mount Hood. A couple of buildings might block my view of the Lincoln High School football field.
 Our board members aren't fighting for personal gain. We're fighting for every Portlander who hasn't had time for three years of reading thousands of pages of code every six months in order to understand how much the views are being privatized and how much ethically conflicted developers are being enriched in the Central City 2035 plan.
 On the views, thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for fighting to keep the views from being privatized only for the wealthy at Salmon Springs Fountain and for trying to save the views at Japanese Garden. We encourage all commissioners to vote for his amendments. It will only take lowering heights on a few properties to save the Salmon Springs Fountain view, the last view of Mount Hood from the edge of the Willamette River.
 and only vegetation management to save Japanese garden views. It's important for Portland to promote egalitarian access to public views. Please refer to the first image in our handout. We emailed a 13-page letter with complex code requests. Today, we just want you to look at photos. This is what views of the Vista Bridge will be like with the proposed heights.
 We're asking to return Southwest Jefferson to today's protected view corridor from I-405 to the bridge and lower heights along Southwest Jefferson to save use of the Vista Bridge. If heights are built as proposed, Portlanders will only be able to see the arch of the bridge by standing underneath it in the middle of the street.
 Heights are increased near the bridge will privatize views of the arch of the bridge only for those wealthy enough to live in a building blocking the view.
 The new SW72 viewpoint from Collins Circle, which is the second image I've given you, is a ridiculous so-called viewpoint of only one half of the arch while standing on the far edge of Collins Circle. BPS staff created this so-called viewpoint to allow them to raise the heights near the bridge. A staff member stated very clearly in a planning and sustainability work session
 Creating this so-called viewpoint was done to benefit one developer who owns property near the bridge and wanted heights raised. I'll let my colleague finish. My name is Elizabeth Cooksey, and I'm also in the Goose Hollow Foothills League, and I'm here to ensure that Tracy's dynamite presentation isn't cut short.
 We believe the city shouldn't be doing business this way. As you can see in image two, this supposedly protected view protects nothing, since the red box showing the protected area is in the middle of the street where no one will ever build anything. Thank you.
 City Council already agreed to protect the view of the Vista Bridge when you adopted the West Quadrant Plan, one of its five urban design policies specifically named the Vista Bridge and committed to elevate the presence, character, and role of this significant public view corridor, which defines the district. And it commits to stepping heights down to the neighborhoods on the west. Thank you.
 The proposed heights at the first image clearly don't step down to Goose Hollow. Policy 5.4 of this draft commits to preserving views of the Vista Bridge. Policy 5.7 commits to preserving gateways, yet this magnificent gateway will be blocked by tall buildings. Please keep today's view corridor and require lower heights for four blocks near the bridge.
 On image number three, you will see the current view of Mount Hood from the Vista Bridge and what it will be with the heights proposed in this draft. This is view SW15. We are asking you to lower heights only slightly, four floors on approximately eight properties, to protect current views from the Vista Bridge of the low slopes of Mount Hood. It won't take much to save today's view.
 The beautiful contrast between the low slopes and the snow cap is what makes this view startling and what defines Portland. This view was used as the title shot for Portlandia, and thousands of tourists visit weekly.
 In the top photo, this view is being used as the backdrop by West Sylvan Middle School's morning show. This vista is important to Portland's sense of place. And now the beep is asking me to turn it over to Eric. Eric Simon, Goose Hollow. On all views, it is shocking to see that the...
 ESSI, the Economic, Social, Environmental, and Energy Analysis developed by BPS staff has no metric to measure views that are so iconic that they've appeared on Portland postcards and promotional materials for over a century.
 In their essay analysis, private profits for developers will always be weighted more than the public good of egalitarian access to views. We recommend adding this paragraph to the essay. Many views are iconic to Portland's sense of place, so much so that their value to Portland's identity, history, and the massive economic boost of tourism must outweigh any other consideration.
 These views must be protected and their cultural, historic, and economic impact far outweighs any other metric. This includes views of downtown and Mount Hood from the Rose Garden and Japanese Garden, scenic corridors to and from the Vista Bridge, which Portland has protected for almost a century, and views of Mount Hood from Salmon Springs Fountain.
 On image number four, you will see historic and contemporary photos showing how much views from the Rose Garden define our city. Rose Garden photos are frequently used by Travel Portland to promote tourism and conventions, which are a substantial part of Portland's economy.
 We're asking to add the downtown skyline as a focal point to Rose Garden Views SW03 and 09. On SW10 and 12, the Garden Store and Zoo Train, the skyline is a focal point but is listed as allow, which means no vegetation management. Please list all Rose Garden Views as prohibit.
 This will allow for more rigorous vegetation management to keep century-old views that define our city. It's very easy to save these views. We're not asking for much. On image number five, you'll see nine historic buildings in Goose Hollow that we're trying to protect. They're either listed on the National Register or on the Historic Resources Inventory.
 Please provide affordable housing and some of the cheapest market rate rents per square foot in our neighborhood. We ask for you to lower the current heights on the nine historic buildings along and near Southwest Morrison that are threatened with incentivized demolitions by 320-foot heights. Please lower heights to 125 feet.
 We also support the West End's efforts to save over 100 historic buildings by lowering heights and reducing FAR. As reported in the NW Examiner, the Ombudsman found that West Quadrant Stakeholder Advisory Committee members, public officials, weren't ethical.
 They voted to give themselves millions of dollars by increasing heights on their own properties. The Ombudsman required SAC members to disclose their financial interests. They did not. They simply said, we own many properties in this area. We encourage City Council to ask the Ombudsman if she is satisfied with their response
 and to rescind all heights given to these developers in this ethically compromised process. We don't think Portland should be doing business this way. We support Commissioner Fritz's amendments to reduce heights at the bridgehead, but we believe that many other heights were obtained in ethically compromised ways and should be rescinded. Tracy, I have one question. On the page five where you have the historic properties, Mm-hmm.
 I'm going to have to go back and do some homework, but let's take the Brano, which is the top left. That was part of the city's 11 by 13 campaign, I think, and I'll have to go back and check. I think we slapped a 60-year covenant of affordability agreement.
 There was a lot of federal, state, and local money. So it may be that in a building like that, we've already got protections in place that regardless of the zoning. I think your concern is any building that doesn't have some covenant or some protection from the city where they're essentially creating an incentive to demolish? Yes. And we know that –
 building affordable housing that's owned by the city, well, they're not going to demolish that building. Well, in this case, we partnered with REACH, I guess. But for several decades, the heights have been too high. We've been trying to claw them back for a long time because...
 We are, if we're relying on, we have a few that are protected by covenant like that. They're protected for 60 years. But if we're relying on the goodwill of people to not demolish a building, apply, if it's on a national register listing or that sort of thing, to apply to have it delisted.
 For 325 feet. I feel like the financial incentive is way too pressing, and so that's what I'm looking for. Thank you. Very good. Well, thank you, everybody. Obviously, we're not getting to everybody who would like to testify today. I think we have about 60 more people who have signed up.
 So I want to remind people that the written record will remain open until September 15th at 5 p.m. If people would prefer just to submit their testimony by e-mail if they did not get a chance to testify today. And there will be other opportunities.
 As was stated at the beginning of the hearing, for people to testify in person. I apologize that we did not get to that. I would like BPS staff to come up for just one moment, if I could have you come up. I have a list of questions that I will just quickly read into the record that I would like a response to by our October 18th session. First of all...
 What within the – and I'll give – you don't have to write this down. What within the Central City 2035 helps owners acquire the additional FAR needed to ensure the affordable housing and seismic improvements?
 are achieved beyond the base zoning requirements? Number two, given the multimodal mixed-use area designation within the Central City 2035 plan, doesn't that address past barriers with ODOT due to additional trip generation? Number three, what's the amount of FAR that's available for transfer in each sub-district? Number four, what's the need?
 for FAR in each subject district looking at likely redevelopment sites over the next 20 years. I'd like to see both of these pieces of data by our October 18th session.
 My sense is that requiring a transfer seems unnecessary and just adds to the uncertainty and the length of time it takes to get projects going. And lastly, what is the problem, if any, of simply allowing a project to build to its allowed height once it meets our affordable housing and seismic upgrade standards for the first three to one FAR?
 So I'll give you this later. You don't have to write it down. It's probably not fun to write down, but I just wanted to give you a heads up on those. Colleagues, any further issues or questions? Commissioner Fritz? So I have 14 questions. I won't read them into the record. The main one that I'd like to input is as much information as we can, both from the Northwest Examiner and from the Ombudsman's report, about which particular properties may have a conflict of interest that we should be reconsidering.
 That's one of the things I'd like before we start addressing that issue. Thank you. I'll get you to rest in writing. Great. And just to reiterate what Commissioner Fish said, we have four hearings here. We have the written record open. And this is really the opportunity for the public to chime in on specific projects, specific lots, specific FAR zoning issues.
 So this is really our time, regardless of the conflict, and I'm compelled by the Ombudsman's commentary on that. And I agree with Commissioner Fish. We need to tighten up the expectations and the rules with regard to boards and commissions. But this is really the time now for people to testify on these issues and give us their own perceptions. And I heard a lot of people talking about 100 feet or different issues on that. But...
 Yeah, please, Commissioner Price. Certainly, in-person testimony makes a huge difference, and I know that not everybody can be at a meeting during the day. And so while we do look at your written records, if you can send photographs or any kind of maps or anything that kind of gives us a little more context, that would be very helpful. As I mentioned to Aaron Brown, it's not helpful to send me 200 people
 emails all saying the same thing. It makes it harder then for me to find the individual emails that say something different. So to the extent that if people want to do petitions that they could tell me that there's 375 names and send me the names, that'd be lovely but don't send me all those individual emails. It really is counterproductive. Thank you.
 Great. So once again, the record for written testimony is open until Friday, September 15th at 5 p.m. This will allow people to augment their testimony based on what they've heard at the hearing. The first work session will be on October 18th at 2 p.m. We'll now shift to the—
 Sorry, before you shift, the hearing, is it continued until next week so that the remainder of the list can testify? Yes, so the hearing is continued until next week so that those who have not testified will have the opportunity so to do. Thank you, legal counsel, for reminding me of that. Next item, please, Carla. Item 1000. Thank you.
 amend the Central City Plan District to increase height and floor area ratio limits on the United States Postal Service site. Colleagues, this amendment will allow Prosper Portland to move forward with early implementation of the redevelopment plan for the United States Postal Service site.
 one of the most significant redevelopment sites in Portland's central city, consistent with the Central City 2035 Plan and the 2015 Broadway Corridor Framework Plan. This project will bring approximately 700 units of affordable housing, a high-density mix of employment, new city attractions, including expansion of the park blocks,
 and signature connections between the Pearl District and Old Town Chinatown and between North Park Blocks and the Broadway Bridge. I'll now turn it over to Rachel and Sarah. Good evening. I'm Rachel Hoy with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Thank you very much, Commissioners.
 Just a short introduction to this ordinance. These amendments increase the maximum floor area ratio and building heights on the United States Postal Service site in the Pearl District of the Central City.
 This is consistent with the recommended maximums that are in the recommended draft for the Central City Plan. So the slide that you have here before you, I just wanted to be clear about what this ordinance includes. The increase for maximum floor area, what it is today, it's 4 to 1. The increase would be to 7 to 1.
 And then the maximum building height, currently the height is 75 feet on the property. This would increase the height from 75 to 250 south of Johnson and increase north of Johnson to 400 feet.
 So these, again, I will say that these are FAR and height limits that are a part of the Central City 2035 plan have been discussed as part of that process. As well as prior to that, there were discussions on increased FAR and height through the Broadway Corridor Framework Plan.
 And what this allows, the request for early implementation of these heightened FAA increases, is to put these allowances in place early to allow development plans for the USPS site to move forward. And that's what I have. I do have my colleague from POSPR Portland, Sarah Harpole, here, if there are other questions that you may have for us. Not yet. Good. Do we have any invited testimony? No.
 No, we do not. Are there any other elected officials or members of city commissions who'd like to speak first? Carla, call up the, how many people do we have? Sign up, just one? One person, John Hollister. Very good. Welcome, sir. Thank you for your patience. Sure.
 For the record, my name is John Alster. So since this is a separate deal and it's not with that other one, does this get back to the three-minute deal or the five-minute deal or the ten-minute deal? We'll give you three minutes. Okay, all right, okay. But let's try. Okay, all right. I don't think we're all up for the ten-minute deal. Okay, all right, okay, all right. Well, you might be because that's going to get really good for you. All right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We'll see. We'll see. Okay.
 So I believe that this particular development should be the most iconic, innovative development ever built in Portland. Ever built in Portland. And actually, for Commissioner Fish, maybe this will be wherever the home of the carousel will go, somewhere in that. And you can name it after him. And I actually believe there should be no height limit. Okay.
 I just gave you, I just named something after you, Nick. Yeah. Carousel. You got the carousel. I'm jealous. Yeah, you got the carousel. You got the carousel and it's going to be in the post office. It's going to be a, there you go. All right.
 That and $6 million will make it happen. There you go. Exactly, exactly. There should be no height limit. There should be no limit to anything on this thing to make this be the signature event in Portland. It's the biggest area that we have in the central cities to develop, and there should be no restrictions on anything. Just have it be the most magnificent thing. And if it ends up being bigger than Big Pink, it is.
 And you know from my other testimony, I am really very conscious on height limits and really want to respect those. But then there are also times we get to figure out where the growth is going to be. And this is just going to be the most signature thing. And actually, since we're naming things after people,
 I actually believe that this one should be named after you, Mayor Wheeler. He's already got a town. No, he's going to get more. He's going to get more. And a bunch of parking garages. In the name of equity, let's spread the wealth around. Let's shift those out because what I really truly believe. I'm glad I didn't commit to the 10-minute plan. Because this site.
 But on or before this is going to be completed, I believe that you are going to go down in record of being one of, if not the best mayor of Portland ever. Please continue. Ten minutes to this. The ten-minute plan has been reenacted. I believe this because...
 And I'm not saying this so much to make you feel good about yourself. I'm doing this so Portland people can know. I've heard a lot of people say, oh, I don't know about Wheeler. I don't know about Wheeler. What's going on? That was a private conversation, and I want to strike that from the record. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 And he's going too slow on things, going too slow on things. But that's not true at all. When you have a huge remodel project going on and you get in there and you find out that the foundation is cracked, the plumbing sucks, and the wiring needs to be redone, you can't see a lot of change on the outside without doing a lot of things on the internal side. I think you've done tremendous changes on some of the internal structures.
 And you've dealt with some bureaus that need to be dealt with. And I think you're doing a fantastic job. I think that there are many people here, and once again, I'm always going to be quoting this young author. There are many people in Portland that are in the category of what we call audience number one.
 And this audience number one includes a vast majority of people who are fed up with government and are looking for fresh approaches to society's complex problems. And I recommend everyone...
 The vast audience that has left, go out and get a book, which I have absolutely been fascinated with. And it was written by this young author in 1993 called Governments That Work, Innovation in State and Local Government. And it was by a gentleman named Edward T. Wheeler.
 And I think this is an amazing book that someone would be able to craft at the age of 31. And my wife thinks I have a man crush on you. I don't think that's really, you know, I think that's just a little inappropriate. We're out of your time now. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But, you know, it's the...
 But I am very excited to be part of this historic thing and to see you go. And I know you're going to prove me accurate. Thank you. Thank you. And if anybody would like a copy of the book, they're for sale on Amazon. I think last I checked for six cents.
 So it's a bargain. It's a bargain. Yeah. This one actually, it says it on the cover page, no longer property of the Denver Public Library. Yeah. So I got a used copy. So they've even got rid of it. So.
 I just think it's remarkable they went through the effort to make sure everybody knew that they had nothing to do with it anymore. Yeah.
 Well, there you go. And is that it? Do we have anybody else? I'm afraid to ask. Anybody else who wants to testify? Good. So the record will be left open for written testimony until Friday, September 15th at 5 p.m. This will allow for people to augment their testimony based on what they've heard at the meeting. The next council session on this item, unless I'm corrected, will be on September 28th.
 At 3 p.m.? Yes, that is true. And if council, that could be second reading, and council can vote on that time. Very good. Unless there are amendments. No, I'm trying to get a good date for you. I'm just really concerned. As Mr. Hollis has said, in all seriousness, this should be an iconic development. And to have only one person testifying about it, I'm just wondering. I can't believe that nobody else has any concerns or anything that they'd like to add or amend. So I'm just wondering, is there a reason?
 How confident are we that everybody thinks this is absolutely fantastic? Or did people prioritize testifying on the Central City Plan, which is for a 20-some year period? Comments, please. I think, so the one thing I would add is that this was an amendment to move forward early with these heightened FARs, but this is still in the Central City Plan. So the opportunity to testify is...
 has also been a part of that process today. We did not...
 So we've always been including these high FARs in the Central City 2035 plan. This is just an opportunity or a request to move it forward more quickly than the rest of the Central City 2035 will go into effect after the comp plan. We don't have to close it, though, at the next meeting. I mean, there's no particular urgency in terms of shutting conversations down on this prior to the rest of the conversation, is there?
 I think that if there... We could leave it open. I mean, I think if there are no more amendments, it could go to a second reading and a vote on the 28th, or that's...
 Commissioner first. That's an option. Well, I certainly have to wade through the 203 amendments or emails that I have on the same subject to see if I do have anything on this particular topic, and I know you will do that as well. I just, since we're still on television presumably, encourage people to look at what this is and make sure that we're heading in the right direction, because once we do this, there won't be another opportunity to have another bite at it, at least for a while, right?
 I would also note, in addition to the Central City 2035 plan outreach, this was an extensive point of outreach during the Broadway Quarter Framework Plan. And we received similar sentiments as a testimony you heard before that really this was a point to accomplish growth and extensive public benefits for our community. And so we heard, I would say, very little, if any, opposition to high density development within this site during that outreach as well.
 And do we have official positions from the Old Town Chinatown Community Association, the Pearl District and the Goose Hollow Football Footyles League?
 We do have letters from many of those, I'm not sure of all, but that have been submitted as testimony for the Central City 2035 process. We would have to check if there are any comments specifically related to this project. Yes, if you could help me and my staff by pulling out of the testimony that you've received anything relating to the post office site so that I make sure I look at it.
 So would it be helpful, Commissioner, let me make a suggestion. Rather than moving it to second, why don't we just continue it until the 28th, and then we can make a decision on the 28th?
 And that's fine. But the record, are you suggesting leaving the record open until the 28th? Why don't we go ahead and leave the record open on this one until the 28th, and we can take a look at it with fresh eyes on the 28th and either decide at that point to move it on or if people want to put amendments on the table at that point, take testimony. I just wanted to thank Mr. Hollister for his refreshing testimony because the rest of the testimony today really begged the question, well, where –
 Should we put height and where should we put density? Because we can't preserve the entire city in amber. It sounds like because this was previously agreed to and all it is is all we are doing is accelerating it, that maybe we're not going to hear... We've already heard the input and made the decision. But I just want to make a pitch. I'm a visual learner. It's very hard for me to...
 read about these things without a graphic illustration, especially when there's much more kind of heated debate against height restrictions, because I'd really like to be able to see what we're talking about, not just read. Yeah, that's it.
 Good. Thank you. So then we are continuing this to the 28th of September. And leaving the record open. And leaving the record open. Well, except that people can testify on this next time, next week too, right? Yeah. They can. If the record's open and the hearing's continued, yes, they absolutely can. Great. Thank you. Great. All right. So with that, everybody, thank you. John, thank you for your testimony. We are adjourned. Thank you.
 I need a miniature version of that model and report to you have the sun where light where the sun would be that's what I was thinking of it's very close to the you want to achieve I don't know if it's just the best yeah it's a big area yeah but then yeah
 Yeah, I know that. I need to see it. I can't. Can you give the big bucks? These are mine. You can take them. They're yours. Is all this yours? No. Oh, thank you. Appreciate it. Yeah, thank you so much. We really appreciate it. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.
 Thank you so much.
 I'm really excited.
 I'm just going to finish the line. There's a lot of things I did there. Great. That's my first one. So, you know, we're still going to you know, we've got to get we've got to get a book signed, we've got to launch, we've got to do it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
 Yes. Okay. I will, yes. In a little while. Okay. So we have to stay in the business. If there's any of the documents. Yeah, the documents. It's been a little bit, so it's 5 p.m. Yes. It's definitely a massive. Yeah, we just need to get back up. Exactly, exactly. And the records. I agree.
 but it doesn't have to go until tomorrow. So we could take the documents that are on the table and put them on the top of those boxes. I think that's a great idea. Let's do that. Does that help? Sure. So I just put them in? Yes. Yes. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Great question. I didn't know. I'm on the list, but... I called around. I thought you wanted me to jump in, but it's the last piece. You, uh... Oh, I thought... So I decided, what I'll do is I'll throw this. I told her. And we can go again. So I said, yeah. And she said, yeah. And then I said, sure.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.