City Council. We apologize for the delay. We had some technical issues that we needed to resolve prior to Gabbling in those issues have now been resolved. Carla, please call the roll. Curtis T. Here. Udailey. Here. Fritz. Here. Here.
 Wheeler. Here, under Portland City Code and state law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending remotely by video and teleconference, and the City has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting. The meeting is available to the public on the City's YouTube channel, EGov PDX, www.courtlandoregon.gov slash video, and channel 30.
 The public can also provide written testimony to Council by emailing the Council Clerk at cctestimony at PortlandOregon.gov. The Council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and promote physical distancing. The pandemic is an emergency that obviously threatens the public's health, safety, and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely via electronic communications.
 Thank you all for your continued patience, flexibility, and understanding as we manage through this challenging situation to do the city's business. And with that, we will hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor.
 In council meetings you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or the first readings of ordinances the
 The published council agenda at PortlandOregon.gov forward slash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you're a lobbyist. If you're representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony.
 Individually, you generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or rejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that all council meetings are recorded. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. First up is communications. Carla, I understand we only have one individual here today on communications. That's correct, Mayor. Item 76, request of Walter Whaler to address council regarding South Park Block's historic nomination, tree succession plan, and the South Park Block's master plan. Welcome. Welcome.
 Good morning. Can you hear me? Yes, you're good to go. Thanks for your patience, Walter. First of all, thank you for your service, and thank you for this opportunity to speak to you. I am Walter Weiler, chair of the Downtown Neighborhood Association, so-called DNA. Our area is bordered by the Willamette River, Burnside, and 405, the heart of the city.
 First, I want to thank Mayor Wheeler for helping the DNA mount a successful forum on homelessness. Thanks for attending. And I want to thank Commissioner Hardesty for speaking to the DNA recently and urging us to come speak here more frequently. The DNA recognizes the importance of and the demands on your time with major city issues. We are reluctant to take your time on issues that pale in comparison.
 However, during the pull of these major city issues, city staffs are proceeding with projects that are accumulating significant opposition. We are concerned when these projects are brought for your approval there will be issues that really should and could be addressed now. The DNA has met with, spoken to, and expressed our concerns to the appropriate city staff leaders. We find them to be intelligent, professional, and competent.
 They, however, continue to move their projects towards City Council with what we believe to be flawed features that should be corrected now. We hope to visit each of you soon, but my message today is a heads up on these two issues. First of all, the South Park Master Plan. The plan will reduce the number of healthy towering elm trees that give this 12 blocks their signature leafy canopy space.
 and that cleans the air for 15,000 city residents. B, the plan will route the bicycle green loop along and inside part of today's park, shrinking the park, endangering pedestrians with a moving vehicle threat, and reducing the park's pedestrian experience and safety. The plan will reduce the historically physical size of the park.
 This plan should be paused until a historic designation is complete and a separate tree succession plan can be prepared. The second project of our concern is a southwest river place development. River place will, during its construction, river place will displace 300 missing middle rental apartment residents for up to two years.
 More importantly, or equally importantly, River Place will overload the two-lane Southwest River Parkway, which is the only northern exit entrance for the entire south waterfront, which is fast-adding density. River Place should be paused until PBOT and ODOT complete a traffic study to show if the area's infrastructure can accommodate River Place's increased density.
 DNA welcomes the opportunity to work on these and other projects with you. Thank you for your time and consideration, and thank you for the coaching on orchids. I appreciate it. That's awesome. Thank you, and I hope you take Commissioner Fritz's advice on gardening, not mine. I do. Thank you. Thank you for your patience, Walter, and thank you for your good thoughts. We sure appreciate it.
 And Carla, first up then is the consent agenda. I understand two items have been pulled, 688 and 690. Is that correct? That is correct, Mayor. Anything else? I've had no other requests. Very good. Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Wheeler. Hi, the consent agenda is adopted. Thank you very much. This gets us to our first time certain item, item number 677, please, Carla.
 Authorize eight grant agreements and intergovernmental agreements related to the Community Watershed Stewardship Program for a cumulative total of up to $100,000. Colleagues, since 1995, Environmental Services Community Watershed Stewardship Program has helped Portlanders create very positive changes in their neighborhoods and communities while improving the health of our watersheds.
 In 2012, CWSP performed an equity analysis and added award criteria for leadership from underrepresented communities.
 And in 2015, the program began a partnership with the Indigenous Nation Studies Department at Portland State University to bring ecological insight to the Bureau and provide a grant coordination internship for emerging leaders. Today's ordinance will authorize work with eight community organizations. Each project improves watershed health and supports
 the Bureau of Environmental Services as it strives to intentionally become an anti-racist organization. Darrell Hauptman from Environmental Services is going to introduce our invited guests and they'll provide us with a brief presentation. Thank you all for being here today. Darrell, take it away. Thank you. Good morning Mayor Wheeler and City Council members. I appreciate the opportunity to come before you and share the latest from the QISP program.
 The mayor noted we're in our 25th year, I believe, over 300 community-led projects supported by the CRISP program all over Portland. This morning, we've come to share the good news about some wonderful action that's in the works from some truly awesome Portlanders. This year's legislative break.
 and includes a combination of old and emerged this year that emphasizes community building and future leadership. With that, I'll hand off to Portland State University professor, Judy Bluehorse Skelton. And Carla, do you have our presentation loaded? If not, I'll- No, thanks, Keeley. Yeah, I'll pull it up in just a moment. Thank you. Can you advance the slide, please? Take it away, Judy. Talks, may we? Good morning.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for this opportunity to share some of the highlights of this really unique relationship. The partnership with the QIS program and BES has had a dramatic influence on
 our Indigenous Nations Studies Department, including the recent approval by the state legislature to agree to the remodel of our old science building, which will be integrating Indigenous science as a key part of that. These partnerships with the city have helped to inform our...
 Dean, our president, other faculty and students who are looking to do these kinds of really innovative work and partnership together with different agencies, especially when we look at indigenous, traditional, ecological and cultural knowledge, which is a very comprehensive, multidisciplinary field.
 practice. I'm really excited the students continue to serve and find a voice, bring indigenous perspectives while they're out reaching to
 marginalized and historically underserved communities across the Portland area to work on these issues on land, water, healthy soils, healthy people. And so it's integrated into a lot of our course curriculum. These relationships have become part of PSU's community-based learning and are, as well as continuing to let knowledge serve the city and community engagement.
 And so I'm very excited that Al Rose and Naomi Rodriguez are this year's two fellowships, paid internships, as they begin to take these on, engage with community, and becomes part of new career pathways that have redefined
 what Native American Studies and Indigenous Nations Studies is nationally and internationally, as others come to us here in the Portland area to say, how are you partnering? How are you doing this? How are you integrating these ancestral ways and working together with bureaus? It's an exciting time. It's a challenging time, but it's an exciting time. I'm really honored to introduce Al Rose,
 today who will continue with this presentation and just know that these slides don't capture the energy and all of the people that are getting out onto the sites in the area. So Al, thank you for being here this morning. I know we have a lot going on in our communities and a lot of communities and difficult times, but I really appreciate your courage and endurance. So I'll take it away.
 Good morning, my name is Alison Rose. I go by Al. I am the student coordinator for the Quest program this year. I'd like to thank Council for their time this morning to watch our presentation. We have eight grant projects and each one brings an important environmental project for the community and Portland at large. Can we go to the next slide?
 Our first project, they're not in any order, but the first one I'm talking about is by Portland Opportunity Industrial Center, partnered with Rosemary Anderson High School.
 They have a student crew leader training program that's partnered with Friends of Trees and Portland Parks to teach natural resource project management through a career track mentorship and it prepares them to lead adult volunteers in stewardship activities at Wilkes Headwaters and other restoration sites. And I was told that this photo is from the Children's Arboretum back in 2016 and they were doing a similar project.
 The next group is Lower Columbia Estuary Partnership with the Blueprint Foundation.
 So LSAT's continued partnership develops its pipeline of mentees. They'll continue to mentor two to three youth of color from the Blue Crimp Foundation on three paddle trips near the Willamette Columbia Confluence and the youth will gather marine debris data, they'll teach marine ecology both to each other in their community, they'll learn about flora and fauna, the food web, and they'll monitor different techniques about how to monitor all of the debris.
 They'll also learn about GIS data collection, management, and analysis. Next slide. The next group is ACO, or African Youth and Community Organization.
 This is a capacity leadership building project. It's centered around Johnson Creek with two Somali youth ambassadors, the Johnson Creek Watershed Council, Leach Botanical Gardens and ACO's coordinator will participate in a train the trainer type program with two youth who graduate from ACO's leadership program. And later in the year, they'll steward a five acre plot above Leach Gardens, which is out in East Portland.
 And the next group is Outside In. They have one location in downtown near PSU and I think they're building a new location in East Portland. So this project is houseless young adults leading research, designing and building a backyard habitat. And Outside In's downtown
 career mentors guiding them. Students will also explore different related fields like botany, hydrology, entomology, landscape architecture and design. And the next slide. The next group is DPave. We've worked with them a number of times. They're partnering with Friends of Trees, Portland Parks, RH Construction, and multiple high schools.
 They'll convene with the communities near Oliver and Bridger Elementary School and the Centennial School District. They'll help design rain gardens, gathering places, nature play spaces, and nature scaping. It's about 3,400 square feet of pavement removal that they'll be replacing with stormwater greenery. And the next one is Sacred Lands Alliance.
 So this one is probably one of my favorite projects and it's led by two native elders and they'll be guarding restoration of forest and savanna lands. This is located in southwest Portland. They'll also provide nature walks in an educational form leading up to Tryon Creek. There will be a staff member that will mentor a student or two to lead restoration work on the farm.
 and they'll have volunteer work parties. Next slide. Next up is Camp ELSO. They'll be partnering with the Blueprint Foundation, Beam Village and Village Gardens, and Youth of Color graduates from Tappan Roots internship program. And so these groups will teach children to be environmental stewards by leading their spring break excursions and they'll be focusing on the STEM field
 And then the children and community will see lots of leaders emerge from these programs. And then Tryon Creek Watershed Council, they'll be partnering with Cascade Education Corps, Oregon Refugee Children's Assistance and Portland Community College's Botany classes. And then Tryon Creek will be teaching watershed science and hands-on restoration in a few different workshops.
 and they'll also like train these students to help continue the stewardship. Do we have a slide after this or is this the last one? No? Okay I think that's all of our grants for this year so if Council has any presentations for our team. Very good thank you for that presentation we appreciate it. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Thank you both for your presentation. Al I had a couple of questions for you.
 So how long have you been involved with this program? I started last September, but I heard about it at the beginning of spring of last year. And I got involved through Judy. Through? Oh, I got involved through Judy, of course, of course. And you speak so knowledgeably about the work that's being done. I don't want to put you on a spot and ask you anything,
 if you have your college degree yet, but in your education currently, are you envisioning using this knowledge in your future?
 Yeah, I think one of my main goals is to return back home. So I'm Diné or Navajo in Karak. And last summer, I did a lot of environmental justice work on the Navajo reservation with a group of other Navajo youth. Excellent. And I want to help some of my friends do land restoration and cultural revitalization work.
 and I'm hoping that this experience in grant work will help me write grants for them and like help develop programs with them for like Dine youth.
 So Al, you continue to remind me our future's in great hands if the adults don't screw it up before we give it to you. Thank you so much for being here today. Thank you Judy for your incredible work over the years and keeping this program not just surviving but thriving.
 I can't think of a better investment of a mere $100,000 than creating these opportunities that spark young folks like Al to actually imagine how they can give back to their culture, to their community, and how they can lead us in the future that we all want to make. So I just can't say enough about it.
 how impressive you are, Al, and whatever you do, you're going to be awesome. So thanks for being here today. Yeah, I want to build on that theme. I'm really impressed by not only the presentation and the program, and Judy, I really thank you for that leadership and structure. It's obviously a meaningful program, but Al, it sounds to me like this has really sparked a long-term interest for you. It sounds like this could actually be something that you really dedicate your future to.
 I wouldn't say it sparked it. I've had these goals and visions since I was a kid because I think indigenous youth are the future and I think indigenous knowledge and visions are the future. That's awesome. I'm laughing now because you said since you were a kid, right? And like, I'm an old woman. I was going to leave that one alone, Commissioner.
 Thank you. Allison, if you're 40, you're a kid to me. I mean, that's, but thank you. We really appreciate it. And thank you for coming in and sharing with all of us, not just on the city council, but others more broadly in the community about this opportunity and how tremendous it is. And thank you for your leadership. Very good. Do we have any public testimony on this item? No.
 No one signed up, Mayor. Very good. This is an emergency ordinance. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Yes, yes, yes, yes. Udaly. Well, thank you, Judy and Al, for your presentations. This is just a beautiful way to start a conversation.
 our morning. I'm really excited about the work that BES is doing and PSU are doing with these community organizations. I love the focus on youth empowerment and racial equity. I just lost my place in my notes. Here we go. And I think it's a great example of how we should be doing work
 community work as a city. I also want to highlight and praise the roles these grants play in addressing the effects of colonization, in this case on the Tualatin Kalapuya and the Clackamas Chinook who inhabited these lands. So thank you to the Sacred Lands Alliance and all the community organizations who are working to make this possible. I vote aye. Thanks. Thank you.
 Thank you, each of you, for being here and for participating in this program. In addition to the kudos that my colleagues have given, which I echo, I remember that the late Commissioner Fish kept this program going in the middle of the recession and insisted that the funding continue. And so it's good that we now continue to have it and have really developed the program over the 12 years that I've been involved and have continued.
 return to the focus to where it should be in terms of who benefits and who was impacted and how do we move forward more constructively. So thank you very much, everybody.
 This is a great program. I'm very happy to support it. And again, Judy and Al, thank you both for being here today. This is a great partnership between the city, Portland State University, the participants. Well done, everybody who's worked so hard in this. I'm very happy to vote aye, and the ordinance is approved. Thank you. The next item, Carla, is item 678, time certain.
 amend the building demolition code to move implementation details to the administrative rule, update asbestos requirements to conform to state regulations, update demolition inspections language to be consistent with current practices, increase fine compliance, and make other modifications for clarity and consistency, and amend fee schedule.
 Colleagues, thank you, Carla. Today, I am requesting the council adopt amendments to the residential demolition ordinance. In February, you'll recall that we heard a report that included recommendations to amend the demolition ordinance. Since that time, the Bureau of Development Services has had their staff meeting with the
 a range of stakeholders, including the Oregon Health Authority, the Department of Environmental Quality, the Multnomah County Health Department, contractors, architects, neighborhood representatives, and other stakeholders to draft changes to the ordinance and the accompanying administrative rule. The program was created to address the potential impacts on neighbors,
 of dust and debris from residential demolitions. This ordinance improves the program by simplifying the language, making sure the people performing the demolition work are properly qualified to do that work, ensuring that asbestos and lead-based paint materials are properly removed and disposed of,
 Also, in response to the Council's input based on the demolition report in February, BDS is proposing changes to the fines and enforcement as well. These include separating the types of violations into those that are correctable versus those that are deemed to be not correctable, like demolishing the building before BDS has a chance to complete the inspections to verify that regulations are being met.
 Significantly increasing the fines for non-correctable violations and making the terminology clear and consistent to avoid the potential for confusion.
 Because this ordinance moves many of the details of the program to administrative rule, BDS staff has included the draft rules as an exhibit and provided a code and commentary document that explains the code changes and have references to where things were moved from the code towards administrative rules. With that
 Beth Benton and Mike Byfield with the Bureau of Development Services are here to present on the ordinance. They're also available, obviously, to answer any questions after their presentation. Beth and Mike, welcome. Thank you for being here this morning. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioners. If you'll give me one moment, I'm going to share my screen. I need permission to share my screen. Is somebody working on making sure that Beth has that?
 Yes, it looks like we have the settings so that panelists share their screen. Let me double check here. Okay. All right, Beth, go ahead and try it now. Ah, beautiful. Thank you. Thanks. Looks good. Great. Thank you. Again, my name is Beth Benton. I am the property compliance division manager with BDS, and also presenting with me today is Mike Leefield, supervisor for BDS.
 Nancy Thornton, BDS Policy Analyst, is also available to assist with questions. Finally, we are pleased to have with us today two active members of the Demolition Stakeholder Workgroup, Kate, former chair of the Development Review and Advisory Committee, formerly known as DRAC, along with Jeff Fish of Construction Northwest, an active member of the Home Builders Association.
 So for today's presentation, we will summarize the substantive changes in the proposed amendments related to the Residential Demolition Code, including a brief overview of the recommendations and discussions which began almost a year ago. BDS staff met with a variety of stakeholders and technical advisors over a span of 12 months to produce the ordinance before you today. Everyone agreed that the amendments for both Chapter 24.55 and the Administrative Rule
 for residential demolition should strengthen the requirements and improve our inspections process, ensure that our code language is clear, and further reduce the opportunity for potentially hazardous dust to impact adjacent and nearby homes. As you know, the residential demolition program began two years ago in 2018 with Portland leading the nation as we began regulating potential lead-based paint and asbestos hazards resulting from residential demolition activities.
 In the fall of 2019, the stakeholder groups met again to review the first year of the program and to identify areas for improvement. The main discussions for additional improvements included language clarification, requiring a full deconstructive asbestos survey prior to moving forward,
 and also clarifying site control requirements and improving on the purpose, the requirements, and the timing of the required permit inspections. And this resulted in a recommendation to have four required inspections versus three. So we now have one pre-demolition inspection, which reviews the job site prior to any work starting, and we now have two during demolition work inspections.
 The first ensures that exterior painted materials have been removed prior to mechanical demolition work. The second during work inspection, and this is the new one, ensures that the project and the contractor are ready to begin mechanical demolition with wetting equipment in place and the inspector is present to watch the wetting system in action. Also with this second new inspection, we created an optional version of this which can be done via a live remote video inspection.
 if the contractor schedules this in advance and has the technical requirements for the remote video inspection. And the last, of course, will be our final inspection, which ensures the site is secure, all the work is complete, debris removed, sewers capped, basements filled, etc. The stakeholder group wanted to implement these critical changes in process as soon as possible, so we adopted an interim administrative rule in January 2020.
 In February of this year, we presented our first year report to council, after which meetings with our stakeholder groups continued as we finalized and incorporated the remaining changes and amendments for chapter 24.55 in order to ensure a positive outcome for this critical program. At this point, I'm going to turn the presentation over to Mike Leafield, supervisor for this program, who will walk you through a summary of the main changes. Mike?
 Thank you, Beth, and good morning, Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners. This amendment only proposes changes to two sections of Title 24.55, our building demolition section. The amendments focus on updates to the definitions and specifically Section 24.55.205, site control measures and residential demolitions.
 I want to highlight that no changes are proposed to existing regulations relating to demolition delay, housing preservation, and neighborhood notification requirements. As Beth mentioned, the amendments are meant to improve protections for nearby properties and provide clarity for implementation and compliance with residential demolition regulations.
 To do this, the stakeholder group first worked to update the administrative rule as to how the nuts and bolts of the improved regulations will work. This code amendment is the next step to align the city title to support the proposed administrative rules. This process results in a proposal to move many current implementation details in the city title to the administrative rules.
 As Mayor Wheeler mentioned, we have provided a copy of the proposed administrative rules and a code commentary showing how the sections have been moved around, explaining all the changes that were made for your reference.
 Major changes to permit approval requirements, including conducting a full asbestos inspection or survey and abatement prior to a home's demolition, and requiring all persons, including homeowners, doing their own work to obtain lead-based paint certifications to increase safety during exterior painted material removal during demolition. Next slide, please, Beth. Can we advance the slide, Beth? It's not working.
 There we go. Sorry. Okay, great. One important site control measure during demolition is ensuring proper wetting standards to control dust. The improved required inspection verification for wetting systems during mechanical demolition was implemented in January of 2020 with the adoption of an interim amendment rule, as Beth mentioned. The proposed code amendment updates city title to support the improved required inspection
 process. While not specifically described in this code amendment, it is important to note that the proposed administrative rules to accompany the code propose to strengthen the current dust suppression requirements by requiring the wet, wet, wet demolition dust control method.
 Demolition sites will now be required to pre-wet. We call that the wet number one. They need to wet the entire structure and inside the structure through existing exterior openings to coat the maximum amount of material to be demolished. This is something an inspector will verify.
 Active wetting, wet number two, must be performed at all times during mechanical demolition activity. Water spray must be concentrated on the demolition equipment at all points of contact with the structure. This is the second during demolition inspection that we will verify at the start of the mechanical demolition. Finally,
 Material wetting, the third wet, is required during and after demolition to provide a final application of moisture to keep particles bound together prior to removal and transfer. Next slide, please, Beth. The administrative rule proposes a significant change to the current enforcement process for violations of the site control requirements in residential demolitions.
 The current process since adoption in July 2018 has utilized a correction notice only with no fines for first violations. In other words, a warning for all responsible parties' first offenses. Next slide, please. We are now proposing two categories of fines based on whether or not the violation can be corrected with more punitive fines being issued for those violations which pose a greater risk for damage.
 For non-correctable violations, which is your section on the right column, we are proposing to discontinue a correction notice with no fine and are increasing the graduated fine amounts. Non-correctable violations will receive a first citation and a $10,000 fine. Non-correctable violations are violations where potential harm or damage has occurred and which cannot be undone.
 Examples would include performing mechanical demolition with exterior painted materials still on the structure, or performing mechanical demolition activity without wetting for dust control. For correctable violations, which is on the left, the blue left table of the graphic, we are proposing to retain a correction notice with no fine for the first violation.
 Subsequent correctable violations would result in citations and a lower fine amount than correctable violations. A good example of a correctable violation would be not having the correct type of plastic in place for hand removal of exterior painted materials, or if the plastic that was
 pre-laid out was unintentionally altered so it did not extend to the required 10 feet during the hand removal of materials. In those situations, the responsible party is attempting to comply with the regulations and field adjustments can be made to come into compliance while the work is happening. Next slide, please. So we have a graphic here to try to describe how the two categories of violations would work.
 The first thing to mention is that the enforcement citations and fines remain attached to the responsible party, the person responsible doing the work. These fines are not limited to the property where the violation occurred. The citations and fines are graduated and escalate for subsequent violations. As there are two categories for violation types, correctable and non-correctable, both categories need to be tracked and applied separately.
 This slide is meant to illustrate how the proposed fines would be applied to a responsible party on projects throughout the city. To walk you through the scenario, number one, it shows a responsible party committing a non-correctable violation at Site A. This is the first non-correctable violation and results in the first citation in a $10,000 fine.
 At the next site, site B, the same responsible party is found to have a correctable violation, and this violation results in a correction notice only and no fine. Later, at a different site, site C, the same responsible party is found to have another non-correctable violation, and this results in a second citation and a $15,000 fine.
 Scenario two is very similar, but it shows in reverse how the responsible party may receive fines for multiple correctable violations. At this point, I want to let people know if they have any questions about the proposed enforcement process. We can handle those questions now or at the end of our presentation. Very good. Does anybody have any questions at this point, or should we keep pushing forward? I don't see any questions at this point.
 Why don't you go ahead, Mike. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. So we're moving on. As a result of moving sections of 2455 of the administrative rule, we were able to achieve a better flow of process and information and able to separate asbestos and lead requirements for greater clarity. Specifically,
 We have added to the proposed administrative rule three new appendices. Appendix A, which clarifies additional testing, survey, and abatement requirements of all asbestos in compliance with DEQ regulations prior to commencement of permitted demolition work.
 Appendix B includes testing and sampling requirements to obtain an exemption from the lead hazard reduction measures that more closely resemble current EPA and HUD requirements. And also clarifies who can perform these types of inspections and what information the report must contain. Unless the requirements of the new Appendix B are satisfied, all pre-1978 structures are presumed to be lead-containing.
 and must follow the lead hazard reduction measures. Finally, Appendix C organizes references of all the required certifications that are required to obtain and complete permitted demolition work. The intention of this move and the admin rule with the appendices is to make the city title and the accompanying administrative rule easy to follow for staff, reviewers, inspectors, and customers. And with that, I'll turn it back over to Beth. Thank you, Mike.
 In conclusion, there were several other suggestions from the stakeholder meetings that everyone agreed would be beneficial, and as a result, BDS staff have agreed to work on the following initiatives. One, the creation of additional safety and best practices information for all residents. This information will be available on our webpages and handouts, and by updating the required notices contractors must deliver. Number two...
 We plan to explore partnering with area college and university programs for field sampling and air monitoring during demolition activities in order to collect data for use in measuring the success of our program. And we hope to begin this once our current COVID pandemic subsides.
 Three, we're going to explore if our current technology has the capability to provide email or text alerts to neighbors when a mechanical demolition is scheduled through our online permitting system. And finally, we're going to begin discussions with industry stakeholders and interested members of DRAC, DEQ, and OHA.
 for starters, to explore the possibility of also regulating dust and potential lead-based paint hazards with regard to commercial demolitions. We hope to begin these meetings within the next few months. Finally, next steps, once the code amendments before you today have been adopted, we will publish our draft administrative rule for hearing a public comment and we plan to let the Mayor's staff know when we are ready to publish. We thank you for this opportunity to present our
 And finally, to close out our presentation today will be active stakeholders Mary Helen Kincaid, former chair of DRAC, followed by Jeff Fish, local contractor and long-standing active member of the Home Builders Association, both of whom would like to offer a statement regarding these changes to the Residential Demolition Code and Program. Afterwards, we are available to answer any questions. Mary Helen, the floor is yours.
 I'm sorry, could I ask a question just before we go? Commissioner Hardesty, sorry, I was on mute. Go ahead. Don't worry. Thank you, Mayor. Actually, what I wanted to do is make a statement. I know the last time we were having this conversation,
 A lot has happened since you last presented these code changes to the city council, right? I don't have to tell you that. I just want to tell you how much I appreciate how much work you've done in spite of all the crises the city of Portland has confronted since we last started this conversation. I am really, really impressed that you have actually...
 from what I've been able to read, you've actually embraced many of the issues that were of concern the last time you presented to the city council. So I just want you to know, I remember all of us were being bombarded with emails just as the pandemic hit.
 And I just want to appreciate the fact that people don't see that the work continues behind the scene, whether we have a pandemic, economic crises or a racial racially charged movement taking place. So I just want to appreciate the hard work and the thoughtfulness under which you're bringing us back to the city council. I applaud your team and its work. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, I'm Mary Helen Kincaid and as Beth said, a former chair of DRAC as was Jeff Fish. I followed him. I wanted to give you just a brief history, but before I did that, I want to really say how humbled I am and echo Commissioner Hardesty's comments about Al Rose and her expertise at such a young age.
 I envy that. I don't think there's any chance for me now at 69 to be anywhere close to that. But what a wonderful accomplishment in addition to our city. And yes, as Commissioner E. Daly said, what a great way to start this meeting. I think I have some good news for you too. So thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for taking the time to listen to this. I think I have some
 I think fairly good news. I've been involved, as some of you know, in very contentious issues in the city. Airport futures, overhead approach, demolition code, all of those things, and involved in a number of community committees. So I've seen the worst and the best of us in community meetings. I think that this committee, I think that this committee
 Staffed by BDS and primarily in the very beginning by Nancy Thornton did an excellent job of bringing really diverse people to the table from people that didn't want another house in Portland demolished to those that purported to accuse people of wanting to have every house demolished.
 So we were able to start this in 2014, I believe. 13 people started talking about it. It was brought up at community meetings. And fast forward to today where we've made, I think, tremendous accomplishments. Beth alluded to the fact that Portland is the first city, I don't know if
 only is true anymore, that has regulations about, city regulations about asbestos and lead. It has been an iterative process along the way by taking bits and pieces of conversations. It's not always been easy. It's not always been fun. But I think in the end, I'm very proud of the work that we did, that DRAC did, that all the people that came along with us did.
 The stakeholders should, it's one of those situations that I think you all well know, where nobody's happy and nobody's really all that mad. We came to a middle ground and BDS staff worked wholeheartedly and even in the latest times during these difficult challenges we're facing,
 kept at the work, didn't step away from it, and it's protecting our citizens. I'm particularly happy with the initiative, one more that's come out of this. This all, one step back in history, it all started because Robert McCullough from Eastmoreland came to a DRAC meeting and said, you have to stop demolitions. And from there, we landed here today with the idea that now we can look at commercial
 deconstruction, not deconstruction, sorry, demolitions and the effect. I live within a half mile of Portland Meadows. And when they tore Portland Meadows down, we were covered with a dust cloud. And I'm quite sure there was asbestos in it.
 No air quality testing on my part, but I'm glad that we're looking at that because we received numerous complaints about people living next to commercial buildings and there being no controls. So I look forward to their work on that. And that I wish the new stakeholder group. Good luck. It's this effort was
 rewarding in the fact that we faced a difficult problem with diverse stakeholders. There wasn't a group left untouched that wasn't. There's 97 neighborhoods, and I think we visited over the course of the six years, I think we visited over 50 of them. So I'm pleased with that.
 effort to involve many, many voices and not suffer the criticism of just some people in the back room made a decision. So I thank you for your efforts in supporting this. I think that you should all be proud of the work that your city employees have done for you through all the various commissioners, a couple mayors, and...
 And this is a good point. We did a good thing. And it's going to protect the citizens of Portland. Thank you, Mary Helen. And it's never too late. So don't count yourself out yet. There's a lot left to give. And thank you for that perspective. I'm really enjoying my backyard and my garden because I always say my radishes don't talk back.
 Well, goodness, where were you when we were discussing gardening earlier? We could have used your age advice. Well, I was really upset when I heard that Commissioner Fritz, because I know she has some beautiful orchids, but I missed that whole story. So I'll have to get it later. We'll give you the whole down low on it. Thank you for your participation in this. And does that complete the formal presentation? No.
 I believe Mr. Fish would like to make a statement. You bet. Go ahead, Jeff. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. It's always somewhat troublesome to follow Mary Helen because she steals your thunder. I have to thank Nancy, Mike, and Beth, especially Nancy. I've sat on a lot of committees over the years and this was one of the harder ones to keep us all focused on our mission to get it done. She did a great job.
 My only concern of what was produced is the degree of the fines. And that's not to belittle, uh, the importance of keeping asbestos and lead and other things out of the air and off neighboring properties, but some of those fines rival or exceed what you have for fines and DEQ and OSHA for things that could actually cause death. And what I'm concerned about is, uh,
 coupled with the deconstruction that Sean Wood has done, we've seen some minority companies get involved in the deconstruction.
 Deconstruction is pretty easy to get into. You need a truck and a crowbar, basically. I know there's at least one female group that got certified, and I use a deconstructor that is Hispanic. I'm a little concerned with the degree of the fines and the amount of the fines that it might scare some of those people away from wanting to take on a job where they might misunderstand something.
 some of the regulations. I'll give the example Mike talked about having to have plastic out 10 feet from the house. Well, when you get on a five foot side yard setback, you can only go five feet and then you got to go vertical. And even though I sat on the committee, I can't sit here today and tell you how far vertically you got to go on that. I think it's 10 feet, but I could be wrong. Um,
 I just recently had a home deconstructed that cost me $22,500 to do it, and that included backfilling about six feet of a basement. When you've got a job that's $22,500 and you can possibly take a $10,000 or $15,000 fine because you misunderstand something, I think that's a pretty tough nut to chew.
 I'd like to see those fine amounts reduced, maybe take a look at them, staff take a look at them after a year or two. And if they feel they need to be ratcheted up, ratchet them up at that time. But I think in some respects, it could scare off some minority contractors that might want to get in the business. And I think that's pretty much the end of my comments. One last one is,
 Commissioner Fritz and I have gone head to head over some issues clear back when she's on the planning commission and commissioner, I want to thank you for your service. We often were on opposite sides of an issue, but you're always professional about it and I appreciate your service to the city. Thank you. Thank you, Jeff. I appreciate that. Thank you. Appreciate it. And that completes the presentation. Is that correct?
 Yes, sir. Very good. Carla, is there any public testimony for this item? We did not have anybody sign up for this one. All right. Unless there's any other questions from my colleagues, and I don't see any, this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you all for your presentations today. Fantastic. Next up, Carla, is...
 Timing certain item number 679. We're right on schedule.
 amend contract with F hurdle consulting LLC in the amount of $15,000 to provide additional community stakeholder engagement consulting services Colleagues on June 27 2019 contract is entered into between both the city of Portland and FC hurdle consulting LLC To provide community stakeholder engagement services in the development of a digital equity action plan
 The original contracted amount was $17,150 with an expiration date of May 27th, 2020.
 Additional consulting services are required in order to adjust the strategies and methods used to engage community stakeholders in a safe, physically distanced manner. In addition, in line with the city's equity-based framework for engaging with residents, additional consulting services are needed to identify and engage with residents who face barriers to internet adoption.
 The contract not to exceed amount of $17,150 is increased by $15,000 to a new total not to exceed amount of $32,150. We have Elizabeth Perez from the Office for Community Technology here to answer any questions. Welcome, Elizabeth. Thank you, Ben.
 Thank you, Mayor. It's good to be with all of you today. So, yes, I'm here to answer any questions, but I'll give you a quick history of this contract. So as the mayor pointed out, we entered into this contract with Hurdle Consulting in June of 2019. The original statement of work anticipated that we would engage with community stakeholders through a reflections event of the DIN Phase 1.
 And then after the development of the draft plan for phase two, we would again follow up with the DIN members and other community leaders. So we did come to council in June to try to expand the contract. Okay.
 We had cost savings from last year that we felt we could use towards this contract. In this fiscal year, we have a little bit less. So just a little bit of background for the city's digital equity budget for this year, we have about $40,000. So we're using about half to fund this work because we think it is incredibly critical to the long-term strategy for our office and the city's digital equity work.
 So in addition to the complications we have faced from COVID and trying to engage with our community stakeholders, we've really shifted the work.
 of hurdle consulting to do more training for staff and the DIN members and to do additional outreach to additional organizations currently doing the work in the community that would benefit from being part of the DIN and the next phase of the digital equity action plan And that we would be able to assist them as well so
 Just a little bit about the timeline. We hope to bring the MHCRC, Technology Community Needs Assetainment, and the Municipal Broadband Feasibility Study to you all soon. With that, we hope to preview our intentions for Phase 2 of the DEEP that we believe will respond to the Needs Assetainment as well as the Broadband Feasibility Study.
 so in June starting in June and through September we've been working with our library and our county partners to draft phase two we're hoping that this month through October hurdle will be able to start leading the community engagement and then November we would come back to present phase two of the deep to city council the county board and the library board
 So we've asked this item to be heard on emergency just because of the time constraints. The hurdle team has had to put their work on pause while we figure out our next course of action. So I'd like to allow them to begin this work immediately upon passing. I do have Conrad Hurdle here to also share a few words. Welcome. Conrad, are you here?
 I don't know if he's been able to log on, but I can answer any questions that any of you may have in the meantime. Very good. Colleagues, any questions on this? I'm not seeing any questions. It looks pretty straightforward, Elizabeth. Is there anybody signed up to testify on this item, Carla? No one signed up, Mayor. All right. Very good. We'll call the roll. Hardesty?
 Elizabeth, I want to really appreciate your thoughtfulness and hearing what was said at the last time you brought this in front of us, reaching out to me, having a conversation with my office.
 I totally support the direction you were going. As I told you when you testified the first time, my concerns have been addressed. And I still just think you are absolute superstar. And we are very lucky to have you here at the city of Portland. And so I am very happy to vote aye today on this measure and look forward to the work of your consulting team and then you coming back to tell us what's next.
 I vote aye. New daily. Well, thanks for the presentation, Elizabeth. It's nice to see you. And I vote aye. Fritz. Thank you very much. I'm really pleased to see the digital equity work continue to move forward. We have to do it one step at a time, and that's what you're doing. So thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Thanks, Elizabeth. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for the presentation. Next to the regular agenda, Carla, item number 693. Okay.
 I ask the Bureau of Environmental Services to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Lake Oswego to cooperate on a potential replacement of the Tryon Creek wastewater treatment plant via a public-private partnership. Colleagues, the Bureau of Environmental Services manages our two wastewater treatment facilities, the Tryon Creek Water... Wait, wait. The Tryon Creek...
 wastewater treatment plant is located in Lake Oswego and services about 20,000 customers in Southwest Portland along with customers in an incorporated Multnomah County in Lake Oswego through an IGA that dates back to 1984 plant has been owned maintained and operated by the city of Portland the plant is in dire condition and
 This interim IGA allows the City of Portland and the City of Lake Oswego to enter a procurement process for a public private... Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm going to work on seeing if I can share my screen here to get this presentation up. I believe this should get it on the screen appropriately. Okay.
 So thank you, Mr. Mayor. You teed up the first slide pretty well. Kind of a summary. I apologize here if I can get that to the screen.
 A summary of kind of where we are, just a visual to orient everyone of the plant as you described, constructed in 1964, managed under a 1984 intergovernmental agreement. To orient you here to the picture, this is kind of the northern end of Lake Oswego just as 43 enters along the river and becomes State Street there in Lake Oswego. It's obviously along the Willamette River.
 You can see there the capacity treatment. Important note that the customer split that you described, Mayor, about 35% of the capacity of wastewater that comes through the plant is about 35% from the City of Portland, 65% from Lake Oswego, so keep that in mind as we go through the presentation here.
 The key objective of the current Interim IGA that's before you is really to allow this project to continue to the next step. So it's been under discussion for quite a while, kind of fits and starts with Lake Oswego and obviously with us here in Portland.
 We're really at a point now where we, and when I say we, it's Lake Oswego, but in agreement with City of Portland, are going out for a request for proposals. So the interim IGA starts to refine the thoughts about the path forward so that we can get the request for proposals out and officially get proposals from the qualified bidders. There's three teams of qualified bidders that have been identified.
 the RFP information will really provide us the technical details and financial details so we can collectively as two cities make a determination about whether this makes sense and indications are currently that it will which is why we support going forward with the RFP.
 To tee up, this is a pretty confusing arrangement, so we tried to kind of simplify it here. But this is the current arrangement. The green boxes on the left, City of Portland does it all. We design and build the improvements. Of course, we do that typically via contracts. We hold the permit for the outfall into the Willamette River. We own the land, we own the facility and equipment. And we're responsible for operating and maintaining the plant and financing any of the improvements.
 We then have the existing IGA under which the city of Lake Oswego pays us, pays to the city of Portland for their share of the cost. It's a somewhat complicated formula, but effectively it's a 50-50 kind of a cost share that Lake Oswego contributes via that existing IGA, which is quite old.
 So the new arrangement, if this were to go forward, if the RFP is successful and ultimately we get to a new treatment plant, what would happen? Lake Oswego would build a new plant and it would completely flip the relationship. So the opposite of the slide I just showed on the left, the city of Portland would pay our share of costs, something closer to that 35 percent of our usage to Lake Oswego. Lake Oswego would own the land, would own the facilities and equipment and would hold the permit.
 uh be a new a new permit uh under deque rules uh there would be a new iga that's not the iga in front of us today but that'll be a future iga in another year to 24 months when that will be developed that will indicate responsibilities there and then the coswego will have an agreement with a private party the terminology is dbfom as you can see in the blue boxes that's design build finance operate and maintain so
 Simple parlance, this is often called a P3, public-private partnership, but that agreement would be Lake Oswego and the private party, and the future agreement between City of Portland and Lake Oswego is simply for us to make those payments based upon our actual usage. So it completely flips that relationship, which makes some sense, at least on the surface, because it is, in fact, in the City of Lake Oswego and serves the majority of usage is the entirety of City of Lake Oswego population.
 A number of benefits to the city of Portland. One important one is it significantly reduces our long-term risks. We no longer have responsibility for the O&M and challenges that exist because of the underinvestment in the plant. We would no longer have the long-term risk of needing to drive the capital reinvestment. And then, of course, future regulatory risk would be borne by the new permit holder, which would be like a speedo.
 As I mentioned, it better aligns actual costs for City of Portland to actual usage. It does have potential, which we care about particularly in environmental services and for the city more broadly, has potential to improve the quality of the effluent that returns to the Willamette River, the new plant, as opposed to just upgrading the
 the existing kind of 1964 plant, the new plant would have potentially some more advanced capabilities to provide a higher quality return to the river. Of course, it supports that innovative technology, a unique financial arrangement. Last bullet, super important to me and to others as well, is that we've set this up and it's defined in the IGA guidelines.
 Intermig that this will be cost neutral and we believe actually better over the long term to the city of Portland, meaning the impact to rate payers will be at least no more than the status quo. If we reinvested in the existing plant, we believe it actually will be more cost effective for city of Portland and we'll get those details to make that final determination once we have the RFP responses in and a provider selected.
 Just a couple more slides here. I actually borrowed this from Lake Oswego presentation, but this is just kind of a summary of what we just went through. A comparison of the, in the blue, building a new P3 and keeping the existing plant. And these are all the issues we went through previously on the prior slide. The prior slides that described the difference between current status and new status.
 One thing I'll flag that this is important to Lake Oswego being that it's in their city is it does have, at the bottom here, it does have a smaller footprint. And so it has some aesthetic benefit to that area, the foothills area of Lake Oswego.
 So what if the RFP is not successful? Well, the fallback plan is that we would return to the existing IGA. That IGA does still govern, even during the term of the interim IGA, which really just addresses the RFP. We'd probably want to come back at some point if this didn't proceed, the DBFOM P3 didn't.
 proceed and think about renegotiating some terms of that IGA, but we do think it'll proceed. There is, with this interim IGA, Lake Oswego has pretty much covered all of the costs to date in getting to this point. We will now begin sharing those costs 50-50, but most of those costs will actually be rolled into the project cost if that, assuming that proceeds.
 But we would be responsible for our portion of those costs if it did fall to the wayside and we return to status quo. And then, of course, we'd update the facilities plan and look to implement major investments over the next 30 years. We estimate that's about $250 to $350 million, with most of that occurring over the next 10 years. So pretty major investment needed out there if the P3 is not successful. Okay.
 Schedule, lastly, so this starts in March of this year. Obviously, this work started well before then, but really in the context of the IGA, we've conducted briefings through the spring. Lake Oswego did have a study session at their council July 14th.
 a non-vote, but I think generally supportive of moving forward. Here we are today on September 9th. Lake Oswego will approve, we hope and intend, this same IGA at their city council next week. And then we'll, of course, have our second reading and vote the following day on the 16th, which will make this interim IGA effective.
 which then allows for the RFP to be released in fall. Timing's a little uncertain. Looks like it'll be mid-October. And then there's a few more steps. We'll review the RFP. City of Portland will have at least a couple of seats on that RFP panel and review process, and then assuming that successful pre-development goes forward.
 I think I do want to mention the, let me if I can just go back to the last slide. I want to flag that this is a long-term exercise. At best it would be fiscal 23-24 before the new treatment plant would be functional and operational with permit transfer and then eventually the old plant can be decommissioned, but it is a lengthy process that yet remains.
 So what the key terms that are in the proposed interim IGA, it establishes roles and responsibilities, most importantly, including some off ramps. If we decide that this doesn't make sense for financial reasons or other reasons, we can off ramp of that. And then it starts to kind of preview some of the key concepts that would be in the future IGA, like the share of costs, capping our maximum commitment.
 ensuring that any amounts that were due to City of Portland under the existing IGA are returned to Portland and then starts to define permit responsibility and asset responsibility when that's transferred.
 Thinking back to the schedule, just so you know where the touch points are for Council, this is a simplified version of the next steps. We're here at number one, highlighted with the orange circle, approval of the NRMIGA, which allows for development of
 publication of the RFP and development of the pre-development agreement will determine along the way whether or not this is feasible. As we said, if it's not feasible, we'll return to the existing IGA. If it is feasible, there will be a future IGA. And so that point three, there will be a future council action to discuss and agree to that future interim governmental agreement, which will then, of course, allow the P3 to build the new plant and transfer those operations.
 And that is my presentation. So happy to address any questions or concerns that you may have. Good colleagues, questions, concerns. Looks like there are none at this point. Do we have any public testimony on this item? No one signed up, Mayor. Very good. Excellent. I think this is a good solution for
 a problem that's been with us for some time. And I appreciate the work that the Bureau of Environmental Services is doing and the work that you've been doing, Jonas, to try and find a solution for all of this. This has been a thorny issue for a long time. So thank you for not just punting this down to the future once again. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item is 694, please, emergency ordinance.
 conduct a pilot program for the 2021 Citywide Charitable Campaign to respond to COVID-19 and the racial justice movement, as well as the financial hardship facing city employees and the community. Colleagues, the City's annual charitable campaign provides a means for city employees to contribute to multiple local, state, national, and worldwide funds and federations.
 The campaign, as you know, usually provides an opportunity for city employees to support various community organizations that serve Portland residents and beyond. COVID-19 has changed everything. As we know, Oregon will continue to contend with the virus well into 2021, and racial equity will continue to be a factor.
 Communities of color have been disproportionately impacted and underserved and racial equity and justice have become acute issues, not just here in Portland, but all around the world. This ordinance is...
 charges the Chief Administrative Officer to conduct a pilot program for the 2021 City-wide Charitable Campaign to respond specifically to COVID-19 and the racial justice movement, as well as financial hardship facing city employees and the community. Janet Storm is here to expand on the matter.
 on the matter welcome janet how are you today good morning commissioners uh good morning mayor my name is janet storm i'm with the office of management and finance chief administrator's office and you have pretty much summed it up very well um when we were beginning our original planning of the charitable campaign back in march that's when covid uh happened occurred
 And then shortly thereafter the racial equity movement started in earnest and so my
 office and the chief administrator were trying to find a way to address these issues within the context of the campaign to provide aid to those organizations that are on the utmost front lines of COVID and the racial equity movement to try to make a real difference.
 and we discussed it with chiefs of staff, and it seemed like the best way was to take the existing campaign, which is more of a broad brush, and really focus it in on the issues that are affecting all of us right now, especially communities of color and people who are suffering from COVID, family members of people who are taking care of people with COVID, and,
 and especially where the two meet together because we know that communities of color are being very, very hardly impacted by COVID-19. But also we wanted to show support for the greater movement as well. So we have proposed a pilot program. We reached out to the Portland Housing Bureau and the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management
 and the Office of Equity and Human Rights and asked them which organizations were partnering with the city because we would like to invite them to participate in the campaign this year. We also know that city employees are facing furloughs and
 a lot of people are having serious financial hardships. So we wanted to support them as well by not offering so many choices, kind of narrowing our focus, but also for those folks that don't have the ability to donate. And we know that there are probably quite a few people who,
 who would like to participate in some way, we are asking them to share with my office their volunteer efforts, and we will highlight them on the campaign's website, because whether you give your time or your money, it doesn't matter. You're helping the community, and we really care about that this year. So I think that's, are there any questions at this point? Very good. Colleagues? Commissioner Hardesty?
 Thank you, Mayor. Yes, didn't get to my hands up thing fast enough, but you saw me. And so is it your recommendation that this list that you've provided will be the only avenues for city employees to give through the giving campaign this year? This year only. The list is
 is also it doesn't have to be all inclusive. The criteria that we used were, were the organizations directly partnering with the city on COVID-19 or the racial equity movement? And these were the organizations that were suggested to us by those three bureaus.
 if anybody knows of another organization that we've missed that is actively partnering with the city on those two issues we would like to include them i will say that uh the uh the
 coordination team has a list of 100 plus organizations that are providing direct assistance to community members. I don't know if you've had a chance to talk to Mike Myers, but that is an inclusive list of organizations that are volunteer organizations as well as organizations with paid staff.
 So have you, I'm just trying to understand if the list is limited to paid staff groups or is it also reflective of volunteer organizations? It looks like most of the organizations, just at a glance, are organizations with paid staff people. But my experience has been during COVID, there are a lot of voluntary efforts that are providing significant community support.
 And again, one of those lists is available through the coordination center because there's at least 100 organizations, but many of them you would not know because they don't have paid staff advocating for more money.
 The criteria that we used when I met or checked with PBEM, and we did receive a great number of those organizations from PBEM, the criteria was, is it a 501c3 organization?
 As long as it's a 501c3 organization, I don't see any reason why they could not participate, as long as they're, you know, an actual nonprofit. I didn't look or we didn't look into whether they're mostly volunteer run or staff people. But I can certainly circle back with Mike on that. And...
 Because we do want to be inclusive. Thank you, Janet. I just wanted to be clear, you're limited by a 501c3 designation? Yeah, so that our payroll can give them, can make the donations through our employees' payroll. Are you limited by them having a fiscal agent if they don't have a 501c3 themselves?
 If they have a fiscal agent, somebody who's willing to represent them, we can certainly work with them that way. I just want to make sure that the list is inclusive and not exclusive and that we're actually thinking about the people that are providing the on the ground assistance right now.
 and have been since COVID started. So my questions, I have no problems with anybody on the list. I just wanted to make sure that we were really being thoughtful about who's on the ground providing direct services because some of the voluntary efforts that are taking place, I don't believe those organizations have 501c3s yet, but it doesn't mean their work isn't critical to the recovery of Portland. Thank you.
 And we would like to include them as well. So if there's a way to work with them, we would love to do that. This is super, speaking off the cuff, it's so important.
 So I, how do we make sure that when we, and I support the concept for a one-year pilot, so how do we make sure that at the end of the day we have a list that actually is inclusive of all the work that's taking place to help people stay safe in their communities?
 And that is a great question. I don't know if it's necessarily from our perspective possible to know who everybody is, but we can certainly do our due diligence. And I can check back with PBAM, I can check with the Office of Equity and Human Rights back again, Portland Housing Bureau.
 I am more than happy to have people come to me and recommend organizations and reach out to them. So I just had a radical thought. What if we said we were only going to have organizations serving the community with an annual budget of $100,000 or less or $200,000 or less?
 And I can make, you know, I'm happy to try to make the case for that. Because my concern continues to be that we have wonderful organizations that serve our community. Some are enormous and some suck up a lot of the city's resources. Some nobody knows they exist. Yes.
 And so I think if you gave people a list of organizations that represented the big boy and girl organizations, that people tend to look for organizations that they at least know the name. They don't know why they know the name, but they just know the name.
 Yeah. And so, uh, and as you know, we have given a lot of resources, uh, to a lot of organizations, uh, since COVID started. Yeah. I continue to have the concern that the bulk of our resources continue to go to the same big organizations. Um.
 here's an opportunity for us to really think creatively since this is a pilot and we're and we're doing it this year and we'll do some assessment about whether it worked or not and so and so again the idea is strong but I am very concerned that we have we are we are still feeding the same kind of organizations that we continue to go to because those are the ones that we know.
 whether or not they do good work and many of them do great work. That's not my concern. My concern is that, is that unless we know, unless you are tracking how many dollars we're actually sending already to those organizations, then it's really hard not to continue to send them the bulk of the resources we have. Understood. And I am open to any and all suggestions. All right. I look forward to continuing the conversation.
 Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Eudaly. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you for coming to us with this today. I am also very supportive of this temporary change in the giving program. And I agree with Commissioner Hardesty. I'm really interested in this conversation. I think
 There are groups that are not formal nonprofits doing really vital work in our community, and I absolutely understand the challenges of including them in this campaign, because those donations will not be tax deductible, and there's just less assurance of, I guess, certain standards that we would want to make sure exist.
 So I'm not going to push for that if you know the 501c3 is or they have fiscal sponsors, but I am really interested in the conversation about focusing the dollars on organizations that have small budgets. As Commissioner Hardesty said there are large organizations that take up
 a lot of resources, they have fundraising machines, and these smaller organizations have a harder time grant writing and fundraising because they're focused on delivering services. They may not even have a paid grant writer. They're also more nimble, and I'm generalizing here, but
 They can be more nimble and they can stretch a buck a lot farther. The fewer hands that dollar passes between our check and the person who's receiving the services, the better. So, I mean, I don't want to hold up this process in any way, but I do think it's a really valid, important conversation. And as I said, I'm open for that. We're open for that. Commissioner Fritz? Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Janet, for your long-time support and staffing of this program. And I appreciate very much your willingness to rethink it. I'm wondering if there's a way to get at what both Commissioner Udeli and Commissioner Hardesty are asking. I mean, this is an employee giving program. The employees choose where they direct their money. And they may have heard of a big organization and not of a small one. So with the
 the beauty of internet where you can post as much as you want on a website, perhaps there could be a link to, you could sort the organizations in terms of size of budget so that if people want to get the smaller organizations, and in particular, if there's an organization that
 Well, each organization could write up their own three-sentence spiel about why they encourage employees to give to them. And that way the organizations would get some publicity, even if employees choose to go with one that they've always given to or whatever. So that would be my recommendation is to invite those who are on the list to send in something that could be posted with a link to their websites even. Okay.
 Yes, absolutely. And we definitely can do a list of, I mean, it's the information about how much money each organization makes is readily available online. So we can certainly do our own list and put that information out there for employees and then they can make their decisions. I assure you daily.
 Okay, so I'll just chime in on this because it's a really interesting question and it's almost a philosophical question. How big is too big and should we in fact be supporting success? So if an organization is successful and it grows, are we...
 imposing some sort of an implicit bias against organizations that have proven themselves to be successful and been able to scale their services and potentially even become more cost effective in their delivery. And I would caution us against presuming
 that large or established is necessarily a bad thing. On the other hand, there are amongst our newer startups, our fresher startups, are a lot of those that are engaged in addressing the needs of the BIPOC community, recent immigrants, folks who've been underserved, and they're looking at things in new and unique ways.
 But on the other hand, I think we still have a threshold of success. This is something our children's levy has been struggling with for a long time. And we spent about a year and a half going through a significant process to figure out how do we address this question of newer, smaller businesses?
 organizations, nonprofits in the community, some of which still need technical assistance and support to really be successful. And ultimately, the decision was made to create a completely separate sleeve of funding for those organizations, and they would be evaluated based on slightly different standards that reflect the fact that, number one, they reach communities that some of the mainline organizations
 have not been able to successfully reach. And on the other hand, acknowledging some of those organizations are going to need additional handholding and technical support to be able to comply with the rules of the children's levy itself. So that's a model certainly worth looking at. I applaud the efforts here. Janet, I appreciate your openness. Thank you.
 to suggestions and ideas from commissioners and others who might want to put an idea on the table. I think you're finding the right way forward on behalf of all of us. So thank you for that. And I also just have sort of a plea to the community. Portland has a lot of nonprofit organizations. We have a lot.
 And there is a tremendous amount of duplication in certain service areas. And that's a hard message for people to hear sometimes when, when they they've really got their heart in the right place and they're enthusiastic and they want to dedicate time and energy to a cause, uh,
 Sometimes it is better to see if there is not already an organization out there doing some of this work, or maybe their work could be expanded and administrative overhead and staff costs could be shared, rather than starting a completely new 501c3 organization that then becomes a competitor for resources as its own overhead, its own staff costs increase.
 and competes, frankly, for limited government resources. So I would encourage all of us to take a bigger picture look at the nonprofit sector in our community and how we can support it and engage it, but also have frank and realistic conversation about what is needed in the community and maybe what becomes duplicative in the community.
 Do we have any public testimony on this item? Mayor. Commissioner Udali. I wanted to jump back in real quick. Of course. Thank you everyone for this conversation. So Janet, I'm curious if we pass this today, what's our opportunity to return to this conversation about crafting the list or is there one?
 I would say it's open. The hard stuff that we end up having is when we get closer, we're thinking that the campaign will be in November. So there is some back-end work that needs to be done by loading these organizations into the online donation portal. And also those organizations that haven't been with the city yet
 the Bureau of Human Resources would need to do some setup on their end. So it's important that at some point we kind of draw the line, but I don't think we're there yet.
 So sometime this month, maybe? Oh, yeah. Could we have 30 days? Sure. Absolutely. Because I do think everyone's made really good points. I think it's important to bear in mind that the majority of nonprofits, even the big ones, are taking a hit to donations right now. Their revenue is down anywhere from 20 to 40%. But mine...
 But in our efforts to deliver equitable aid to the community through this program with a new focus on BIPOC organizations, it's really interesting to then take that conversation even further into equitable distribution of our dollars. And my preference really is BIPOC-led organizations and organizations.
 people with lived experience, if we're talking about an organization that serves the homeless population, for instance. So I just, I would love to be able to continue it. And I'm glad to hear there's an opportunity for us to give you our
 recommendations. I do think it's a great opportunity for the city to highlight a lot of smaller, newer organizations that are relatively unknown to the public, but there may be bigger organizations on this list who have really great outcomes, and we know, you know, have existing infrastructure and connections in the community that we might want to support, but...
 Yeah, great. Thank you. Thank you. And I think that the city employees would agree with you on that. It's hard to tell who is going to donate where. But it is important to be doing our homework and to be providing them with the best options that we can.
 Very good, Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. If I may, Janet, it's funny because my, I was trying to think, was this my very first job in Portland? Yes, it was. My very first job in Portland was with the Black United Fund of Portland.
 And that job actually allowed me to go to various workplaces and encourage those employees to think outside of the limited United Way box that every employer was thinking in at that time. And encourage people to give to an organization like the Black United Fund, which wasn't as well known or wasn't as known as United Way as an example.
 But last year, it really struck me when you came and did your presentation, how many organizations now have the opportunity to receive resources from city employees. And so what I know is that we don't start putting in front of city employees organizations that they may not be aware of or accustomed to.
 Our employees will never have the opportunity to invest in those organizations. And so that is my personal lived experience with workplace giving campaigns. I traveled the state of Oregon providing presentations and opening up workplaces so that organizations led by people of color had an opportunity equal to the same opportunity United Way had. So here we are, 30 plus years.
 or somebody's baby i think um that's my son yeah he's i'm so impressed with parents who are able to keep their their face straight when their kids are going crazy in the background um but i i wanted to tell you that because i think we also are now at a milestone that was 30 years ago we are at a milestone today uh
 at really fundamentally rethinking a lot of things we thought we had the answer to. And so I just want to encourage that, yes, I appreciate the creativity, but I think we could do better. And I look forward to working with you over the next 30 days to make sure that we create those opportunities to invest in things that we know are making our community better and are helping us to build towards the equitable future that we're looking for. So...
 Just wanted you to know I have a long history with our workplace giving campaigns. And so thank you. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Is there any further discussion on this item? We have a... Oh, sorry, go ahead. I was gonna ask if there's testimony. Yes, we have one person, Edith Gillis. Hi, Edith. Can you hear me? Yep, we can hear you. Go ahead.
 So I wanted to, before we even get timed, I have a question for Carla. I thought I had registered to give public commentary on 688, 690, 694, 695, 702, 703, and 704. And I wasn't included in those earlier ones, and I'm wondering –
 how to correct that from happening in today's meeting for the rest of the stuff. And if you could email me or tell me how to avoid these problems in the future. And if that same problem happened for me multiple times, it might be happening for other people. Edith, we haven't gotten to 688 or 690. So we're on, yeah, 694. You're 695. And I have you for 702. Okay, I'm ready to start.
 Okay. I was going to bring up many of the comments that Commissioner Hardesty said, and I'm so grateful for that and Commissioner Udaele.
 I would like the city to have a consistent pattern that would be publicly available as well as to the employees using a same framework so that we're not expanding the gap between the haves and the have-nots, those that can afford or that have volunteers who can provide incredible PR.
 and outreach and websites versus those that are putting their money directly into services and don't have that. So if the city would have available not only to its employees for their giving program, and I thank you so much for also including volunteer work because that is priceless. If we could also have that posted for the public to see where you would be
 having like a grid showing the categories of services and community members that are served, whether it's QT, BIPOC, immigrant, impoverished, houseless, who are also on the management, the administration, you know, the leadership.
 And also other ways in which people can cross check that see the different ways of services. So if it's a generic phrase and a framework for everybody to see, we can
 let people know about good things that are happening. They're not gonna reproduce the wheel. We're not gonna have the bigger gap between the have and the have nots. We're going to support what we wanna have and we're gonna be wasting less money on the publicity and we're gonna have more accountability. Another good advantage of this is that the city has accomplished a lot of really great things already in today's meeting and the public doesn't know that.
 the public knows of the horrible things that police are doing and so the city is losing credibility and cooperation and therefore authority and power and sustainability but when you let people see these good things that the city is doing um it can help us have more of a sense of trust and cooperation um we can have more resilience we can have better efficiency of our resources and we're going to have
 a better way to counteract the despair, the cynicism, the resentment and anger that has been coming up because of the incredible criminality, violence by the police. And so I'm really wanting to commend you for doing this.
 for being flexible, for being thoughtful, and just expand on the good work that you're doing. And again, thank you for the comments that Commissioner Hardesty and you daily said that I was going to say myself. Very good. Thank you. Carla, does that complete public testimony? That does, Mayor. Please call the roll. Hardesty?
 Thank you so much for this conversation. This vote today says that I am supportive in concept, but I expect that we're going to kind of make some changes as we move forward. That is on the public record, so I'm going to assume that that is so.
 And I want to say, I want to support what Edith just said. Thank you for thinking outside the box during this time and in this environment and understanding that the world has actually shifted on its axle and we will be doing things a lot different. So I am happy to vote aye. And I offer my assistance to help make this the best workplace giving campaign we could possibly have. Thank you, Daly.
 Well, thank you again for the presentation and thank you everyone for the conversation. I think it's interesting and important. Like Commissioner Hardesty, I support the direction that this is going. We are going to be putting our money where our mouth is and that always feels good because there's always more talk, I think, at City Hall than there is walk. So I'm grateful for that.
 And I'm also happy to give any additional input into developing that list. As the co-founder of a nonprofit that was entirely volunteer for the first couple years and continues after 20 plus years to this day operating in a shoestring budget, I want to admit I might be a little biased towards small organizations because I just know what
 what they can do with limited dollars. I vote aye. Fritz?
 Thank you, Janet Senior, for all your work on this. I want to echo what the mayor said in terms of we shouldn't be penalizing organizations that are successful. And I'm thinking in particular of the Black Resilience Fund, which is a brand new startup and has raised over $1.5 million since George Floyd was murdered and puts it directly into helping people out. So I wouldn't want us to limit...
 just based on dollar amounts because you know that way we would perhaps or you would since I won't be here next year but you might price out the ones that are most successful this year and so I do think that the approach of sharing information and let's just return the focus this is city employees giving their own money
 and choosing where to do it, but the city making it easy for them to do that. And so I very much appreciate all of the public service that our employees give, including making financial contributions as well as the work they do. Thank you for your work. Aye. Wheeler. Thanks. This is great. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next up, 695.
 Pay settlement of the estate of Lane Martin's wrongful death lawsuit in the sum of $975,000 involving the Portland Police Bureau. Colleagues, on the afternoon of July 30th, 2019, Portland police were called to Northeast 122nd Avenue in Northeast Davis because Lane Martin was threatening people in a parking lot with a knife and a hatchet.
 Multiple officers attempted to communicate with Mr. Martin to de-escalate the situation, but Mr. Martin was unwilling or unable to follow their commands to drop his weapons. According to reports, Mr. Martin was acting erratically, screaming threats to people on the sidewalk, in the street, and claiming to be a federal officer.
 After being shot with less lethal ammunition rounds, Mr. Martin ran into an apartment complex courtyard on Southeast Ash Street. There he faced off with a group of officers and was shot and killed when he reached into his pocket to grab a knife.
 In mediation sessions in late June, the estate of Lane Martin agreed to dismiss all claims in exchange for $975,000. Risk management and the city attorney's office recommended the city council approve the settlement to resolve this case. We have Randy Stenquist from the Risk Management Division and city attorney's representatives to answer any questions. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor. Randy Stenquist, City Risk Management. You've stolen my thunder. You've read basically the synopsis of the case. All of the commissioners and you were briefed on the more details of the case back in a memo from Risk in August. So Mr. Bailey and I are here to answer questions that you might have about this negotiated settlement that was a voluntary settlement.
 Mediation participation by all of the parties. And this was the amount of money that all of the parties agreed to. Very good. Any further questions, colleagues. Carla any public testimony on this item. Yes, Mayor. We have three people signed up. Very good. The first person is Edith Gillis. Hi Edith.
 I'm sorry. I agree with the former city employee and attorney, Becky Chow, that there is a high risk of a jury finding the city guilty and requiring a much higher payment.
 I want us, as I say almost every time we have these, to really address the underlying reason why we keep having these payouts that are too little for the wounded parties, injured parties, and too much for us to take out of our tax dollars. And so I would like us to really commit
 As Commissioner Fritz has said that she wants us to be doing, and Hardesty and UDaily, that we apply research-based best practices for preventing or reducing lawsuits and reducing or preventing fines and other kinds of payments. And one, have good laws and policy which are inclusive in developing this from the community members.
 we can make a lot better improvements of that. I know you're also trying to work on the city charter. I commend that and on the police contract. Two, have good communication and public education. Three, good supervision and oversight. Four, clear rules of transparency and accessibility to all members.
 Five, good lifetime correction enforcement with realistic and effective consequences immediately. Good training support for improvements for each party. Good empathetic listening and rapport building, earning the trust and community building. Sincere apology and accountability with restorative justice. And ways to learn on how to go forward with it in a regenerative culture.
 For example,
 Doctors are not going to be sued, even the horrendous things, if they are immediately apologetic and make things right and are treating people decently. And people are often sued who may not have done as comparative harm, but they are so contemptible and they're so oppositional, like in a war. The old legal lawyer mentality is not what we need to have for a strong, healthy city.
 We all know we need to improve what the police are doing. And we all know that the police lie, that they falsify evidence, destroy evidence, tamper with witnesses.
 And the story that you're saying is not, you're acting as if that were fact, and that's not agreed upon fact, and it's not what's represented by the evidence and the witnesses of the scene. So we need to make sure that this sort of thing doesn't happen again.
 and that we don't even have public statements, as you were just reading, that are untrue and that are going to increase things. I would recommend that after every time that there is a use of force, especially if there's police killing someone, that you immediately have a week of public hearing. Next is Dan Handelman. Mr. Handelman, welcome. Hi. Hi. Good morning. This is Dan Handelman from Portland Cough Watch. Can you all hear me?
 Hello? Yes, we can hear you, Dan. Okay, great. Thank you. It's hard to tell when you're on the phone. All right. Again, this is Dan Handelman. The city is settling this lawsuit today. It's listed as a wrongful death lawsuit for Lane Martin. And as noted, he was clearly in a mental health crisis. He had been swinging an ax around while walking down the street.
 But after the officer shot him with a left leaf around, he dropped that axe. That was not mentioned in the mayor's narrative. Shooting Mr. Martin was not a form of de-escalation. The officers cornered him in that apartment complex, and then the shooter officer and one other officer said he pulled a knife. But conveniently, Mr. Martin did not live to give his side of the story. This was the fourth of five shooting deaths last year, at least the third involving someone with mental health issues.
 We previously analyzed the shootings reviewed by the OIR groups, putting them from the pre DOJ agreement in 2012 to post DOJ. Since the last report ended with a May, 2017 case, we added the 18 incidents that happened since then, including at least 10 people with mental health issues. We found that while 55% of the cases OIR were reviewed pre DOJ involved mental health, the ones since then make up 60% of shootings. So the fruit of seven years of revising police policies and training, uh,
 to use less force on people in mental health crisis is more deaths of, and more shootings and deaths of people in mental health crisis. In terms of taxpayer dollars, the settlement falling just shy of the $1 million mark means all this comes from taxpayer pockets and not from an outside insurance firm. We recently updated our data on settlements and jury awards and found that since 1992, Portland's paid out under, just under $12 million for the top 25 misconduct cases
 with the death of Mr. Martin coming in number four. It's notable that number three is Aaron Campbell's death, number 10 is James Jihara Perez's, and number 14 went to Bruce Brown, a black man who in 2001 was mistaken for a perpetrator and wounded by Kenneth Duilio, the officer who headed up the gun violence reduction team until it was disbanded. Number 24 is Gerald Gratton, who was shot in the back but lived, who's also African-American. This
 This shows that in addition to failures to help people in crisis, the PPB has a history of wrongfully shooting African Americans, but there's still no justice for Keet and Otis. The police review board cleared all these officers in this case per the report that came out in August. There was praise for the officers' efforts to deescalate, but no acknowledgement that backing off is one means to deescalate, and it's likely the ongoing confrontational stance that led to Mr. Martin's death.
 We read Mayor Weir's claim that he can't comment on cases because he ultimately has to decide whether officers are in or out of policy. But we're not asking City Council to say anything to jeopardize the settlement. We want to hear promises that policy training and tactics will change to end the parade of deadly force. And I would also like to hear the word tragedy mentioned when we talked about what happened to Mr. Martin. We understand there are
 His family wants to put this incident behind them. It's a reasonable position. We've heard it from many, many families. However, we hope they will consider helping to push the city to change the way police do their business so we don't end up with more traffic like their sons.
 I'm always worried of saying things like this out loud, but we're now nine months into the year, and so far the Portland Police have not wounded or killed anyone using a firearm, though they did shoot at a man who was squatting in a home and missed him in June. There have been at least 20 shootings in the state so far this year, and it's a welcome relief that only one was by the PPB. The only year we have on record with only one deadly force incident by PPB is 2009. That's three minutes. We'll do the second one. Thank you. Thank you. And the last person who signed up is Shannon Kramer.
 Welcome, Shannon. Can you hear me, everyone? Yep, loud and clear. Okay, great. Thank you. So hello, my name is Shannon, and I have lived in Portland on and off now for over a decade. Like Lane Martin, I am a Portland State University student in my 30s.
 I'm here because of the egregious use of deadly force by Portland police and that it is part of a repeated pattern of excessive force we've seen for almost a decade. A pattern that has cost us and will cost us millions, if not billions, as my previous two testimony civilians, whatever you want to call them, Edith and Dawn have said. It's also shown that
 Yet again, not only in those patterns Dawn mentioned, but also in the yet-to-see-justice case of Quanis Hayes and demonstrated over and over and over again in the last 100 nights, night after night, by the Portland police. Just last night, footage of police making an arrest surface where an officer removes the face mask of an arrestee during a pandemic with tear gas in order to mace the pinned person directly in the face.
 This is an example of wanton cruelty to a person well within the control of the officers pinning him, and an example yet again of a potential lawsuit that will cost us Portland residents millions.
 Our police on the ground have been duped into betraying their own citizens, duped by a brotherhood so disconnected from reality it pits Americans against one another, a brotherhood that literally escorts white supremacists into the city limits, and that responds with brutal force to the largely peaceful Black Lives Matter protesters. A recent study covered in Time noted that 93% of these protests have been peaceful, and yet the police respond disproportionately, violently, every time to Black Lives Matter protesters when compared to other protests.
 Our officers on the front lines have been set up to fail by their superiors. They've been told they must act with violence and dominance concerned only with power, optics, and budget. This expectation of violence and the enabling of excessive force leaves no room for compassion and cost Portlanders their lives, their well-being, and our finances. It sets Portlanders up to keep paying out to families in wrongful death suits, in suits about tear gas, and to keep seeing racist and brutal practices that not only persist but are elevated as if they were part and parcel of police duties, which they are not.
 I know this will fall on deaf ears to the Portland police. Their chief and their higher ups will defensively rally together as they have night after night. Like children afraid to admit that they have done wrong. Indignant instead of dignified. Petulant instead of powerful. But our people deserve better.
 The integrity of our institutions has failed, as has any Christian value our brethren hold dear, any universal value or moral code for those held to a higher standard has been laid bare as a farce. But we do not need to stay here. They can be better and they should be better. And it is up to you to ensure that actual actionable change occurs or else you are wasting our time and you are wasting our money. So I thank you for your time and I hope you consider the broader implications of your inaction regarding the pattern of force so clearly prevalent within the Portland Police Bureau. Thank you.
 Thank you for your perspective. Carla, does that complete public testimony? That does, Mayor. Very good. Call the roll. Hardesty? My heart goes out to the family. I vote aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? As Dan Handelman noted, there is a very disparate impact on people affected by mental illness and disability.
 Beyond what we do, what Commissioner Hardesty is doing with the street response, supported by the mayor and the council, we do need to continue to put pressure on the legislature to adequately fund mental health services within the community, because people shouldn't
 should have the resources that they need to not get into such crisis whenever that can be prevented. And I agree that this was a tragedy and I vote aye. Wheeler. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is 696.
 Authorize sewer revenue bonds to finance sewer system capital improvements in an amount not to exceed $350 million and to refund outstanding bonds. Colleagues, this legislation authorizes the issuance of bonds secured by the net revenues of the city's sewer system.
 that are sufficient to provide proceeds of up to $350 million to finance capital assets of the sewer system, including amounts that are reasonably required to finance related costs. The ordinance is intended to authorize bonds that are expected to be issued in fiscal year 2021 and fiscal year 21-22.
 While approximately $140 million of bonds are expected to be issued in the current fiscal year, a higher amount may be issued to fund project needs if there's a financial benefit in doing so based on market conditions at the time of the sale. Mike Garak is here to answer that.
 Any questions? Welcome. How are you doing? It's Matt. Sorry, I said Mike, I think. Sorry. I know it's Matt. Yeah, it's okay. Thank you. How are you doing? I'm doing okay. I'm doing okay. Glad to hear it. Good morning there, and commissioners, for the record, I'm Matt Girod, debt manager with the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services.
 This ordinance, as the mayor noted, authorized the city to issue up to $350 million of sewer system revenue bonds to finance various projects under the Bureau of Environmental Services Capital Improvement Plan. The $350 million borrowing authorization is expected to cover approximately the next two years of the Bureau's finance capital expenditures.
 of the total borrowing authorization the Bureau currently anticipates issuing approximately 150 to 200 million of revenue bonds. Matt, I'm sorry. Jonas, do you have your hand up for? Okay, no, never mind. Good. Sorry, you're good to go, Matt. Okay. The 150 to 200 million of revenue bonds this fiscal year to cover capital expenditures for the next 12 months.
 However, given the recent uncertainty around market access in the municipal bond market during COVID-19, the city's debt management division will be assessing the market for opportune conditions to potentially issue the entire amount in order to lock in advantageous long-term interest rates. Based on today's market conditions, the estimated borrowing rate is approximately 2.15% for the 20-year borrowing, though this will vary depending on market events that occur between now and the bond sale.
 Over the next two months, the City's Debt Management Division and the Bureau of Environmental Services will be preparing the documentation for facilitating the bond sale, which is expected to occur in early November of 2020. I'm happy to answer any questions on the financing, and I'm also joined by Jonas Beery from BES for any Bureau-specific questions. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? It doesn't look like it right at this particular point. Do we have any public testimony on this item? No one registered, Mayor. Okay.
 All right, good. Then without further ado, thank you for the presentation. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It was the second reading. Thanks for the great work. Next item, 697, Portland Parks. Approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements.
 authorize a competitive solicitation for the use of the alternative contracting method of negotiated request for proposals, and authorize the chief procurement officer to execute a contract with the successful proposer upon acceptance by the counsel of the procurement report,
 for the Mount Tabor Yard Maintenance Facility and Multimodal Pathway Project for an estimated $8,100,000. Colleagues, voters overwhelmingly approved the parks replacement bond back in 2014, thanks in no small part to the work of Commissioner Amanda Fritz and Commissioner Nick Fish.
 In total, the bond funded over 50 projects across Portland, including playground replacements, improving swimming pools, fixing trails, bridges, and many other things. And we're now nearing the home stretch. This is actually one of the very last bond projects to begin construction, and this one's focused on our Portland Park and Recreation employees who work for the Mount Tabor Yard facility. This project will provide a safer work environment for our staff,
 It'll improve productivity with a brand new maintenance shop, which has been desperately needed for a long time. It will add connectivity to Mt. Tabor Perk via a new multi-modal pathway and more. The proposed alternative contracting method will ensure the contractor understands and can help respond to the site's unique constraints.
 flexibility in construction scheduling to ensure that the city employees can continue their important work and improve outcomes for our minority contracting goals and more. Here to share more details about the project and the proposed alternative contracting method are Robin Laughlin, who is the capital project manager at Parks and our chief procurement officer Lester Spittler. Welcome Robin and Lester.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. I want to give you guys a heads up before I get started. The wind just picked up like five minutes ago, so my internet's popping in and out, but I do have you guys on the phone for backup. So if you lose my video, Lester will back up and continue the slideshow for me. Thank you. But fingers crossed that we don't have wind for 10 more minutes. Oops. And I need to share screen. Okay. Okay.
 Can you see her slide now, please? Not yet. Are you there now? Still not seeing the slide. Kaelin, can you help us with this? How can we get Robin access to her desk? Yeah, sure. I can share my screen, Robin, if you would prefer. Uh-oh. She may be losing connection. I could share my screen too. Yeah, Lester, why don't you go ahead and continue, and then if Robin comes back, great. Sure thing. All right.
 Can you see the presentation? Yeah, we can see it. You're good to go. Okay. Robin, are you there via the phone? I'll just go ahead and pinch in here and walk through the presentation and talking points. So thank you, Mayor Wheeler, City Council. I'm Lester Spiller, the city's chief procurement officer. I'm here with Robin to present on the Mount Tabor Yard maintenance facility and multimodal pathway project and to recommend authorization of the alternative contracting method of a negotiated request for proposal.
 All right. So next. All right. So sorry about that. The Mount Tabor yard project is part of the 2014 parks bond replacement program that was generously passed by voters approving the 68 million bond measures to address critical park needs in seven priority areas. This project fits into the protected workers focus area and will renovate the outmoded aging structures at the Mount Tabor maintenance yard facility. This is the second two replacement bond projects to go into construction to protect workers.
 The project is located immediately south of Mount Tabor Park in southeast Portland within the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association. The project site, shown here in color, fronts Southeast Division Street, Southeast 64th Avenue, and Southeast Lincoln Street. The project site is an essential facility from which...
 Portland Parks and Recreation maintenance and operations staff service the assets of the citywide park system. The Mount Tabor Yard facility is the primary work location of 110 employees from several parks and recreation divisions with staff responsible for horticultural services, aquatics, turf and irrigation, carpentry, welding, painting, the mechanical, electrical and plumbing trades, and facility maintenance technicians.
 The project will provide a modern, safe facility for many of these workers, replacing some of the aging structures you see on the screen. The community has had a significant role in the future of Mount Tabor Park, as well as the project-specific portions of the park at the maintenance yard and at the long block fronting Lincoln Avenue. In 2008, Council adopted the Mount Tabor Master Plan update, which amended the Mount Tabor Master Plan to include the project area at the maintenance yard. This was the culmination of a year-long planning process in partnership with the Mount Tabor and South Tabor neighborhoods and the 35-member planning group.
 For this specific project, a project advisory committee was engaged throughout the project via regular meetings and the general public was engaged through public open house meetings. Both inputs influenced the site development plans. Additional communications to the public were made through updates to the project website. The current work was approved through a type 3 land use process for conditional use review and historical resource review. Public hearings were held before the hearings officer and the landmarks commission. This work was completed in May of 2018.
 With input and support from the community and the staff at the yard, Portland Parks and Recreation developed a final design that will construct key improvements focusing on a new 17,822 square foot staff maintenance shop facility as shown in the long black rectangle on the screen, removal and relocation of horticultural greenhouses and outdoor plant storage areas to the area shown in yellow, establishment of a horticultural plant storage area adjacent to Southeast Lincoln and Southeast 64 Avenue as shown in the center of the green area,
 A maintenance yard reconfiguration upgrades within the area shown in gray on the screen. A new multimodal pathway shown here in light orange is funded by systems development charges. The new path will stretch from Southeast Division Street to the park entry at Lincoln Avenue and will provide off-street connections for pedestrians and bicyclists, as well as half-street improvements to Southeast 64th Avenue. Public art will be located along the pathway as well.
 The new staff maintenance shop facility to be built with this project will include shop space for carpentry, plumbing, and electrical trades, and facility maintenance technicians, as well as a crew room, supervisor spaces, and locker facilities. The multimodal path is located along the western edge of the project site. The work associated with this includes a new 12-foot-wide concrete path, lighting, and half-street improvements along Southeast 64th Avenue leading into the park.
 The project includes funding from multiple sources. The 2014 parks replacement bond provides $7.6 million. Major maintenance funds provide $489,000 for the worker facilities portion of the project. Service development charges in the amount of $1.9 million fund the multimodal path. Parks and Recreation has an anticipated ongoing annual operations and maintenance costs associated with this renovation in the amount of $45,847.
 These funds were requested and approved in the FY 2021 budget but withheld until July 2021 due to construction timing. After today's milestone with your approval, we aim to post the request for proposals next month. Construction is estimated to begin early in 2021 and last about 18 months. The project should be substantially complete by summer 2022. And now I will talk about the alternative contracting approach.
 The city is required to address findings when we're doing anything other than a low bid for a construction project. So for this project, we looked at the low bid approach, but since the project was already fully designed and there was a lot of complexities involved, we landed on a negotiated RFP as being the best method to contract for the project.
 Some benefits of a negotiated RFP are simply the fact that you get to evaluate proposals and things other than price, like project approach, the team that they assemble, their proposed workforce diversity commitments, and the subcontracting plan. The exemption process requires that the city address 14 findings and publish those findings two weeks prior to a council hearing. The findings were addressed and were posted as required and are included in the council package you have today.
 The following are a few highlighted findings that support the use of a negotiated RFP on this project. One of them is the fact that an alternative to a low bid cannot diminish competition. So in this, we don't expect diminished competition. In fact, we actually expect more because of the complexities. We feel that it would be a bit risky for a contractor to just come in and submit a low bid.
 We also feel like this approach will facilitate cost savings due to reducing risk of delay claims because we'll be able to look at their schedule as a evaluation criteria.
 We also feel like there's plenty of public benefits, including increased opportunities for certified subcontractor participation and workforce diversity by asking proposers to tell us how they're going to engage certified subcontractors for scopes of work and what sort of commitments they're going to make to women and people of color in the various trades that they employ as well as their subcontractors employ. We'll be able to take those things into consideration in the contractor who we select.
 We also, as I mentioned earlier in the presentation, this is an ongoing operations and maintenance facility, so there has to be minimal disruption to that operation. So we'll be able to evaluate things like sequencing of work, of scopes of work, constructability reviews, their schedule, and any sort of ideas that they bring to the table on how to execute this project. Okay.
 And lastly, we'll be able to ensure that all bidding contractors fully understand the requirements of the site and scope of work to the best of their ability and understand the values of the city. So there have been, there's been park staff and staff from procurement services that have presented over the past nine months at various organizations that represent minority contractors. We've presented this project along with other forecasted projects that the city has had.
 So by doing so, we've hoped to gain some interest and some eagerness on behalf of those contractors who would either want to respond as prime contractors or subcontractors. We will be working collectively with Robin and staff from Parks to include questions asking for commitments to certified subcontractor participation as well as workforce development for women and people of color and apprentices in the trades.
 And lastly, pricing will not be the sole criteria. We will be disaggregating and focusing the pricing on scopes of work versus a lump sum amount for the entirety of the project. That gives us more insight into how the contractor is pricing certain scopes out. That, along with what their proposed schedule is, will allow us to pick the best contractor that aligns themselves with the city's values and understands the goals of the project.
 So with that, that concludes our presentation. Our recommendation to council is to accept the findings and authorize the project's exemption. Very good. Thank you. Does that complete the entirety? And if so, we'll get to commissioner Hardesty first, then commissioner Hardesty, you're up first. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, mayor. And thank you, Lester. And, um,
 I don't know if the other person who was attempting to help us actually came back yet, but thank you for that presentation. Lester, my focus question today is, what I heard you say is we're gonna ask the contractors how they're gonna meet the goal. What I didn't hear is whether the contract will actually require them to meet the goals that are set for minority and women-owned firms participation.
 Sure, I can answer that. So with a request for proposal, it is a requirement. And so we take their proposal, the winning contractors proposal, we incorporate that into the contract. So then that becomes a binding contractual requirements. And so it is it is a more powerful, we have more authority in an RFP versus in a low bid, because we get to have that evaluative decision making. So what happens if six months into it, they're not meeting the goal?
 Well, then, you know, there's, I mean, if they're not meeting what they told us they would do, then, you know, there's liquidated damages. There's ultimately, you know, that would be considered potentially a breach of contract. There's termination for convenience, etc.
 But I think first we would look to assess liquidated damages. We would give them a cure notice, which says, look, you're not doing what you said you would do. You won the contract based on your proposal. You need to either come up with a corrective action plan. If you don't, these are the consequences that you'll have. And how closely are you monitoring and tracking this contract for the outcomes that we're looking for?
 So the contractor would be reporting in our two software systems. So we would have information up to date. As soon as we're paying the contractor, it tracks the contractor's payments to subs. And then we have the ability to report on that. So I mean, anywhere from 15, it's real time. But there's a delay of about 15 days just because it requires the verification of payments, which tracks the progress of the project in our system. And can we ask for...
 higher goals than goals that we would ask for a typically in an RFP.
 Yeah. So in a, in an invitation to bid, you know, our, our standard 20% applies. So, but an RFP, you know, there is really no ceiling. You know, we ask contractors to be creative, to, to think big. And ultimately the biggest thinkers and the, you know, the contractors that put a thoughtful proposal will get more points and ultimately they'll, they'll have a better chance of winning. So, and oftentimes I think in RFPs, we do see,
 higher proposed amounts because they know that they'll be able to work with the city. You know, one thing in a low bid, the subcontracted scopes are really already bought out because they do all that bidding before they submit a bid to us. But in an RFP,
 you know, they have a plan and then they have an opportunity to look at the various scopes that they're going to subcontract for and think about the best ways to engage subcontractors. And oftentimes that can mean direct negotiations with firms that can mean limiting the pool of competition to certified firms that can mean,
 You know, doing best value, just like we're doing, or ultimately just doing a, you know, a low priced bid for a subcontractor. But there's more creativity and flexibility on behalf of the prime contractor to be able to truly engage thoughtfully and intentionally to get better outcomes than in a little bit. And how do I think he just answered that question. Thank you. That's all my questions. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you for acknowledging the 2014 bond measure that Commissioner and I helped to pass. Thanks very much to all the park staff who've implemented this.
 so many of the projects. I believe this is one of the last ones and it's significant that it's one that provides improvements for employee workspaces as well as multimodal paths. So somebody asked me, why does the path cost 8 million? And the answer is because it's not just the path, it's the entire facility and the infrastructure
 The current facility was actually part of the posters for passing the 2014 bond measure because it's in absolutely horrible state. And I want to thank all of the employees who have contributed.
 continue to work there despite its conditions. Actually talking of which I'm looking outside at the smoke and the wind and I'm just very very grateful to all of the first responders and others who are addressing the horrendous conditions that we have outside now and thanks to our other presenter whose power went off and this is really continuing to be an extremely challenging time so thanks to everybody who's doing that.
 So I don't have a question, I just wanted to thank the staff at Parks and Procurement Services. I definitely support this approach, which has resulted in better outcomes for women and minorities participating in the contract. I also thank the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association for their participation in figuring out how this path is going to be communicated.
 constructed as well as the configuration of the buildings. And so it's really an example of a collaborative effort from a lot of parties. And I'm looking forward to seeing the completion of this, one of the final projects at the bond measure. Hopefully we'll soon have resources for parks to be able to continue to be making really vital improvements as well as maintain them. Thank you. Very good. Thank you, commissioner Fritz. Any further, uh, questions at this moment?
 Very good. Carla, do we have public testimony on this item? No one signed up for this item, Mayor. All right. Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you very much for the presentation. We appreciate it. 698. Excuse me. Yeah, go ahead. Oh, Robin's back. Hey, Robin. Good to see you back. Hello.
 I finally patched in with my phone. I can see you on my computer and I can hear you on my phone. So thank you. I just want to say, interrupt and say thank you for your time and your patience with my power issues here and thank you so much Lester for covering for me. If anybody has any other questions for me, I'm happy to answer about the project. Thank you Robin and Lester did a very able job
 filling in and we certainly all understand the technology issues. We spent the first 15 minutes of the meeting trying to sort them out. Commissioner Fritz. Yeah. Commissioner Fritz, you remuted accidentally. Okay.
 Well, I got the speech started and I'll just start again then. Thank you, Robin. I'm glad you came back on and that your power was restored because you have been absolutely crucial to the success of the bond measure projects in so many of them. And I so very much appreciate your and your team's work on this and all the other projects. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Thank you, everyone. Next item please, Carla. 698, Portland Housing Bureau.
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Gresham for $1,184,642 for the Home Investment Partnership Program. Colleagues, the City of Portland and the City of Gresham have entered into the Home Consortium IGA to implement the activities under the HUD's Home Investment Partnership Program. The City of Portland is the representative member of the Portland Home Consortium
 and with responsibility to carry out overall responsibility of the Portland Home Consortium. The purpose of this particular intergovernmental agreement is to describe the responsibilities of the parties and specify how the City of Gresham will allocate its Portland Home Consortium grant award for the fiscal year 2021. Welcome. I believe we have Stella Martinez is here. Stella Martinez. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Are there any questions regarding the IGA? It seems like a necessary step, so I don't have any colleagues, any questions at this point. Carla, is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up for this item. Very good. You're getting off easy then today. Thank you, Mayor. Hardesty? Aye. Dedele? Aye. Fritz?
 Thank you for your very succinct presentation. Aye. Wheeler. That was a short one. The technology worked as well. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Next item, 699. Amen. Joint Office of Homeless Services and...
 agreement with Multnomah County to authorize fiscal year 2020-21 budget allocation to the Joint Office of Homeless Services and extend it to June 2022. Colleagues, I'd like to make an amendment. I'd like to remove the extension through June 2022 in the IGA for the Joint Office to make this change.
 Commissioner Hardesty and I did not practice this in advance to make this change.
 I move to amend the title of the ordinance to strike the reference to the extension through June 2022. Amend paragraph three of the findings in the ordinance to strike the reference to the extension through June 2022. Amend paragraph five on page three of the exhibit A to strike June 30th, 2022, and replace it with June 30th, 2021, and to make any other conforming changes in the exhibits necessary to remove the extension through June 2022. Commissioner Hardesty,
 Has seconded this. Any further discussion on the amendment? Call the roll. Curtis D. Aye. Hugh Daly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment passes. And with that, we are here to hear, I believe, from Mark Jolin and Shannon Callahan. I'm guessing my notes don't say that that's who I would pick if I had to pick two people to talk about this.
 Thank you, Mayor. Shannon Callahan from the Portland Housing Bureau. As you all know, the City of Portland has a strong partnership with Multnomah County through our Joint Office of Homeless Services. This partnership was initially formed in 2016, and this annual IGA amendment facilitates the Council-approved annual budget allocation to the Joint Office.
 This year, the IGA also contains additional federal funding related to the COVID emergency to help people who are living on our streets, in our shelters, and in other means unhoused. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Mark for a few brief comments, and thank you for your time. Colleagues, any questions for Director Callahan? Mark, do you want to jump in on this? Sure.
 Only to say thank you and to make myself available for any questions you may have about this amendment. Good. Any questions? I'm not seeing any particular at this moment. Carla, do we have any public testimony on this item? We have two people signed up. I believe one is definitely there. Adam Brown. Adam, you with us? Yes, I do.
 Good morning, folks. That's probably a mistake. I'm the business services manager for the joint office, and I'm here to support this item as needed. Very good. Thank you, Adam. Richard Rubin, I'm not seeing him. Keelan, do we have him? I believe he canceled his request. Okay, thank you. Very good. Any further discussions going once, going twice, gone, call the roll.
 Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Thank you for all of your work, it's much appreciated.
 Wheeler. Hi. And as a slight footnote to my vote, since the ordinance is now adopted, Mark, I want to thank you in particular for your hard work and your forbearance. Obviously, you and I are in discussions about how to retool our efforts around reducing street homelessness and connecting people to the services that they need to be connected to. You have been very...
 nimble in terms of expanding shelter capacity on behalf of both the City of Portland and Multnomah County during the COVID crisis to comply with the CDC guidelines but I think all of us understand here and acknowledge that the community wants us to do much more.
 in order to reduce the number of people that are camping in our streets, in our doorways, in our overpasses, and elsewhere. People are increasingly concerned about the victimization of people on our streets. There's clearly a demand for and a need for additional shelter space and potentially sponsored camping spaces that are safe
 that have proper hygiene and running water and trash collection services and connections to services and support. And I want the community to know I hear that concern, I share that concern, and it will be my intention going forward to address those concerns. And we would love to have the full-throated and energized support of our colleagues
 at a home for everyone and in the joint office of homeless services. But absent that, the city council will have our own discussions about the $37 million currently allocated towards those efforts. And we will always ask and have a duty to always ask whether or not those funds are
 are going towards the issues that we believe are the most important. And right now, from my perspective, it is street homelessness and it is addressing the chronically homeless on our streets and doing everything we can to resolve their situations and help get them off the streets and keep them off the streets. So that will be my focus. I believe my colleagues share that concern. Mark, you've heard it, you've worked with us. We hope you'll continue to do so.
 But that is the spirit in which I am endorsing and voting for this ordinance. And as I said, the ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you both. Next up, 700.
 Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for Sullivan's Ridge Building A located at 1722 Northeast Multnomah Street. So it's not a month or a Wednesday morning meeting with the Portland City Council without a guest appearance by Dori Van Brockle and she is here. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and or I guess good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm going to look at sharing my screen and I'd actually like to present on this item and the following item together. So give me a moment here. Excuse me, Mayor, do we need Carla to read the second item? Good call. Carla, could you thank you Commissioner Hardesty for reminding me of that. But no, we're going to read these separately. I've been advised we need to read them separately.
 She is. Oh, never mind. I stand corrected. Read them together. 701 as well, please. 701, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for Sullivan's Ridge, building D, located at 1812 Northeast Multnomah Street. Awesome. Thank you. Sorry for the confusion. Dori, go ahead.
 DORIE VAN BOCKLE, PORTLAND HOUSING BUREAU.
 We're here to talk about two different projects that are subject to inclusionary housing, where buildings with 20 or new residential units have five different options to choose from in order to provide affordable housing on site of their development or by sending it to another site. They're also able to reconfigure those different units into particular sizes to have a
 more family size units or they can pay a fee in lieu of providing the affordability. So the two projects we're talking about again are part of a larger development of six total buildings. These two buildings, building A and building D, are actually going to be
 taking advantage of consolidating their units into these two buildings for the whole site. So of those six buildings, the affordable units will be provided in these two, which will also still have some market rate units within them as well. So the two ordinances today are to provide a tax exemption for those affordable units within these two buildings only. More specifically about what we are looking at for the projects,
 This building A is a 24 unit apartment building that's been converted from a current motel. And within it, it is mostly studio units, but also has a few one bedroom, two bedroom units. A little bit larger than what we normally see. You can see the average square footage. Any of the inclusionary housing units within the building have to be at least 90% of the average square footage across the building.
 And the minimum option that the building is subject to based on what was chosen by the developers, 15% of the units to 80% of median family income. By consolidating some of the responsibility from other buildings, there will be 33% of the units in building A restricted over the 99-year timeframe. So that...
 is a total of eight units altogether, six studio and two bedroom units. Looking at the tax benefit as well as then the rent discount on average, these are based on projected rents and projected value of the property that then results in what the exemption value will be. So the tax exemption itself is only applicable for the first 10 years of
 that the building is in service. However, again, the restriction is for 99 years. So in this case, on an annual basis, we can estimate that the total
 tax exemption is $336 per year, and the average rent discount based on current market rates would be $2,310. Or on a monthly value, a savings of $193 per unit a month compared to $4 a month that would be expended in tax exemption. Similarly, the Building D also is a 24-unit building,
 But we'll be receiving a few more units from the rest of the projects on site, resulting in 67% of the building being affordable at 80% of median family income. And that comes out to 12 studios and four two-bedroom units. Because these buildings are...
 Pretty much one in the same. It actually has the same estimates and projected savings from both the tax exemption compared to the market rent differential between the affordable rents. Are there any questions? Colleagues, any questions? Dory, thank you. As always, those were great presentations. Carla is entering public testimony on either of these items, 700 or 701.
 No one signed up for these items, Mayor. Very good. Please call the roll on item 700. Hardesty? Udailey? Thank you, Dory. I vote aye. Fritz? Thank you, Dory. I actually like this program. I think it's a good benefit to have the long-term affordability in return for the short-term fairly modest tax exemption. So I vote aye. Fiedler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted 701. Call the roll. Hardesty? Aye.
 Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 702, please. Vacate South Broadway Drive at Southwest Grant Street, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Mr. Udaly? Aye.
 Thank you, Mayor. This street vacation is connected with the efforts to save and relocate the historic Morris Marks House, and I'm going to turn it over to PBOT's Carl Arruda to present the item, I hope. Just trying to unmute here. Thank you. Hi, Carl. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Carl Arruda. I'm a right-of-way agent with the Bureau of Transportation. Thank you.
 And as Commissioner Udalli said, this street vacation ordinance is connected with the efforts to preserve the historic Morris Marks House. The street vacation is for vacating a piece of unused right-of-way at the intersection of Southwest Grant Street and Southwest Broadway Drive. And I think Keelan has some slides that I have prepared.
 Thank you, Keelan. So you can go to the next one. Thanks. So on this first map, the arrow is pointing to the area of the street vacation. You'll see I-405 and Broadway and 6th Avenue in the vicinity. And go to the next one, Keelan. And so this slide has a closer up view of the proposed vacation area.
 And so there's a triangular parcel there at the intersection of Broadway and Grant and Broadway Drive. And on the ground, that parcel looks like one piece of land, one parcel of land. The left side of the triangle is officially public right-of-way. And so that is where the vacation area is proposed. The east side of the triangle was previously owned by the city.
 The right-of-way piece of it was originally dedicated to the public back in 1867 and was part of what is now Broadway Drive. Keelan can go to the next slide, I think. And so this photo is from several years ago, maybe actually 2015 or 2016. Shows what the triangular lot looked like back then from Grant Street, looking towards downtown. We can go to the next slide.
 And so, and as Commissioner Udalli mentioned, this project is in connection with the Morris Marks House. And so that's part of the original purpose of what's going on here. And so the goal was to help preserve the Morris Marks House, which is shown here in its original location on Southwest 12th Avenue in downtown. The house was originally built in 1880.
 and is one of a very few examples in Portland of Italianate architecture in Portland. The house, back in 2015 or so, was scheduled or in danger of demolition when a group of people, including the applicants, Karen Carlson and Rick Michelson, arranged to buy the house from the previous owner on the condition that they move it,
 And so in conjunction, the city's contribution was to agree to sponsor the street vacation and to sell to the applicants the neighboring piece of land for the house to be moved. The surplus sale for that piece of land was authorized by council back in 2017 and that sale closed in 2018 to facilitate the house being moved.
 And so, next slide. Thank you. And so, this is the house after it was moved to the triangular parcel. So, this view is from Broadway looking south, southeast. And so, the street vacation is part of the applicant's plan to use the vacation area as a parking lot for the house, and the house will be used as commercial office space.
 And next slide, Keelan. Thank you. And so this slide shows a couple of views of the house and the vacation area during the renovations from a few months ago. And one more slide, Keelan.
 Thanks, and this shows a few more views from last week, I think it was, a week or two ago, with the fencing removed, and you see the gravel area is roughly the street vacation area next to the house. We're looking downtown again from Grant Street.
 The one condition, one major condition that we received during the comment period was from the Water Bureau. The Water Bureau has two significant lines running underneath the vacation area and a fire hydrant, which you can see in one of those photos. And so the Water Bureau required permanent easement to protect those lines and the Bureau's access to them, to the fire hydrant. And on the next slide.
 So this is an aerial view from before the house was moved, but this shows the water lines and the hydrant in relation to the vacation area. And you can see the close-up of the hydrant next to the house that will stay in place.
 And next slide, Keelan. And so this shows a schematic of a preliminary parking plan of what the parking lot would look like next to the house if the street vacation is approved and the parking lot is constructed in that gravel area that you saw previously. So besides the Water Bureau's condition for their easement, the other notable requests during the comment period
 was from a couple of different people to make sure that there was adequate pedestrian access, especially on Broadway, up on the upper right corner of the slide. And so during the surplus process and during the street vacation process, PBOT staff made sure that we retained enough right-of-way along Broadway for future use.
 the expansion of the pedestrian bicycle corridor that could be part of the Green Loop project. And I believe that's all I have for now. I'll be happy to take any questions. And I think Karen and Rick may have some. All right. Thank you for the presentation. And anybody have any further questions on that particular item or Commissioner Udalli anything else to add?
 I just want to say how much I appreciate the community-wide efforts that went into restoring that facility. And I'm just, this is great. This is really great. Thank you for doing it. Do we have any public testimony, Carl? I think we as applicants would like to make a statement or two. Okay. Rick, why don't you go ahead, and if there are others who would like to do that,
 Legal counsel, is there a format I'm supposed to be following for this? No, there isn't, Mayor. Okay, so this isn't that formal, but for the applicants, it seems very reasonable to let them testify. So I see Rick and I see Karen. Who else would like to testify? Okay.
 Carla, how many folks do we have? Yeah, Edith Gillis wanted to testify on this. Okay, why don't we, Rick, why don't we go ahead and start with you? Do you think you can do it in three minutes or less? I think I can do it in a minute and a half. Perfect. All right, why don't you go ahead?
 Mayor Wheeler and council members, we're very, very pleased to be here today. Rick, I'm sorry you have to announce your name for the record. Rick Michelson, one of the applicants. We're very pleased to be here today. We've been working on this project since 2016 and actually moved the house in 2017, three full years ago. We're pleased to say that this is the next to last city approval we need to get this project completed.
 As soon as we get the street vacation approved, we're going to be getting the building permit for the parking lot, which will then complete our applications. We're very pleased to be part of the Green Loop system. You can see we did some significant improvements on that side of the house. And we look forward to completing this project and when COVID is over, inviting you all to take a tour.
 In the meantime, there are a lot of pictures online that you can take a look at. It's looking spectacular, and we're really, really pleased with the project and with the city's support on this. Thank you. Thank you, Rick. Commissioner Fritz has a comment or a question.
 Thank you very much. And you noted that you've been involved since 2016. I think it was in 2006 when Dr. David Cutler and his wife, Nancy, first informed me about this house and the efforts to save it. Dr. Cutler and his wife were two of the first people to be really kind to me and my husband when we arrived here in 1986. So this has been a really long journey.
 project. I did notice the article in the Oregonian last week saying that the property is for sale for 1.8 million and that the city sold the land for a dollar. So Rick, would you like to tell folks about the costs of moving, restoring, so that that gets put into context? Sure. Our total cost on this project is going to be about 2.3 million dollars.
 We think 1.8 million is a reasonable sales price, and I consider the $500,000 or so a contribution we're making is a contribution, a thank you to the city of Portland for all the years I've made by living doing this. We never went into this to make a profit, and we're happy with the results and where this has turned out.
 Thank you. I appreciate you putting that onto the record. And also, while I'm commenting while you're here, and thank you, Karen, for being here also. Many, many people worked really hard on this. Rachel Wiggins in Mayor Hales's office committed. We thought we were in charge of it when I was in charge of parks and several of my staff worked on it. And then it turned out the Water Bureau was, so Commissioner Fish took over.
 And so it was very, very complicated. And I appreciate all of the effort. And whenever I used to go by on the bus on my way to work or on my way home, I would always look over and marvel at how beautiful it looks now, what a gateway to the central city it's going to be. So I look forward to being able to come and visit it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Rick. Thank you, Commissioner. Carla, who's next?
 Was that Karen Carlson? Yeah, I see Karen. Go ahead, Karen. Hi, I'm Karen Carlson and Rick, I'm really pleased to be here. This is been a long, long process. Um,
 And I think actually every single city employee has been involved in this process, or at least it feels like they have. We've gone through many, many different approvals through just about every bureau I can think of. And it's marvelous and beautiful and exciting.
 and 140 years old. So I think it looks darn good for 140 years old. And just to clarify things, Commissioner Fritz, we paid $180,000 for the land. We paid a dollar for the house. And as I think, it's about a half a million to move it. It was pretty expensive altogether. So I'm
 But we are pleased to have done it. We think it's beautiful. We want to show it off. We're sad that it's COVID and we can't show it off except with photographs. But I'm happy to share photographs for anyone who would like to have them. Thank you. Thanks a lot, Karen. Appreciate it. Commissioner Udeli, do you have your hand raised? Yes, you do. Thank you. I do. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to
 quickly appreciate Rick and his company for their commitment to historic preservation. I'd love to see the photos. It's so hard to look at vintage photos from Portland and realize all the incredible buildings that we've lost over the decades, so it would be great to see photos of ones that we still have and that have been lovingly and beautifully restored, so thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. And Carla, does that complete public testimony on this item? No, we have Edith Gillis. Oh, yes. Sorry, Edith. Go ahead. Thank you. I want to really appreciate the integration, the cooperation that's been involved with this, the multiple layers.
 I also want to encourage you to require that there be permeable surface to maximize the stormwater biofiltration. I'd like you to maximize the photosynthesis of carbon sequestration,
 keep those trees, increase the trees, cleaning and cooling our air, and making it easy and economical with accessibility to the utilities, instead of having that a hard pavement. And also inviting a rest space, because that's a very difficult, very difficult place with all the pavement to get to a safe space if one is walking, bicycling,
 or suddenly has a car accident and is stranded. So if you can encourage more pollinator path, trees and plantings and letting the parking space be pesticide free, but letting the storm water to percolate down. And that's all I have to say. Thank you, it's beautiful. Thank you, Edith. Carla, that completes public testimony, is that correct?
 That's correct, Mayor. All right. Any further comments, Commissioner Udaly?
 Mayor, I just need to read a statement before we move on. I want to quickly announce that a transportation item that should have been heard at today's council meeting will be heard next week, September 16th. The item would authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Outer Northeast Halsey 114th to 162nd Project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. So we will hear that.
 next week. Very good. Thank you, Commissioner. With that, Carla, this is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. And now we'll go back to the items that were withdrawn from the consent agenda. 688 is our first item. 688, amend business license code.
 Related to the administration of the residential rental registration program and housekeeping changes. Colleagues, in July of 2018, the Portland City Council passed Ordinance 189086, which created the residential rental registration program. It required all owners of residential units in the city to register those units with the Revenue Division.
 In August of 2019, the City Council passed Ordinance 189650, enacting a per-unit registration fee beginning in tax year 2019 as part of the Residential Rental Registration Program. This ordinance amends the Business License Law Code to provide additional clarity in the registration.
 residential rental registration program and improve administration of the registration fee it adds a definition of residential rental unit to the code and it specifies that the residential rental registration fee is subject to late payment and late filing penalties and interest very similar to the business license tax the ordinance also removes from the city business income tax return the donation to the arts impact fund
 Fund, formerly known as Work for Art, which is administered by the Regional Arts and Culture Council, otherwise known as RAC. A review of past participation determined that including the donation as a refund offset was not cost effective. Going forward, the Revenue Division will prominently provide RAC donation information on the tax form.
 I don't know if we have somebody else here to testify on this, and I'm not sure who pulled it, Carla. Gilles pulled these. Very good. And I don't know if we have somebody from staff here to – Scott is here. So why don't we listen to Edith's testimony, and then if Scott wants to respond to it, that's great. I see Scott Carter's on the line. I'm having a little problem with this traumatic brain injury.
 And I suddenly forgot which item I'm looking at. This is item 688. It amends the business license law code related to the administration of residential. Thank you. Yeah. So, yeah.
 I really want to thank you for specifying that it's a residential rental unit versus rental property. I want to thank you for requiring all owners of residential rental units to register and to provide schedule. And I really like that you're having the timing of it very specific and ongoing. I'm not sure about the finding and consequences, but I'm going to trust the incredible work of Commissioner Daly.
 I have some questions about joint ventures. I imagine everything people do is a way of sharing combined resources, talents, and skills with one another. And I'm not quite sure why joint ventures was crossed out in all this. And after my comments, I'd love to be able to hear that. And I also want to...
 kind of alert you that there are some people who are being very suspicious that candidates are maybe excluding different things and we don't know, or there's some really fantastic ideas that we don't understand why they're fantastic and we could, you know, better support and encourage it. I want to also say regarding C, I'm
 What are some examples of joint ventures when it comes to landlord-tenant law and including tenants in common agreements? Why are they stricken? Okay.
 What are some other examples? And then I also want to really appreciate the excellent work in cleaning up the confusion regarding the Arts Impact Fund. As an artist, as a taxpayer, I get sometimes confused about this stuff. I also want to publicly thank and commend the Tax Dollar Stewardship, the PIPA,
 the care, the advocacy, the justice, the work, the courage of commissioning you daily and really standing up for good landlords and tenants. So at the end of this, if you would explain a little bit more about why you kicked out a joint venture, I will yield the rest of my time. Thank you again. Thanks, Edith. Scott, do you have an answer for that question?
 I'm actually going to defer to Matt Thorup, who's also in the meeting. All right, thanks. Hi, this is Matt Thorup from the Revenue Division. With the joint venture, this is more of cleaning up the business license law, less in relation to the residential rental business.
 There is no tax filing for a joint venture. So they still would be subject to them. It just cleans up our filing and the treatment of them will be handled through administrative rules and business tax policies. Okay. Thank you. Did anybody else commission you daily? You have your hand up, but I think that may be left over. Anybody else have any further questions? All right. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. The next item was 6 9 0.
 amend local improvement district procedure for technical clarifications. Andrew, this sounds like something right up your alley. Andrew Abbey, welcome. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Andrew Abbey, local improvement district administrator. This is really just a housekeeping ordinance to make code more readable and to make some technical correction.
 I believe that Edith Gillis pulled the item and wants to testify on it. I'll be happy to answer any questions that council may have. All right, good. We'll hear from Edith. And then if there's a response, you can respond. Carla, why don't you go ahead and call the testimony? I believe it's just Edith. It is Edith Gillis.
 Thank you. I have a question about page 1.2a. It says a property tax exemption is not grounds from exempting a property from an LID assessment. Could you please explain more?
 Mayor Wheeler, responding to Edith's question, we wanted to be clear in LID code. We're increasingly doing LIDs with partners who are not subject to property taxation. For example, right now we have a very large
 LID going with TriMet in the Cully neighborhood of Northeast Portland. So we included that language for clarity that just because a property may not be subject to property taxes, that that doesn't automatically exempt a property from an LID assessment to the extent that there's a council makes a finding of special benefit for that property. Very good. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions on this item? No.
 This is a non-emergency ordinance as well. So this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. We'll move to second reading. And Carla, am I correct? We've now completed this morning's agenda? That's correct, Mayor. Yes. All right. Very good. We'll see you all back here at two o'clock. We are adjourned. Thank you.
 The afternoon session of the 9th of September Portland City Council meeting. Carla, would you please call the roll? Or Keelan? Hardesty? Here. Udaly? Wheeler? Here.
 Fritz. Here. The mayor read the statement this morning. I'm currently the president of the council, so he read the statement as far as why we're holding electronic meetings. And so I'm going to just carry that over to this morning from this morning. If the city attorney could please read the rules of order and decorum.
 Yes, thank you Commissioner. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. The published Council agenda at portlandoregon.gov forward slash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the City Council is holding electronic meetings.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated.
 When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others' testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that all council meetings are recorded. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry for the technical delay. Thank you.
 Microsoft wanted my code this afternoon and I had to scramble to figure out what my code was. For starting without me, I appreciate that. We have two items on the agenda today. Carla, can you read items 703 and 704 please? Yes, good afternoon, Mayor.
 prohibit the acquisition and use of face recognition technologies by city bureaus and 704 prohibit the use of face recognition technologies by private entities in public places, accommodate accommodation in the city.
 Colleagues, we are here this afternoon to consider two ordinances that seek to ban the use of facial recognition technologies by our own Portland city government and by private entities in the public spaces.
 Many will remember that we held a council work session on this subject back in January. At that work session, we heard powerful stories from community members about the real impacts of facial recognition technologies. We heard from experts how unreliable the current technology is in identifying faces of women and people of color in particular. And we were given examples of arrest charges and the sullying
 of people's reputations all based on false positives. With that in mind, the city brings the first policy in the nation that delves into the impacts of emergent technologies in civil liberties. These ordinances are the first step toward forward in policy development in response to technological innovation.
 Though the Portland City Council has had our first deep dive into facial recognition technologies in January, the Smart City PDX team, along with their city partners and diverse voices of Portlanders, have been at this work for well over a year. I want to thank everyone in the community who is involved and is engaged with their time and their energy.
 Portland is far from an anti-technology city, and I want to make that very clear. We are not anti-technology. With a wide array of local and national tech companies, we are one of the fastest-growing tech hubs anywhere on the West Coast. We simply demand that our technology protect our information properly while providing the digital services that we need.
 All Portlanders are entitled to a city government that will not use technology with demonstrated racial and gender biases that endanger personal privacy.
 These proposals are a clear and urgent first step in implementing the City of Portland's privacy and information protection principles which were approved in 2019. In addition, because Portland is a city of innovation, we will seek to collaborate with innovators and technology makers to design facial recognition technology to implement products that Portlanders can trust and use safely.
 Technology that focuses on privacy and people first can be a key component to help us resolve our current challenges as well as plan for an equitable future.
 Before we hear from our city colleagues, I'd like to pass this to Commissioner Hardesty, who's been a champion of these policies and a fantastic co-leader in developing these ordinances. Commissioner Hardesty, hello again. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you very much. I am so excited by our opportunity that we have here today.
 I also want to say that I am very proud to have partnered with the mayor to bring these two measures before the city council and to enact as law in our great city.
 The mayor has covered a lot of what I was gonna say because he always looks at my notes before I give them. But let me just say that I do wanna reiterate the fact that where we are today with facial recognition technology is that women and specifically black women continue to be totally misidentified. In many cases, they're identified as men.
 And so the darker your skin complexion, the more likely the facial recognition technology will misidentify you.
 In addition to that, I do not think any parent wants their kids biometric data sold on the open market to the highest bidder without any consideration about whether or not permission has been granted and whether or not their family wants their young kids biometric data to be used in that manner.
 As the mayor said, we are a pro-technology city. But what we've seen so far in practice with this technology, it just continues to exacerbate the over-criminalization of Black and brown people in our community. I welcome today and I welcome a day in Portland where innovative technologists will come with some technology that has no racially...
 unequitable outcomes. The day that happens will be the day I'm happy to look at revising the ban. Until then, until we get it right, there should be no exceptions to why this is bad for our community. I will have additional statements after we've heard from all the incredible public people here who want to testify. We've received lots and lots of letters in support of these two bans.
 This measure will ensure facial recognition will not be used in this city until the above problems that have been laid out have been addressed and have been verified by independent sources, not just by people who want to sell something to us. In concluding my opening remarks, I would like to make a motion to add an emergency clause to item 704.
 This is already an effective date in item 704. So the emergency clause will allow us to vote on both items simultaneously while still allowing any businesses employing facial recognition technology to employing facial recognition to discontinue its use.
 Voting on both matters today will allow the community members who are joining us today to not only hear about why this is important, but also to be present as we vote on this important legislation. And there's no need not to do it all in one fell swoop. So I will repeat, I am making a motion to add an emergency clause to item 704. Is there a second?
 It has been seconded by Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Thank you. All right, with that, we'll get onto the presentation. Great. Good afternoon, everyone.
 I'm Andrea Durbin. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, city commissioners and members of the public that have joined us today. I'm Andrea Durbin, director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. BPS leads the Smart City PDX program, which focuses on bringing digital justice to Portland and for all Portlanders.
 We believe that digital rights are essential for a more equitable, participatory, and engaged community. Over the last year, we have organized several community sessions and have started to take the first steps to implement the city's privacy and information protection principles that council approved in 2019. Thank you.
 Today you'll learn the specifics about two proposals that address the use of facial recognition technology. One will ban the use of facial recognition technologies by city government, and another will ban the use of these technologies by private entities in public spaces. We sought the input of those most impacted by facial recognition technologies and prioritized protecting them in the development of these proposals.
 Collaborative and participatory policymaking processes were used in research and policy development, including two council work sessions and a policy workshop. With that valuable community feedback, we were able to shape the proposals by basing them on lived experiences of members in our community.
 As a public agency, we can best serve Portlanders by encouraging the development of responsible technologies that do not discriminate. We can create an expectation and standard that these technologies must start with the privacy and information protection by design from the beginning. That is why this proposal is so important. We need to take a stand and be clear that these technologies need to improve and not discriminate.
 These technologies also need to document testing and evaluation. And until that happens, the ban of these technologies in public and private uses in public spaces is essential. What we know is that indiscriminate use of these technologies threatens civil liberties and is biased against Black, Indigenous, and people of color, women, and elders.
 And we know that it is important to acknowledge the harm and the use of these technologies, and by doing so, we can help spur the industry to fix the inherent bias and discrimination so these technologies will work better. By adopting these two ordinances, the City of Portland will join other cities in the adoption of the public ban and lead the way nationally and internationally to be the first city to ban the use, the private use of this technology in public spaces. That is squarely where we should be.
 The Office of Equity and Human Rights has been a vital partner in this work, and we thank them for their guidance during the policy development phase. And I'd like to now introduce my colleague from the Office of Equity and Human Rights, Dr. Marquesha Smith, to hear more about how these ordinances will advance our racial justice work while inviting the development of responsible technology. Thank you so much. Thanks, Director Durbin.
 Hey, good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, City Commissioners, Director Durbin, and Markeisha Smith, Director for the Office of Equity and Human Rights. On June 17th of this year, City Council adopted the City of Portland's core values. Anti-racism is the very first of those listed values. What does anti-racism look like? Many things. But in this instance, it looks like the ordinances that are presented to you today and the processes that led to them.
 In developing the public use ban, there was a rigorous process to include the public in the development of the ordinance, centering the voices of Black, Indigenous, People of Color communities. Council held a work session on the public ban on facial recognition technology, and frontline organizations that serve BIPOC communities made it clear that they needed the city to go further and adopt a privacy ban as well.
 Being anti-racist means following the lead of our Black, Indigenous, and People of Color communities as they identify the needs of their communities. Being anti-racist means that understanding through the use of root cause analysis that the history of surveillance in this country is rooted in slavery, with the earliest examples of controlling the movement of enslaved people being the slave past. Being anti-racist means assuring the safety of BIPOC communities first,
 There are now and will continue to be solutions using technology that purport to address safety and advance well-being and opportunity as we encourage the use of technology for these purposes when it is clear that the technology will serve all of the people in our community and that means centering the safety and well-being of BIPOC communities first. It is essential that we proceed with a safety first approach and these ordinances do just that.
 Thank you for your time. Now I think I'll turn it over to Judith. Thank you, Dr. Smith. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners, Director Durbin and Smith, and our guests. I'm Judith Mowry. I'm the Senior Policy Advisor in the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 Thank you. My name is Hector Dominguez. I am the Open Data Coordinator and part of the Smart City PDX team. Our team, as Director Durban mentioned, is part of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And Hector's now going to share his screen. I'm going to share my screen. Thank you. Thank you.
 Today, Smart City PDX, in collaboration with the Office of Equity and Human Rights and the City Attorney's Office, bring two policies that ban the use of face recognition technologies due to known racial biases, which run counter to city values and privacy concerns. Privacy is a human right. This is represented in Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
 Building robust public trust among people and organizations is essential to creating a sustainable and just future. Today, Black, Latinx, and Indigenous people are over-surveilled and underrepresented in tech. The city has an important role in the creation of safe and welcoming public spaces for all. Why ban face recognition technologies?
 FRT relies on biometric information. There are no legal protection, no legal protection framework exists in Oregon. Minors are particularly vulnerable. Hundreds of technology providers use algorithms that show bias against black people, women, the elderly and people with disabilities. Algorithms can harm, disilluminate and limit access to the benefits of technology.
 And why ban face recognition technologies in Portland? Well, false positives can be hard to mitigate or remediate when this technology is part of a data pipeline in law enforcement.
 Use of biased and untested technology may constrain access to public spaces to Portlanders. And Portlanders deserve technology that protects their information without creating extra and unknown risk to them due to potential privacy data breaches. These proposals were developed in an inclusive, open, and participatory process.
 These ordinances would ban the use of fair recognition by city bureaus and by private entities in public spaces. Ban of fair recognition technologies used by city government would become effective immediately, while the ban on private use of fair recognition would become effective on January 1st, 2021.
 The ban on private use of fair recognition would apply to businesses offering public accommodations as defined by Oregon law and federal ADA law. These policies led to the creation of a new city code title, number 34, on digital justice.
 Everyone has the right to be treated fairly by public and private entities of all kinds, particularly in technology and information systems. Portland is a place of technology innovation. The city is elevating digital justice for groups and individuals. Tech solutions in Portland must comply with higher standards in privacy and information technology.
 Industry and communities must collaborate to build model technologies based on trust. Smart City PDX will coordinate technology literacy efforts. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the Office of Equity and Human Rights will provide privacy assessment services for city bureaus and begin inclusive community engagement to design comprehensive surveillance technologies policies.
 Now, commissioners, we are open to questions regarding these policies. Very good. And we also have some invited testimony. But before we get to that invited testimony, does anybody have questions at this particular moment? All right, good. And this is not the last chance. Thank you both for your testimony. We appreciate it. And with that, we'll hear from some invited testimony. First up, we have Sarah Hamid from CARE Oregon. Welcome.
 Hi, everyone. Can you hear me? Yep, loud and clear. All right, awesome. So my name is Sarah Hamid. Thank you for having me today. I sit on the board of and am speaking to y'all on behalf of Care Oregon.
 Like many in the Kerrigan community, I'm a child of immigrants, which means that my childhood is rife with parables of entrepreneurship, innovation, and the value of individual initiatives. And innovation hubs like Portland is this place to me where you can take your ideas and apply grit and focus and innovate your way to the American dream.
 But marketing technologies is entirely different from inventing them because marketing oftentimes involves finding problems after the fact that people can then apply to the technologies. And in order to sell those technologies, those problems are always urgent, widely relevant, and super important to the consumer.
 And the thing is that people often forget about technologies is that they have histories. And oftentimes what they're marketed for has no relationship to the institutions, issues, or individuals that were involved in the innovation process. The technologies almost have an amnesiatic effect on consumers. We forget that they have a history.
 Facial recognition has a particularly fraught history, as many people have already discussed. It's a history that predates hand-free driving in COVID-19. It's a history that includes biometric databases that track new immigrants, racialized rogue galleries that criminalize communities, and the persistent need of the state after 9-11 to know who travels, where they travel to, and whether or not they have a Muslim-sounding last name.
 It's no accident that facial recognition criminalizes Portland's over-policed communities. That's not an edge case. That's the core functionality of this technology.
 Portland, along with the entire country, is in the midst of a very important conversation right now with regards to public safety and how we are reimagining public safety for ourselves. With the leadership of folks like Commissioner Hardesty, we're asking hard and difficult questions about how we want to address issues like mental health crises and housing insecurity.
 And as we're wont to, Portland is positioning itself as kind of a different place. We're a sanctuary city. We're a city that believes that human crises should be dealt with humanely. And we're a city that thrives because of diversity and difference. These ordinances are unprecedented. And no other city in the country has taken a stand like this against the use of this dangerous technology in our public spaces.
 We as Portlanders are not okay with public safety for some and not for others. We're not okay with letting small businesses have a fragile sense of security when the reality is we need to be asking and resolving why their businesses are not receiving the police protection they pay taxes for in the first place. Facial recognition does not solve the issue of poor police service distribution.
 We're also not okay with empowering aggressive and abusive immigration enforcement and detention that victimizes our immigrant and Muslim communities, just so we can unlock our phones a few seconds quicker. I urge everyone involved here to take a stand on behalf of Portlanders and to refuse and capitulate to clever marketing that puts our communities at risk. Thank you. You're on mute, Mayor. That was bound to happen today, wasn't it? Thank you, Sarah, for your testimony. That was great.
 And unlike me, we actually heard your testimony, which is fantastic. Our next invited testimony is Babatunde Azbouke from Freedom to Thrive. Welcome. Hey there. Thanks for everyone for having me.
 I wanted to talk to you all today about the facial recognition. I have been calling for a citywide ban on facial recognition technology in the public and the private areas. We're living in an age of incarceration. Ecarceration is short for electronic incarceration. This is when authorities like police or immigration agents use technology to track and monitor people.
 With the use of this tech, law enforcement officers can use mobile devices to capture faces, face-ready recognition photographs of the people they stop on the street, surveillance cameras, both real-time face scanning and identification capabilities. The FBI also has access to hundreds of millions of facial recognition images of law-abiding community members.
 At many places and spaces, the adaptation of facial recognition technologies like these have occurred without meaningful oversight, without proper accurate testing of the systems that they actually use in the field, and without the enhancement of legal protections to prevent their misuse. They can even be used to reinforce the biases that business owners have against certain individuals.
 This has led to the development of unimproven, inaccurate systems that impinge on constitutional rights and disproportionately impact people of color.
 The FBI's Interstate Photo System and Faith Services Unit exemplifies these problems. The minimal testing conducted by the Bureau showed that IPS was incapable of accurate identification at least 15% of the time. This has real-world impacts. An inaccurate system will implicate people of crimes they didn't commit, forcing them to prove their innocence and shifting their traditional burden of proof away from the government.
 This threat will likely disproportionately impact people of color. We've seen it, facial recognition misidentifies Black and Indigenous people of color, young people, women, folks with disabilities at much higher rates than white folks, older people, and men respectively. Due to the years of well-documented racially biased police practices, all criminal databases, including mugshot databases, include a disproportionate number of African Americans, Latinx folks, and immigrants.
 These two facts mean that folks of color will likely shoulder exponential more of the burden of the IPS system's inaccuracies in whites. Despite these challenges, the FBI for years has also failed to be transparent about the use of facial recognition technology.
 It's taken seven years to update the privacy impact assessment for IPS. It didn't release until one year after the system was fully functional. And the public had no idea how the images were being used.
 Without transparency and accountability and proper security protocols in place, facial recognition systems may be subject to misuse. This has happened in 2010 when ICE enlisted police officers to use license plate reader to gather information about gun show customers. In Florida in 2011, more than 100 officers accessed driver and vehicle information for a female state trooper who arrested a Miami police officer for speeding.
 At a state audit that same year, law enforcement's access to driver's information in Minnesota revealed that half of law enforcement personnel in Minnesota had misused the driving records.
 I mention all this because we're in a moment of political strife on this land where many of us are calling for radical change to how we address the safety concerns in our communities. I hope that my testimony has demonstrated where some of the problems with facial recognition technology is, as well as how it can be used to target marginalized communities and strip them of their dignity.
 Those of us who are Black, young, Latinx women or immigrants already carry the burden of being targeted by police, federal agents, white supremacists, in addition to being ignored when our experiences of bias, hate, and surveillance arise. I support the public ban on facial recognition technology, as well as a private ban in the name of safety for everyone in our community. Thank you.
 Thank you, Babatunde. I appreciate your testimony today and your leadership. And our last invited testimony is Brian Hoffer from the Oakland Privacy Advisory Commission, Secure Justice. Welcome. Thanks for being here. Thank you, Mayor, and good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Brian Hoffer. I'm the Executive Director of Secure Justice, which is a nonprofit organization that advocates against state abuse of power.
 and I chair this city of Oakland's privacy commission. I urge you to support both ordinances that would prohibit public and private use of such facial recognition. Yeah, hey Brian, can I make a, you're breaking up a bit. Could you turn off the video and maybe we'll be able to hear you better? Yeah, let's see if I can go. Can you hear me okay that way? Yeah, it's a little better. Let's try that.
 Okay, sorry about that. Secure Justice was part of the team behind the bands in San Francisco, Oakland, Berkeley, and Alameda.
 And I really want to thank Hector Dominguez, Judith Mowry, and the Smart City PDX team for continuing a conversation with Bay Area folks to discuss what we went through down here. The letter in your agenda packet contains our full commentary, so I just want to highlight on a couple points. We rarely learn of harm from surveillance technology until long after the fact.
 examples like COINTELPRO or the NYPD training cameras onto the front doors of mosques. We don't discover those things until years later. We recommend the suggested amendments in our letter to your enforcement provision to better curtail such misconduct. Secondly, I anticipate that your negotiations are coming down to a moratorium or ban decision like we faced in the Bay Area.
 And I want to suggest that it's not inevitable that technology dominate our lives, and it's not hypocritical or anti-innovation to regulate some technologies while prohibiting the use of others that Portland finds are inappropriate. We have never before granted such power to the government to give them the ability to track our every move the minute we leave the house.
 I would argue that it's adverse to a healthy democracy and that the power shift between the government and the people from use of this technology is too radical. The expensive part of a mass surveillance system is already in place. Cameras are ubiquitous. The moratorium folks would like us to believe that this tool could be used appropriately in narrow circumstances, but.
 And maybe that's true, but it's misleading. No tool this versatile has ever been successfully confined to one or two uses for very long. Mission creep is historical reality. We know that all systems of mass surveillance throughout history have been abused. We know that all tyrannical governments have used mass surveillance to suppress dissent.
 Our Bay Area Coalition acknowledged that the technology will certainly improve as to accuracy, and it's as equally as concerning and as wrongful arrest due to misidentification if we're forced to live in a mass surveillance ecosystem. A moratorium sends a signal to the market that these technologies should continue to be developed, and that conflicts with the tech workers revolutions that we're seeing at many of these same companies as they're beginning to understand the powerful impact and the harmful impact
 of their technologies used by the wrong people. I really applaud Portland for addressing the private side of this technology's use. We've seen discriminatory practices play out across the country from bakers refusing to serve same-sex couples a wedding cake or black people not being served at restaurants. Facial recognition in the hands of private actors will be gasoline added to a racial fire.
 Many of our country's most important civil rights laws pertain to private actors for a reason, because there is equally as much harm possible as those that have police power. The moratorium crowd insists that facial recognition be discussed in a vacuum, but as responsible elected officials, you cannot ignore that America has a significant problem with racism.
 that our criminal justice system disproportionately impacts black and brown bodies, that surveillance technology is used more on black and brown bodies, and that prosecutor and police misconduct are real. In the absence of change to our entire system, facial recognition, no matter how accurate, is not going to be safe to use in our communities. Thank you for listening.
 Brian, thank you. And thank you for taking the time to testify today. Commissioner Hardesty has a question or a comment. Thank you, Mayor. I also wanted to take a moment to appreciate Brian, because he helped us at the very beginning during our work session, really think outside of the box that even he finds himself in.
 I am very grateful that he told us what was working and what wasn't working with his commission. And he gave us the opportunity to think bigger and broader. I appreciate all the invited testimony, but I wanted to give Brian a special thank you because without him being as open and honest as he was, we would not have moved as courageously as we have. So thank you, Brian, appreciate you being here. Thank you so much.
 Yes, thank you, Brian, Babatunde, Sarah. Thank you, all three of you, for your invited testimony. Colleagues, any questions before we open this up to public testimony? Very good. Carla, how many folks do we have signed up this afternoon? We had about 22 register, but I see about 19 are on the line. All right. So let's do some quick math. Let's go ahead and give people three minutes. I think we have time for that.
 Well, hang on. I'm seeing some dissent. Let's do this. I'm seeing hand signals for two minutes. Let's do two minutes, but I won't really be draconian about it. If you're still making your point, we'll let you make your point, but let's aim for two minutes, and that way we'll get through this and get to the vote before we lose the quorum. First individual, please, Carla. First person is Larry Kirsch. Good afternoon, Larry. Good afternoon.
 Carla, I'm not seeing Larry. I see him at the top there. I see him. Hi, Larry. Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor, members of the Council. My name is Larry Kirsch. I'm a resident of Portland. My profession, I'm an economist. I focus mainly on issues of consumer protection policy. I have no interest, financial or otherwise, in the area of face recognition technologies. I'm not here on behalf of anybody.
 other than myself. My brief remarks today, together with the more extensive written comments I submitted on August 24, focuses broadly on the public policy process leading to today's hearing. I'm not here to comment on any particular face recognition product, nor am I in a position to draw specific conclusions about the performance of any product or class of products of the marketplace pro or con.
 Let me begin by commending City Council, Smart City PDX, and the other city agencies involved in today's hearing for initiating this review of face recognition technologies. Under your leadership, the city, with the engagement of diverse communities, has begun a precautionary review of the threats face recognition technologies could pose to civil liberties communities.
 civil rights and other fundamental interests. The purpose of this anticipatory analysis is timely and highly warranted in light of the public interest implicated and laudable for its broad scope. Unfortunately, the initial results embedded in today's ordinances falls short in important ways. I hope to alert you to some of them and will conclude with several recommendations.
 I begin by highlighting a couple of aspects of the draft ordinance and will underscore what I regard as several of its major flaws. The proposed ordinance calls for immediate, time-unlimited ban, not a moratorium, on the use of face recognition technologies, both by city agencies and private entities, meeting the definition of public accommodations.
 The proposed ordinances refer in categorical terms to the performance standards and criteria the City deems relevant to face recognition products. They include, but are not limited to, accuracy, privacy, discriminatory design, and biased use. Turning to major flaws, I think the City might be on more solid ground imposing a product ban were it able to establish an immediate threat to the public health or safety
 based on sound data, objective testing, expert evaluation, and or other accepted types of evidence. I recognize, of course, the importance of individual experience. I believe the foundation is far weaker when the city invokes a ban predicated on speculation, assumptions, allegations, and conclusions not grounded in reliable facts.
 While I don't know all the evidence the city is relying on, I would say it hasn't put forward the kind of empirical risk data and analysis that would be most persuasive under the circumstances. In the instance case, while the city has identified some nominal elements of threat, for example, inaccurate face identifications, it does not define maximum levels of risk it would be willing to accept, such as the maximum false positive identification rate,
 nor has it provided objective evidence that these threats are in fact present in the specific brands of face recognition in the marketplace. That's three minutes. I'm sorry? That's three minutes. Did you have one more point you wanted to close on? Okay, sure. Well, let me just—I'll turn to why— I have two very short points. Three very important arguments for why we— Can you do it in one sentence?
 Okay, I'll rest with what I've got. I've submitted a written testimony. I think the city would really do best to impose a time-limited moratorium and invoke and start a process for responsible use that would define the criteria and the standards the city is really looking for. All right, great. Blunt instrument of a band. Thank you. And we'll read your written testimony, of course, as well. Thank you.
 Next individual please Carla. Nathan Sheard. Good afternoon Nathan.
 Hello, my name is Nathan Sheard. Thank you for allowing me to speak on behalf of the Electronic Frontier Foundation and our over 30,000 members. The Electronic Frontier Foundation strongly supports legislation that bans government agencies and employees from using face surveillance technology. We thank the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Hardenstein, each of you for your attention to this critical issue. Face surveillance is profoundly dangerous for many reasons. In tracking our faces, a unique marker that we cannot change and invades our privacy and safety, courts have long recognized that government
 that government surveillance of First Amendment activity has a deterrent effect on the exercise of fundamental First Amendment freedoms, and surveillance technologies have an unfair disparate impact against people of color, migrants, and other vulnerable populations. Thus, face surveillance is so dangerous that governments must not use it at all. We support the aims of this ordinance and respectfully seek three amendments to assure that the bill will appropriately protect the rights of Portland residents.
 First, the private right of action requires that someone experience harm before they can initiate the enforcement process. The intent of this ordinance is to protect the public before they have been harmed by technology that threatens their privacy, safety and fundamental freedoms. Requiring that a person experience these harms before they can access the accountability measures is antithetical to that aim. You have respectfully asked that the language be amended to allow any resident.
 the opportunity to initiate the accountability and enforcement process, specifically by amending part L paragraph one, to read any person may institute proceedings against the city alleging a violation of this ordinance in a court of competent jurisdiction. Second, the private right of action does not provide fee shipping for a prevailing plaintiff.
 Without fee shifting, the only private entities with access to the enforcement process will be well-heeled advocacy organizations, wealthy and otherwise privileged individuals. To mitigate this disparity and empower all Portland residents with appropriate support, EFF respectfully asked that the language be included to award reasonable attorney fees to a prevailing plaintiff.
 And lastly, as currently written, it is unclear if the prohibition on bureaus allowing a non-city entity to use face recognition technologies on city-owned property extends to private use or is limited to non-covered government agencies. The better approach to private sector use of face surveillance is to require informed opt-in consent. Thus, EFF respectfully requests the language be amended to more clearly prohibit non-city government bodies from using face recognition technology on city-owned property.
 In closing, EFF once again thanks you all for your efforts to protect the people of Portland from this particularly pernicious form of mass surveillance. We look forward to seeing an ordinance passed that bans government use of face surveillance in Portland and will enthusiastically support the ordinance prohibiting the use of face recognition technology by city boroughs with the noted amendments. Thank you so much. Thank you, Nathan. Appreciate your testimony. Next person, Carla. Next is Mauro Savitopoulos.
 Hi, thanks. I was just here listening. I don't actually have anything to contribute today. Very good. It's awesome you're here. We appreciate it. Thank you. And we'll go with Chris Bushek. This is Chris Bushek, Mayor Wheeler and Honorable Members of Portland City Council. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today.
 I'm here on behalf of PDX Privacy, which is a Portland-based group of local residents who care deeply about issues related to privacy. We're concerned about the collection, use, and potential abuse of personal data by both businesses and government, and biometrics are especially concerning to us. Therefore, I'm here to offer our support for this ordinance to prohibit the acquisition and use of face recognition technologies by city bureaus.
 Facial recognition and other surveillance technologies are often promoted as a means to ensure public safety. While there may be cases where this can be true, we must also ask, safety for whom? These technologies are most frequently deployed in communities that are home to marginalized groups of people and against people for whom it is least accurate. People of color, women, and children. There must be other, less invasive ways to keep our communities safe.
 The abundance of Camrys throughout the city makes tracking our everyday movements quite easy. Such relentless and constant monitoring negatively impacts privacy in many ways and can cause direct ongoing harm, resulting in a chilling effect on our actions and associations with other people. Companies that manufacture facial recognition systems often insist that this technology is the only path forward, but omnipresent face surveillance is not inevitable.
 You all have the power to stop its creep, and we ask you to listen to your constituents and take action now. Please ban facial recognition used by government agencies, and then in the near future, work to develop a broader surveillance ordinance that takes into account other biometrics, such as heartbeat, gait, and other mutable personal characteristics, and also considers the acquisition and use of other surveillance technologies. Thank you. Thank you, Chris.
 Next is Jason Hill. Thank you. I was actually just here to listen, but let's see. That's a picture of my cat. See if I can get a picture of me. Actually, my ex-cat. It's my ex-wife's cat.
 But my time is ticking, so I will talk. So, I mean, I agree that the racial bias is particularly concerning, but just as a white male, I would like to add that I definitely feel negatively affected by the fact that I know that I'm under surveillance when I'm anywhere, be it public or private, and it greatly influences my behavior and the manner in which I interact with
 people in the community in ways that I can't fully understand yet, but I have no access to that surveillance information, so I have no idea what's being watched.
 I think I was greatly influenced by a book called On Tyranny by Timothy Snyder, who I think said it very well when he said, if we have no control over who watches us, what they watch, and when we have no ability to act in the present or plan for the future,
 Whoever controls our privacy can humiliate you and disrupt your relationships at will. No one, except perhaps a tyrant, has a private life that can survive public exposure by a hostile directive. Again, that's a quote from Timothy Snyder. And, you know, the idea that we're only going to have the government lose access or control
 I feel like allowing the private sector to have access to this very powerful technology can be just as bad given that our government is heavily influenced by the private sector as having the government with that power.
 So I guess my vote would be to ban facial recognition technology altogether. And I understand that that would be seen as reducing innovation, but I do not think all innovations are positive. Clearly to me, blanket surveillance of your every move, you know, it, it, it, it's, it
 simply makes existing less enjoyable. I can tell you that from my personal experience, I don't know if others have it as well. Thank you. Thank you, Jason. And just to clarify, we're taking up two separate ordinances here today. The first one is specific to the city of Portland and prohibiting the use of facial recognition technologies. Item 704 does in fact cover the private sector. So we're looking at both options here.
 However, the private sector will be allowed to use facial recognition technology in private settings, correct? Oh, I see what you're saying. Okay, thank you. So does that include the sidewalk in front of Starbucks? Yes.
 Because if it includes the sidewalks in front of the stores, that's pretty much everywhere I walk. Yeah. And Andrea, correct me if I'm wrong, but it would include those areas as well, correct? Any use of facial recognition technology.
 Mayor, it would cover every place where the ADA is applied. That's kind of the consistency that's so sidewalks I don't think would be covered, but stores and public places, yes. Okay, thank you for that clarification. Jason, thank you for raising that issue. I appreciate it. I see your point now. Next is Edith Gillis. Edith, welcome back. I thought you'd had enough of us this morning.
 Hello. I'm so grateful for you doing this work. I want to say that no software improvements over time would ever result in correct ID or our public safety. Especially, I would like to give some examples from my own experience of criminals who have hurt my family. You already have read the National Institute of Standards and Technology showing that with
 the ID of the best of 89 systems have failed over half of the time. You've already read the updates to the Tech Explore, the 10 reasons you should be worried about facial recognition, but I wanted to, and you've read the ACLU. So you have the facts, you have the evidence, but I wanna give you some personal experiences. In 1993, my two and a half year old daughter, my seven and a half year old son were according to the Portland Northeast Precinct Homicide Detective,
 quote, kidnapped to be sold into prostitution for drug money, unquote. The stranger who kidnapped them would not have been ID'd under the best of the security systems that are now, or if you used all of the 89 best ones combined, would have not been able to identify her.
 She is darker than most African Americans, uses distracting and changing wigs and makeup and jewelry. The software is wrong, as you know, all the time anyway, but especially when you combine it with someone who is intentionally trying to hide that.
 Even though the system had many, many mugshots of this person and many pictures of her on the streets, it would have failed. Secondarily, most of the imprisoned pedophiles are white males. The pale males are better identified, but they use police uniforms and security uniforms where there's already a set in bias by those who create the software and examine the results.
 to not have them properly identified. Thirdly, the software would have failed to identify my white, abusive psychopathic ex-husband who had strangers rape me when he had me unknowingly drugged. He avoided photographs, and as a psychopath, he could disarm, charm, manipulate, terrorize, extort people, so there were no photo trails for them to do photo matches. He stayed out of the public view his later years in his life, but behind the scenes could do a lot of harm.
 He would use distracting hair and beard and mannerisms so that people, so there weren't photographs, but people couldn't get him. Next, the software would not have worked with another rapist who was also, as my husband, working in the legal profession. He was politically connected, a criminal defense attorney from Texas. He would move and blur the photos.
 He would make distracting facial expressions. He would tilt his head to be in the shade and tilt his hair. He was arrested very often and did have mug shots, but none of those were valid or be able to be used for ID. He would use legal technicalities to get off of it, to purge the system. He would have excuses about his glasses. There would be hiding of- That's three minutes. Yes.
 The software could not be made to be working correctly identifying people. My two daughters, who I know very well, have had photographs of them. They're gorgeous. They're beautiful. I know them. And yet most of the time I take photographs of them, I would not be able to recognize the photographs. And this is before one of them had cosmetic surgery. And most of my adults that I care for, when they take in and out their dentures or change their wigs, it's hard to identify them anyway.
 about the people who use tattoos, paint, makeup, and purposeful identification changes. Thank you, Edith. We appreciate it. And Kevin wanted to make a clarification. So I'm gonna take a mayoral privilege here and let him jump in for 30 seconds. Yeah, thanks, Mayor Wheeler. Kevin Martin from Smart City PDX. I just wanted to clarify the,
 Question around sidewalks. It was a little confusing, but Jason raised it in the testimony. So the policy on private use would cover public places like sidewalks. So businesses like Starbucks would not be able to use facial recognition on the sidewalks in front of their businesses. Just wanted to make that clarification. Thank you for that perspective. Appreciate it. Next individual, please, Carla. Cynthia Spies. Hi, Cynthia. Hi. Hi.
 Hi, I'm Cynthia Spees, an independent security researcher and Seattle resident. My comments are regarding agenda items 703 and 704.
 As someone who looks forward to every opportunity to visit Portland, I hope that Portland takes the confident step forward for democracy and bans both the public and private use of facial recognition technology. Pervasive surveillance impedes active and fair civic participation. People should be free to move about their days without being tracked every time they go to City Hall, the bus station, shopping center, parks, hotels, and so on.
 More and more cities are adopting facial recognition bands. The public doesn't want this technology. Moreover, biometric data should not be considered lightly. At least in the data breach of credit card numbers or passwords, the victims can get new cards or generate new passwords. You only have one face. What is the recourse for victims when they say the grocery store's facial recognition system is security breached? Additionally, informed consent doesn't exist in many of the ways that facial recognition technology would otherwise be deployed.
 Even if businesses posted signs saying they were using the technology, how would it be to ensure that the public who don't read English know that they're consenting to their biometric data being gathered? What about elderly and or disabled individuals who can't see the signage? Besides the point that access to services provided by places of public accommodation should not require individuals to forfeit their biometric data. Overall, the safest approach is prevention of these problems by banning the technology.
 Businesses have existed for centuries without this technology. None of the claims of supposed economic advantage for using this technology are substantiated. This is entirely optional technology with the very real possibility of harmed individuals and the erosion of democracy. Not to mention the unequal negative impact would most likely be shouldered by the communities already facing the greatest disadvantage.
 The cons vastly outweigh any supposed pros. Facial recognition technology should not be allowed to proliferate. A true democracy thrives with the most engaged, informed, and participatory public. However, facial recognition technology and other surveillance technology silences the public, thus erasing our civil liberties. Mass surveillance must be stopped. Make a stop today in Portland. Please approve both bans. Thank you. Thank you, Cynthia, and we appreciate you visiting Portland as well. Next is Dan Handelman.
 Hi, Dan. This is your Daily Double as well. Good afternoon, Mayor and Councilmembers. This is Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. I'm hoping you can hear me now. Loud and clear.
 Thank you. So Portland Copwatch sent in written comments. I'll try to summarize them in the two minutes we have. We've had a lot of concerns over the years about surveillance by law enforcement. We're not convinced that what you're passing today are actually outright bans. There are limitations with loopholes in them. We sent our general policy to you earlier in the year, raising concerns about fielding out images to private companies like Facebook and the possible violation of state laws around surveillance.
 looking at people's immigration status or the political, religious and social affiliations. We agree that it is very concerning that these technologies have proven to be inaccurate when it comes to identifying women and people of color, but there's also the wider reality of the threat created by private entities in the government tracking community members, regardless of whether there's criminal behavior involved.
 There are fundamental issues of privacy in a so-called democratic society at stake. So even if this technology is fixed, whatever kind of ban or limit that you have in place should remain. I keep hearing that if it gets fixed, you want to undo this. I also want to clarify, we sent our earlier comments to the smart city people and not directly to the Office of Equity and Human Rights. But these were the comments we made, which we did not see addressed in what you're reviewing today.
 In the Council Directs Section F of the Public Ordinance, it says that social media applications are limited by human resources policy and it's not clear whether that can be used as a means for law enforcement to circumvent the law that you're passing today. Sections L and M implicitly say that there will be discipline for employees to violate the code, but we think that should be made explicit.
 Also, Section L states that notice will post it to a city website of violations, but it doesn't say that the complainant is going to be informed of the outcome of the complaint
 We also think that you should be very, very clear in this hearing and in this ordinance that the City of Portland does not regulate other jurisdictions like the Oregon Department of Transportation, the Oregon State Police, Multnomah Sheriffs, or the federal government who have been in town with their own cameras, and that will not be banned by this ordinance. The public use draft also implies in Section G that
 that a city agency receiving information has to verify that that information wasn't ascertained through facial recognition, but we think that should be explicit as well and not just implied. And finally, in the private use code, we think that private actors should be told in that
 in that code that they're not allowed to use the technology to identify people to any city agency, including the Portland Police, just to make it clear that they can't hand over somebody that they identified using this technology.
 I really think that even if this technology correctly identifies people in black, indigenous, and people of color communities, it will still be used to over-police those communities. So having the misidentification problem is one issue, but then how the technology is applied is going to exist even if it gets fixed. And I hope that you will make some changes to the ordinances based on what we've said. Thank you.
 Yeah, thank you, Dan, for your thoughtfulness on that. Commissioner Hardesty has a question or a comment. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Dan. So, Dan, I disagree that anybody in local government that are not city government would be able to use that technology based on what we're going to pass today. I think the only exception would be the feds because, as we've learned, we have no control over what the federal government does.
 But I would think that any partnering agency that would be working in cooperation with Portland Police Bureau or PBOT or any other city agency would be prohibited from using that technology as long as they are within the city of Portland boundaries. So unless I get legal advice that that's not true, I would disagree with that reading of this ordinance.
 Well, are the experts online who can answer that question? Because that was my understanding is that you can't prohibit other governments from using technology. Sure we can. We can prohibit them from using it in Portland, I believe. But let me ask the experts. I'm just not an expert. Hector, are you one of the experts? You just muted yourself, Hector. You're taking lessons from the mayor. That's a low blow. The double mood. I said it with love, Mayor.
 Well, first of all, we want to appreciate Dan's feedback. We understand from what kind of concerns they're coming from, and we are working on that as well. In terms of the insolvenance, only apply for city agencies.
 this van is not applying to any other jurisdiction. So let's say TriMet, all the counties, metro, Portland public schools. So this ordinance is only applicable to city bureaus and agencies.
 Thank you for that clarification and thank you for bringing that up, Dan, because that was not my understanding. Let me just say, Dan, that this is just the very first iteration of the changes that Smart Cities PDX are planning to make.
 We know that we will be monitoring this implementation and nothing stops us from making it stronger and better if we find out that there are either public or private actors that are trying to work their way around the city's bad.
 And so I suspect this will be just the first time the City Council votes on strengthening privacy rights for Portlanders as we move forward. So I appreciate you bringing that up because I learn a lot from folks that come and testify at City Hall. So thank you. Next individual, please, Carla. Is Matt Kleinman.
 Hi, can you hear me? Yep, loud and clear. Excellent. Thank you. My name is Matt Kleinman, and I'd like to think I'm a pretty typical Portlander. I moved out here in my early 20s about a decade and a half ago, worked at food carts, in nonprofits, and then after some grad school, these days I'm a software engineer. I have a deep appreciation for technology, as you'd expect. For instance, we're able to safely have this session during a pandemic, thanks to some of the strides we've made.
 But let me tell you, my industry is morally bankrupt. While those in government like yourselves and in nonprofits like my background are used to being surrounded by colleagues who ultimately care about doing the right thing, even when we disagree, we can sort of appreciate that my partner, my coworker wants to do the right thing. I can't say that's true in tech all the time. Moving from nonprofits to technology was eye-opening.
 Suddenly, many of my coworkers, but certainly not all of them, never really cared to stop and think about whether the work they were doing was going to help the world or hurt our neighbors. They were just worried whether it was possible and whether it would make the company money. The implications didn't really matter. My industry doesn't want a real conversation about the tradeoffs of this technology. What does it mean for civil liberties when it's simplistic for an entity to identify every person entering a lawyer's office or a doctor's office?
 Or what if anti-choice activists train a camera with facial recognition technology on every person walking into an abortion clinic?
 Industry lobbyists are going to tell you that they don't need regulation, that they're going to make sure their technology isn't misused. But time and time again, tech companies have proven themselves unable to regulate themselves. Look at Facebook's insistence that they were adequately handling misinformation on their platform. And if there was any misinformation, it certainly wouldn't affect an election. Or look at Google's image recognition, which labeled photos of black people as photos of gorillas.
 And instead of fixing their technology after it was discovered, they simply stopped letting people search for the term gorilla. Let me be clear, facial recognition disproportionately affects BIPOC individuals because the people working on it are testing it on images of their friends. And frankly, people like me, a white, straight, cis male, are unfortunately far overrepresented in people making this sort of technology.
 Tech lobbyists will tell you they want some regulation, but this isn't the right regulation. But it turns out the only regulation Silicon Valley has ever been happy with is regulation that is so light and ill-defined that it is effectively meaningless. And while I wish this was handled at a federal level, Congress is missing in action. And so unfortunately, it's left up to you to keep Portlanders safe. I'm a software engineer. I'm here to tell you that facial recognition can be dangerous. This isn't a situation where you can let some technology get out there and then go fix it later.
 I go even further and ask you to accept the amendments proposed by Nathan Sheard of the Electronic Frontier Foundation to make both of these even stronger. And I'm asking you to take the right step by banning facial recognition today for both public and private use.
 Finally, you know, it definitely is important to ban it on the local level for government because I don't trust what Portland police would do with this technology. Night after night, they're arresting peaceful protesters. You see it in the charges. And so I don't want to think about what they would do if they had this technology in their arsenal. Thank you. Thanks, Matt. The next person is Edward Hasbrock. Welcome, Edward. Edward, are you there? Sure.
 Carl, I don't see him right off the top. Do you see him? Yeah, he's right at the top. He was unmuted a second ago, but I see he's remuted again. Edward, you might have remuted yourself. I see him there. Let's go on to the next person and let's see if we can get Edward back. Certainly. The next person is Alexander Miller. Hi, can you hear me? Yep, you're good to go.
 Well, it's using my Google picture, which isn't my best, but it'll have to do. Hi, I'm Alex Miller. I'm a software engineer. I used to work in video games and have had some experience working on Microsoft's Kinect software. I've done a bit of, you know, keeping up on the industry. I'm still in software. I'm just in medical now. But I would definitely like to concur with everyone else that the state-of-the-art facial recognition technology is definitely too flawed to be planning to use on a municipal level.
 On a private level, people would trust it too much, so both bands definitely would get my immediate support. There are two small facts that I would like to point out that seem to have been overlooked, at least in my following of this issue. The first is that...
 Although the front end of the facial recognition system is pretty visible to everyone, the cameras and the actual user interface for people to find these people, the back end systems largely will go unseen, but still very much used. Giant data centers storing hours and hours of video images, biometric data from people that have been collected and suspected of various things.
 All of that takes large data center space to store and make any meaningful computations using. So that additional cost rarely ever gets factored into just saying, let's just turn on facial recognition for the city cameras. That data center is going to be using copious amounts of electricity, of water for cooling, and of man hours. So all of those costs additionally should be factored in.
 Apart from that, we're in the human-caused sixth great extinction event. So anything that greatly increases our carbon emissions, like running that data center for no gain, shouldn't even be considered. The same is kind of being proven out with police body cameras and that the storage of that data is costing more than what we're seeing for actually getting from any sort of body cam improvements of police.
 Those are basically my only other two points. I would encourage you to greatly consider what the Electronic Freedom Foundation has to say about other pitfalls using this technology, but the facial recognition technology doesn't see Black people seems to be rather well covered at this point. Thank you, Alexander. Appreciate your testimony. Edward Hasbrock is reconnected. Oh, good. All right. Welcome, Edward.
 Thank you. My name is Edward Hasbrook and I am joining you from San Francisco on behalf of the Identity Project, which is part of a larger Civil Liberties and Human Rights Federation, a foundation. Our project focuses on
 the human right to freedom of movement and travel. I've testified on this issue before the TSA, other federal government agencies, as an invited expert before international agencies, including the Canadian and European Parliaments and the UN Human Rights Committee.
 Here to speak to thank you from San Francisco for your technical and policy leadership. This is a much better set of ordinances than what was adopted here in San Francisco. And to speak strongly in support both of the ordinances introduced under items 703 and 704, as well as the amendments recommended by our friends at the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
 As experts in the particular uses of facial recognition as part of means for identifying, surveilling, and controlling travelers, I want to speak specifically to a letter that I understand you received from the Port of Portland. And I want to thank and congratulate you for not acceding to the request of the Port to carve out some kind of exception for use of biometrics at the Portland airport.
 I think it's particularly important to understand in the case of the airport,
 that there is no use of biometrics to identify passengers at airports that's going on, whether what's already going on now at Portland Airport or what is contemplated in use at other airports and what was proposed to you by the Port of Portland. All of these uses, even when they appear to be being carried out by the airport or by airlines, actually rely on a software as a service model in which the first things that happens, even if the
 cameras or airport cameras or the cameras are airline cameras, the first thing that happens is that the photographs are passed to DHS. You cannot sever use of facial recognition at airports from its inherent role in current systems as part of the DHS system of compliance.
 piling galleries of photos that are then used for other purposes, including to track down immigrants and other kinds of purposes. And I don't think I need to tell Portlanders today that you don't want to have the city collaborating or allow private entities at places of public accommodation, particularly ones as central as the airport, collaborating in DHS surveillance of Portlanders and visitors to your fine city.
 The DHS is a rogue agency with a demonstrated history of disregard for the law in their existing use of biometrics at airports. A petition from the Portland-based World Privacy Forum for them to establish a regulatory framework for this use has been pending and ignored for two years.
 the existing uses of biometrics at airports around the country fail to comply with even the minimal requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act for OMB approval and OMB notices that people would even know what's going on, which creates the real hazard that people... That's three minutes.
 Mr. Dix-Couloud, people may think that they're cooperating or having their face used by an airline or airport and not realize that this is actually part of a DHS surveillance system, collaboration with which would go directly contrary to Portland's status as a sanctuary city. So I urge you to enact both of these ordinances. Thank you. Thank you, Edward. We appreciate your participation. Next is Jonathan Isaacs. Greetings. Welcome. Welcome.
 Hi, can you hear me? Yep, you're good to go, Jonathan. Okay. Hello, my name is John Isaacs, and I'm the Vice President of Government Affairs for the Portland Business Alliance. I'm also a resident of Portland's wonderful Montevilla neighborhood. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for the opportunity to testify today.
 The Alliance is Greater Portland's Chamber of Commerce and represents the largest, most diverse network of businesses in the region. The Alliance advocates for business at all levels of government to support commerce, community health and the region's overall prosperity. We represent nearly 1900 members from 27 counties, 13 states and virtually every industry sector. More than 80% of our members are small businesses.
 I would like to restate what I communicated at the Council work session on this issue back in January. The Alliance agrees that the City of Portland should do the collaborative work necessary to protect residents and visitors from having their biometric data collected without their consent for commercial purposes. And we strongly agree that we should adopt policies that prevent the use of technology that produce racially discriminatory outcomes.
 Neither is acceptable or serious problems, and we are committed to continuing to work with all stakeholders to develop a comprehensive policy that encourages innovation in developing technology that improves both the lives of Americans and is consistent with these shared values. We are supportive of the process and goals outlined in both ordinances to get to this goal of bringing this more comprehensive policy to the Council in the future, which can replace these short-term fix ordinances that you will act on today.
 Hector Dominguez and the entire Smart City team have been fantastic to work with, and we have successfully narrowed our list of outstanding issues to three areas. Areas that we look forward to continuing to work with the city on during implementation. I quickly want to just outline those for you now. First of all, we hope that changes will be made that will add clear language that expressly excludes the use of mobile devices by individuals and visitors in places of public accommodation.
 Secondly, we hope that clear language will be added in the future that will allow the use of facial recognition technology for individual opt-in experiences, such as automated hotel check-in or ticket verification, uses that have nothing to do with surveillance, involuntary data collection, or access. This is particularly important to the local bricks-and-mortar business community.
 And third, we hope to work with the team to clearly identify specific industries, such as financial institutions, that are exempt from the ordinance due to superseding state and federal regulations. Overall, this has been a collaborative process throughout, and we are committed to working on these issues through to completion. I want to be clear, we are not opposed today to the addition of an emergency clause to item 704.
 You have our commitment to being a collaborative partner and a partner in development of a strong and durable privacy policy that can eventually take the place of what we hope will be temporary bans on a specific technology. Thank you.
 Thank you, John. I just want to thank you for the partnership and thank you for the collaborative spirit in which you're here today. And the three items you mentioned, I think, are worthy of follow-up conversations and has been noted. We are getting in front of a technology that's still evolving to protect the people in our city and
 The approach that you and your colleagues at the Portland Business Alliance have taken is one that we really appreciate. It's a partnership, we will continue the conversation, we'll continue to work together, and we thank you for your support up to this point. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor, that's greatly appreciated. Next is Alan Hippolito. Hi folks, just gonna put on my own little timer. Thank you, Mayor and council members. My name is Alan Hippolito, I work for SUMA, a nonprofit organization.
 Per its mission statement, SUMA creates platforms for digital organizing, enterprise and justice. In the words of your friend and mine, Maria Espana, it's a blessing to be here with you today. To start, I would like to state our strong support for the public ban and the private ban being considered today.
 I'd also like to reinforce the testimony of others including Care Oregon, Freedom to Thrive, and the Electronic Frontier Foundation who had offered specific reasons why each ban is important and are identifying key questions that remain. I would also like to take this opportunity to reiterate and expand upon two points from my testimony during your January 28th work session.
 First, let's be clear what we're saying today. Facial recognition technology places Portlanders at risk, especially frontline community members, and so requires an urgent and declarative response. By this council, that response is a ban. We're asking you to enact these bans pursuant to your most basic governing responsibility, fundamental responsibilities like promoting health, safety, and general welfare for and with all Portlanders.
 Second, these bands must launch the critical good work of building an inclusive, transparent, and robust technology policymaking structure in the city of Portland. That work must invest in those communities on the front lines of technological change so they can lead us to a just and community-centered digital future.
 Therefore, I'm especially interested in and supportive of the council direct sections of each ban, including Section D in the private ban and Section I in the public ban, which speak to upcoming policymaking processes, comprehensive frameworks, meaningful public participation, and a focus on underserved communities.
 We're ready to work with the city and community to transition from a patchwork of tech activities and staff spread across multiple bureaus where frontline communities race to get caught up and weigh in to a well-designed participatory system for governing in the face of rapid technological change. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. Next is Darren Harold Golden. Hi, Darren. Hello. Can you hear me all right? Yep. You're good to go.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Councilman. It was hard to see Fritz and you daily. My name is Darren Golden. I'm a born and raised Portlander. So yes, I do walk in the rain to get overpriced coffee. I would like to reiterate some of my points that I made back in January during my testimony.
 The opposition to these bans will say that FRT could be good, that we need to wait to see if this can be made better, that the algorithms can be made perfect and we can remove almost all of the discrepancies that have to do with the racially biased system that already is in place and the
 that we can make this perfect and make society a better place. All of that is wrong. You cannot consent to having your facial recognition, your facial data taken by a camera on any public access way
 Ever. You just can't. It's not possible. Children cannot consent. So even if we did get to a point where an adult was able to consent by some way, shape, or form, a child would not be able to consent. Consent is a huge issue when it comes to any biometric data and facial recognition technology steps far over that boundary. We also should not be looking to pass any constitutionally questionable policies in the city. Okay.
 A facial recognition technology ban will absolutely keep us along the lines of doing our best to adhere to the Constitution that was set forth. Facial recognition technology is overstepping in many cities that are already using it, and we want to stop that before it happens here in Portland. Okay.
 The databases to which face recognition technology is applied are plagued by racial disparities and other biases, which generate copycat biases in face recognition data.
 So the rights that are endangered by the use of forced technology outweighs the purported benefits. I don't want to live in a city that says any easy way to get onto a plane or a simple way to check into a hotel that makes it faster is worth more than an individual's privacy or the public's privacy as a whole. Yeah, that's my argument. Yeah.
 All right. Thanks, Darren. We appreciate it. Next is Leah Holland. Good afternoon, Leah. Hi. Thank you so much. I'm here to speak as a North Portland voter and also as an activist with Fight for the Future, a national digital rights nonprofit with 2.8 million members nationally and 24,000 in the Portland area.
 We believe that facial recognition is fundamentally incompatible with a free society and will impact our world on the same scale as nuclear weapons. Our advocacy has caused Harvard, Stanford, MIT, and over 60 more campuses, as well as the biggest event producers in the country, to back away from this technology because they recognize that facial recognition and surveillance enables racism, surveillance enables authoritarianism, and surveillance demands conformity.
 In one instance, we ran UCLA faculty through Amazon's recognition with a K, and they misidentified Professor Kimberle Crenshaw, who developed the theory of intersectionality, matching her with 100% certainty with a mugshot. I'm certain you've read the studies that show inherent race system in these systems.
 Knowing their technology made them a target, this summer Amazon did a PR stunt to dodge pressure by saying they would suspend police use of their facial recognition system for a year. But yet here they are in Portland, greasing the system with $24,000 to lobby against these bills because they as a company have made a fundamental investment in surveillance and thus in racism and thus in authoritarianism and thus in conformity.
 Corporate use of facial recognition has the potential to be just as dangerous and discriminatory as government and law enforcement use, but with the motivation to manipulate consumers instead of oppress them. These companies are drooling to exploit all the personal details only facial recognition could unlock
 And to counter one of the Portland Business Alliance's key points, even seemingly innocuous uses like speeding up lines or using your face as a form of payment, normalize the act of handing over sensitive biometric information and pose a serious threat to security and civil liberties. Imagine being misidentified as a shoplifter at Rite Aid, and then when you go to pick up your prescription, the doors won't open. No court, no recourse, just an algorithm purposely made too complex to scrutinize. Here's what I think.
 Here in Portland, we've seen freedom of expression being treated as grounds for punishment. BLM protesters in New York and Miami and more have been singled out using facial recognition because this tech is opaque by design. We don't know if this is happening in Portland. This is the perfect tech for tyranny. It is perfect for public control. Passing these bans is how you stand against fascism.
 And I have to say that after a year in the trenches, a year of fearing this oppressive tech, I stand before my city councilors so proud that my city might pass the strongest ban in the country. I cannot urge you to do so enough and to adopt the improvement the EFF and COP watches have put forward either now or as soon as possible. Thank you so much. Thank you, Leah. Appreciate your testimony. Next is Jacob Parker. Hey, Jacob. Hi, Jacob.
 Hey, my name is Jake Parker. Thanks, Mayor Wilkert and members of the council. I work for the Security Industry Association. We are a nonprofit association representing businesses that provide security products and services throughout the U.S., including Oregon, including many of the leading developers of facial recognition.
 So I'd like to share some concerns we have with both of the proposed ordinances currently drafted, but I want to say something. There's been a lot of talk about and concern about surveillance uses. And we just want to say that we do not support and would not support the use of this technology for mass surveillance by the government. And in fact, that's not happening in our country right now. And there's many constitutional limitations there. But we think a ban is an extreme measure that is unnecessary and it's not in the public interest.
 And the way it's written currently, we sweep in many uses of facial recognition that have absolutely nothing to do with surveillance. There's many benefits of this technology that are proven, and there's thousands of success stories that stretch back over a decade. We heard one from Edith earlier today, and we've detailed a number of successes on our website, including one case in Oregon where it was used to help apprehend a person who sexually assaulted a minor and the case went cold for 16 years.
 So any technology can be abused. I think a ban precludes the opportunity to enact policies to ensure the technology is only used for appropriate and acceptable ways, in a way that would preserve its benefits while taking potential uses of concern off the table. We're already working with other jurisdictions around the country on ways this could be done and exploring that. We've also outlined many of the things that could be done in our principles for responsible and effective use of the technology, which can be found on our website.
 So as we may have folks spoke about earlier today, the draft ordinances reflect a real concern that use of technology could negatively impact women and minorities. This is a serious issue that industry needs to address. Using accurate technology matters. Only the highest performing technology should be used, highest performing across demographic groups.
 So the US government through NIST conducted extensive research and shown a wide variation of algorithms that are at various stages of development from purely experimental to those are deployed in actual systems that we bought.
 And this is an issue that industry will have and will continue to address. But often lost is the fact that the highest performing technologies in that study showed no difference across demographic groups. Those are also the same technologies that are used in some of the more prominent public sector programs and many of the private sector ones. So importantly, though, I think the council should consider that banning this technology would actually eliminate a tool that would help keep human bias in check.
 So many law enforcement, for example, believe that it can reduce the impact of unnecessary police civilian encounters in communities where there's been strained relations. Human eyewitness accounts are notoriously inaccurate and have led to the vast majority of misarrests and misincarcerations. That's misidentifications by human eyewitnesses.
 The government has also conducted research that proves that combining use of facial recognition with trained examiners actually gives you the most accurate identification results. That's three minutes. Thank you. I'll just say that we'd love to talk with you further and work with you in any way that we can be helpful. And again, stress that this is going to affect many non-controversial uses that have wide public support. Thank you, Jacob, for your perspective. We appreciate it. Next is Andrew Kingman.
 Welcome, Andrew. Thanks for your patience. Thanks, everybody. Can folks hear me okay? Yep, loud and clear. Great. My name is Andrew Kingman. I'm General Counsel of the State Privacy and Security Coalition, and I'm also Senior Managing Attorney in DLA Piper's Privacy and Cybersecurity Practice Group, which means that I'm here not only as an advocate, but as somebody who helps counsel companies through various privacy laws.
 I'm familiar with these issues not just through our work in all 50 states, but also through my work as an inter-table member of the Oregon Attorney General's Privacy Task Force, which met regularly for the past year to discuss and respectfully consider the various perspectives around data privacy issues.
 The events of the past year have brought into sharper relief than ever the need for public policy that more clearly takes into account the risk of discriminatory outcomes. And our coalition's working hard to ensure that our positions reflect and address these considerations would welcome the opportunity to partner with the city to move towards regulation that all stakeholders view as workable and effective in this regard.
 We've offered three amendments today for both the private and sector proposed ordinances that we believe both accord with the drafter's intent and achieve the proper respect for both civil rights and innovation. The first is a much clearer exclusion of household and consumer uses without, without, without
 clear language to this effect. The ordinance can be read to ban everyday features that consumers expect. This includes organizing photos or a secure login for things like online banking or other types of accounts that consumers can securely log into.
 We'd also suggest clarifying the definitions of face recognition technology and surveillance technology. Again, this is not to create a loophole, but just to be much clearer and accurate about the type of technology that this ordinance gets at. Face recognition technology needs to focus on technology that actually identifies individuals rather than simply matching features of unknown individuals. Facial detection is not the same.
 thing as facial recognition. And so it's important to, I think, work on a definition and clarify that definition to be a little bit more accurate. The surveillance technology definition needs to be significantly modified so that it focuses on surveillance, not just the wide range of general purpose technologies as drafted. It currently would sweep in technologies that have nothing to do with facial recognition like thermometers.
 or landline phones. And so these definitions we believe should be just a little bit clearer here. And the last piece would be a very limited security exemption.
 This would allow businesses to protect themselves and their workers from theft or damage. But we would also support a strong limitation on both the use of that technology as well as the ability to share that technology with law enforcement. We would propose that businesses be limited if they are using data for that purpose.
 that they be prohibited from using it for additional purposes and that they not be permitted to share with law enforcement. Thanks very much for your time. I'm happy to take any questions. And we'll also, I should say, we'll also be sending these red lines over in the next day or two here. Great, thank you, Andrew. We appreciate that. And I would also welcome getting that in the writing. So thanks for doing that. Next is Ricardo Luan Valerio. Hi, Ricardo.
 Hi, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. My name is Ricardo Lujan Valerio. I am the Director of Advocacy for Latino Network.
 I want to thank the Office of Commissioner Harris-Steve for really working on this issue for over a year now. I remember first engaging in this work as a policy associate at the ACLU of Oregon, and really want to thank also the partners at SUMA, Urban League, and other community leaders to make this policy come to fruition. I think a lot of the speakers early on addressed a lot of the points that I wanted to make, so I'll just really narrow it down to three main ones. The first one is on the impact to immigrant communities.
 It's been pretty apparent the way in which the federal government and other government entities have used facial recognition technology to incite fear into immigrant communities. More specifically, the way in which they've engaged
 DMV records and other databases across the nation with facial recognition technology in order to identify potential immigrants within those jurisdictions. Those are practices that are prohibited here in Oregon in multiple ways, but I think that the way in which the city of Portland is approaching the policy on its public level
 proposal really reemphasizes the commitment to the immigrant community and the safety of the immigrant community when it comes to their information and their privacy, as well as ensuring trust within our government here locally for immigrants that quite frankly, in today's world do not trust government in any level.
 An additional point is about addressing the novel aspect of privacy laws and privacy issues when also addressing constitutional issues in my prior employment. It became very clear how these issues have not really been addressed both in policy and law, and the policy's really falling behind to the development of this kind of technology. So Portland has really taken a significant step, both in the public and private sector,
 to really create a good framework and good pathways to addressing technology, privacy, and security for our communities, especially when there's a lack of consent on the use, the sale and transfer of data of those individuals, which leads me to my last point. And I really appreciate Commissioner Hardesty addressing this throughout this meeting. This is just the starting point, whether it's just within the public,
 the facial recognition policies. This is just the first iteration which needs to continue to develop, but really what we need to address is biometric data collection in general. We've seen different frameworks in which we can start working with. Illinois, the state of Illinois passed wonderful state law that I think has become a pretty good beacon of significant progress on this matter. So I really commend the efforts of
 commend the city for addressing this issue, for taking up these two matters, and really encourage the conversations to develop beyond just facial recognition technology and to biometric data in the future. Thank you. Thanks, Ricardo. Next is Skip Newberry. Hello, Skip. Hello. Can you hear me okay? Yep. Thanks for your patience. Excellent. Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler, city commissioners, my name is Skip Newberry and I serve as president and CEO of the Technology Association of Oregon. We represent nearly 500 tech and tech-enabled companies in the region. And we've been working closely with the city on digital inclusion and data privacy issues over many years. We also work closely with the state of Oregon, including the Attorney General's Office on data privacy policy.
 We are not here to testify in opposition to either the proposed public ban or the private ban, and after conversations with city staff, we're on the same page with the city's intent behind these measures.
 Our members do, however, think that the private ban could benefit from some clarifying language to make sure the language in the ordinance matches the intent. And Andy Kingman from the State Privacy and Security Coalition, as well as John from the PBA, I think covered in detail some areas where more work is ongoing in terms of clarifying language with the private use ban. Thank you.
 And the goal there is to hopefully reduce any remaining ambiguity for local businesses that are trying to comply with the ordinances. We also want to take just a brief moment to thank the Smart City PDX team and council staff from Commissioner Hardesty's office and the mayor's office for their work on these ordinances. The process has been very collaborative to date, and we really appreciate the back and forth over
 many months and so we hope to continue working with city staff as we move into the implementation phase and thank you for consideration. Thank you, Skip. Thanks for the great work your organization does. Thank you. The last person I show is Christopher Howell. Christopher Howell, last but not least. Welcome. Christopher, you're still muted. Can you try and unmute again, please? Is Christopher, is he calling in, Carla? Looks like he's on a computer.
 Okay, and Christopher, you probably know this, but if you scroll down to the bottom, you'll see the mute button there. Click on that. That might work. Although this happened to me the other day on a Zoom meeting. I couldn't unmute, even though I knew how to do it. Christopher, we still can't hear you. If you can hear me, you're still muted. If you're on a phone, try star six. If you're just on your computer, try scrolling down to the lower right or the lower left. There should be a mute button.
 Let's see, is he telling us anything on chat? Christopher, if you have access to the chat. Hello? Oh, there you are. Good, we hear you. Great. We hear you, Christopher. Oh, sorry, I was having a, can you hear me now? Yep, you're good to go.
 Okay, I would like to express a conditional support for this ordinance, but I have concerns. The Portland Police have shown no interest in following laws meant to restrain them. Just last night, they didn't declare an unlawful assembly, and yet they were
 deploying tear gas and assaulting people, I have no confidence that telling them they can't use facial recognition will mean they won't. And I have another question, a more, a question we can perhaps answer, which is I am involved with developing facial recognition to in fact use on Portland police officers since they are not identifying themselves to the public and they are committing crimes. Would this become illegal if you pass this ordinance?
 I feel like that is a concern. We should have an exception that public employees who are breaking the law can be identified this way. I have to say that honestly, I already expect extra judicial retribution from the police department for working on this project, but I fear that you're going to enshrine it into judicial retribution.
 And that's pretty much all I have. I think the underlying idea here is sound. I think the concerns of security folks and the business alliance are overrated when the Portland police are willing to break the law to enforce their will. So I...
 And excuse me, I'm taking a break from I'm out here working on the census. So I had to get some more quiet. But I just really think that an ordinance like this, when we're living with daily lawlessness from the Portland police, is, you know, that needs to be addressed. And Ted Wheeler, you say that Joanne Hardesty can't be police commissioner because she doesn't have...
 the right reputation and meanwhile you have a 60% disapproval rate in Portland. I did not. So that's about all I have. I did not mischaracterize my position. I have never said that about Commissioner Artesty. Well, I can read you the quote. You know, let's- But it doesn't matter. We've heard your testimony. We got your point. All right. And I would like a response about the potential use of the technology on the police.
 on or by? On, by citizens to identify officers. Well, it's a little creepy, but I suppose we could get legal counsel to chime in on that issue. The question was asked by Christopher whether or not that would be banned under these proposals. Can we get an opinion from one of the experts on that? Yes. Save us. Individuals can actually use
 of fair recognition. This is intended to be on more like based on the public accommodations with these intended to be for enterprises and companies. What about a nonprofit? A nonprofit, it is a violation. It is a part of the public accommodations framework, yes. But the individuals, they can use it.
 If I may ask the question, Hector, when you say an individual can use it, so I can walk around and I can film people and I can buy facial recognition technology to find out who they are and then do background checks on them? Based on the current state of the policy, it's based on public accommodations. So it's only applicable to individuals.
 enterprises. Yeah. So if I'm a public, if I'm walking down the street and I'm not a commissioner and I'm just walking down the street filming people with the purpose of using it with my own private facial recognition technology program, are you telling me that that would be legal? So yeah, this is a little bit tricky.
 I know. This is why I didn't want us all to walk out of here with different understandings of what you just said. Yeah, exactly. Because there is a service on the back end that is providing that. So they've got to get it from a company, right? Exactly. In this case, the company would be in violation, but not the individual. Thank you. That helps. And Christopher, I will say that in order to...
 purchase this technology, there would have to be a request that would come to the city council. Since the city council is already about to, I believe, ban the use of this technology, we would not in any way support Portland Police buying this technology. I don't think you have to worry that Portland Police officers will own, they don't own body cams.
 I worked very hard to make sure they never owned any and they don't, except for apparently they've got some for dogs, but that's another conversation. Ma'am? Yes. May I just say that my concern was as much that the police would individually use their personal cell phones, which they've been seen recording protesters, and as was said here, use individual services.
 And I would also like to point out as far as the company goes, I am writing and training my own neural net software that I developed to do this. So I wouldn't be purchasing it from anyone else. So there wouldn't be a company breaking the law if I did it. I understand the nonprofit level. Christopher, I would just recommend you get a legal opinion. You don't want to accidentally. Of course. Yes. Thank you. I appreciate your testimony, though. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty.
 All right. Well, on that note, Carly, does that complete our public testimony? Yes, Mayor. That's all who signed up. All right. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions that we would like to ask or any further discussion that we'd like to have on either of these ordinances? This would be the appropriate time. Mayor, I just wanted to confirm that we...
 read the two ordinances together? Correct. And then, and we've heard all of the testimony and then we take two separate votes. That is correct and we have an amendment on the table for 704, the emergency clause. Great, okay, thank you. I don't see any further discussion so we'll start with item 703. This is regarding city bureaus and the use of base recognition technologies. This is an emergency ordinance. Carla, please call the roll.
 Artisty. Give me just a moment, Carla. I have some really
 Wonderful words I wanna say, so I wanna make sure I don't miss my opportunity to do so. I wanna first take the opportunity to really appreciate Smart Cities PDX for the thoughtfulness, for the diverse outreach, for the intentionality that has been used in order to make sure that we were hearing from people in all perspectives around this legislation.
 I am very proud of the work that has been done. And I want to really honor and highlight Hector,
 because Hector, you've been working on this for a very, very, very long time. I want to acknowledge the fabulous work that Judith Mallory has done in bringing this to where it is today. And I want to appreciate Marisa Smith, Markeisha Smith, Dr. Markeisha Smith, because Markeisha Smith, doctor, we have been asking you to do a lot of late
 because of how we have shifted our priorities here at the City of Portland. And let me say, not once have you disappointed us, not once have you not come through, not once have you not provided us some very thoughtful, detailed advice that improved whatever policy we were working on. We are very fortunate at the City of Portland to have you here, Dr. Smith, and I just wanna acknowledge that at this time.
 I also want to make sure that I acknowledge Derek Bradley, who, you know, I got to tell you, every one of my staff people are absolutely fabulous. But Doug Bradley over and over again actually reminds me why I wanted him so bad on my staff.
 The work that he has done through a whole bunch of different various constituents is absolutely phenomenal. And I want to make sure that I take that opportunity. All of you know I'm not usually patting my staff on the back because I just expect them to be fabulous, and they all are.
 But sometimes I want to take the moment to really acknowledge that we've got folks that go above and beyond over and over and over again. And they just do it because that's the people they are. We are here today, let's be clear, because what we heard when we first started this conversation was fear.
 We heard fear of community members being able to go into a convenience store without their biometric data being gathered. We heard fear about community members not being able to go to a store without having their face actually targeted and some internal database determining whether they were safe enough to go in and spend their money.
 We have heard fear about from immigrants and refugee communities about whether or not they would be forcefully targeted if we, in fact, allow this technology to continue to expand as it has been.
 I will say I'm also grateful to the technology folks who spoke today, who actually acknowledged the flaws in their technology and spoke in favor of us having this ban in place.
 This will not be the last time we talk about technology or facial recognition technology. I absolutely agree with some people who have testified that just because it gets better doesn't mean it's something that we as a city should actually implement and support.
 And so I am grateful that my colleagues have all been really open to really understanding the fear that this kind of technology provides. All of us have experienced a lot since number 45 sent his federal goons in. Was that about a month ago now?
 And I can tell you all of my technology works different since all those little planes have been up collecting our data around protests.
 This is really about making sure that we are prioritizing our most vulnerable community members and community members of color. We already know that they are always the ones that are the most impacted and the hardest to recover from the new technology. I'm proud of this city council, that we have been pretty firm and pretty committed from the very first time we had our very first meeting.
 I just wanna say thank you to each of my colleagues, to all the people who worked, all the people who even didn't agree at the beginning or don't agree today. I wanna thank you all because I believe what we're passing is model legislation.
 that the rest of the country will be emulating as soon as we have completed our work here. And again, this is the beginning, it is not the end. I know Smart City PDX has a lot more work to do and I'm excited about the ability to partner with them to continue to make sure that the city of Portland is a place that is very protective of the privacy of all of our community members.
 own our privacy and it's our obligation to make sure that we are not allowing people to gather it up secretly and then sell it off for either profit or for a fear based activities. I am very pleased to vote aye. Udailey.
 Go ahead, Commissioner Hardest. I had it hidden. Okay. Have your laugh. Have your laugh. I'm good. I'm back. Now I've hidden my face. Okay. My face is gone, right? Everything's okay. All right. As with many products, this technology was designed with white men as the golden standard, making the rest of us women and BIPOC community members unique.
 deviations from the norm, I guess, despite the fact that we are the majority of the population, and we're more likely to be misidentified and potentially harmed by this technology. Facial recognition is a runaway train running over our rights and endangering our communities in the name of profit using fear as fuel. They claim their technology will make us safer,
 1984 by George Orwell is a dystopian novel, not a business plan. A cursed research yields numerous accounts of misidentifications and rampant abuse, including the Clearview scandal, which reviewed that although they claimed their technology would only be provided to law enforcement, they were allowing their wealthy investors to use it as a personal spy toy.
 They were also caught scraping social media and many other types of sites for photos to add to their database.
 And despite claims we heard in public testimony today, in Maryland, ICE used facial recognition technology on millions of drivers' photos without a court order. It's clear to me that we cannot trust the industry or government agencies to use this technology appropriately, and it's incumbent upon us, local elected leaders, to protect our community from their abuse.
 These are unacceptable and irresponsible practices. These companies should be ashamed of themselves for unleashing this flawed technology on our communities, further endangering some of our most vulnerable community members. How many times have we heard of wrongful arrests, assaults, convictions, and deaths of Black boys and men because they resembled a suspect?
 These are the very people who are most likely to be misidentified by this technology. Technology should not amplify existing bias and perpetuate racism. It can and should be a tool to help solve for these social ills. There are glimmers of hope. Amazon and Microsoft put a moratorium on selling this technology to law enforcement. IBM is getting out of the facial recognition business altogether.
 I encourage all of them to withdraw their fatally flawed products from the market and get out of the business. And in the meantime, they can get out of our city.
 I am grateful to Commissioner Hardesty and Mary Wheeler for developing and advancing these items, as well as the work of OEHR, Smart Cities PDX, and other organizations and advocates. We join just a handful of major American cities that have banned facial recognition technology, and I hope that our actions here today inspire more cities to take up this issue.
 I'm proud to be a member of a council and a resident of a city that is putting our community members' safety, privacy, and civil rights before corporate profit. I vote aye.
 Let's be clear. This is going to be a nationally recognised policy, and Commissioner Hardesty and her staff have done an absolutely fantastic job of working with every single member of the council with Mayor Wheeler's support to bring it forward. I echo your kudos for Derek Bradley. I kind of almost got tired of the number of times he kept checking back
 to make sure that we see if we had any questions and any concerns. And certainly you've been very responsive to the community as well. And so that's evidenced by the support we've heard today and by their unanimous support at the city council. There's a lot of unrest in our country right now and a lot of policies where, and practices where,
 individual members of this council have differences of opinion. This is a really good example of a commission form of government led by a mayor who supports individual commissioners in bringing significant policies and then the commissioner working with each member of the council to make sure that we all understand what it is and get
 get the support. So I am excited about this for multiple reasons. The principle of the issue has been well documented and spoken about today. Thank you, Hector Dominguez and Andrea Durbin in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Judith Mowery in the Office of Equity, and Dr. Markeisha Smith. And I echo Commissioner Hardest's kudos. I was thinking back
 Commissioner Hardesty, just before you were sworn in, Mayor Wheeler and I interviewed the candidates for the Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights with you, which we were able to do because we didn't have a quorum because you weren't official yet.
 I would have to say that was one of the first great things that you have done for our council and for our community. And I certainly appreciate the partnership and the way that we work together. There's been a lot of discussion in the press about, you know,
 where we disagree. And it's really important to know how much we have agreed today, how much we agree last week, how much we will agree next week, and how we all care about the city of Portland. We care about the people of Portland, particularly those who have been so impacted by racist policies and practices in the past. And we're all committed to working together to address those issues, including the police. And I appreciate that there has been
 in support on the police for this ban as well. There's been no pushback from them either. So there are certainly challenges that we need to solve with our community, and Portlanders are well equipped to do that, and we will continue to lead them as a council to the best of our ability, acknowledging that we are a community that works together. It's not any one person or any one group of people.
 even if all of us needing to figure out what are the challenges and how are we going to address them together. So I'm very, very, very pleased and thankful to vote aye. Leela? I stand with my colleagues, in fact, the entire community on this matter. The dangers and the inequities in the current technology are present and clear. We've heard good testimony on this today as well as during the work sessions.
 Portlanders should never be in fear of having their right and privacy be exploited by either their government or by a private institution. As I stated before, all Portlanders and frankly all people are entitled to a city government that will not use technology with a demonstrated racial and gender bias which endangers personal privacy. That should be a given.
 Technology exists to make our lives easier, not for public and private entities to use as a weapon against the very citizens that they serve and accommodate.
 With no state or federal regulations on the horizon, it's up to cities to take the lead in protecting its most vulnerable populations. With the passage of this legislation today, we join cities like Boston, Oakland, San Francisco, and others in taking a proactive step, ensuring that our communities know that we understand the harmful effects of technology and will never subject them to that harm.
 What makes Portland's legislation stand out from other of these cities is that we're prohibiting facial recognition technology use by private entities in places of public accommodation. This is the first of its kind legislation in the nation, and I believe in the world. It's not an exaggeration to say this is a truly historic day for the city of Portland.
 Portlanders deserve peace of mind. They deserve transparency from private institutions just as they do public institutions. This is a step in achieving that goal and this is consistent with the brand and the reputation of this city as being a city that is creative, a city that is collaborative, a city that is innovative, and a city that's willing to lead.
 It's my hope that other cities, large and small, in this nation and across the globe, will follow suit. If you follow this subject, you will have heard certain cities recently using this technology to target protesters and specific individuals.
 This is not what we want in Portland. That is not a Portland value. That is not consistent with the brand of this city. And we've heard a lot of talk today about equity and inclusion, and those, too, are hallmarks of the Portland brand. We're not going to allow that kind of abuse to take place in our city because our city won't tolerate it.
 Portland needs to know that its leaders are listening and that the public safety and data privacy and security issues are paramount in the work that we do.
 But this work is not just done. And this, as has been said, is just the first step in expanding the city's work on digital justice and data security. And yes, those are terms you're gonna hear a lot more about in the years ahead, not just the data security, but the concept of digital justice. And that's an area that again is consistent with where the city wants to go and consistent with our record of innovation and leadership.
 With that in mind, I want to thank the many people who have been involved in this year-long project. The City's strength is truly in its amazing employees. I want to thank the Bureau of Planning, Sustainability, and the Office of Equity and Human Rights. And I'd like to specifically thank the Smart Cities PDX team, Kevin, Hector,
 Christine, lead the Smart Cities Initiative, support their bureau, and you guys have been on point since the very beginning. Thank you. Thank you. That's amazing work.
 and Andrea Durbin from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Director Markeisha Smith from the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Thank you for all of your important leadership on this project. And I of course wanna thank Judith Mowbray from the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Judith, as we all know, has a wealth of knowledge about the city, is an amazing advocate for the community. We also have Asen Onart from the city's
 the city attorney's office to thank. She had the unenviable task of ensuring the legality of both of these proposed pieces of legislation. So again, I wanna thank Asen. That is a hard task indeed, because just as the technology is emerging, there are many aspects of the underlying law that is also emerging and you are helping us to lead the way.
 I want to thank the Portlanders and organizations who've given their voices, input, expertise, and time into helping craft something that directly impacts them and their communities. The importance of collaboration between local governments and their communities can never be overstated enough and I want to thank those from other cities, Seattle and Oakland and elsewhere, who testified to help us strengthen our ordinances based on your learning experience,
 Finally, I want to thank my colleagues on the council and their teams for their efforts and their supports in this. I want to acknowledge Commissioner Hardesty and her policy director, Derek Bradley. Specifically, Commissioner Hardesty has been a passionate advocate for
 advocate on this issue from the very start. And Derek, aside from being the best dressed individual at Portland City Hall, has also spent countless hours partnering with my staff and helping to bring this forward into its final version today. So I want to thank both of you. Obviously, I'm very happy to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 Now, Carla, if you could please call the roll on the amendment to item number 704. That's the addition of the emergency clause. Hardesty? I'm muted. I did that for you, Mayor. I feel completely validated. My day is complete. I did it to make you feel better, Mayor. That's all. Aye. You daily. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 I appreciate adding the clause so that people can see and finish this up today. Congratulations, aye. Wheeler. The amendment is adopted to the main motion is amended. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Udai Lee. Aye. Fritz. Hooray, aye. Wheeler.
 I'll second that. Hooray. And I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you, everybody. Thanks for those of you who presented and testified today. And with that, colleagues, we are adjourned. Don't we have another one? Oh, wait, do we? Stop. We need two. I don't see another. Tomorrow we have two. Yeah. I'm sorry. I thought it was the private and the public. We just voted on both.
 Oh, together. Yeah, do you want to do it again? I mean, we finished it. No, no, no, I just wanted to make sure, but we've been working on this for too long to walk out of here and think that we forgot something. No, are we good? We're all good. Okay. All right. Okay, well, since we're done, let me just appreciate the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, because that was one of the people I left off my list, but this would not have been possible without the leadership of the Bureau and,
 And Andrea Durbin and her wonderful leadership to bring us to this point. And so I am happy. You were so darn good. I didn't know we did two in one fell swoop. Very cool. Okay. I'm good. Awesome. Thank you, everybody. Thank you all. Have a good afternoon. See you tomorrow. Bye-bye.
 Thank you.