All of us, you guys may know that this is a council full of sports fans. Commissioner Novick is a major baseball fan, Commissioner Fritz is a major football fan, I'm a major basketball fan, and Commissioner Fish is a major soccer fan, but right now we're all major little league fans, so that's why we're here today. So let me read this proclamation, and then we'll maybe bring some folks up from the team to say a few words to us.
 Whereas the Wilshire Riverside Little League baseball team set off to compete in the Little League World Series on August 20th for a chance to compete for the championship title. And whereas the Wilshire Riverside Little League baseball team is the first Portland team in 57 years to compete in the Little League World Series.
 And whereas the Wilshire Riverside Little League baseball team are now the 2015 Northwest Regional Champions, and whereas number one, Jackson Farr, number five, Spencer Scott, number seven, Caden Siegel, number nine, Barrett Bacaba, number 12, Kyle Oslin, number 17, Dylan McLean, number 13,
 Number 22, Huck Stewart. Number 27, Sam Stewart. Number 29, Cooper Shaw. And number 34, Nolan Miga are all very devoted members of the Wilshire Riverside team. And whereas this Portland team has proudly represented our city in the Little League World Series, now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim September 2, 2015,
 to be Portland Little League Day in Portland and encourage all residents to congratulate the Wilshire Riverside team for their stunning success. Let's hear it for these guys. Well done. We're all proud of you. Anybody want to come up and say anything? How intimidating is that? Maybe one of your coaches or leaders might want to come up and talk about this for you. But we'd love to have a couple of you up and tell us a little bit about what this experience was like for you.
 Not yet. Please, please. Should I have a seat? Please.
 Well, I just wanted to say, first of all, thank you so much for having us. It's just such a treat for us to come and see you guys here. Super proud of these boys and what they've accomplished this year. And over the last four or five years where they've really dedicated themselves to each other and playing baseball the right way, put in a ton of work over these last four years. And that hard work has really paid off.
 you know, with a Northwest Championship title. So we're just super proud of them. We're also really proud of our community and our city.
 You know, we've had just a tremendous amount of support. You know, Little League team can't do this on their own. And, you know, our immediate Wilshire Riverside community has really created a platform for these kids to kind of jump off of. We have a ton of really dedicated volunteers, not only on our board, but also volunteers that do umpiring, that do coaching.
 concessions that uh that that coach that do field prep and maintenance all those people make it possible for us to be able to to have this experience with these kids and then you know outside of the wilshire riverside little league community in the greater portland metro area we just have a ton of success uh or support excuse me um
 both financially but also just sort of, you know, emotionally with the well wishes. I mean, we definitely felt the love on our travels from Portland coming out, and, you know, it just made all the difference in the world to us. So super proud of the kids and also really proud of our community. That's great. Thank you so much. Well, let's take a picture with the parents and coaches and the team. We've got our hats on, Corey? Yeah, of course. All right. Come on up. Hey, come on up, guys. Parents, too.
 12 and 13 on this one. So everybody's in the age 12. And you're in the neighborhood. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you all very much.
 Back to school. Back to school. Thanks very much. Thanks, you guys. Have a great day. Thanks, everybody. It was a lot of fun.
 Okay, we are going to move into our regular calendar We have communications items up front in which citizens get to sign up for three minutes on the council calendar to speak about the subject of their choosing we'll take those first then we have our consent calendar and Items on both the time certain and the regular calendar I don't see any requests to pull anything from the consent calendar, which is quite short today none. Okay and
 Again, welcome everyone. If you're here to speak on a council calendar item, we typically allow three minutes, and given a relatively light agenda today, that shouldn't be difficult. If you're here to speak on a council calendar item, you need only give your name, unless you're a registered lobbyist, in which you need to let us know that at the front end.
 but you don't need to give us your address. If you're here to simply speak on an item, let our clerk know that you do want to do that. We always maintain the rules of decorum here, so if you agree with your fellow citizen and want to indicate that, feel free to give them a thumbs-up or a wave of the hand, and if you disagree, a polite hand gesture to the contrary is okay, but we don't make vocal demonstrations here because we want everyone to have their say.
 So with those ground rules in place, let's please take Item 903. 903, request of Rodney Wall to address council regarding homeless issues. Wall here? Yes. Good morning. Come on up. Good morning. Just swing that microphone over a little closer to you there. There you go. Item 903, request of Rodney Wall to address council regarding homeless issues.
 Although we will be moving soon. I'm sorry to interrupt you. Just pull that microphone really close. The whole box moves, so you can slide that whole box closer to you. There you go. Either one is fine, but just get close to it, please. OK. Although we will be moving soon, there will be still homeless people looking for a safe place, warm place to lay down and rest or a hot meal. Did we do our job?
 or maybe a pair of pants after it rains. We move where these people are going to look for the same services we give out to them on a daily basis. Maybe it's your backyard. We all need to solve this homeless problem in Oregon instead of pushing all of us into the next state. So there we go.
 904 request of Tricia Reed to address counsel regarding homeless issues reader you here Okay, what will give her another opportunity? 905 please request of Rico Jones to address counsel regarding homeless issues. Good morning. Come on up. Good morning I'm on my way out the Vermont soon But I was here about a year and a half ago if you remember very well that I took you to
 If you can't handle the heat, get out of the kitchen. I think the only person that's really stepped up here is Ms. Fritz. I think you guys need to find another career somewhere else because you're really not doing it. I'm sorry. Look, I'm a native Oregonian, and we expect better than this. The last two years, the homeless percentage has went up 30%. I think in two years, it's going to be 60% if we don't do something now.
 I'm seriously really, I would think about putting more right to dreams to the city. About a year and a half ago, I took a trip up to Seattle. I saw Nicholsville and Ten City Four, and they are doing very well. I think we need more of that because if we don't, we're not going to have enough housing for anybody. One, there's not enough work for anybody. As we all know, things are rough for everybody.
 But I think, Mr. Hales, you need to step a little harder, you know, because you have control to do better than this. And you're a smart man, and I know you can do it. This needs to be really addressed quickly. Before we knew it, before we know it, it's going to be four years down the line, and it's going to be 75% homelessness. What are we going to do then? Really think about this. I'm going to Vermont, probably where our next president is going to be from.
 And I'm telling you that I'm out the door and I'm a native Oregonian, but I am not proud of what's going on here. I'm ashamed. I've seen the city grow, and now it's dying. Old Chinatown is dead. It's dying. Rent is so high, Chinese people can't even afford the rent. So what are we going to do to make it better? We need to find a way.
 We need to put more work in and more training for welding or some type of work career. Truck driving, you know what I mean? I'm sorry, but it's going to get worse before it gets better. You've got to step up. Amanda's been amazing for our DDT. She's been working really hard for us. And I know I'm leaving, but I want to say thank you. But you guys have got to step up, man.
 If you don't, we're going to drown. And then what are we going to do then? That's all I've got to say. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, item 906. Request of Theodore Gilder to address council regarding homeless issues. Good morning. Come on up. Good morning, council. As you know, my name is Theodore Gilder. And my perspective and perception of the homeless situation goes like this. I don't want to just talk about the fact that we have a growing homeless population, not just here but nationwide.
 I'm going to talk about what I see is the problem with the homeless and where this homeless population is growing, coming from. And I wrote down this real quickly, and I'm a little nervous, but I'm going to get it out as smoothly as possible in under two minutes. I understand that gentrification is a direct action of depopulation. Why do I say this? If those of us at the least amount of money, lower class and middle class included,
 lose their houses and rent and places where they rent, they become openly susceptible to the poisons in the air, in the water, and food that corporations have paid upper-level politicians big money to allow. So the depopulation process can begin.
 They figure those with real money are smart enough to live underground until the death of billions take place, creating a job and housing market for those that do survive. We are pawned willingly and unwillingly. The deception comes in the form of an alien agenda that doesn't happen. As I see it, it begins with a greater hierarchy, taking what they're going to take, collecting people, plants, and animals, seeds, to create the next world, which may or may not be here.
 These truths are made evidence in the fact that a former slumlord of New Jersey, where I come from, New Jersey, is now running for president. In the time of him being where he was...
 He's taken the people that he displaced to build his casinos. And now this man is now running for president of the United States. I'm noticing that all the different states that I've been to, that there has been a lack of strong education. Instead of educating the children, you're dumbing them down. Now, if these kids...
 children of tomorrow are going to be future homeowners, they are not able to do the jobs, then they're not going to have the jobs. And if they do not have the jobs, then they won't have any place to sleep or a home which they can call their own. Therefore, adding to the homeless population, which...
 doesn't help the fact that R2-D2 and places like them are trying to take the homeless people off the street and try to reinduce them into having housing and being what we call citizens, honorable citizens, where they aren't being harassed by people, places, and things. With that being said, that's what I came here to speak on. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, Item 907.
 907, request of Frederick Allen Maxwell to address council regarding the Salvation Navy, is 501C3. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales. My name is Frederick Allen Maxwell. Have a seat. Most people call me Fred. Fred, welcome. Just pull that microphone down so it's relatively close to you there. Thank you. I was last here to talk about asking the USS Zumwalt to come and head up the Rose Festival.
 and talk about Zero Homeless Vets Act, but since Mayor Hales mentioned me by name and my cat not by name, in January's State of the City Address, I thought you'd be interested in how that, oh, as a successfully housed former homeless vet, I thought you'd be interested in how that success keeps going. But first, Mayor Hales. Her Majesty Albus I...
 has sent a message through me that she forgives you for not mentioning her by her proper name and title. Thank you. Duly chastised. But if you do it again, you're not going to be reelected. Since I last talked to my father, my estranged, excuse me, since I last talked to the council, my estranged father died. We had only seen each other three times in the last 30 years, none of which went well.
 My eulogy's titled, My Fat Fascist Philistine Father. So I was stunned to find out that my fat fascist Philistine father had left me a generous inheritance. Given our acrimony, I was having trouble accepting Dad's money. Integrity and common sense demanded finding a common ground, some way to take our truly sad song and make it better. Well, Dad was a decorated non-combat World War II Navy vet,
 I'm a decorated non-combat Vietnam Navy vet, and the Navy likes to think it takes care of its own, and it generally does. So in that spirit, I've set up and funded the Salvation Navy, a non-religious nonprofit dedicated to helping house primarily homeless U.S. Navy vets and their family, and keep them housed.
 The IRS has given us 501c3 status. You can find us at thesalvationnavy.org. And the Salvation Navy is simply paying forward Portland's strong social safety net, which helped and held me above water when forces were pulling me below. Transition Projects, Doreen's Place, Northwest Pilot Project, Sally Kirkland, and the brilliant HUD-VASH voucher program deserve all the help they can get.
 In the past eight months, the Salvation Navy has paid for some classes, bought three new laptops, four air conditioners for asthmatics, and simply handed out thousands of no-strings-attached bucks to some desperately poor folks, sowing seeds of stability amid incivility. You are known for what you give. You are known for what you give.
 And honestly, I'm having so much fun giving away what I consider someone else's money. I was wondering if any of you were thinking of not running for re-election. All this is a way to explain that. After three years of stability, I'm looking for a house or a condo to buy. Again, thanks for your help. And one more thing, this really does have a close to Hollywood ending. I live in Kearns.
 Thank you. Fred, thank you very much. Good to hear from you, and I'm glad to see that you're still helping vets. We've got some vets still outside that we're all working together to try to get inside. So I appreciate you turning towards that cause again. Sally Kirkland will do it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's move on, please, to our consent calendar again. I don't think there are any items to withdraw, so we'll take a roll call vote on the consent calendar. Novick. Ritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye.
 Okay. Item 908. 908, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Metro and accept a grant in the amount of $650,000 for Boone's Ferry Fish, Wildlife, and Trail Passage Partnership Project. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to invite Jane Picari forward, Don Bach from Southwest Trails PDX, John Mullen, Parks Manager for the Tryon Creek State Natural Area, Metro.
 Metro Councillor Kalata Collette. It's a great tradition in this body to mangle her name every time we introduce her. And as my colleagues know, we're also joined today by Lake Oswego City Councillor Jeff Goodman, who actually was born and raised in southwest Portland. He's not on the program, but Jeff, would you stand so we can acknowledge you? Good morning. Welcome. Thank you for being here.
 My friend Sam Chase once drew out in a napkin the sort of hierarchy of local government. He put Metro at the top, followed by the county and the city.
 I suspect if he were here, he'd pencil in Lake Oswego, then the city, so the city of Portland. So welcome. A few opening remarks. Mayor, we put this on the agenda because normally something like this would be on our consent agenda, and it would go unremarked. And because this is such a spectacular success and a successful set of partnerships, we wanted to put it on time certain and highlight the accomplishment and thank our partners for what they've done. Thank you.
 The grant we're considering this morning will help fund a project that makes it possible for the City to meet regulatory requirements, increase public safety, and provide a link to an important community trail. The Boone's Ferry Fish, Wildlife, and Trail Passage project has multiple benefits because of important partnerships with the community and other agencies.
 Today we get a chance to thank our partners for all their great work and to learn a little bit more about the project. I'm going to turn it over to Jane, who is the Watershed Services Manager for Environmental Services. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Oh, my goodness. Good morning. My name is Jane Beccaria. I'm the Watershed Services Group Manager for the Bureau of Environmental Services. Mayor Hales and members of the City Commission, before you today is an ordinance to accept a grant in the amount of $650,000 from Metro for the Boone's Ferry Fish, Wildlife, and Trail Passage Partnership Project.
 We're excited to present this project with several of our project partners today and highlight the benefits of working in partnership with community groups and other governmental agencies to build a project that best meets multiple goals.
 Presenting with me today are Metro Councilor, I'm not going to mess it up, Carlotta Collette, Don Bach from Southwest Trails PDX, and John Mullen, who is the manager of the Tryon Creek State Natural Area. Together, the four of us hope to tell the story of how citizen participation and government responsiveness can build a stronger, lasting project. And as Commissioner Fish mentioned, John Goodman, City Councilor from the City of Lake Oswego, is also here today to support our partnership.
 So this project is a culmination of years of planning and community involvement in stormwater management, stream restoration, and pedestrian and wildlife advocacy. Thank you.
 BES has been planning to replace the culvert for Tryon Creek at Boone's Ferry Road for over a decade. To that end, we secured funding and did pre-design for two alternatives. One was a larger open-bottom culvert, and the other was a bridge. BES's recommendation was to pursue the culvert option because that met our objectives for fish passage and conveyance.
 However, the community and agency partners asked BES to look for other options that would enable us to build the bridge because it provided additional community values to pedestrian and wildlife passage. So this ordinance and presentation will highlight the power of including multiple voices in project planning and government responsiveness, which is resulting in a regional project that benefits many.
 A few facts about Tryon Creek. The Tryon Creek watershed is home to ESA-listed salmonid species, including steelhead trout, chinook salmon, and coho salmon. It also provides habitat for other native fish, such as Pacific lamprey and western baroque lamprey, and also for wildlife, including black-tailed deer and North American beaver.
 Just a little overview. The Tryon Creek is one of the five watershed management areas in the city of Portland. The yellow line on this map shows the boundaries for the watershed. Its headwaters are near Mount Loma Village, and it flows into the Willamette River at Lake Oswego. Development in the headwaters and natural resource protection for the Tryon Creek State Natural Area are very important planning considerations when we consider projects in this area.
 BAS's watershed health strategy includes stormwater controls in the upper watershed, and the blue dots on this map show where we've done some projects to address stormwater in the watershed near Montluma Village and also I-5. And in-stream restoration in the lower watershed, and the red dots on the map show where we've done some riparian projects through the state park.
 And the Boone's Ferry culvert is in the white call-out box, sort of right in the middle of the watershed.
 This slide shows a couple of examples of water quality and stormwater flow control projects that BES has done in the more developed Upper Trine Creek watershed. These projects have also been done with partners. And so on the left, you've got the Markham Rain Garden, and our project partners for this included the Markham Neighbors and Solve. And on the right is the Barbara Boulevard TriMet Park and Ride project that we completed with ODOT and TriMet as partners.
 And these are a few projects in the lower part of the watershed. We've partnered on projects that include projects in the Triune Creek State Natural Area to restore stream functions by protecting sanitary sewer infrastructure, adding habitat for salmon, protecting stream banks, and daylighting creek sediments that have been piped.
 So a few details about this project. The 140-foot-long culvert for Tryon Creek at Boone's Ferry Road was identified by BES and community partners as undersized in a major fish passage barrier in the 2005 Fiano and Tryon Creek Watershed Plan. The culvert is a fish passage barrier due to the jump height for fish to enter the culvert.
 The culvert was further analyzed for the BES 2008 Capital Improvement Predesign Report, and the report noted that the culvert could feasibly be replaced by a larger, open-bottom culvert with a natural stream bed or by a bridge.
 At that time in 2008, the community, and notably Southwest Trails, expressed interest in using the project to also bring a pedestrian trail under the Boone's Ferry Road at the site to complete the missing portion of the Hillsdale to Lake Oswego Regional Trail identified by Metro. And at that point, an alternative safe solution for pedestrian crossings at the busy Boone's Ferry Road area had alluded PBOT and also trail advocates. Thank you.
 So some of the project objectives, this slide shows a couple of the problems that we've got in this area. At the upper end of the culvert, there's a trash rack. It's a concrete trash rack, and that impedes conveyance at high flows. And the trash rack itself is also a fish passage barrier because it includes a difficult jump out for fish. And wildlife are also deterred from crossing underneath Boone's Ferry Road through the culvert.
 And in 2013, BEF secured capital funding to work on designs for conveyance and capacity issues and to provide fish passage in this area. And the project included designing for a trail under the passage, if feasible. And an advisory committee of interested parties and partners was established in late 2013. Thank you.
 So we currently have an advisory committee for this project, and it's made up of working partners. So we have several agency partners, which include Oregon Parks and Recreation Department, and they are the property owner of the area upstream of the culvert, and they're the lead for the trail project that will bring pedestrians to the culvert in such a way as to safely cross beneath Boones Ferry Road. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has been a project partner since 2008 to study fish passage in the Triune Creek system, and they'll continue to do this work.
 Portland Parks and Recreation manages Marshall Park natural area upstream of the project site, and this park is where the Hillsville to Lake Oswego Trail crosses. The Portland Peer Organ Transportation manages Boones Ferry Road, and they work on community and pedestrian connectivity and will support structural engineering oversight for the project. And the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife are a technical resource for the group through representation on the committee.
 West Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District supports work in the area by partnering with BES and Oregon Parks and Recreation Department on re-veg on private properties adjacent to the natural area. And Metro will be buying the project buy-up, as we call it, from a culvert to a bridge through the Nature in the Neighborhoods Capital Grant that is in the ordinance today that you'll be approving.
 Community groups involved in our advisory group include the Tryon Creek Watershed Council, and they work watershed-wide with residents on restoration activities and monitoring. And Commissioner Fritz was a founding member of this group. Southwest Trails PDEX, who you'll be hearing from, provides long-term planning and vision for trails as well as boots on the ground to get those trails developed.
 The Friends of Tryon Creek Park provide ongoing stewardship for trail maintenance and habitat enhancement, and the Arno Creek Neighborhood Association provides input to the advisory group and will be involved in the project. And also there's additional property owners that live adjacent to this project that will provide input.
 So here's a little chart that shows you the two alternatives that we looked at in our pre-design. And so one was a 120-foot long open bottom culvert, and the other was a 45-foot wide bridge option. I'm not sure how well you can see those numbers.
 But the bridge option is a more expensive option. It's approximately $800,000 more than a culvert would be. And as I mentioned earlier, BES's recommendation was the open bottom culvert because this did meet our objectives for fish pastures and conveyance. But the project advisory group, advisory committee, and the community advised for applying for the Metro grant
 so that we could get the additional benefits provided by the bridge. And if you look at this chart, the enhanced fish passage, pedestrian wildlife connectivity, and riparian zone and wetland values scored higher when we were looking at the two alternatives.
 This slide is just a couple of examples of bridges with under crossings that provide more room and light for riparian plantings and space for pedestrians and wildlife to move. And the example on the left actually shows – I'm not sure how well you can see it, but this is actually a trail that goes along the side of that crossing.
 And this is an overview of some of the near – it's a little bit confusing, but of some of the nearby properties and the connectivity considerations for the project. The area in the yellow circle is the approximate position of the culvert under the Boones Ferry Road. And starting in the upper left and going to the lower right, we've got Marshall Park, which is a Portland Parks and Recreation property. And –
 There's a current section of the regional trail, which is in orange, that goes through that. And then Metro purchased property, which is currently managed by Oregon State Parks, and there's a portion of the state park showing the new section of trail. So there's a proposed new trail that would provide additional connectivity, and this culvert is actually key to that. The undersized culvert that we currently have is in the right-of-way.
 There's private properties that are just below the culvert. And Oregon State Park's North Creek Trail, which is, I believe it's in the red, in the lower right-hand portion of the map, is currently, it's very, the connectivity there is extremely difficult. Basically, pedestrians have to run across Boones Ferry Road to get to that portion of the trail.
 So, this bridge would provide very needed and very critical connectivity to both established trails and the planned new trail in this area. There's also regional context to this bridge project, and the project ties in very nicely with the potential uses for the Willamette Shoreline Trail, and that's the green line on this map.
 The blue line, trail line is the culvert is you can see the little call-out box next to the blue trail line. Council Goodman of Lake Oswego has been cited by the Oregonian as a leader in the effort to develop the Willamette Shoreline Trail as a bike-ped route and while retaining the ability to have a streetcar at some future date. So we're looking at a much broader context. We're looking at regional connectivity and digital just connectivity within the city.
 Somehow cited by the Oregonian doesn't seem like a compliment. Sorry. The citation was dismissed, but the acknowledgment was noted. So I just wanted to provide some background for the project. I'd like to introduce Metro Counselor Carlotta Collette to provide some perspective from Metro's perspective.
 Well, great. Thank you. And thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for allowing us to come in and present this to you. The only thing better, really, than getting money is giving it away to worthy projects. So I'm very pleased to be here today to be able to move this project from a culvert project to a bridge project. I've been on the Metro Council for about eight years now, and I think it was only a matter of weeks after I'd come on the council that –
 Don brought me up to the neighborhood and said, this is part of your district, which I actually did not know until he got me out there. And he brought me down that hillside and up to that culvert and showed me what needed to happen there. And I really have to recognize Don and his neighbors and people at BES and in the City of Portland and all around the region who picked it up and kept it in front of everybody to make sure that this is an important project that gets done.
 When we look at our capital grants, they're limited dollars. In fact, we probably have one more year left of them. Thanks to the voters in 2006 who granted us the dollars to buy land, they also granted us the dollars to award capital grants for permanent methods of helping people and animals get around in our region.
 So this project is part of that. It's a pretty big grant in that program. We don't do a lot of grants that are over half a million dollars. So this is a significant award. When we look at why we would give these awards out, we have a number of criteria. Probably number one is the science. Is this important for fish and wildlife? Is this an important habitat project? And this one has that all over. This is a great habitat project.
 But then we also look at, is this the most creative way to solve this problem? Have we really looked at the most efficient use of our dollars? And with people like Don and others in the state, we had an amazing partnership working on this.
 And as Jane said, BES had solved the habitat, the fish, the connectivity problem, but not the people problem. So this one rose up to that level as well. This is a creative solution to not just a habitat problem, but also to a connectivity in the community problem. The other thing we look at is what kind of partnerships are we creating through these programs, through this grant money? Because –
 We're not going to have an infinite amount of grant money. We want to make sure these partnerships exist that have heroes like Don who will carry on and will keep looking at ways to improve the habitat, improve connectivity, create better trails.
 So the partnerships are really critical. And this one, again, it just ranks so high with having the city, the state, the neighborhood, the region. I mean, you have everybody at the table working together to solve this problem in the smartest way that we possibly could come up with. So...
 From our perspective, this is a great investment. This is a great project. We have local heroes who will make sure that it's done and done right. We have the city behind it. We have the state behind it. I'm just very, very proud to be able to say that Metro's behind it as well. We're here to help make this project the totally Class A project that it can be. So thank you very much.
 Thank you. And now I'd like to introduce Don Bach, who's the chair of Southwest Trails PDX. Thank you, Mayor Hales, commissioners. First of all, I want to acknowledge Jennifer Devlin's work on this. She has done a huge amount of work over the years to make this happen and held my hand in the hands of many others of us to get reasonable stuff put together that we can present to you.
 Southwest Trails is a Citizen-led community service 501c3 group of volunteers, working volunteers, I want to say, which promotes walking and biking in southwest Portland. We lead monthly walks. You can join us any time, the second Saturday of the month, 9 o'clock at Wilson, organizing volunteer work parties. The next one's tomorrow in Dickinson Park.
 Develop new walking and biking opportunities for working with the city, county, metro, and the state planners. Southwest Portland has a long history of fostering the development of a network of trails in Southwest Portland.
 This trail, which is number six, which is the Hillsdale Lake Oswego Regional Pedestrian Trail, and, by the way, that's only half of the trail. The whole trail starts at 18th and Jefferson and goes all the way to Lake Oswego, a total of 12 miles.
 This trail will pass under the bridge, which was conceived in the late 1990s when the City Council adopted the Southwest Urban Trails Plan. And in 2002, Metro included the same alignment in the Regional Trails Plan as the Hillsdale to Lake Oswego Regional Trails Trail. That's the Hillsdale to Lake Oswego part, not the part that goes downtown. Southwest Trails has been primarily the primary project champion to include the pedestrian undercrossing of Southwest Boone's Ferry since December 2007.
 At that time, after a review of the city's culvert replacement pre-design, Southwest Trails contacted Metro about possible partnership and wrote a letter to the city to move the project forward on the BES capital improvement list. We also contacted the press for several favorable articles about the need. Southwest Trails has served on the Bowens Ferry Culvert Replacement Advisory Committee convened in 2013.
 2013 which recommended the bridge option it seems like it's probably 2013 that was about as long as I felt like in getting it done since the adoption of the Southwest urban trails plan Southwest trails has sought and received funding from the Bureau of Transportation for and constructed several miles of Southwest urban trails network many connections that would otherwise not be built
 In addition, Southwest Trails is designed, funded partly with a BES grant, and built a major stream crossing, the Ras Ba crossing, which is on one of those slides of Stevens Creek. It's shown in the pictures. The original concept for this crossing was $900,000. $1999, that is. It would be a lot more today. Bridge that we believe would not be built in our lifetimes. We developed an economical alternative that we could build ourselves.
 We've also improved those parts of the Hillsdale Lake Oswego Trail that are on unbuilt streets' right-of-ways. Hundreds of volunteer man-hours have been invested in improving the important transportation infrastructure to provide safer, easily-walked alternative pedestrian routes to get people off our streets that have no sidewalks. In this way, the 40 miles of the Southwest Urban Trail Network and this new bridge contributes to Southwest Portland's part of the Vision Zero effort. I want to repeat that because it's really important.
 Our Southwest Urban Trails Network contributes significantly to the Vision Zero effort by getting people off the streets that don't have sidewalks. So it gives them an alternative way of going into pleasant places to walk on low volume streets and on these connections and trails we build. Our volunteer build improvements are a start, but more expensive improvements are needed as use of the trails increases.
 Southwest Trails PDX Board fully supported the effort to make the Boone's Ferry crossing of Triumph Creek a bridge rather than a much longer culvert. It gets us out of the storm sewer, in effect, and also supports the Boone's Ferry Fish, Wildlife, and Trail Passage Partnership proposed to leverage BES funds
 for stream conveyance and fish passage with metro funds for enhanced fish, wildlife, and pedestrian passage. With the bridge, we can design a much better trail entrance and exit from this, so we can get a much higher elevation and we can get onto the street much easier. This will result in having the trail closer to the street and make it easier for walkers of all abilities to make this connection. Southwest Trails has developed fruitful partnerships, which result in many new connections to the Urban Trails Network,
 evidence they lake oswego passed and rad ordinance supporting this many years ago we've worked with washington county in terms of our connections to the west and worked with metro to put all this together into a comprehensive system we will continue to engage agency and community partners to help fund develop and maintain trails and encourage safe non-motorized transportation which is our unique contribution to watershed health
 When the Boone's Ferry Bridge over Tryon Creek and the associated trail organ parks is constructing are completed, this will be the premier long-distance walking route in southwest Portland. About five miles of trails through wooded parks or on little-used streets. It will also provide a much-needed safe pedestrian connection to activity centers for many residents in the southern part of southwest Portland. If you live along Boone's Ferry or Arnold or Stevenson,
 It's really difficult to walk north. You end up having to drive because it's not safe to you or your children. Once we have this route, we'll have an urban trail all the way to Hillsdale and downtown if people want to choose to do that. It'll get people to the places they want to walk. Thank you. Thank you. And finally, I'd like to introduce John Mullen, who's Park Manager for Tryon Creek State Natural Area. Thank you, Jane. And thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for your time.
 You know, Oregon State Parks has had a long history of working with the City of Portland, as you may know, and BES and other Triad Creek advocacy groups.
 In part, we've been working with BES because there's a sanitary sewer line that runs the length of the park, as well as some branches to that line that run into the park. And Lake Oswego also has a sanitary sewer line that feeds into your sanitary sewer line trunk line, runs down to the municipal treatment plant down at the mouth of Tryon Creek and the river.
 The wonderful thing about working, my experience in five years here working with VES is that when they come in to move the creek over because of threatening the trunk line, they look around and say, what else can we do here? And that, from my perspective as a natural resource manager as well as a recreational manager is a big plus. So I thank you for that and I thank VES for that service.
 We look at this Boone's Ferry project as an area of regional significance due to its contribution to landscape-level connectedness and stream ecosystem unification. In addition, it will be a vital link in that active transportation recreational trailer users, as mentioned.
 But first off, a little bit about Tryon Creek. I know that many of you have been to Tryon Creek. If you ever are up for it and you want to take a tour with the manager, by all means, get a hold of me. We do have a couple of things you may not have seen, and that are some national historic sites.
 cabins that we received not too long ago that are from 1910, 1912 era. They're log houses. And the Parks family, actually, he was a teacher in Multnomah Village. So some interesting story between Arnold Parks. You might be interested. And if you'd like to get a hold of me, we can go out there. They aren't on public established routes yet. So you would be able to come with me.
 As you know, Triangle Creek has a whole system of trails, including eight miles of hiking trails, about four miles of horse trails, three miles of paved bicycle trail, eight bridges, and a nature center, shelter for events. And of course, every day the park is full of
 people recreating both passive recreation as well as going to nature walks on Saturdays school is just starting and our calendar is booked up with our friends group as far as
 public and private schools, touring the park and doing tours that are connected to environmental standards, I mean educational standards for the state of Oregon. We also just finished up our nature day camp for the summer. So it's a busy place, a lot of people use it, about 500,000 people a year nowadays, at least just coming through the front entrance, not to mention all the trail entrances from the neighborhoods.
 State Parks' partnership with this project is based on our ability to build financial and social support for park development and operations and a long history of community trust to protect natural resources and providing top-notch visitor experiences.
 To that end, state parks will take the lead on completing this gap in Hillsdale to Lake Oswego Regional Trail. And we've mentioned this trail a number of times. The interesting to me when I got here five years ago was the number of places this trail has been cited, not to mention our 2013 Trine Creek Comprehensive Plan, but the year 2000 City of Portland South with Urban Trail Plan, 2000.
 2014 Metro Regional Trails Plan, 2008 Connecting Green Blue Ribbon Committee for Trail Selection, Hillsdale to Lake Oswego Trail, City of Lake Oswego Trails and Pathways Master Plan, and the Portland Parks and Recreation Trail Strategy. I'm like, wow, this is like a gem of a piece of trail. And it's understandable. When you look at the region-wide maps, there's this little piece there of half a mile that's not connected. And not connected for a good reason, because...
 you'll take it in your life and hands when you try to run across that Boone's Ferry. The project, as has been mentioned, has had multiple partnerships and is well documented in our Tryon Creek Comprehensive Plan. And, of course, the state parks provided advisory committee representation and input in BES's planning process, which identified and refined the project through the 2005 FANU and Tryon Creek Watershed Management Plan.
 2008 pre-design and the 2013 Boone's Ferry Covert Replacement Design. In 2008, our then-director, Tim Woods, wrote a letter to BES in supporting of including an underpass in the project designed to be used for regional trail connection.
 OPRD also formally recommended to BES in 2014 selection of the bridge alternative to provide significantly higher standards of riparian quality and diversity, enhanced fist passage, and greater wildlife connectivity and safer trail passage.
 Now, BAS talks about how they recommended the covert. My take on it is, yes, they did because of financial constraints, and that's perfectly understandable. But when we were on the advisory council and the consulting group gave us the analysis, and so many of the numbers were so much higher in all the qualifications of fish passage, pedestrian passage, habitat increase.
 We all, it was unanimous, if I remember right, on that advisory committee, that the bridge made sense. It's a legacy issue as well. The project, therefore, will recover lost ecological functions by providing the greatest openness ratio and shortest underpassage for maximum riparian vegetation and better fish and wildlife passage. Continuous, unobstructed stream systems are critical to maintaining healthy, viable ecosystems.
 Stream continuity is also essential to the survival of individuals and subpopulations of wildlife species and use stream and riparian habitat. This is especially vital within linear, undeveloped greenways in an otherwise urban setting. One of the things, being the manager there, as I often get called by neighbors,
 So we've talked about fish, but we're often in the cleanup duty going up. It's a little nasty, but beavers don't cross roads very well. And there's quite a population in that Triant Creek these days. And so they don't go through that culvert. And you can imagine what happens when they try to get across Boone's Ferry.
 As shown here, state parks spearheading design permits, construction, capitalization, and new trail assets, including three-foot bridges and boardwalks within Triumph Creek.
 And the nice thing is we've had community support as well. I had a local homeowner in that community near Maple Crest come forward with a donation to purchase one of the bridges for about $5,000 or $6,000, which will actually go on the piece of property that's Portland Parks and Rec property.
 Additionally, the project builds on many other restoration efforts, both up and down the stream, completed by current partners and others, identified in Bureau of BES's 2005 Fanon-Tryon Watershed Management Plan. For example, downstream adjacent private and
 and public property owners have completed multi-stream, multi-years in stream restoration and invasive plant removal projects with support of National Marine Fisheries, West Moldova Soil and Water Conservation District, Triant Creek Watershed Council, private landowners, Solve, OPRD, the City of Portland. Currently partners are beginning revegetation work on private, metro-purchased, and OPRD lands upstream from the project.
 This passage partnership will include design and construction elements to protect the resources from adverse human use and impact. OPRD will protect the wetlands. We're actually realigning a current demand trail, what people have been using because there's no official trail there, that is in mapped wetlands. We're going to pull that away from the stream and put it upslope. Additionally, the project will include barriers and interpretation as appropriate to educate various groups and protect the resources.
 So finally, State Parks is an active, enthusiastic partner in this Boone's Ferry Fish, Wildlife, and Trail Passage Partnership proposal, and we are very excited to get this work started. Thank you.
 So in closing, Metro has awarded us a grant for the bridge option with the underpass to maximize fish and wildlife and pedestrian passage. So we're really thrilled about that. The total estimated project costs at this point are BES for $2.5 million. The community and Oregon Parks and Recreation Department are providing $30,000, and Metro is providing $650,000. Okay.
 We expect to do the design and resume the project this fall and hope to do construction in 2017. And so the final parting shot, which I realize is a little bit blurry, but this is a remote camera that caught these deer underneath a bridge overpass. So you can see how we will have increased connectivity with our new bridge eventually. And I'd like to thank all the project partners and thank Metro and happy to take questions.
 Very much. Questions for this great panel. Thank you all. Thank you all very much for being here. Is there anyone else that would like to speak on this item? We had Steve Entwistle would like to come and speak. Good morning, Council and Mayor. My name is Stephen Entwistle. I'm founder of the Healing Man Sanctuary, and I'm also a whistleblower for the less fortunate community.
 in this city. I was born and raised here. I've lived here in October. It'll be 56 years. That being said, Mr. Don Back, I'm really impressed with his dedication to trails, saving trails, saving old trails, trails that have been around since the millennium, I guess, since the land that we took from the natives. Um,
 There's also a good book that explains a lot of this history. It's called The Building of a Community, and it was written in 1976. That would be a good little read for those that want to know a little more about the history of this area.
 Yeah, Mr. Don Beck, he loaded up my emails quite a bit over the years. You and I spoke. Which is great. I loved it. I was always looking forward to maybe gathering up a bunch of people, volunteers, to go out and actually help do something. There's this project tomorrow at the Dickinson Road. I'm thinking about going out there and helping do a little bit.
 But any time that you save trails, you're saving habitat. And I think that's one thing that we really need to do here in this area because we're losing a lot of habitat. And we also have a lot of able-bodied folks that are not being utilized. And it would be nice to see some kind of organization, some outreach even for folks that would like to get involved –
 doing this and so they can have more of an appreciation of nature. And like I say, get off the streets, get on the dirt. It's a lot healthier. It's not good to be on concrete all day. Anyway, I just want to say that this is a good thing. I hope that he gets more volunteers out there.
 Let's save the environment. Let's save some more of our open, our area. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Any other questions before we take a vote on this? It's an emergency ordinance. We'll take a vote today. Novick. Ritz.
 So it's been 20 years since we founded the Triang Creek Watershed Council, and it's really splendid to see the results of that collaboration. Indeed, the entities who are represented today were a crucial part of that and have been for the last 20 years. The Bureau of Environmental Services, Portland Parks and Recreation, and the Bureau of Planning were also involved as co-founders with me and Sonia Kazin and Liz Callison.
 And I'll note for my council colleagues with the able assistance of Donna Silverberg doing some crucial mediation because it's not easy forming a watershed council where city and state agencies are full partners and full voting members. And it was pretty revolutionary at the time. And it's really great to see the results of this collaboration.
 So I want to also honor Amin Wahab, who was a longtime watershed manager, and also Terry Prigg-Rigsby, who took over for me as the chair of the Watershed Council. She's also the chair of the West Malt Nomosol and Water Conservation District.
 It's just so many partners. So, Commissioner Fish, thank you for putting together this great presentation illustrating a wonderful example of citizens and government agencies working together to get things done with the assistance of the 2006 bond measure. So, thanks to the taxpayers of the metro region for passing that as a follow-up from the 1995 bond measure. Thank you.
 So it's good to know that we've almost spent all the money, because it's good to get it out into the watersheds. And we'll have to start gearing up for the 2025 campaign to replace it.
 And, indeed, until then, we're going to need to continue to find innovative ways to do things and to do things better. And thanks also to Don Bach at the Southwest Trails Group and the Southwest Neighborhoods, Inc., who have been wonderful partners. It used to be that Deep Southwest Portland didn't get much attention in terms of either pedestrian connectivity or transportation.
 watershed management and preservation. So it's good to see this project coming forward thanks to all of the efforts that are being made. Thank you, Jane Bakari, for your leadership and also Jennifer, and I should just name everybody in the room because it seems like everybody's very supportive. Thank you very much. Bye.
 Well, as I indicated earlier, we frequently put these kinds of ordinances on the consent agenda. And what we lose is the chance to celebrate what we do best in our community as we come together across jurisdictional lines, work together. And I thought this was a conspicuous example of great partnerships. Let me start by thanking Jane and the Watershed Services Group.
 for their outstanding work. The mayor and I recently took a policymaker's ride, and when we stopped at Crystal Springs, a member of our team, Caitlin, gave a fantastic address.
 Mike Houck rather dramatically announced and almost got us to sort of repeat after him that the BES scope of the Bureau of Environmental Services mission includes sewer stormwater and watershed services and we're very proud of that and there are five watersheds which we have some a level of responsibility for and we're very proud to be making some progress in this watershed
 I want to thank all the partners who came here today. And I was a little nervous, colleagues, when all the praise started piling up with Don Bach. We're going to all catch hell for that. But Don doesn't rest on his laurels. He's already summoned me to a meeting, a hike this Friday, I think this Friday or next Friday, on the next project that's in his sights. And when Don has something in his sights –
 wild horses will not stop him from getting to the finish line. So I look forward to, uh, learning more about the next opportunity. And, um,
 You know, Commissioner Fritz said it so well. At a time of constrained resources, we can't do our work without strong partnerships. And, you know, people talk about and celebrate partnerships, and it has almost become a cliché, but the reality is we can't be successful without working, linking arms and working together. And I thought this was a conspicuous example of great partnerships. And, Carlotta, thank you for your leadership at Metro, and we're grateful for the grant.
 Thank you, John Mullen, for being here and for your kind offer. I suspect you'll get some people taking you up on it. Thanks to Don Bach. Thanks to Jeff Goodman, who is here to honor us with your presence. What's not to like? A watershed, a project which enhances fish and wildlife, a great set of partners, a cost-effective solution to a long-term problem, and a conspicuous public benefit.
 I think it's why we all are drawn to public service, because on days like today we get to celebrate when it all comes together and it works. So thank you all for your service, and today I am proud to cast my vote as aye. Yes. Well, this has been a great presentation and great comments from my colleagues here about the substance of this. Maybe I'll take just a moment and talk about the politics of it. Our citizens, I think, have an expectation that this is the kind of thing that should happen.
 But often when I'm giving presentations or speeches to citizen groups, or often particularly to people who are either new to politics or new to Portland, I have to remind them that there are nine local governments on the spot in which they're sitting or standing. And that shocks people, maybe appalls some, but it is what it is because that's how we're set up here. And both by public policy and public expectation –
 People expect us to work together. They don't really care that much about the fact that they're all those local governments. They expect us as public officials to work together. And this is a great example of that. And, in fact, the public policy side of that expects us to work together as well because we have a regional government. We have a regional land use plan and a regional transportation plan. And the public and policy expect that that extends not just to figuring out where the next road widening project is,
 hopefully not too many of those, but also how natural systems across boundaries should work and how the park and recreation and open space system in the region should work for public benefit and for the preservation of those natural systems.
 So this is what people hope to see, but frankly the partnership between Metro and the City of Portland and the City of Lake Oswego is one of the best. And the Triant Creek effort shows that over the years. And again, there are great benefits to our citizens from doing this the right way. And great benefit in seeing the improvement of these natural systems.
 that will come because of projects like this, as well as effective management of stormwater and a transportation system that includes our trails. So let me make this real from a recent example. Commissioner Fish mentioned Crystal Springs Creek,
 the restoration of that natural system has meant not just the return of salmon to that creek, but the fact that there are now beaver dams in the Reed College campus and that they recently spotted a river otter there. So, yeah, Commissioner Fritz should be appalled that, as a Ducks fan, that we're accommodating more and more beavers in the city of Portland. But they're here, and in fact, as somebody, as a parent who used to take my kids –
 when they were little to try and Creek Park to have them maybe have one of their first experiences of nature. The fact that nature is with good management and returning more and more to these places that were once abused, but are now being restored is a great benefit. And there'll be a lot of parents with kids out there saying, look at that.
 And that will be the great joy of this project for all of you who've worked so hard to make it happen. Well done. Aye. Thank you. Mayor Hales, I just want to acknowledge that we've asked parents to use caution in bringing children to Crystal Springs because the salmon are spawning. Oh, okay. It's a family event. Thank you very much. Okay. Come on, please, to item 909.
 909 appoint Osvaldo Gonzalez and Brenda L melt a Becky and We appoint Philip T Hilaire and Verley a G Briggs to the Board of Directors of the Regional Arts and Culture Council for terms to expire June 30 2017 excellent mr. Fish Thank You mayor. I'm gonna invite Eloise damn rush to come forward with our our two nominees
 And I have some brief remarks, and Eloise, when I kick it to you, would you remind us of all the milestones that we're celebrating this year? I sometimes get the numbers confused, but if you'll just give us a quick primer. I'd like to welcome our honored guests, Eloise Damrosch, Regional Arts and Culture Council Executive Director, and two candidates for RAC board membership, Oswaldo Gonzalez and Brenda Meltebeck.
 Oswaldo and Brenda would be joining a very strong and diverse board, and I know their leadership and passion for the arts will serve us well. And Mayor and colleagues, we're also pleased that Philip Hilaire and Verlia Briggs are continuing their service through 2017. Thank you.
 Eloise, welcome, and if you could introduce our nominees. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Mayor, commissioners, I'm thrilled to be here today and introduce these two wonderful individuals who are joining our board with your blessing.
 This has been an interesting year because we had six board members who have been incredibly engaged, reached the end of their six-term service. And so we went to work with our leadership development committee to find some truly exceptional people to replace these six. So we're eager to get started with our new team. And I know I can speak for the board and staff in welcoming Brenda and Ozzy or Osvaldo.
 It goes by both. I'll start. I'll go alphabetically. So I'll start with Ozzy. Ozzy is trained in architecture and environmental science. He's a star at CH2M Hill. And he's a professor at the University of Michigan.
 and works across the whole construction and design field, putting his environmental expertise to work. I kind of think of him as the environmental conscience of the design teams that he works with. So he has a particular niche and passion for those elements of his work.
 What his resume, professional resume might not say, but we will absolutely praise him to the skies for this. He's a wonderful actor and he starred in the last Milagro Theatre production this past spring. And we actually had Ozzie Night at RAC and a whole bunch of us went to cheer him on. And he was fabulous. The play got fabulous reviews.
 So we're very happy to have Ozzy join us. And Brenda is a partner and chair of the firm of Aderwin, which is not only one of Portland's leading law firms, but also very important to us, is that they have a...
 fabulous art collection that they've amassed over 30 years. It has over 125 pieces of artwork in it, so when you go talk to your lawyer, you get to have an arts experience as well. Brenda won one of the 25 Orchid Awards that are given by the Portland Business Journal last year for her civic and...
 business volunteerism and leadership. And she also won the Entrepreneur of the Year Award last year in 2014 by the Entrepreneurial Council. So, and I'll let her talk about her active arts experiences as well, which are terrific. We love getting a blend of the business and professional side of our board members, as well as, of course, the business
 the thread of passion for the arts that runs through the entire board. So with that, I will let each one of them say a few words about themselves and their hopefully future service with RAC. Thank you very much. Who would like to go first? Brenda? Good morning. Good morning. I'm Brenda Meldebeck, and I, Commissioner Fish and Mr. Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Novick, I appreciate the –
 the opportunity to serve the city of Portland in this way, and I'm really looking forward to joining the RAC board officially. As Eloise said, I have a long history, and my firm has a long history of supporting the arts. I've been on several other arts boards in the city. Most recently I was on the Board of Literary Arts for, I think,
 seven years the last couple of years as board chair and I really I just very strongly believe that a vibrant arts community and ecosystem is really important to make a city grow and make a city blossom it contributes economically in so many ways not the least of which is tourism but I just think it's important for people to have the exposure to that and what I'm really excited about with the RAC board is
 the fact that its mission, one of many things that it stands for and does, is to celebrate and support and benefit arts organizations, individual artists, and arts education. So you kind of get such a nice blend instead of being on the board of a particular organization that is focused on
 on just a dance program or some sort of musical program, you get to, being on the Board of RAC, you get to serve the entire arts community of the metro area. So I really appreciate that. Thank you so much. Good morning, Commissioner Novick, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Fish, and good morning, Mayor Hales. With a
 With interests across environmental science, architecture, and the arts, it's not uncommon for me to get asked, you know, what is the connecting thread across all of that for me? And to me, it came down to the same rationale why Portland is such a great place to be in practicing any one of those things. And it's really a perspective that looks at our urban environment as a habitat, as you were just discussing with Tryon Creek, and having a place where a species can thrive,
 helps to bring life back to that place. I've approached cities in that way, and to me the city of Portland is a great opportunity to take the creative energy that's in this city, the wonderful things that the city has done in its planning and infrastructure in the architecture of this city, and put it together to create a meaningful habitat for humans to coexist, to thrive, and to create
 global citizens that can help export the wonderful value of Portland around the world. And to me, the opportunity to join RAC as a board member and to be at that interface where arts and community meet became a tremendous opportunity to really take the next step in my professional career to tie all of my interests together into one effort. It's with great honor that I was willing to experience
 accept the invitation to be a candidate. And it's with great humility that I engage in this opportunity to really bring the diversity of our arts community to the foray in Portland and create an environment that's welcoming for the artists and for art lovers all around.
 You both honor us in your willingness to step up and serve on RAC. And this is a special year for RAC. Eloise, before we go further, could you just remind us of the key milestones that we're celebrating? Oh, happily. This is a big anniversary year for public art in Portland. The Percent for Art program that the City of Portland and Multnomah County passed last
 35 years ago is alive and well and bringing new art all around I hope you'll get out and see some of the new murals that have been painted in the last week by artists from all over the world who are not even getting paid to do this this is something they commit to the Visual Chronicle, our collection about Portland is 30 years old today, or this year and we
 And Portlandia turns 30 in October. And you'll be invited to her birthday party on the 8th, which will be celebrated across the street in the Standard Plaza. Everything else is embargoed about that event. Yes. Yes. A few surprises. Yeah. And then we'll be having an exhibition here in City Hall in November. So you'll be surrounded by all of our public artwork then. Questions?
 Well, thank you both. I don't know if there's anyone else wants to speak on this item I suspect not anyone else want to speak on this item Then I think it's time for the council to take action on these nominations Novick well enough to remember the slogan don't trust anybody over 30, but I hope in Portlandia's case people will make an exception. I Ritz, thank you very much for your service. Really appreciate it. I
 As I was reading your backgrounds and contemplating how far we've come, I think you are both examples of both what's happened with the rise in profile in arts and culture and also the success that RAC has had. It's a great honor for us to welcome two people who are so accomplished today.
 and who obviously live very busy lives, willing to serve the city in an important area. So thank you for that. And I have the honor of serving currently as the council liaison to the arts. And I operate generally on a basic philosophy as follows. There are a number of things that make Portland distinctive.
 and special. And I think that as leaders, what we ought to be doing is investing in those things that are distinctive about Portland and resisting the temptation to have Portland become like every other city our size. So what are some of those things that are distinctive? Well, we have an economy built around small businesses. That's distinctive. That clearly distinguishes us from our sister city to the north.
 We're a city that has put sustainability both into practice and has built an economy around sustainable industries. That's a cornerstone. We're a city that's brought nature into the city and operates on the assumption that what's good for the osprey is good for us and that when fish and wildlife are healthy, then we're healthier. And finally, we're a city that has increasingly developed a reputation as being a center for excellence in art and culture.
 And in my own view as a city leader, we ought to take those areas where we're distinctive and we ought to double down with our investments. Take the areas we can become best in class and make them ours. You are coming at a time when we are celebrating important milestones, but we also face continuing challenges about access to the arts, about convincing our regional partners to invest as robustly as Portland does in the Regional Arts and Culture Council.
 in continuing to help mission-driven nonprofit organizations survive the economic storm and become, for long term, become stable and prosperous, and on and on, to build equity into all that we do. The list is long, and we rely on accomplished people and dedicated people to help us do this work. We're thrilled to welcome both of you.
 So thank you for your willingness to serve. Today it's our great honor to approve your appointments. Hi. Who else? Well, I'm really glad you're both willing to do this important piece of citizen volunteerism. The challenge is pretty significant, I think, in terms of all the changes afoot in Portland. We're becoming a bigger, more diverse city. And I think the questions of connecting people to the arts and popularizing,
 arts with lots of new audiences really important there are big community events and they're wonderful like art in the Pearl this weekend and tomorrow night of course for this wonderful partnership between parks and recreation and our local music scene because we have the concert in the park out waterfront park those kinds of big events are one way but there are also lots of ways to connect to schools and kids and and again all the different communities of Portland so I think that's both
 both a challenge and a problem and an opportunity all wrapped up together there are there are lots of folks that we have the chance to connect to the arts with your work and your creativity and both public and private support so your ability to help on all those fronts is really important we have
 great leadership and staff at RAC. We have a council that supports this agenda. We have a business community, I think, that's ready to do more if they're asked in the right way, so we can all do that as well. So we all look forward to doing that work with you. Thank you for serving. Aye. Thank you. Okay. You're official. Let's move on, please, to the regular agenda.
 Item 913, authorize the city attorney to intervene on behalf of the city of Portland in Oregon Public Utility Commission docket UM 1734. Okay, we have an amended version of this resolution, so I'll get Ben to describe that in a moment.
 This is a resolution that allows us to participate in a public utility commission proceeding that addresses how much utilities pay for electricity from midsize solar and wind projects. So that's the purpose of the resolution, is to allow us to weigh in on those issues at the PUC. Mr. Walters. Thank you.
 morning counsel ben walters with the portland city attorney's office this item was on last week's consent agenda it was pulled off and held over for a week for an opportunity to meet with representatives of pacific corps and discuss with them the resolution and the impact statement
 following that meeting city staff developed some amendments which are before you I believe they've been distributed to your offices and I think they may have been handed out to you as well and if you have any questions regarding the amendments I'm available to answer any questions okay questions before we take a motion to accept the amendments and then we'll take testimony
 The question is, it seems like the amendments weaken the language in the resolution. I don't know that they affect the position that we're going to be taking in the proceeding itself, and they address some concerns the Pacific Corps had raised. So staff was willing to...
 recognize Pacific Corps' concerns. So you can return to previous or other language in the proceeding? It will not affect the positions that the city will be taking in the intervention. And isn't it somewhat unusual when you're intervening in opposition to something to then listen to the opposition and amend the position ahead of time? It's unusual, but this is a political process. Right.
 Thank you. And the resolution that we're going to be approving, if the council votes to, is simply to allow you to participate and protect the citizens' interests? Yes. By city code, the city attorney's office requires authorization from the council before initiating any participation in a legal proceeding, and this is to get the council's approval as the client. Okay.
 to allow the city attorney's office to go forward. Thank you. Would you like to hear from the – I know there's representatives of Pacific Corps here. Would you like to hear from them before we take action on the amendments? I'm prepared to adopt amendments. Can I just comment on something in the previous colloquy? I actually appreciate that staff had the discussion with Pacific Corps, and I'm reminded, Mayor, that not too long ago there was an issue we were involved with where the city chose to take a position –
 at the FCC and
 and it turned out we did not, in my view, adequately confer with a local company that we were going to be adverse to in that proceeding. It's one thing for us to assert the prerogative to take a position before an administrative body and take a position that we think is well-founded. I think it's also good practice to confer with local businesses where we might be adverse. I think it's just…
 common courtesy, and if through that exchange there are some modifications like the ones we have before us, I think we should always be receptive to that. It does not, as counsel has noted, change in any way the position we'll be taking before the administrative body. So for that reason, I move the amendments. Okay, is there a second? Second. Further discussion on accepting the amendments? Roll call, please. Novez?
 Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, thank you, Ben. See if anyone wants to testify on this item. I know Pacific Corps is here, but they may simply want to watch rather than speak. So, okay. All right. Come on up, please. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. I'm the one that pulled this item last week. One of the concerns I have is that I want to make sure that when we're talking the solar industry, I don't want to have...
 Too many restraints put on them. And I want to watch this very close on the process and, again, making sure the city attorneys are involved. As you know, we have the climate change plan that has been developed, and I want to make sure that we can meet some of those numbers. And that's one of the reasons why I pulled this, is I want to make sure that in the solar industry, they have the ability to expand at the rate that they want to
 The city has the ability to have them participate in projects within the city to meet our goals on the climate change plan. So, again, that is why I pulled this item, and I will look forward to the outcome of this. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Then let's take a roll call, please, on the resolution as amended. No, thank you. Well, thank you, Commissioner Fish, for that helpful reframing and further explaining. Thanks to Council Ben Walters and also to...
 Pacific Corps and your willingness to talk with us on this. We all are seeing the impacts of climate disruption as each season goes by, and we need to figure out how we're going to reach the goals in the climate action plan sooner rather than later. So I am very glad that the city attorney is going to be participating before the Utility Commission. I. Fish. I. Thank you.
 I want to reiterate and support the statement Commissioner Fish made. You know, there are lots of situations in which we're going to take a position in either a legislative effort at Congress or the state legislature or in some regulatory proceeding where we have a formal relationship with somebody, whether it's one of our regulated departments.
 cable providers that we regulate, whether it's a regulated public utility like PGE or the gas company or Pacific Corps, or even our labor unions where we have, again, a long-term contractual relationship and we might take a different position from them. It's important that we confer but maintain our prerogatives to take the policy of the City of Portland forward and the policy of the City of Portland is that we have a climate action plan and we're serious about it and we expect all our partners to be going in the same direction.
 That's where I hope and believe that we'll end up after this or that regulatory proceeding.
 But it's very important that we do confer and then, again, maintain our independent authority to do what we should do, and I think that's where we are here. The Climate Action Plan isn't just a piece of paper or a long series of pieces of paper, recycled paper, of course, but it's a serious effort by this city that's been going on now more than 20 years and that internationally is now joined by more people.
 And I think that's a very positive sign. And the more we have...
 utilities working with us, the faster we can get to our goals. We're just celebrating today the success of one of our local innovators, Lucid Energy, that has now generated, I believe, 1.1 megawatts of power by installing equipment in our city's water lines to generate electricity. So we have to have the private sector with us as we make this progress, and I expect that that's exactly where we'll end up here. Thank you. Hi.
 okay let's move on please to nine oh sorry nine fourteen nine fourteen accept a bid of emory and suns construction group for the hollywood grant park sewer rehabilitation project for ten million nine hundred ninety five thousand six hundred fifty three dollars ms moody
 Morning. Morning, Mayor, Commissioners, Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to Emory & Sons Construction. The engineers' estimate on this project was $9.5 million. On July 7, 2015, six bids were received, and Emory & Sons is the low bidder at $10,995,653. Thank you.
 The Bureau of Environmental Services has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing at 15% over the engineer's estimate. In their bid analysis, BES identified mobilization, erosion control, video inspection services, cured-in-place pipeliner, 6-inch PVC pipe, and 48-inch manholes as contributing factors to the increased costs.
 The city identified seven divisions of work for potential minority women and emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. The MWESB participation on this project is 31.43%, with work being performed in concrete cutting, hauling, and traffic control. I will turn this back over to Council if you have any questions. And there's a representative from BES here as well. I just want to make a comment, Christine. In the impact statement that you gave us, there's a full two pages saying,
 documenting the reasons why the bids came in above the original estimates. That's correct. And some of the examples given have to do with market conditions, and some have to do with soil conditions and other things. And I'm pleased that you include this, because one of the questions we often ask is why are the bids either above or below? And when we have this kind of explanation in detail, I think it's –
 It's very reassuring. And it also, in this case, gives us confidence that even though BES initially had a high confidence in their estimate, there are some things beyond their control. Some of them have to do with market costs for various components of this project. So I appreciate the transparency on that piece of your presentation. Thank you, Commissioner. Yeah, I echo that. And I just have some questions on the sub-card, the Good Faith Effort Report, which I appreciate.
 In number 7 in the good page, under the good faith effort analysis, it talks about the bids received from certified firms that were not used, and it gives the bid amounts. Would I be correct in assuming that the reason they were not used is because there were other bids that were lower? That's generally the case, Commissioner. And is...
 This is a low bid situation, so generally the contractors, because they're competing, are taking the lowest sub-bids. So even though we require them to do their good faith efforts, if a bid comes in lower and is not a certified firm, most oftentimes they're taking that.
 That's probably something that our commission might want to take a look at. Because although the total number of subcontracted dollars is 31%, which is great, it
 It's mostly for women-owned businesses rather than minority-owned businesses, and it would be interesting to look at or have the commission look at how might there be a situation where the city would want to support the minority businesses by encouraging the prime contractors to take those bids even if it results in the cost being a little higher.
 I have no suggestions for how to do that, but I think it's an important issue that if we're going to, ongoing, encourage these small businesses to grow and to take more work for us, that we may need to find some way of stimulating it to start off with. Thank you for your work on that. Other questions for Christine? Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on this? Come on up. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X.
 A couple of concerns I had on this overall bid is that you stated that you had problems on the video inspections and you had lack of market capacity for this service. I'm really concerned about that. Obviously, my understanding, you would be talking having videos going inside some of the pipelines and possibly on the outside also, and I'm really surprised you'd have any concerns
 market capacity problems on the new technology we have out there and the people that I think would be able to do this. So to have a higher bid for that reason, I question that. Another issue I had on here is that let's get to the 48-inch manholes where you originally came in, BES came in around $4,000 each. Now, if you're coming in with a price at $4,000 and then someone else comes in and they bid at
 $5,800 each. Now, if you're able to establish that price at $4,000, say, with a supplier, my question to you is that, as the city of Portland, when you're talking to that supplier, are they giving you a lower price? Because obviously, you're the city of Portland. You have a tremendous amount of projects out there that you can
 uh put together and maybe recommend them or make sure that the supplies are bought through them so then when a contractor comes in they go well you're just a smaller contractor we think your price is going to be about 5 800. so i have concerns with this and then it says we did not anticipate that to happen and then you have prices on certain pipes and various things that from when you went in there the city of portland talked to the suppliers
 The prices were quite a bit lower. And then when the contractor comes in with a bid, it's quite a bit higher. We just didn't anticipate that. So I'm seeing something wrong here because I would like to make sure that when the city of Portland talks to a supplier and says, well, we're going to have some bids possibly coming in and we would probably like to use you because you quoted us a price of $4,000.
 that maybe these suppliers understand up front that when you quote a price of $4,000 to the city and it comes back with a price quite a bit higher, that might affect you getting any more business in the future because they are throwing out prices to try to come in at a certain range on a bid, and you, the suppliers, need to come in within a reasonable range on that also, probably to continue to do business with the city of Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Good point. Okay.
 Is there someone ready to make a motion to accept the report? Some vote. Further discussion? Roll call on accepting the procurement report. Jovick. Aye. Ritz. Aye. Fish. I appreciate, as always, Lightning's thoughtful comments, and we'll certainly consider them as we move forward. Mayor, when we were last before the council on this item,
 We mentioned that thanks to our good friends at Venture Portland, we had had an open house at a coffee bar in the Grand Park, Hollywood neighborhood to go over the last minute details. I have received my first newsletter alerting me and everyone else in the area to the project schedule and giving me the contact information of the person that on a daily basis that I can reach out to if there are any problems.
 And so this is about to become live, but I just want to particularly acknowledge the work that the Bureau has done to do community outreach. This will be disruptive, both to residents and businesses, but with extensive outreach, we've come up with a plan, the Bureau's come up with a plan that attempts to mitigate that and do it in a thoughtful way.
 As luck would have it, I live in the middle of this project, so I'll be watching closely and I'll have some interest. Thank you, Christine, for your excellent work, as always, through procurement. Aye. Mills. I know city bureaus hate it when one of us lives in the middle of the project, but we look forward to your sidewalk supervision, Commissioner Fish. Aye. Actually, a note, Mayor. First, my family abandons me, and then one of my bureaus decides to dig up my neighborhood. This has not been a great summer for me.
 Okay. Item 915. 915, amend contract with Moria Covano Goldsman, Inc. to increase contract amount by $29,215 to provide additional consultant services to include Portland's Centers for the Arts facilities in the city's ADA Title II transition plan. Roll call, please. Novick Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye.
 ailes aye 916. 916 authorized the bureau of transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for the construction of the burgard lombard at north
 oil road intersection project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority I good morning mayor commissioners my name is Marty Maloney with people right away this agenda item is to authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary necessary to construct the North Burgard at North time oil road intersection project
 through the exercise of the city's under domain authority the intersection project will improve sight distance streamline I'm sorry mainline system performance reduce travel delays and
 and improve ingress and egress to the northwest container service property i'd also like to add that we have spoken to the effective property owner and they understand the need for the improvement due to the heavy freight use on burgard at this time i'd be happy to answer any questions council might have questions sounds good thank you very much anyone want to speak on this item if not this passes the second reading this week and item 917.
 917 they cate a portion of North Terminal Road east of North Lombard Street subject to certain conditions and reservations no I could believe there's an amendment here is that right there is indeed okay
 Due to oversight in preparing Exhibits 1 and 2, we're asking to amend those exhibits to comply with current development standards and condition B2 of the proposed ordinance to revise the exhibits to reduce the street vacation area on the west side by about four feet to ensure there's enough space to build a 12-foot public sidewalk. Okay, so Commissioner Minovic moves those amendments. And now we'll vote to accept the amendments and conduct the hearing. Mr. Noonan? Mr. Noonan?
 Let's take a roll call first, though, on accepting the amendments. Steve moves. Yeah, we're just accepting the amendments. I did. Aye. Aye.
 Hi. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. I'm Carl Aruta with PBOT right-of-way also. So this ordinance is to vacate a portion of North Terminal Road east of North Lombard Street. This was initiated in 2014 by Mark's Investment Properties. Okay.
 And Marks Investments owns the property just to the south of this part of North Terminal. It's a mostly gravel right-of-way in an industrial-zoned area. And currently, it's mainly used just to access Marks Investments property. Vacating it would provide them better options for redevelopment.
 The usual comments were solicited from city bureaus, other agencies including the port, utilities, and neighborhood associations, and there were no substantive objections that we received. BES did ask for a sewer easement over a stormwater pipe that goes through North Terminal.
 And PBOT Street Signals asked for an easement for some traffic signal loop detectors that are in the ground in North Terminal. And so we'll be reserving an easement for those also. And that's mainly because...
 After the vacation, if it goes forward, it's expected the north terminal would be reconfigured probably into a driveway most likely, and street signals wanted to preserve the loop detectors for exiting and entering the driveway. And if there are any other questions, I'd be happy to take them. Thanks for that explanation. Questions? Okay. Thank you very much. And thanks for doing the amendment so efficiently. Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 If not, it will be calendared for second reading next week. And we're adjourned. All right.