Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the September 9th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Selbstman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz?
 Prince. Here. Fish. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome everyone. We have some time certain items on our calendar as well as citizens who've signed up to speak and then we have our regular council agenda after that. If you're here to speak on a calendar item, please make sure you let our clerk know and she'll call you up. We typically allow three minutes for testimony individually and obviously there's not such a huge crowd this morning that that will be a problem.
 You need not give your address, only your name if you're here to speak. And, of course, we observe the rules of decorum in this room, and that is if you agree with someone, feel free to give them a thumbs up. And if you disagree, give them a thumbs down. But we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' opinions so everybody can be heard.
 And with that, we're going to move first to communications items. But first, I have to issue an apology to Commissioner Saltzman and the Fire Bureau. I sent out an erroneous email that claimed that the Police Bureau won last year's soccer match
 between the Police Bureau and the Fire Bureau. I was simply getting ahead of myself because clearly the Police Bureau is going to win this year. So I stand corrected and let the trash talk begin between the commissioners and their soccer players. Thank you, Dan. Okay, let's please move to item 918. 918, request of Crystal Elinsky to address council regarding government contracts, living wage and rent control.
 Slensky, are you here? Okay, and then let's move on, please. 919, request of Catherine Smith to address council regarding Portland and Tigard Police. Ms. Smith, come on up. Can you hear me okay? Yes. Okay, this is going to take three minutes, so if you have any questions, please wait until the end so I can read it all. Thank you. Dear Mayor Hales and Portland City Commissioners,
 Some Tigard cops are still shooting me with those microwave, ultrasound weapons, voice-to-skull weapons, lead machine sleep deprivation, etc., 20 to 24 hours a day for more than three years remotely. They say they're still shooting my son, too. Because of the number of hours a day and this length of time they shoot us, anyone would perceive that their intent is to murder us.
 The suggestions you and your employees gave me about stopping these assaults, as I've said, are not the people who can do it. Independent Police Review, Project Respond, Portland Women's Crisis Line, City of Tigard, City of Tigard Camp because the crooked Tigard cops, not all of them are crooked, the crooked ones dominate City of Tigard employees. Tigard Police Department, the crooked ones won't let the other Tigard cops investigate them.
 Most of these groups have no authority to investigate and charge those Tigard cops and my ex-Tigard neighbor lady who participates. Because most of the assaults happen in Portland, I can legally report it here. Many Portland cops, including Sergeant McCormick, Commander Sarah Westbrook, are covering up for them and blocking my reports of evidence, facilitating these attempted murders with no legal reason or justification.
 You are the police commissioner, a higher level than the police chief Larry O'Day, and you can make them, require them to do their job. But unfortunately, one or more of your city attorneys and or employees has given you the very bad and negligent advice to not make those Portland police do their legal duty to protect us from this harassment, torture, incrimination, mutilation, and attempted murder.
 A few months ago when I testified about this, I gave the recorder copies of some websites of these weapons so you and the commissioners could know what they are. Two or so testimonies ago, a few months ago, I gave a copy of some websites to the recorder about a meeting in 1994 at Johns Hopkins University with Janet Reno, Bill Clinton, Department of Justice, the Pentagon...
 describing that these kinds of weapons were being given from our military, as Department of Defense, to local police to use on the people. So with this information and my testimonies here, you should have reason to know my claims of these assaults are true. I have many burned scars and deteriorated skin as evidence of these assaults also. Perhaps we will have to discuss this in another venue, since your employees have refused me several times of even having...
 a 20 to 30 minute private meeting with you to give you more information. So you'll use your authority to stop some of those Portland police from hindering prosecution, doing false arrests, obstruction of justice, suppression of evidence, and facilitation of attempted murder. There are hundreds of other targets of theirs in Portland, including kids. When done remotely, these weapons go through the cell phone towers, they say, so you can't move away from it.
 My last sentence, it is outrageous and it shocks the conscience that there are Portland police and other city employees who participate in these crimes. Sincerely, Catherine Smith, katsmithatyahoo.com. You take care. Thank you. And I'll leave a copy of what I just said for each of you for the report. Thank you. Thank you. Go ahead. 920, request of Hiram Asmuth to address council regarding revoking a 60-day ban at City Hall. Mr. Asmuth? Yes.
 okay let's move on then please 921 request of Jim Wittenberg to address council regarding affordable housing and over building in Portland morning Jim welcome so I started out with with some
 Some things I found when I was going through the papers I had in the boxes of stuff I collected over 50 years, and I found this campaign thing of this guy named Charlie Hales. I think he was successful. And he won the election. And I sometimes wonder if...
 You guys love the city as much as you love the people that are in the city. So just a thought I had when I saw this. It's been sitting on my table for three or four weeks. The second page is some testimony that we helped give at the MACG people at the hearings on the Portland PFAC. It's there. I can't say the title right now. Portland Housing Authority.
 we've been working on this as you'll see in the next page sticks two pages for since 2003 to try and get some of these things put into effect we need to we need housing
 It's pretty bad in this city. We need it much more than buildings or streets. People live on the street because they can't find affordable housing. I went through this myself a few years ago. I talked to Dan Salston's office about it. It was hard to find an apartment that's affordable for a 75-year-old man in the city. It's very, very difficult still. The Northwest Pilot Project helped me out with it.
 if you'll see the the mayor and the Commissioner Stan at that time he resigned shortly after that promises the Blue Ribbon Committee of community leaders to find new revenues for affordable housing at 50% or below the medium income guess who promised this you know besides the mayor and the commissioner skin a guy named private developer Homer Williams heard of him
 He's still promising, and I saw the leader of MACG at that time, the minister from New York. He said he's still telling us stories. He's still telling us, and we're buying them all the time, what he's going to do for affordable housing. He builds market-rate apartments. He does a good job doing that, but he doesn't help any of us that are looking for $300 and $400 and $500 and $600 apartments. They just put up a new project in Lloyd Center. The rent for a single person over there is $1,100. Wow.
 that's a hassle project over there which distance is it's nice for you guys you could afford that all of you could afford it an apartment like that but lots of schedule mr. Kimbrough and mr. Williams didn't tell us the truth back then and the Commission wrote me a letter Stan wrote me letter saying that eventually we'll get affordable housing in the city eventually the whatever the hell does that mean two more pages will be done here it's that I don't I don't three minutes is not very long
 there's some priorities in this city that you should look at. I don't think that fixing the Coliseum and buying the post office are big priorities. When this building next to us over here is probably going to come down an earthquake and kill most of the employees that are residing there. I think you ought to move them out, put them in –
 for housing around this and for offices around the city and when you get the money and these other things taken care of then build a building or a modest building not a hundred and ninety two million that's just crazy there's just one more thing here I think about is it the last page here there's an article about
 next to last pages that this I've got a one here on the housing it's it's better in San Francisco it's worse in San Francisco and Seattle the last two pages are about I was getting very very beaten down and giving up about the people and about the new generations coming in till I read about Darby Darcy Hansen
 who was picked as the number one baseball project pick in the nation. See, I like baseball better than soccer by a long shot.
 And this guy has got words in here that I looked at and I said, my God, I'm not worried anymore with guys like this coming up in our society. Darby Swanson will take care of a lot of these problems we have. And he will love you. He will love you every day of his life. And I'm confident in that. So please read that article. If you don't read anything else, read this about Darby. Authority doesn't give you the power to look down your noses.
 Thank you very much. I will read it and appreciate you. Thank you very much. Appreciate your activism. Okay, let's move on to 922 request of Evelyn Bross to address council regarding dangerous traffic conditions at the post office at Airport Way Come on up, please Okay, good morning. Good morning. Morning mayor morning City Council members and good morning to the
 Crew back there. My name is Evelyn Bross, and I'm here to talk to you about the United States Post Office at the airport. I don't know if you knew they're open seven days a week. They're open until 9 o'clock at night on the weekends. They're open until 10 o'clock at night during the week. The problem is, if you look in the back of this paper here, right where the picture is,
 How you get to the post office is you have to go enter into the airport where you drop off people to go to the airport, and you have to go through the airport and come back out, leaving the airport and stay to your right where you see that road. You stay to your right, and you follow that road, and then there's a little, like it used to be like a farm road, a house road, and there's like a train track there.
 And it's just enough for one car, and it's not much, and it goes over that track. And then you go into the post office. But you can't leave that way. You have to leave a different way. You end up on 82nd Avenue. Post office people told me that people are parking on the freeway, crossing over the freeway to get to the post office because they can't find the place or kick it and don't know how to get there.
 Then they have people at the airport calling saying, you're at the airport, we can't find you, where are you? The post office says the airport won't allow them to have a new address. They say the airport owns the property, so your address has to be on the airport way. But there is no way you can enter on the airport way without endangering people's lives going to the airport.
 So, it's out of the post office hands of changing the address because the airport owns the property and they're demanding that they stay at that address. And the holidays, it is really busy there. It is really busy because they're open until really late at night. You stand in line for two, three hours, in line, waiting to get to the counter.
 So, I mean, that is busy traffic and it's a dangerous situation. And it's sad that you have to enter to the airport, to exit the airport, then take a small right and cross over the railroad tracks with no railroad tracks lines and no signals. And how can you, that's another danger right there.
 So you're endangering people's lives at the airport. You're endangering that track might be coming. There's no signals, no nothing. And it's only for one way, and that's if you're leaving the airport to enter. I did not know if you knew this. Appreciate you bringing this to our attention. That's great. But this is pretty sad because holidays are coming up, and this is going to be really bad.
 Thanks very much for letting us know about it. I didn't know about this problem. Have you talked to the port about this?
 I don't know how to get a hold of who or what, so I thought I'd come to you guys. I think we can help there. I think you've raised a very interesting issue, and it is difficult to make that loop. It also adds to congestion. Until you testified, I was unaware that people had to go through the airport to get to the post office. And the only way you leave the post office, you end up on 82nd Avenue. You can't exit that way.
 So I was wondering if you could have traffic signals, make them take that delider out and get traffic signals there and have those train signals, red lights, if there's a train coming, so they can't take a left to go to the post office. But they're owns the property. Why aren't they...
 care about the citizens. We appreciate you letting us know about it. We work with the port all the time, obviously, and Commissioner Novick in particular, because it's a transportation issue. We have transportation planners who work with the airport. So thank you for raising the issue, and we can certainly look into it. So thank you. Thank you so much. Actually, if you could drop by my office and talk to my staff and leave them your contact information, and we can talk to the port and get back to you. Sure. Because when the...
 post office people told me they're crossing the freeway because they have no idea how to get to the post office that's not good thank you maybe we can convince them to move to the ikea spot too so that you have light rail and an easier access so thank you ma'am yeah thank you very much
 yeah I see Miss Alinsky has arrived so could you read 918 again and we'll bring her up 918 request of crystal Alinsky to address counsel regarding government contracts living wage and rent control morning morning is uh is this the city attorney on duty today yes Judy where do I find you the city attorney's office is on the top floor I had a problem on Friday reaching you was
 Well, let's go ahead and hear from you, and then maybe you can spend a couple of minutes.
 what was what I came to contribute I thought was my very valuable experience concerning the sorry state of social welfare community cohesion and falling living standards a situation that we all agree has deteriorated since although after multiple attempts I saw no tangible results or sincere interest I decided that the best way I should mark that with the exception of commissioner fritz
 I decided that the best way to understand City Hall wasn't a venue for public input and concerns, but I decided to continue to attend on Wednesdays. I had cleared up my time, and I was curious about a few things. I wanted to understand how things operated here and why –
 In the state of Oregon, the mayor and the governor were so involved in commerce with China. Things that I thought were not the most prescient issues when we couldn't sign agreements to stop the South Korean Jeju Island destruction and Chinese organ destruction.
 Uh, transplants, uh, it seemed like I didn't understand what was going on at City Hall. I also was curious about the people that attended during communications. I had seen some disparaging remarks in the media about...
 The few that took up the time and I see one of them outside today who changed my life drastically I I found after time that I thought some of these people should be the ones running city government and I continue to attend I figured I would understand the ins and outs but in 2015 I can now say it's not yielded the expected results of
 I do know that our city council remains a forum for public accolades and agenda-bound uniform, but for votes on vaguely worded authorizations and ordinances that the public is unaware of, the staff seem to concentrate on pet projects and PowerPoints, and decisions are made behind closed doors outside of the public eye.
 with backdoor glad-handing and the Portland Business Alliance committees. When our mayor goes to the Vatican and the media are viewing it as something to be proud of,
 I take that as a wake-up call that we are getting the attention because we are supposed to be an example on the front lines of climate change and child sex trafficking, as the Pope was concentrating on. And instead of talking about what a great job we're doing, we need to maybe look at this as like, oh, we are continuing –
 To push the greenwashing of Portland, destroying our historic buildings. I want you to wrap up. And giving contracts for shoddy construction that continues to destroy our environment. Crystal, thank you. Thank you. Just want to let you know we don't think we're done with climate or with human suffering in our city. So we appreciate you being here. Thanks for coming. Okay. Let's move on, please, to time certain 923. I'm sorry. I did it again.
 Now that we're putting time certain on the regular calendar, it's giving me a whole new way to be confused. Okay, we have a consent calendar, and we've had a request to pull one item, I believe, and that is 930. Are there any other requests, either from council or community, to pull items off the consent calendar? Seeing none, then let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the calendar minus item 930. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay.
 Okay. Now, time certain, 9 23. Proclaim September 2015 to be Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month. Let me
 Let me call up Diane O'Connor and her colleagues, and I'll read this proclamation and give them a chance to talk about the progress of the fight that you lead, Diane, and that this community supports your work in. Whereas ovarian cancer is the fifth leading cause of cancer deaths among women in the
 When detected early, over 90% of women survive ovarian cancer, but many women will be diagnosed in the late stages of the disease due to lack of awareness of the symptoms and the lack of a screening test.
 And whereas ovarian cancer has symptoms, even in its early stages, and women should contact their health care professional if their symptoms develop and persist for more than a few weeks, like pelvic and abdominal pain or bloating or loss of appetite or feeling full quickly. There's symptoms that people can recognize.
 And whereas Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month helps increase awareness about the signs and symptoms of ovarian cancer and spotlights the need for continued research to improve prevention, early detection, treatment, and possible cure, now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim September 2014 to be Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month in Portland and encourage all our residents to observe this month.
 Thank you for your leadership and welcome. Very well. I'm impressed. Could you just mention about Nancy's mom? Yeah, my wife's mother passed away from ovarian cancer, and so this one's personal for me, and so many families have been touched by cancer one way or another, and so...
 that has made this cause real for us and for Nancy all of her life. Thank you. So you'll notice there are about seven of us that are dressed in teal today. That's our official color for ovarian cancer. And we're either ovarian cancer survivors like myself or we're friends and family.
 So as Mayor Hales mentioned, September has traditionally been Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month. As you probably know, President Obama's mother also passed away from ovarian cancer, and so he has always declared it Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month as well.
 So, and as Mayor Harrell's mentioned, we look upon this as a time to educate women and men, too, about the signs and symptoms because, excuse me, we do not have a screening tool. So it's of the utmost importance for us that women are aware of these signs and symptoms because over 90% of women who are diagnosed do have these symptoms previous to their diagnosis. Okay.
 So we thank you all. We thank Mayor Hales for your time and attention to this issue, which is a little bit different than some of the issues we've been hearing today, but of utmost importance to all of us and truly to all women. Thank you. Thank you. We'd love to take a photo, if we could, with you and your team, the council. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you all. We hope that now that OHSU is becoming even more of an anti-cancer powerhouse, that we'll have lots of good news in the future, maybe even a diagnostic tool. Thank you. Yes, so let's do the polled consent item, which is item number 930.
 Authorize application to the Oregon Department of Justice Crime Victim Services Division for a grant in the amount of $96,946 for the Police Bureau Crisis Response Team in order to reimburse the city for 46% of the volunteer coordinator personnel expenses over a 24-month period. Mr. Bruggs, Ms. Jackson, good morning. Good morning, sir. Good morning. Good morning.
 uh mayor members of the council i'm here to ask for your authorization to put an application into state of oregon for the victims crime services one of the things that the city of portland has done since 1993 has provided a call out response to victims of violence
 Oftentimes these are very traumatic experiences for both the families and the victims, and we have Officer Marcy Jackson who is available to go out and help them assist them in this very confusing and actually a very necessary and needed time to have that experience. One of the things that Marcy brings is both the law enforcement experience of being a police officer out to the scene so she can help coordinate the victims and let them know what's going on, but further down the line we have Deborah Monk in our office who can also follow up, set up appointments, coordinate further response.
 We think it's a necessary grant and we think it's a great service the Portland Police Bureau performs for the community members And especially in many of the community members that we serve are high risk and in volatile situations Where they really do need somebody's guiding hand to help them get their appropriate response and victim's assistance And this is outside of what Multnomah County also provides
 Officer Jackson, please.
 It was started back in 1993 by Officer Victoria Burden, and I've been continuing that work. We respond again to the various traumatic incidents, such as April Murchison going out
 who was one of our responders who navigated a mother who was needing support when one son was murdered and another son critically injured in the same situation. And Pastor Charles Hunter, who responded with the Oregon Youth Authority when they transported a youth from detention to the hospital because his mother was on life support.
 One of the other things that I get to do as parts of my position, mentoring African-American high school girls and hearing from a PCC student that she's following in my footsteps into law enforcement because of my involvement with her in the high school. That has since, Portland Public School has since made that a full-time position over at Madison High School.
 I'm also a board member on Healing Hurt People, which is from Cascadia Mental Health, introduced to Portland by Dr. Alicia Moreland-Capulia, responding to Emanuel Hospital, dealing with the trauma of being associated with gun or gang violence or with our youth of color between the ages of 12 and about 28.
 I have a partnership with Emanuel Hospital and OHSU hospitals with their police department, their social workers, so that we ensure a calm, safe, and informative environment when family are responding to these injured loved ones of such incidents.
 I also have a partnership with the Office of Youth Violence Prevention out of the Mayor's Office, directed by Antoinette Edwards and Tom Peavy, the policy advisor there. With a number of things, we work with our street-level gang outreach workers, so we are on scene. We're in direct communication with our SELI communications as to locations of incidents and where we're needed and where support is needed in various areas.
 We also work with Enough is Enough. I'm excited about that work. That is a community-led campaign that gives voice to families and others impacted by gun or gang violence. They're championing strategies to reduce violence from the community level, and it is definitely a community-led effort with those mothers.
 where their sons or daughters have been killed due to gun or gang violence. They've been impacting witness support. They've talked to the district attorney's office. They've talked to the homicide detectives and championing how witnesses are supported from the African American community. We're championing the word snitch. Somebody needs information that could help.
 And so we know that historically, witnessing in the African American community has been perceived as being a snitch, but we're turning that definition around. They're using the voices of those impacted families to do those things.
 Part of my position also allows me to work with the faith-based community within our community, 1145 being one of those efforts. That has brought officers and the church community.
 together, not only actually holding hands, it's because the church community has actually prayed over those officers, prayed over law enforcement, and has prayed for you in your positions. So I get to be a part of that. And it has been a bridge, definitely.
 forming relationships, and those relationships are important. I also get to work as a recruiter, part-time recruiter, and mentor for some of our new officers of color. So as part of the crisis response team working for you all, I ask that you support this and put this line item and vote it through, please. Thanks.
 Thank you very much. Questions for either Captain Scruggs or Officer Jackson? Pretty persuasive pitch. She is pretty persuasive. Other questions? Thank you both very much. Thanks. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on this item? Then let's please take a roll call on the ordinance. Saltzman? Very pleased to support this, and thank you, Officer Jackson and other members of the Crisis Response Team and Captain Scruggs for the great work you're doing. Appreciate it. Aye. Novick? Thank you very much. Aye.
 Fritz? Thank you for pulling this to the regular agenda. I think it's very important that people know more about the great things that our police are doing in supporting people on the worst day of their lives. Aye. Fish? Aye.
 One of the pleasures of being the police commissioner is you get to know these people, and you get to see the heart they put into their work. And I know that about John Scruggs, and I know that about Marcy Jackson, and I'm getting to know that about more members of this Bureau. And I think you could hear that in this presentation, that this is a job for these folks, but it's also a calling. And Antoinette, similarly with her, as we all know.
 I get to talk to other mayors all over the country. Cities are dealing now with a tidal wave of heroin and a plague of trafficking, and we are too. And gang violence is on the rise in cities all over the country and here too. We have a dubious record now of having passed the number of gang violence incidents in our worst year already this year.
 Um, fortunately, not as many people have been killed or wounded in those incidents as one might expect when you count the number of shots fired, but that's just luck. That's not,
 uh anything but luck but the number of guns recovered and the number of incidents headed off and the number of families contacted by the police bureau is going to make a difference so i believe that our bureau and all of our partners are doing the right things in how we're approaching these issues and it is about trauma and it is about relationships with the community and what we heard from these two folks i think is a great example
 of how to do it right. We just have to do more of it with more partners and try to turn the corner on these very pernicious trends that are now afflicting the city. So I just want to appreciate you two. Thank you for the work. Hi. Thanks very much. Okay. It is time to move on into the regular calendar, I believe, which the first of which is, well, that's 1015, though, isn't it?
 Sorry. Right, right, right. So let's move on to 940. Sorry, yes, that is the proclamation. 940, proclaim September 2015 to be Suicide Awareness and Prevention Month. Mr. Ritz. Thank you, Mayor Hales. Is anybody here to speak to this? Great. Chris Bonner from the National Alliance for Mental Illness is also joining us. So I'll read the proclamation first.
 Whereas in the United States, one person dies by suicide every 13 minutes. And whereas suicide is the second leading cause of death amongst Oregonians aged 15 to 34 years, and the eighth leading cause of death in Oregon. And whereas over 700 Oregonians tragically lose their lives to suicide each year. And whereas Portland loses an average of two citizens a week to suicide. In fact, we had a death just a month ago very close to City Hall.
 whereas agencies and individuals across Oregon, as well as Portland, are working to prevent suicide, and whereas Portlanders are encouraged to learn about the warning signs of suicide and get appropriate help for themselves, their families, and friends who are at risk. Therefore, now Charlie Hales, the mayor of the city of Portland, Oregon, the city of Roses, does hereby proclaim September 2015 to be Suicide Awareness and Prevention Month in Portland and encourages all residents to observe this month.
 So welcome. If you could add some more comments. Sure. Thank you, Mayor, members of City Council. I'm Chris Bonneff. I'm the Executive Director of the Oregon State Chapter of the National Alliance on Mental Illness. We are a grassroots organization of 1,500 members, 14 chapters across the state, including a very large chapter here in Multnomah County that serves the city of Portland. Our membership is composed basically entirely of people directly affected by mental illness.
 This issue of suicide, suicide prevention, and mitigation is very important to us. It's an important contributor in that it's the 10th leading cause of death in our country. It's a little higher in the state of Oregon. It's one of the major health conditions that over the decades we have not made a dent in cutting down the mortality rate. In fact, it's increased significantly.
 And it's a leading contributor as to why those of us who live with mental illness on average die 25 years earlier than our peers. It is an issue that more and more is combined with organizations like mine, like NAMI, because it's not an issue that happens in isolation. Suicide and the risk of suicide is usually commingling with many other factors, including mental illness.
 NAMI is an organization that tries to work directly with people affected by mental illness through free education, support, and advocacy so that we have a more robust treatment system that addresses issues such as mental illness and other mental health disorders that contribute to a higher risk of suicide.
 I'm pleased that the city is recognizing this and proclaiming this as Awareness Month. I see it as an accumulation of the city's interest in mental health in general. It's not the only month that we recognize for factors that –
 related to mental health, and so I'm pleased that we have an accumulation of awareness in this. I tend to think of this in anecdotes just real quickly, early in October. We hold an event with Gordon and Sharon Smith, the former U.S. Senator, as you may be aware of their son's story with a long history of battling mental illness that ended, unfortunately, in suicide. This year we're pleased to honor Commissioner Fritz,
 for her contributions and leadership, not only in conjunction with her leadership in the city, but prior to her service on the council.
 It exemplifies what many families struggle with. It's usually a long trajectory that leads to a catastrophic outcome. And so our awareness needs to happen not so much or more than just risk of suicide, but also all these other attendant factors that contribute to that trajectory. Lastly, again, our gratitude. We are fortunate in this state. We have a wonderful organization, Lines for Life.
 That is one of the leading organizations in suicide prevention through their hotline, and I'd be remiss if I didn't provide that 800 number for those who are at risk, who need to reach out to a confidential source. Lines for Life can be reached at 800-273-8255. Thank you. Thank you, Chris. Thanks very much.
 Thank you, Chris. That's also 800-273-TALK, T-A-L-K. One of the things I like about Lines for Life is that they also have a teen texting program so that teenagers who are feeling or anybody who prefers to communicate by texting rather than by talking on the phone can be in a live assisting program.
 can get live assistance any time of the day or night. They also have a veterans hotline, so you can call that number, and there's various specialty folks who can help. It's done by a lot of volunteers supervised by professionals, and so that's the same with the National Alliance on Mental Illness. There's a lot of volunteer and peer involvement, and that's so that people can know that there is somebody who has some experience in things that they might be going to that they don't have to suffer alone.
 thank you very much thank you Chris for being here yes okay let's move on please to item 941 941 authorized an intergovernmental agreement with Portland Public Schools and TriMet for nine hundred sixty six thousand six hundred and sixty six dollars to continue the student transit pass project to offer public transportation for high school students at Portland Public Schools
 Thank you very much. I don't know if we have a presentation on this ordinance, but I'll speak a few words about it. This is pursuant to our budget as approved. It is a good temporary solution, and I'm happy that we're implementing this temporary solution. We're also going to try to move forward towards a different funding formula for this.
 but one way or another, we've got to make sure we have our kids getting to school without additional vehicles on the street. And actually, I think one way or another, we've got to make sure we've got access for our kids to lots of other things like jobs and recreation. One of the other things this council did in the budget this year was approve a
 program of more free and available access to our community centers for teenagers and mr. Fritz's staff has been a little wide-eyed at the amount of teenage activity in the centers for example 2,500 kids signed up for the free recreation available at Matt dishman Community Center we heard stories about families that saved all July so they could buy bus passes for the kids to get the dishman from elsewhere in the city in August
 I think it indicates the need for one way or another for the community to make sure that our young people have access to transit in a transit-friendly city. So I'm happy that we're doing this. It isn't necessarily the permanent solution, but it's a good one for now. Again, unless there's any other presentation, which I don't think we have this morning. Anyone else would like to speak on this item? Mr. Lightning would like to speak. Come on up, Lightning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. I do approve of having the students be awarded the $966,000. One of the only other issues I have within the city of Portland is that we shouldn't deny the most vulnerable people to also have access to the transportation. And I'm not seeing enough passes being given to a lot of the homeless out through the city. And that kind of disturbs me because...
 Of all the people that really need access to medical, to jobs, to going different locations, that would be the homeless. And yet we give money to certain nonprofits that say to you, you need to tell us who you're going to see and we'll call them to verify that. But in my mind, having the people through the city that are the most vulnerable have access to go to different locations is very important to the city community.
 from a beneficial of people getting more jobs, people having access to doctors, people being able to go to see their friends, their relatives. And because they are homeless, they're being denied that access because city leaders are not looking at that and saying, we think the students deserve to have these passes, but the most vulnerable people in this city do not. So I question your decision, Dr.
 on denying the homeless access to free passes on the transportation to improve their lives, possibly get a job, possibly get housing, possibly improve their health. So again, I just question your thinking on this, and I hope that you'll look at this a little bit closer and maybe decide to offer that to at least the, quote, 2,000 that we keep throwing that number out,
 that are chronically homeless throughout this city. And again, even if you offered transportation every Monday of every month to this group, the benefits to them to be able to improve their lives would be enormous. And as the public taxpayers, I think, would agree, to having access to this vulnerable group out there is very beneficial throughout the city to everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for having me. Do you have a testify in front of the TriMet board?
 Because I would suggest that that would be very helpful. I read in the Oregonian yesterday that they're considering increasing the payroll tax. Maybe I agree with your comments and asking them to be partnering in this. I mean, this is the city's taxpayer money going to TriMet to provide this service. I think that the issue you raised is one that would be well raised with the TriMet board as well. If I may respond real fast, it's that somebody has the authority to get the students their passes, right?
 And to have that authority to request $966,000 are the same people I'd like to have talking to TriMet on behalf of the most vulnerable people of this city. I do not have the authority to get that amount of money. I did not have the authority to do that. You know who does. You know who has that ability. And the improvements to this city would be tremendous for people to be able to have that type of access, even if it's for one Monday only.
 a week every month, that's only four, four days out of the month, would give a tremendous amount of people the opportunity to improve their lives tremendously. So, again, I hope that we can have the proper people have discussions with TriMet who had the ability to get this passed through for the students. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, anyone else? Then let's take a roll call vote, please. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 I'm glad that we're continuing to provide this transportation. It's also one of the mayor's priorities as well as mine to get it for students throughout the city of Portland, not just in Portland Public Schools. Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you very much. Okay, next slide.
 9.40. We are at 10.15, so let's go back to the time certain. Mayor? 9.24. We also have staff here ready to do the other stuff. I mean, just a question I want to, just in terms of scheduling, can we –
 Move through the other three items and then come to time certain so we have the time Staff and volunteers queued up on both. So I'm just I'm just raising it I think it's it sounds like it's only a 15-minute item, right? So let's let's go ahead take take the time certain now And then then those others please 924 Did you want all four red? Yes. Sorry the 924 and its successors in 925 through 27. I
 924, approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements, authorize alternative contracting method of construction manager general contractor, and authorize payment for construction, all in connection with the Pioneer Courthouse Square renovation project.
 925, authorize a contract with Shields Oblet Johnson, Inc. to provide owners representative, construction management, and cost estimation services for renovations and improvements to Pioneer Courthouse Square in an amount not to exceed $577,840. 926, authorize a contract with SRG Partnership, Inc. to provide planning, design, and construction administration services.
 for renovations and improvements to Pioneer Courthouse Square in an amount not to exceed $875,150. And 927, amend contract with Pioneer Courthouse Square, Inc., for public involvement services for the duration of the Pioneer Courthouse Square renovation project in an amount not to exceed $63,000.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales. This series of four ordinances is a major step towards restoring Pioneer Courthouse Square to the condition we would expect for Portland's living room. The parks bond passed by voters in November of 2014 included $10 million for the renovation of the square, and thank you to the voters of Portland. The funds will be used to replace the failing waterproof membrane and HVAC system, repair the deteriorating brick plaza and stoic columns, and...
 upgrade the restrooms for safety and accessibility. These ordinances include an exemption to competitive bidding requirement contracts for both an owner's representative and a construction manager general contractor, as well as a contract with Pioneer Courthouse Square, Inc., for public involvement services. I now invite Christine Moody and Lauren McGuire to provide more details on the ordinances.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and members of the council. My name is Lauren McGuire. I'm the Capital Projects Team Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation, and with me is Christine Moody, who you know, the Chief Procurement Officer for the City of Portland.
 We're here today to request council authorization of those four ordinances pertaining to the renovation of Pioneer Courthouse Square. The four ordinances are requested as emergencies in order to maintain the project schedule which is tailored to accommodate the community programs and events. Renovation of the Pioneer Courthouse Square is funded by the 2014 Parks Plan. The renovation and reconstruction of Pioneer Courthouse Square at 701 Southwest 6th,
 And downtown Portland is a very important step in the delivery of the Portland bond of the bond projects to the Portland community This project represents the largest of the 2014 bond projects to be initiated the bond The project will renovate the square by making critical repairs to the infrastructure By replacing its waterproofing membrane by replacing its heating ventilation and air conditioning systems
 by repairing its unique stoic columns, replacing damaged bricks, and renovating its restrooms for safety and accessibility, as well as making other necessary ADA adjustments as funding permits. The current low-confidence estimate for construction cost is approximately $7 million. The overall project budget, including project construction, design services, insurance bonding, project management, staff costs, contingencies, and escalation is $10 million.
 the parks replacement bond funding is approved and in place for fiscal year 2015-16. the four ordinances for the pioneer courthouse square renovation project that we will be discussing today include the exemption finding ordinance which is an ordinance to approve the findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize the alternative contracting method of construction manager general contractor and authorized payment for the project
 the owner's representative contract with which is an ordinance to authorize a professional technical and expert services contract with shields oblitz johnson to provide owners representative services the design team contract which is an ordinance to authorize a professional technical and expert services contract with srg partnership to provide design and planning services
 and the Pioneer Courthouse Square Portland Parks Management Agreement Amendment, which is an ordinance to amend the management agreement contract between Pioneer Courthouse Square and Portland Parks in order to provide public involvement services. This is the second amendment to the existing management agreement. Thank you.
 The first ordinance that you have before you is the exemption that's required by state law. An exemption to the low bid process needs to be done to approve and needs to be approved in order to authorize the alternative contracting method, such as the construction manager or general contractor services. The findings that are attached to the ordinance, as documented in Exhibit A,
 highlights the technical complexities of this project in which using the CMGC will be most beneficial to the city. As Lawrence stated specifically, this project requires building envelope waterproofing of the existing structure, mechanical engineering renovation, stoic column repair specialists. Additionally, the contractor must have experience working in a complex urban environment.
 The findings also show that structuring the project under a CMGC process facilitates the inclusion of the contractor in the design process to provide input on constructability, phasing, and efficient staging. The effective coordination and value engineering of the project will benefit the project and also is presumed to reduce the costs. What do you mean by no favoritism?
 No favoritism means that just because we're doing this alternative contracting method, we're not providing any favoritism, that it's an exemption from the competitive low bidding process, but we're still doing a competitive process. So that's what the no favoritism finding means. The second ordinance is to authorize a professional technical expert contract with Shields Opus Johnson to provide owner's representative construction management and cost estimation services.
 for renovations and improvement to the square in an amount not to exceed 577 840.
 The dedicated owner's representative is necessary to provide increased coordination with and response to the general contractor, to Pioneer Courthouse Square, to the surrounding businesses, to visitors, to the local community, and to interested parties hosting events. The site has several significant challenges to the project, implementations such as large downtown profit volumes, multiple modes of adjacent transportation with TriMet on two sides, high visibility of the square, surrounding businesses, offices, and residences,
 Numerous planned public events with over 300 events per year, 10 million people visiting the square each year, and expedited schedule configured around those key community events. The city did follow the competitive qualifications-based solicitation process with postings on the city's procurement website and in the Daily Journal of Commerce.
 Five proposals were received and two firms were interviewed in May of this year. Shields Oblitz Johnson won, and their utilization for minority women in emerging small business was 7.4%. The third ordinance is to authorize a professional, technical, and expert contract with SRG Partnership to provide planning, design, and construction administration services for renovations and improvements, as described previously, in an amount not to exceed 875,150.
 Again, the city followed the standard qualifications-based citation, posting the request proposal on the city's procurement website and in the Daily Journal of Commerce. Four proposals were received and three firms interviewed in July of 2015. SRG Partnership Inc. won, and their utilization was 27.3% for minority women and emerging small business firms.
 The fourth ordinance is approving a second amendment to the management agreement between Pioneer Courthouse Square, Inc. and Portland Parks and Recreation to authorize payment to Pioneer Courthouse Square, Inc. for public involvement services for the duration of the project in an amount not to exceed $63,000. Thank you.
 Pioneer Courthouse Square, Inc. is well acquainted with the community of square users, local residents, tenants, transit authorities, and surrounding businesses, and has been performing the day-to-day operations of the square, including public outreach. As such, it's uniquely qualified to perform additional public involvement services required for the project. With that, we complete our presentation. Thank you. At this time, Harriet Cormack from the Pioneer Courthouse Square Board would like to speak about the project. After Harriet speaks, we'd be happy to take any questions the council may have.
 Good morning, Harriet. Welcome back. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I have been a long-term member of the Board of Trustees and for a number of years have been chair of the Facilities Committee at Pioneer Courthouse Square, Inc., and our committee represents
 began four years ago to divine the scope of work for repair and renewal of the park. And so I'm deeply committed to this work that is before you. I also want to support the approach that Parks has taken in contracting for this complex work. I have a 40-year career in project management and, as a citizen volunteer, have been involved with
 development of the Convention Center in its first phase and as a commissioner of home forward many construction projects and we have used this alternative method of contracting for complex projects with great success and I think from
 from the beginning when we were thinking about the open-heart surgery that would be involved in repairing the part, we knew that this would be the better way to proceed, where you really have a team of designer, contractor, owner's representative, working to get a correct series of construction items, getting things effectively priced and delivered.
 delivering a completed project on time. So I just want to lend my experience and support for this alternate method of contracting. Thank you. Questions? I have just a question that relates to the bricks that we're replacing. Would you remind us, for the people that a generation ago paid to have a
 brick to help finance the original park. How are those bricks being replaced, and what are the opportunities for people to invest in them going forward?
 so the brick replacement will be documented the bricks are documented now we will be replacing bricks as neat as we need to and we'll re-document where they're located and that will be that will show people where their brick will be it's probably likely that they won't go exactly back in the same spot but we are going to document where the
 Where they are now. You're reusing them. Well, and also when you buy a brick, you buy a brick forever. And it's $100, I believe. And there's an opportunity for others to invest now that we're doing this. So you can go to the Pioneer Courthouse Square Board website and buy a brick for eternity. And is there a master list of bricks somewhere? Yes. That's very important because I noticed, for example, at Harper's Playground, that with all the use one of the plazas gets –
 Some of the bricks are now getting obscured where people, patrons and investors, and I think the wonderful thing about a brick is that it seals that personal connection with someone. At Harper's Playground, people put bricks in the name of their children in the plaza.
 So I'm delighted there'll be a database where we can actually know who were the first waivers in those bricks. But there are opportunities for people today to invest in new bricks? Absolutely. That's $100? I don't know the answer to that. Is that right, Harriet? I believe that's the going rate. Yes. Still a heck of a deal. That's a bargain. And a lot of people have been buying bricks over the course of time. So there are new ones coming along every day. Thank you.
 other questions for our panel thank you all I did have one question does the owners compensation contract and the design contract come out of the ten million dollar estimated total cost yes that's included okay thank you all very much anyone else want to speak on this item mr. lightning signed up my name is lightning I represent lightning watchdog X I'm one of the original people that bought a brick
 and have it located there currently. So obviously I do have a concern on that issue. And one of the things I was wondering, it sounds to me like you plan on making sure that bricks go back to their original location the best possible. Now, if these bricks, obviously, if they're removed and they obviously can break and we have to bring in a new one, my question to you is that, and I know a lot of people have said
 had concerns on being able to read the names on the lower level bricks because it's a smaller font. And I was wondering if we could enlarge the font to the same size as the upper level bricks so people can easily read the names. And that's just a request that I have, so I'm putting that out right now. Issue number two is that obviously we have 10,000 –
 And one of the issues that I think would be beneficial is that obviously the restrooms that they have where you can go down below aren't open all the time. And this whole area was set up to have access to the public around the clock. And what I'd like to propose maybe is also adding a loo somewhere to where obviously when we're having this many visitors –
 To have something like that accessed around the clock, I think, would be very beneficial to the visitors of 10 million plus per year. Issue number three I have, again, is I may speak against this group, the Regional Arts and Culture Council, and it's nothing personal. But I would like to have them maybe brought in on this project as a consultant group.
 on the current art that is currently located there, on looking there and just seeing if we can't add additional and or what do we want to do with the art we currently have there. They are the professionals, the experts. I'd like to have their opinion on that and to see if we can't maybe add some additional art throughout the area based upon their recommendations. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz, Lightning, as always, raises a provocative question, and I should know the answer, but does a renovation of this size trigger the 2% for the arts? I'd like staff to come and answer that question. Perhaps the answer is, we'll get back to you on that. It's in response to Lightning's question, and I think the answer is yes. That's not what's technically before us today, but it is what it is, so I'm just curious to know.
 So I believe we're looking at the 2% for art holistically over all the bond projects, not necessarily per project. Okay. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak? Other questions? Then let's take a roll call on each of these in turn since they're all emergency items starting with 924. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Fritz? I'm very proud of working with the Pioneer Courthouse Square Board and one of our valued nonprofit partners today.
 People said during the bond measure campaign, why can't we just pay for the renovations through the revenue from the activities that the board and the staff, the wonderful staff at Parney and Courthouse Square Inc.,
 do throughout the year. The answer is that the prices are already higher than we charge for other Portland parks and recreation facilities, and so there's a limit to how much more you can put the prices up. It's also a civic duty to have great things happening in Pioneer Courthouse Square. And so the staff recently did a matrix showing high-profit facilities
 the profit and the community livability aspects and mapping out where all of our different activities go there. So it is something that we've been mindful of. When I was assigned the Parks Bureau in 2013 in July, that was one of the first things that was brought to my attention by the Pioneer Courthouse Square Board is that the city of Portland, the people of Portland own Pioneer Courthouse Square. So it is our responsibility to fix it. And so I was really happy that we were able to get the PAC
 The Parks Bond passed with 74% of the voters approving it, the highest ever for a Parks Bond, and very specifically included in that was this $10 million for Pioneer Courthouse Square. So, yes, we're going to be fixing some of the accessibility problems at the same time. We're going to be fixing the restrooms also, and I'll be coming back to council shortly with a $15-an-hour resolution for the staff who work in those restrooms because that's one of the contracts that we have not yet upgraded. Okay.
 So there's a lot of needs that we have a responsibility to do, and I'm very proud of our PERC staff, our bond team, and everybody in my office as well, Tim Crail and Patty Howard and Tom Bisseau have all been working really hard on this. So thank you very much for bringing it to council. Aye. Fish. Commissioner Fritz will remember that prior to this bond, we used to use, and the technical term was spit and glue.
 to fund some of the park's renovations. E205 was funded at a general fund. We'd scraped together money from whatever pot, but we didn't have any bond money to use. So the bond became essential to do the major improvements that the public expected us to do. And I want to begin by just thanking Commissioner Fritz for leading that bond effort and leading it during a particularly challenging time in her life.
 And I thought there was a beautiful symmetry on election night. Seventy-four percent of the public supported her bond measure, and seventy-four percent of the public turned down the water district. I thought that showed great insight on the part of the voters. A word about Pioneer Courthouse Square. It has been listed, I believe, and I was checking with the experts, as one of the ten great public squares in the world. And we're very proud of it.
 Number three. We're number three. Okay, one of the top five public squares in the world. And Bruce Forster, who many of us know, who takes those great pictures of Portland from an airplane, once upon a time took a famous series of pictures of what Pioneer Courthouse Square looked like when it was a garage. And a group of intrepid artists came and painted it because they wanted the public to imagine what would happen if we converted it to a park.
 And for those of us or you who believe it was a slam dunk at some point in the past to create this park, I'm reminded that the final vote in council was 3-2. And the decisive vote was cast by Mike Lindbergh. And had Mike Lindbergh not supported turning a garage into a great square in the middle of a great city, we would continue to have a garage there.
 So I want to celebrate the role of Mike Lindbergh. And I also want to acknowledge the role of all the Pioneer Courthouse Square board members, including Pete Mark, who has been there from the beginning and has been a great champion, both as an advocate and with his family's philanthropy of that great square. This is a really proud day. And, again, I want to especially thank Commissioner Fritz,
 because without her leadership and advocacy, we wouldn't have the bond proceeds to now spend on this long-overdue upgrade of our wonderful Central Plaza. Hi. Hills. Hills.
 Well, I want to appreciate Commissioner Fritz for your leadership on the bond and on now getting it worked on. Because when you pass a bond measure, you also have to deliver, and the Parks Bureau is doing that. And, in fact, we hope, as always, to over-deliver and to produce more value for the voters who stepped up once again and showed good judgment, as Portland voters do.
 supported this effort the other thing I think that we have to always stop and celebrate and Commissioner fish is right about the history this was not a slam dunk it was controversial at the time there were people in the business community that thought it ought to be an enclosed bubble instead of a public square and I think most of them would now admit that this was a better idea I
 But it does have to be carefully managed every day to keep it a safe and welcoming place. And that's why we depend so much on the Pioneer Courthouse Square Board and the nonprofit corporation. That's another secret ingredient.
 in Portland's success with parks is that we have these partnerships with non-profits. Every now and then the city needs to step up, make a major capital investment, because it is, after all, a park, just like the pond underneath the Chinese garden that's leaking 10,000 gallons a day, I think, isn't it? It needs to be replaced, and that's beyond the capabilities of the non-profit that...
 add so much value and dollars to the operation. So these partnerships we have, whether it's with the Japanese Garden or the softball leagues that use Delta Park or Pioneer Courthouse Square, are really important. So, Harriet, to you and the other volunteers involved,
 who have made this work over the years and continue to make it work, thank you for being good partners for us. We'll always try to be good partners for you as well and create this great synergy between volunteerism and community that makes this a great place. One final editorial point, which the council may be getting tired of hearing, but I think one of the ways to make sure that we're successful as a city is –
 Of course we keep Pioneer Courthouse where our central public space, but we need more public spaces like this around the city. We're now creating one in Gateway. That's good. But in a city of 600,000 that in many ways is the most European city in America, we're not there yet in terms of the hard space available for farmers markets and community gatherings around the city. So I hope that future city councils have more partnerships like this and more places with more squares. But for now, let's put this one into good repair. Thank you. Bye.
 925. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Ritz? I really love these ones where we have multiple opportunities to say things that we forgot. I was particularly instructed by Tim Crail to show this book, which Harriet and her crew at the Pioneer Courthouse Square board put together. It's called Bricks on the Brink, and there were no words in it. They're just words.
 of really awful infrastructure that needs repairing. And I think that that was the beginning of bringing to the awareness of everybody. So thank you, Harriet, for doing that. Also, Reverend Steven Schneider was the board chair throughout the bond measure campaign, was absolutely amazing. And Amy Ruiz was our fantastic campaign manager. And then we had a whole committee of folks doing fundraising. I didn't make a single fundraising call. I just went out and then Commissioner Fish ably took over.
 over at the end of the campaign, and we did hundreds of events. So thank you again to the people of Portland. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. 926. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 927. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. Thank you very much.
 Okay, back to the regular calendar, please. Item 942. Create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, stormwater, and sanitary sewer improvements north of Northeast Prescott Court in the Northeast 136th Avenue Phase 2 Local Improvement District. Mr. Novick. Mr. Abbey, will you explain where we are? Okay.
 Good morning, Commissioner Novick, Council Members, Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. So this ordinance came in front of you on July 22nd. We had some testimony in opposition to the LID. We decided to continue this item to today.
 And I held a property owner meeting in the duration, and I've had some good cordial conversations with the property owners. My conclusion from the meetings is that there's more support from the property owners to look at improving the street through a permit job, more of a phased approach, as opposed to doing it under an LID as a public project.
 So the recommendation in my September 4th memo is that council not approve the LID today, and we take a timeout, and then I schedule a meeting with the property owners in the spring. We look at the possibility of doing this project under a permit job in lieu of an LID. What does a permit job mean?
 The differentiation is, Commissioner Salzman, is that with a permanent job, the improvements are privately engineered and then the city reviews those plans. The property owners put up a performance bond and then they construct those improvements privately. Thank you.
 I do know that we have some resourceful property owners in this neighborhood. I think for the vast majority of property owners, they don't have the time, patience, or expertise to do that type of work. But I do know that we have some resourceful property owners in the area. And it's kind of like remodeling your own house. If you're willing to put in the time and the effort, you can definitely, in many cases, get it done cheaper. Yeah.
 I just would like to see the street improved, whether it gets improved under an LID, under a permit job. It doesn't make too much difference to me. I do think that it's incumbent to very seriously look at getting the rest of the street improved because it is the last unimproved street in Argy, and I think that's reflected in the very low property values on the street.
 My question would be, though, are we just doing it because it's the last unimproved street? If we were going to have the city pay for paving a street, is this really the most important one in the city to dedicate that money to? Yeah.
 candidly commissioner frith i if i had to stack this street up against some of the other streets in the city i don't know in terms of condition that if they're worth one in the city however it is in the groundwater protection area we do have some properties in this neighborhood that aren't currently connected to sanitary sewer service again in the groundwater protection area i think some of these properties have significant redevelopment potential down the street from a costco that's expanding
 I don't necessarily think this is the most important street in the area, but we did hear testimony last year from a property owner that felt that it would be fair and equitable for the rest of the street to be improved because he had helped pay for the north portion of the block.
 Right. There's a lot of inequities throughout our system, and I know you're working to address that. You and COPEA, the professional union, have been raising an issue of, in some local improvement districts, we get a lot of added property tax benefit as stimulated by having a complete street. And so as you look, Commissioner Novick, for which streets to dedicate the out-of-the-mud money that the mayor put into the budget with your partnership, and
 Moving forward, in saying no to this LID, I want to be clear that I'm not saying that, yes, go ahead and use city money on improving the street. I trust you to do that prioritization, and particularly with bearing in mind which streets, if improved, would generate far more property taxes compared with others. Thank you, Commissioner, and I'm glad you referred to the Gopiya proposal because I think that is a very interesting idea, which we're continuing to look at.
 So what you'd recommend is this be returned to Commissioner Novick's office? Well, I'm recommending that council actually not approve the LID because we have some pending lien records on the properties, and it creates a little bit of havoc for title companies if they're sort of left in limbo. Schedule it for second reading and then take action. Yeah, so the recommendation is to call this the second reading and vote against the ordinance. Okay.
 Just to answer one thing on the Kapia proposal, you know, if there's some interest in bringing this back as an LID, there's nothing that precludes council from taking another look at this. Andrew, I don't want your almost perfect record blemish, so we're going to put an asterisk next to this when we vote it down. We're going to note that we voted it down at your request. That would be very fine, Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much. Yeah, I think it may be a first, but there's always a first time. So if there's no objection, then this will be scheduled for second reading next week.
 If it's next week, that's fine. I think we can actually just vote on it today. Can we vote on it today because of this previous agenda? Oh, I'm sorry. We can't. All right. Then let's take a roll call vote with Mr. Abe's recommendation in mind. Well, Mayor, the matter before us is to create so the vote would be no. So there would be a motion. Correct. So we voted down. Okay.
 I'm recommending that you vote today against the ordinance. It's an ordinance, so we don't need a motion. We just need to vote. Yes. Saltzman? I appreciate your hard work on this project, and I appreciate some of the property owners sharing their strong views about this as well. Or no. Novick? Thank you very much. Fritz? There really are new things under the sun. No. No.
 fish no nails as you can tell with you sitting in front of us andrew we're all having difficulty forming the word i'll make sure i know thank you thank you okay um let's move on to 9 43.
 Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Burgard-Lombard at North Time Oil Road intersection project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Roll call, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. 944? Aye.
 Vacate a portion of North Terminal Road east of North Lombard Street subject to certain conditions and reservations. Roll call. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 945. Aye.
 Authorize the contract with the lowest responsive bidder for the construction of the Southeast Powell Recon Sewer and Green Streets Project E08659 for $3,730,000. Mr. Fish. Mayor, we had originally scheduled this for 10 minutes thinking that we were going to be having...
 a tight schedule this morning given that we're about an hour ahead of schedule i've asked scott to expand this to the full hour because i know i know how interested the council is in these updates on our green infrastructure more than one-third of portland's 2500 miles of sewer pipes are over 80 years old this ordinance would authorize a contract to replace about 4 500 feet of sewer pipe that is failing due to age
 This project includes constructing green street planters and planting trees to manage runoff and keep stormwater out of the sewer system. As we know, combining green infrastructure with traditional pipe repairs makes sewers operate more efficiently and saves money for our ratepayers. And with that, I'm going to turn it over to Scott. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Good morning. My name is Scott Gibson. I'm a principal engineer at the Bureau of Environmental Services. With me today is Brandon Wilson, who's our project manager for this effort.
 As the Commissioner said, this project is a part of the Tabor the River program, which is planting 3,500 trees, adding 500 green streets, and building 100 privately owned stormwater projects. We're also repairing and replacing up to 81,000 feet of sewer pipe, removing invasive plants from parks and natural areas, improving wildlife habitat to clean the air and make neighborhoods more healthy.
 Resolving the sewer system problems in the Tabor River program area with a pipe-only solution would have cost an estimated $144 million. Adding these green infrastructure projects reduced the estimated cost to around $81 million, also provided multiple benefits to the community.
 As far as our progress on the Tabor the River program, we have completed six construction projects to date. We have three more in progress, and this represents roughly half of the total planned improvements. With that, I'll turn it over to Brandon. He'll give you a little more of the product details. Good morning. So we'll start with the project location. The location is basically much of the work is happening in and around the Brooklyn neighborhood. You can see from the map.
 We do have some pieces, some pipe segments on Milwaukee and Powell. Project goals and objectives, as Scott mentioned, this is part of the Tegert D pre-design, also called the Tabor to the River. We have 4,500 mainline feet of pipe. The sizes are there, 8-inch to 30-inch in diameter. This is a capacity-driven project. There's also poor-condition pipe that we'll be addressing, as well as two new sewer extension mains.
 And the last bullet is 22 more typical stormwater infiltration facilities vegetated. Public involvement for this project has been extensive, and there's been a lot of input and outreach done. Essentially, we were able to change some of the final design based on this input from the property owners and businesses. The outreach included several mailings that have been sent throughout the project area, as well as several neighborhood and public meetings attended by staff,
 and the residents. There continues to be ongoing close coordination with the residents regarding specific concerns. An example of this outreach were a couple of the businesses in the nearby area, such as the Aladdin Theater, Classic Pianos. They both requested and were accommodated
 a window of time that would best suit their interests. We were able to reschedule a portion of that specific work for July and August, which are their lowest times of the year, their lowest volumes. There's also a few segments, like I mentioned, on Powell and Milwaukee that will be done at night due to the traffic volumes. And I'd also like to say that the project has secured a noise variance for that work after various meetings and outreach with the public and businesses.
 northbound Southeast 17th Avenue ramp closure is a small portion. Well, it's, I don't know about small, but it's a portion of the project. And as the bullets say, it's a coordination with PBOT, ODOT, and TriMet. This closure will reduce the timeframe of the work that would have normally been done in this project area from eight months to three months. So basically, we're
 geared at trying to reduce burden to the public, and this was the alternative that was selected for this. Closure will not affect pedestrians and bicycle traffic or southbound traffic, and the westbound traffic flows on Powell should not be impacted. Next steps, we're looking at advertisement this fall. Level of confidence is high.
 Can we stop there for a second? Absolutely. Scott, would you just give us a quick primer very quickly on what a high level of confidence means?
 Yes, so the ordinance which was passed gives a subjective narrative description of what a high level of confidence is. But one of the key deciding factors when we select it is how they describe contingencies. And for a high level of confidence in an estimate, the ordinance document says that that product has a contingency in the range of 20 to 30 percent. So it's basically indicating what kind of variation you might see and the ultimate cost from the projected costs.
 And the next one up the ladder is optimal? Optimal, yes. I thought that was interesting, colleagues, because when you hear, I think it's counterintuitive when you hear a high level of confidence and then read the underlying ordinance that set out this scheme and realize that it could vary between 20 and 30 percent even at a high level of confidence. I think it's important for us to remember that because I do think it's counterintuitive. I agree. I think the language is, yeah.
 Brandon? Yes. I'd also like to mention, because of the high level of confidence, the factors that contributed to that included contaminated media, including potentially contaminated groundwater at one location, a deeper than normal excavation 18 feet deep in another location on Powell with potentially contaminated groundwater.
 extensive traffic control and the fact that we have night work. These are some of the factors that contributed to a little less than optimal confidence level. Back to the slide. The next step for this would be a purchasing agent to report back to the council with lowest responsible bid. Construction is scheduled to begin this winter and last approximately 12 months. And that concludes the presentation. I'd like to ask if there's any questions.
 i've got a couple of related questions one is this this part of the city is about to undergo pretty significant redevelopment because of the assuming that we uh that we incorporate the southeast quadrant plan into the comp plan when we finish it in a few months
 Secondly, the Powell Division Bus Rapid Transit Project is in early pre-design in terms of where it will run and what the street architecture needs to be for that to work. So a lot of complicated stuff there.
 happening on the surface, rather on private property or on public. Obviously, the sewers are sort of first. They go in deepest, and everything else is built after that. But I hope and expect...
 that this project is being designed in a way that preserves all the flexibility that those folks that are designing either development projects on the redevelopment sites in the area or public projects, again, namely that BRT project in particular, will not have their options walled off by a sunk investment in a major capital improvement in the sewer system.
 So reassure me about that. I think you'd be reassured that the sewers that we're repairing have been – actually, I'll defer to Brandon. Well, think about capacity in particular, right? You don't know exactly what's going to happen in this area. Actually, the models that we use to determine what capacity is, we're looking out basically at full development.
 Of the proposed zoning? Yes. The proposed zoning? Yes. And...
 There's also safety factors included in that. It's very much looking at these types of things. We want to just do a capacity project and not have to worry about it again. Because stormwater facilities also help to kind of trim the edge, the peak storm as well. So those tools combined are really what we're using.
 that's good you look at sites like that four acre gas company site it's just sitting there that I assume feeds into this sewer what's gonna be there 20 years from now and I'll also mention that our stormwater management manual has has pretty rigorous constraints on development and being able to manage stormwater on site as well so that along with what we're proposing is
 Should be a good fix for that solution. Good. Thank you. Other questions? Thanks very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then it passes to second reading next week, and we are recessed until 2 p.m. I might or might not be here. I'm going to Camp Riley right now. Probably not. Mayor may or may not be back. Good afternoon, everybody. It's Wednesday, September 9th. Here is the mayor. What's your last name?
 I'm basically... Yes, I have not. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Fish? Hales? Here. Thank you very much, Commissioner Fritz. And let's take item 946. Accept the Americans with Disabilities Act Transition Plan Update Parks Facilities Supplement. Thank you very much. Commissioner Fritz, do you have some comments? Yes.
 I do. Just the purpose is to present the Parks and Americans with Disability Act transition plan.
 We have surveyed 206 public accessible sites, identified 20,355 barriers, 17,008 of those are scheduled to be removed. And we greatly appreciate the partnership with the Office of Equity and Human Rights, also the Parks Board, the Parks Accessibility Advisory Committee, Portland Commission on Disability, the ADA Transition Plan Stakeholder Review Committee, when we've helped three public forums and lots...
 lots of unlike comments. And I will just say that it was a great satisfaction to me that I was able to hand over the Bureau of Development Services to Commissioner Saltzman with all of those ADA transition items completed. So thank you for your work jointly in creating that list and then BDS and being able to get through it. Obviously, with 20,000 and more in parks, that's a significant challenge. And so we're looking forward to hearing the consultant's report.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, and thanks for having us. I'm Brett Horner with Portland Parks, and I'm joined by David Galat of the Office of Equity and Human Rights. And we have a short presentation, and I'm going to let David lead that off.
 As you know, the ADA transition plan was accepted, I think, November 6th of 2014. And this is kind of the final piece for the facilities transition plan. And Parks was given an extension based on the large amount of barriers that they had, and also kind of the unique
 the unique uh facilities so it's not um it's not just the portland building where everything happens at the portland building parks are spread out all over geographically uh there's a lot of programs happening uh so they really had to do a thoughtful analysis of uh of what was of the barriers that were identified and um come up with uh
 a good strategy given this huge number of barriers.
 Just a little bit of context. Title of the ADA is a civil rights law. There are three main titles. Title one is the, covers discrimination against people with disabilities in the workplace. Title two is with public and government entities. And title three is in the private sector.
 The ADA transition plan is Title II, which the City of Portland is part of. So let me just find out where I'm at. So as Brett is going to lead us through their efforts to –
 schedule, categorize, and identify all of the barriers. And it just kind of really highlights the work that they've done. And the park staff has done, I think, a really – it's been a heavy lift for them, more so than any other bureau. So I'm very proud of them.
 I was recently in Atlanta, Georgia at the National ADA Symposium, and I carried a copy of our transition plan with me. Transition plans were kind of a highlight there. A lot of breakout sessions were covering transition plans and different aspects of them. And I did some networking with people and kind of showcased our –
 Portland's transition plan and I got a lot of very good feedback.
 there at the event since coming back, I've been getting phone calls, or our office has, asking for advice and more information on how Portland went through this process to develop such a really comprehensive plan for removing barriers for people with disabilities. And I'm really very proud, very proud of it.
 City government the bureaus the stakeholders that have been involved the voters who passed the bond we're having some money earmarked for for removing barriers at that park, so Thank you all very much this is a Really great Beginning body of work to move forward to making you know the city very accessible
 Great. Thank you, David. During the citywide assessment, there were approximately 25,000 barriers identified. And as you might imagine, the service Parks provides is publicly accessible places. So the vast majority, in fact, over 20,000 of them, were in Portland Parks and Recreation Facilities.
 The rest of the citywide transition plan went to City Council in November of 2014, you may recall. And due to the quantity of barriers in the parks portfolio, we had a modified schedule. And thank you for allowing us a modified schedule to complete that work. 260 park sites and facilities were surveyed by a consultant team between December 2012 and April 2014.
 3,000 of the 20,000 barriers were either at some school sites, which will be school district and not parks' responsibility to fix, or are not required to be accessible by ADA, like picnic tables, where we have many picnic tables in a park, for instance. Only 20% of them are required to be accessible tables. The rest are not. Okay.
 PPNR has reviewed and set target schedules for all of our identified 17,000 barriers. Development of the plan was a collaborative effort, worked very closely. We had a standing agenda item with the Parks Accessibility Advisory Committee, with a group of community members and city staff who advise Portland Parks on accessibility-related issues.
 Also briefed were the Portland Commission on Disabilities several times and with more in-depth briefings for the Accessibility in the Built Environment Subcommittee of that commission. Early in the process, we also discussed development of the plan with a stakeholder group convened by Office of Equity and Health and Human Resources to inform the citywide plan development.
 We then held, most recently, three public forums this past July in different areas of town to discuss the plan and solicited comments online as well. We heard a great deal of support for the plan, a lot of enthusiasm for making the parks accessible, and encouragement to really go beyond the ADA minimum requirements. So for those of you who like numbers and detail, this is just a quick snapshot of what that report looks like. All of the barriers are identified. They are categorized and numbered.
 And there's also a map that we use for each site to identify the location of the barriers. Now, of the 20,000, we've broken those down into 95 different types of barriers. So you can imagine 95 different types of repairs and fixes to be made is a lot. And it ranged, obviously, a great deal as well. Everything from the speed with which a door closes or how slowly a self-closing door closes to
 all the way up to things as big as elevators and other capital project-related things. We discussed those capital and central services maintenance staff with our staff and made an estimate for which, like adjusting the mirror heights or door pulls, would likely be candidates to do as part of our routine maintenance operations. So we're hoping to get out a lot of these barriers fixed through our normal maintenance routines.
 About half the projects, though, or half the barriers are really capital-related. The other half are maintenance. We feel are maintenance-related. And the good news is we've already made 32 – we've already removed 32 barriers as part of this process. So we didn't stop until all the assessment was done. Once we had the consultants' information, we began knocking off those things that we knew we could do later.
 And here's an example of that. Most recently we opened Marshall Park in southwest Portland, and as part of that playground replacement, we were able to incorporate a number of ADA repairs and fixes. And that included regrading the pathway down to the facility so that it met the 5% slope,
 and also repairing and replacing the non-ADA accessible picnic tables with ones that are accessible. A little bit about how we ranked and scored and prioritized things here on this slide is we assigned each site to a tier, so there were three tiers, Tier 1 being the most heavily visited parks, parks where we had known issues with accessibility or requests to fix things for accessibility,
 We also had multiple briefings with the Subcommittee on the Built Environment from the Commission on Disability and the Citywide 8A Transition Plan stakeholders. The tier was assigned as a first step, and then based on the number of visitors, how unique a facility was, the parks themselves were put into three different tiers, with Tier 1 being the highest priority.
 Each barrier was also assigned a category based on the federal guidance, that's the ADA law. And they are also known as categories, with one being the most important, a path of access to a facility, for instance, a doorway into a facility is a major category one barrier. And then there are five different types of barriers.
 Carla Waring, who's in the audience for us, we had hired to help us complete the transition plan. She did a great deal of work with the field staff. So just ground-truthing things that we saw in the consultants' reports were done with field staff, identifying really kind of going out and looking at which picnic tables made the most sense to have accessible. She worked with the staff and also worked very closely with our advisory committee, our disability advisory committee.
 And again, what we heard was path of travel, loud and clear, was number one importance. Restrooms being accessible were also very highly rated. And then getting into the other program areas once you're in and have access to a facility. Here again is just a snapshot of the breakdown on the priority scores. Again, score of three is really the highest priority. And again...
 which would be like a path of travel and then a Tier 1 for a park or facility itself. The Transition Plan Park Supplement is a narrative describing our planning process and includes a summary of each park. So this is available online. Members of the public can go in and look at individual sites if they're interested in a particular park and find a description of these barriers.
 So that's really a good thing to be sharing with the public. And while the transition plan is really focused on addressing existing barriers in the park system, I also want to highlight a few examples of how Parks is thinking ahead as we develop new facilities. As we redevelop existing sites and build new parks,
 Portland Parks not only ensures that new designs meet ADA minimums, but look for opportunities to expand accessibility and inclusiveness and address identified barriers. So the one example I had given previously is a good example of that at Marshall Park and our successful partnerships with Harper's Playground to build Harper's Playground and Arbor Lodge Park to make a universally accessible play experience. Another recent example is Dawson Park Renovation,
 When updating the play areas, we also look for opportunities to enhance accessibility and include adaptive and inclusive features and more accessible surface treatments. So our next steps, we'll be tracking and reporting all of these barriers so we can quickly determine which have been completed. That was one of the flaws of previous transition plans. We had no tracking system, but we're able to do that now, and so we'll be identifying that.
 The transition plan for facilities is part of a larger umbrella of citywide efforts that the Office of Equity and Human Rights will be leading. Next, they are embarking on an evaluation of policies and programs and will assess right-of-way facilities as well, so the streets and rights-of-way. The office will also be compiling annual reports showing our progress by all bureaus and to address identified barriers. I want to thank everybody that was involved in the process
 We have a member of our Parks Accessibility Advisory Committee with us today, Fern Wildes, and I'm going to let her say a few words, and then we'll take any questions that you have. Thank you. Welcome, Suels. Thank you.
 Thank you, gentlemen. I'm one of the more recent joiners of this committee. And let me tell you, I've learned a lot. And what I've really appreciated is the city workers that have come in and worked with us and that sort of thing have been very open to the PAC work.
 recommendations, and I look forward to many, many years of further teamwork, if you will. We accomplished an awful lot in a very short period of time.
 Until you walk in my shoes, you really don't understand my life or my needs. And this is why it was so incredibly important to have people who have different abilities, disabilities, be a part of this. Because Portland does have some marvelous parks. Right now, unfortunately, they're not accessible for a lot of people.
 I also look forward to being able to work with the city in the development of the new parks that are on the horizon. Some of us recently worked with the Tualatin Parks in development of one of their new systems out in the Beaverton area. It was so powerful to have them come right at the beginning, and it was...
 Georgina and I worked a little bit with them. It was so powerful for the people in which the parks are intended for to have them there. So I look forward to continuing here. For people with disabilities, having access and usability for our beautiful parks is not only commendable, but so very much needed and mostly so much appreciated. Thank you.
 The use of the parks, not only from the lanes and the pathways for people for accessibilities, but we're also looking at railings for whether you're in a wheelchair or having balance problems, and also a safety if you're going to be looking into like the Laurelhurst Lake.
 Signage, that's some of the things that we're also taking a look at. Signage to help people relieve their potential fear of being lost or confused. Bathrooms are already talked about.
 The table accessibility also was talked about, not just for eating, but some people with disabilities wouldn't be able to participate in the parks much other than table games or sitting around being able to talk with one another. One of the things that the parks does is it offers an equal opportunity for people who have lived in an isolated arena
 for whatever the cases are, and to bring them out into the open, into the public. And it's so important. It's also a part of a rehabilitative perspective, so if you can think of it in that terms. The other thing that I want to say is, and oh, by the way, what we've been looking at and thinking about
 isn't really just relevant for people with disabilities. We have quite a few senior citizens in the Portland area. Some of us, I for one, who's speaking. And the balance problems, the cognitive problems. I don't have time to go for a list. I have a book that I could show you. Anyhow, thank you, Portland, for getting the monies available.
 Thank you, City Council, for getting things put in place for good use of those monies, and thank you, Parks and Recreation, for asking us to be a partner. Thank you. Questions for this panel? Brett, I have a question. First, I just want to say thank you for the report that we were given is very clear.
 and the information is presented in a comprehensive way, so good job to everyone who had a hand in it. I guess there's an area about Title II that I don't fully understand, so I'm going to ask you a couple of basic questions. So according to the report, under Title II, we have to prepare a transition plan. We have to identify the barriers, rank them, and then we have to have a plan.
 What's interesting is woven throughout the report is a qualification, and the qualification is having the necessary resources to implement the plan. That's interesting because in other areas of the ADA, if someone brings a private right of action, what we look at in a reasonable accommodation, cost is a factor but only to the extent it's prohibitive.
 Reasonable accommodations often have a cost, but we do balance. Does the cost outweigh the benefit? Is it prohibitive? Does it put someone out of business? That kind of stuff. Here, we are supposed to have a plan, and it's dependent on having the resources –
 And you make it very clear that your schedule goes out 20 years with the highest priority stuff built in in the early years around the maintenance budget and new capital spending and some of the lower priority stuff backed out at the out years. So I guess the basic question I wanted to ask is, under Title II, are we on the clock? And at any time in the 20 years, do we have a defense of not having available resources or are we out of compliance with the law? Yeah.
 So I would have to defer to the office or either to our legal counsel about that question. We can get back to you on specifics of that. We are looking at various ways to fund everything that needs to get done. We talked a little bit about the parks bond funding, some of the work at Washington Park, which we have a lot of ADA issues at.
 So we're looking at different types of funding sources. And then a lot of the repairs are fairly minor, so we think we can take care of those through operations and operating budgets. But you are correct, there is an unfunded piece to this that we're going to have to be working away at over the next 20 years. And I don't know if there's going to be a citywide approach to that with all of the bureaus or whether we will obviously go about it individually, bureau by bureau.
 But it may make some sense for the city to consider some sort of budget request for all of the repairs. I think as to the legal question, it probably makes sense if we could just get a memo from the city attorney's office. We probably shouldn't be discussing this too publicly. I'd like a little more information because it's going to apply to a lot of bureaus. And the question is, once you have a transition plan, what is –
 What is our legal obligation in terms of completing the removal of the barriers? And to what extent is...
 does cost or the inability to pay give us additional time? I don't know what the law says about that, but I'd be interested because ultimately Title II plans will be developed with every bureau. And if the law is clear, for example, that we not only have to do a transition plan, but we have to fund it and we have to complete it within the high priority items within a reasonable period of time, then that –
 goes beyond an aspirational document, that becomes a budget document. And bureau by bureau, we have to identify resources that,
 So that would be a legal memo question. May I comment on that? I really appreciate your raising that. And, in fact, we did last year have an ADA request in the budget which wasn't funded. It was why we put $5 million in the bond measure to start addressing some of the most urgent problems. And as was stated, in each of the projects we are incorporating more accessibility features than was previously able to do. I agree.
 I don't think we're going to get our city attorney to say on the record that we're out of compliance with the law. I'd settle for a confidential memo on that. Not now, not ever. Regardless, I think we have a moral obligation. It's been over 20 years since your father got the ADA Act signed into law, and it's –
 more than time to correct this deficiency. It was remarkable when we went to the opening of the new park in Cully, Connemux Park, just the joy on everybody's faces of being able to use all of the play equipment and such. So there's multiple reasons for doing this. As Ms. Wilkis said, we're an aging population and I'm certainly going to be in the position of needing more handrails and
 signs and things like she mentioned. So I appreciate the sense of urgency. We shouldn't put this on the back burner. And I guess I was trying to ask the question delicately because we're each going to bring our own view of the sense of urgency, the moral component. I share Commissioner Fritz's view
 applause for the idea that what we're doing is making our facilities accessible for people of all ages and abilities. The beautiful thing about Harper's Playground is you can be 3 or 80. You can be fully abled or disabled. It is a park that welcomes everybody, and that's the standard. We want no barriers for anybody at any age, any ability. But anyway, so at some point, it would be helpful to me, since we're going to have to make sure
 some budget decisions, and I'm getting the sense that we just can't leave it to each bureau to beg, borrow, and plead for the resources to do this. We need some legal guidance as to what is our legal obligation to do this work and in what reasonable timeframe. And the council can debate whether we accelerate that or not. But I don't know that the law gives us an out just by saying, you know, pending available resources.
 because that's not how Title I works. And so I'm not sure you get a pass on Title II. I would just like to chime in. You know, the barriers that were identified, we're out of compliance. So having the transition plan is good faith effort. The ADA is requiring this from us to say, we are identifying where we're deficient,
 where we need to become compliant we're going to come up with costs we're going to categorize or prioritize them and we're going to come up with a schedule but that schedule doesn't hold us to a time you know just because we have this transition plan now in place isn't if there's no legal binding to it other than we need you know we need to be compliant with the law
 And as we know, the ADA is a remedial statute. It's not like some other civil rights statutes that are designed to wrap you across the knuckles. It's a remedial statute. So if a claim is brought, then you have to, in good faith, go through a process to figure out how to remove the barrier and achieve a reasonable accommodation. But, I mean, just in Title I, we wouldn't say to a motel where the units are not – excuse me, Title III claim –
 with a motel that has units that are not ADA accessible, you wouldn't say, well, go figure out what you have to do and come back in 20 years. You'd say, you know, how do you make sure your business is accessible to people? And short of shutting you down because it's too expensive, it might mean making the ground floor units accessible first or something like that.
 I think we need some more legal guidance because I have a feeling this becomes a citywide budget concern and not just leaving each bureau to fend for themselves. Commissioner, what I found with BDS was once we had the list, that asking about it on a quarterly basis and having the director assign somebody to tick off the list
 of the tasks, many of the things in these lists are not huge budget items. They are things that can be done relatively cheaply within existing budgets. MR. Well, and I think you've also – the other thing I learned from – that's very clear in this report is it's also everything we do going forward.
 There's no excuse not to incorporate the higher standards. Simply the accountability and the reporting back, I found, was very effective in making sure that attention was paid to it. And, indeed, the equity managers that many bureaus now have, that's part of their portfolio on their list of things to do to check through the transition. Well, I appreciate this discussion because we're all learning, and this is very helpful. Okay, more questions for the panel? Thank you all very much. Thank you.
 We'll see if there are no one else formally to present, but I think we might have others who want to speak on this. Actually, Mayor, I do have a question. This might seem kind of silly, but just because I happen to live near two of the facilities with some of the largest numbers of barriers, the Maloma Arts Center and Gabriel Park, I was just curious if you happen to know what would be some examples of some of the barriers there that you'd be addressing. Sure.
 I believe a lot of the doorways are not compliant with the handles on the doorways, for one. I know we had an issue with the very front door being not fully accessible. So those things are going to be prioritized. Again, those are the type one barriers that we're going to be trying to get to first.
 But those are the big ones, I think, at Multnomah Arts Center. We also have an annex area of Multnomah Arts Center that doesn't have accessible ramp to it yet. So the programming that goes on there is programming that there isn't a need for accessibility, or we don't have any requests to have accessibility there yet. But we are working on that as well. Thank you. Those are the big ones. Good questions. Thank you all.
 Thanks very much. Do we have some folks signed up? No one else signed up. Anyone else that's here that would like to speak? How can you avoid? Cody, for God's sake, you came all the way here. Get up here. I'm going to bless the work, say something about the slide that had something close to your heart in it. All right. It didn't take much to tempt him. Good to have you here. Is this official? I say my full name? Just your name. It's all your name. Cody Goldberg, Executive Director of Harper's Playground. Thank you for the invitation to come up. Thank you.
 I was not planning to speak, but as prodded to do so, I would be remiss if I didn't stress just how much I think there's an importance to go beyond the minimum law requirements. And there was in the report just a bit too much, in my opinion, talk of meeting that compliance and not enough about going well beyond. That is our biggest passion at Harper's Playground.
 And I think after 25 years of not even making compliance, that a plan with a more robust movement beyond minimum is just what I would really encourage the team working on this to go towards. Because some of us, we have children that are unable to reach these places. As you know, Harper is my daughter. And we don't have that much time.
 We visit these parks and we're literally left on the sidelines. And my passion for parks has grown to an immeasurable amount. I believe in the power of parks to create community in a way that almost no place can. And so these places are paramount for building relationships that can influence the workplace.
 broader society. And so these parks are really, really important. And I just would challenge everyone to think beyond minimum. Can I offer you an analogy? Yeah. We have a policy that Commissioner Saltzman put forth that requires that we meet a threshold of, I think it's a LEED gold standard in our public buildings. But we've been known to invest in LEED platinum.
 And, in fact, now we're a city that has, I think, enough LEED Platinum buildings to achieve a distinction in terms of pure cities that have the highest rated. You know, that requires that you push a little harder and maybe the front end costs sometimes a little more. But the long-term benefits are also clear. So I think we always should be challenged to go above the floor. Thank you.
 Yeah, I appreciate that. And I do thank everyone for their work on that. I know a lot of work goes into putting that data together. So I appreciate that very much. Thanks for the invite. Thank you. I would just say also, like, I think Westmoreland Park was done last year, finished. It's not.
 Playground there is definitely beyond the minimum, and I don't know who was the project manager on that or really put that together, but going there, I have a child, and going there and seeing him play there. Talking about the nature area? Yes, exactly. That was a proud partnership of Parks and BES with funding from a lot of partners in addition, and...
 and now the salmon are actually spawning, so it just keeps getting better. So, you know, I think there's a lot of positive things that have been done and that, you know, hopefully through this report and the efforts that have been done to kind of capture these barriers, at least identify them and move forward by removing them and learning. It's a great step. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 okay anyone else then do we have a motion i don't move to adopt the report is there a second second further discussion roll call saltzman well thank you very much for this good work it certainly is a lot of work so i appreciate all the work that the detailing of the effort that we lay before us and i think we're up for the challenge novick
 I'm really impressed by the extraordinary amount of work that you managed to do in a pretty limited period of time. I mean, identifying these thousands of barriers in a 15-month period and then coming up with this plan to address them is extraordinary. So thank you all very, very much. Hi. Great.
 Thank you to all of the team and the community volunteers who put this together. And also the consultants did a great job, and especially to our staff in parks. As Brett mentioned, we now have a resource database to track the ADA needs when planning and designing projects and scheduling things. And we also, thanks to Kia Selle, our wonderful assets manager, we have the micro main work order system, so we know exactly when the barriers have been taken.
 taken down and we won't need to do this kind of extensive re-surveying. We'll be able to document our compliance over the years. And we are intending to make a lot of improvements and progress over the years, hopefully sooner rather than later. So as I said, I will be bringing forward a budget request in the main budget process 16-17, including prioritization from this year.
 and especially looking at things that can't be done through the bond measure projects. Five million sounds like a lot, but when you're looking at this, we didn't even put a guess in the presentation as to how many millions of dollars all of these improvements will take to fix. It's certainly not zero. So there will be something. Of course, it would be eligible for the 50% set aside for parks maintenance projects. That would...
 the policy that the council has of setting aside some of the ending fund balance and one-time money, some of these projects might be eligible for that. So we'll be looking at all available resources, including partnerships with the community, that if outside funders would be able to partner with us, as Indeed Harper's Playground has so spectacularly,
 that we will be open to having community partners help us get this done. It's we're all in this together. And that's, to me, what this transition plan and the entire Americans with Disabilities Act work is all about. We really are all in this together. And whether you are experiencing a disability today, you may be in a position where you or a loved one is experiencing one tomorrow. And so let's fix the system for all of us. Hi. This is really good work, Brett. Thank you and to the whole team for the presentation.
 And I think this discussion has been helpful. You've opened my eyes to some things I think that we'll have a hunch we'll be discussing during budget time. Before I got elected to office, my law practice was largely focused on removing barriers that people experienced, and the civil rights laws were the tool we used.
 And now that I'm in government, I've learned that we have a lot of work to do to make sure that our services are barrier-free. And I'll just offer you one example that isn't directly related, but it's in the same family. As I've gotten older, my eyesight has gotten worse, and to the point where I have like $1,000 worth of corrections in my glasses. And without them, I'm legally blind.
 And as I have difficulty seeing things or reading things, there's a point in which my staff can blow things up to like a 0.20 or whatever for my comments. But it gets to the point we can only put a few words on a piece of paper. So that doesn't work. So I'm working now on just memorizing the points I want to make, because it's very hard for me to read the paper.
 But I remember when the Water Bureau did an exercise, we were looking at some brochures, and we cleaned it up, and we thought we had hit a home run, and we gave it to Elders in Action. And we got like two or three pages of single-spaced comments back. And I would say they were some of the most alarming and insulting comments I've ever read on a project where I thought we were giving them a finished product. And among other things, they said, who can read this? The fonts are all wrong.
 The way the information is laid out is not legible. There's 12 phone numbers, not one. So you're going to confuse someone. An older person reading this is going to be confused about where to call. And on and on, why are there scary pictures? Why are you putting the disclaimers and the scary stuff up front? Are you trying to scare someone from maybe not exercising a right? And on and on and on. And frankly, it was very sobering because what they were saying was, walk in someone else's shoes and understand how this is received. Don't assume that...
 because you receive the information a certain way that that's accessible. So what we used to have was little brochures like this. Now they're like this. And the first pushback in one of my bureaus was, well, that'll cost a little extra. And we said, that's okay. Spend a little extra money. Someone can actually use the information now. So the stuff we're putting in senior centers ought to be accessible to people we're trying to serve. So I think we're all learning about this as we progress.
 as we hold these jobs and frankly as we age the things we learn so this is very important work I look forward to hearing from the legal department a little more about our obligations and I think commissioner Fritz is right I think this is a city-wide concern and there may be a minimum we're required to meet but we may want to go beyond that and we may actually have to put some additional resources to funding these plans I think that's something we should take up during the budget time
 Thank you for your outstanding work. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, Office of Equity. Pleased to vote aye.
 Good work, good collaboration among the bureaus and with community leaders who are going to keep pushing us to do more. A couple of reflections. One, when you look at this, when you listen to this presentation, look at this report, you get a sense of the scope of the park system, not just the scope of the problem, which you obviously specifically enumerated here. But I think sometimes port owners don't realize the scope of this system.
 we do because we we deal with it and we know it's not complete even yet even with more than 200 parks and and many many buildings and facilities within those parks to address but again from my experience of working a lot of other cities that's such a distinction to portland not just that we have a few great parks most cities have got a handful of great parks but we've got a
 dozens, dozens, dozens of great parks. And so the scope of the enterprise gets clear when you look at the list of capital needs, as I know Commissioner Fritz does probably in the middle of the night, and when we get these kinds of reports. The other thing that shines through is just the sense and the –
 whenever you deal with the parks bureau this shines through the sense of serving the the parks customer namely all of us um and you know that's such a great strong current in the in the culture of the bureau uh we see this all the time and everything you do and just that sense of boy we want to serve more people we want to break down those barriers we want to get
 kids and adults and people of all abilities and all languages and all cultures involved. And there's just that relentless energy for inclusion that's really so much part of the Bureau's culture. And that's really important and something that we value and I think deserves to be called out, praised, because it deserves praise. So well done. Thank you very much. Aye. We are recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m.