This is it. Good morning, everybody, and welcome to the September 12th morning meeting of the Portland City Council. Carla, could you please call the roll? Udailey. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Wheeler. Saltzman. Here. Here.
 I will now turn it over to our attorney, Heidi Brown, for a statement. Thank you, Commissioner. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to speak briefly about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless it's otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on, and then when your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and you'd like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 You can see Joe DeWalsh demonstrating it there for us. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruptions may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Okay, thank you.
 Carla, do we have items, any items that have been pulled from the consent calendar? Yes, we've had 964 requested by Mr. Lightning. And we're doing that this afternoon anyway? Yes, because we don't have enough city council members here this morning. We're going to do our consent agenda at our afternoon meeting, which starts at 3 p.m. I do understand, Mr. Lightning, you pulled 964. If you wish, you could...
 Present your testimony at the end of our agenda, or you can wait until the 3 p.m. session, and we'll have somebody there. Want to wait until 3? This morning. Okay. Great. Then why don't we start with communications, item 957. Request of Joseph Walsh to address council regarding communications. Morning. We just need your name for the record, and you have three minutes. Yes.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. And once again, I come before you not to praise you. I come to petition you to do your job. Your sweeps are killing people and must be stopped immediately. ICE is a criminal organization and must be stopped. Where is our governor on this?
 Why did the mayor break his promise and break up the encampment when he said he would not get involved? You must pull out of the Joint Terrorist Task Force because you cannot trust these feds anymore. You must say what you are willing to do to stop ICE from operating in Portland. Don't use sugar words. Real action.
 I am willing to go to jail and be beaten and be treated badly. What are you willing to do? The five of you, the two absentees included. You must stop throwing people out of your meetings or on the streets helping where they can and meet with them and work together to get or be eaten by the feds.
 You must learn how to build bridges. I'm going to go off script here because I hate reading. Because it indicates that you do it in your head and not in your heart. We have to come together, folks. I have been battling you for a long time. We have to figure out how to make the bridges. I don't know how to do it. But we need to talk about it.
 We need to have meetings. Stop talking to people that agree with you and talk to people that you don't like. That's how you learn. You learn from your enemies. You learn from people that are mad at you. If you listen to what they're saying, I know that you're leaving us and I know the mayor may be leaving us, but we need your help. This aggravation, this throwing out,
 The security guards that you have coming down on people makes it worse. Just does. Some of your security guards I like. I get along with. Some I don't. You have to make this place a place of welcome. And the way it's being done right now, even though the mayor's not here, for the record, you're wrong. Totally wrong. And you need to talk and change it.
 Thank you. Thank you. Next item is 958. Request of Amy Franklin to address council regarding Portland police officers' actions at the September 4th counter-protest. Ms. Franklin, are you here? Okay, let's go to the next item, 959. Request of Marcus Gibson to address council regarding a sustainable solution to housing. Mr. Gibson? Okay, no Mr. Gibson either. So, uh...
 Next is 9960. Request of D. White to address council regarding update on lead poisoning from drinking water and stalling by Portland Water Bureau. Good morning. You just give us your name for the record, and you have three minutes. You're welcome. My name. Hello. My name. What? What?
 Hello, my name is Dee White. First, I'd like to say that the days of discrediting and silencing citizens who raise critical water quality concerns, well, I hope those days are over with a new water commissioner. The same can be said for y'all downplaying evidence-based data
 Once again, this chart shows lead levels in western cities. Portland is right there in the middle, the tall one. Until our elected officials stop stalling on sufficiently treating our water flowing into our homes, schools, parks, and businesses, I will continue to speak out. The truth is on my side. Poor corrosion control and negligent maintenance resulted in this. In 2013, when Mr. Fish became Water Commissioner, the Water Bureau exceeded the federal limit
 for lead for the seventh time. Here was an opportunity for him to show leadership. He did not. After the ninth exceedance last year, Mr. Fish did escalate concern, but shockingly not for lead. Instead, he cried alarms about an intestinal malady, Cryptosporidium, urging council to approve a half-billion-dollar filtration plant paid for by water customers.
 while ignoring this decades-old threat of lead poisoning due to skirting the law. Last year, a council member opined that shutting off water to homes with unpaid water bills is a form of child abuse. Let me ask this. Isn't it child abuse to undertreat the water, which city engineers know causes higher lead leaching into our drinking water? Clearly. Clearly.
 They have not immediately minimized lead at customer taps as the spirit and letter of the federal law requires.
 Data doesn't lie. It's time to acknowledge the Water Bureau's singular role in elevating lead levels citywide. This is the travesty, one, that Water Bureau PR staff have been busy convincing the public their undertreated water is safe to drink, two, that Commissioner Fish blames customer plumbing, and three, that Water Bureau engineers are not holding public health and welfare paramount.
 What you have done is protect industry and your own financial interest over public health. The next time one of you sees a baby sucking from their bottle mixed with formula and perhaps water from a faucet, will you do the right thing and ask that parent whether they know about Portland's high lead levels? Will you say to them you are urgently working on a free water filter program, or will you continue to be willfully blind and keep walking? Thank you.
 And our last communication item, 961. Request of Alan Ellis to address council regarding welcome of exchange students from Portland Sister City in the Russia Far East Khabarovsk. Good morning. Welcome. And just we need your name for the record, and you have three minutes.
 Okay, my name's Alan Ellis. I'm president of the Portland Khabarovsk Sister City Association. On my left is Zoya Suritz, who is a Russian teacher at Franklin High School. And to her left is Natalia Jomina, who brought a group over from Khabarovsk, and they'll be here through the month of September.
 And all of you are familiar with our sister city, Havadas. It's about 400 miles north of Vladivostok and not far from Korea and Japan by plane. It's a cultural center. The Trans-Siberian Railway runs through it, et cetera. And it also, like Portland, besides being an inland port and having a couple rivers run through it,
 It also is an educational center. And we've had a longstanding exchange program with our sister school in Havados, Gymnasium No. 5.
 And so Zoya and Natalia will tell you a little bit about that exchange. I might say that, as you know, speaking of building bridges, there's no better way to build bridges internationally than through the Sister Cities program. We have a band going, a bluegrass band going over to Khabarovsk at the end of October, Scratch Dog String Band.
 And this is a way, despite the problems between our two countries, our relations with our sister city couldn't be more cordial. So, Zoya? Well, I'm originally from Khabarovsk, Russia, and I've been here for more than 20 years, and I'm very honored, and I think it's a great opportunity for me to continue my relationship with my native town through their sister city, Khabarovsk, Portland,
 association as well as being a teacher of Russian language at Franklin High School that has re-established their student exchange program three years ago. I know that this program was very popular in the 90s when Ellen Ellis was the teacher from Lincoln High School who was bringing the students back and forth and now I think it's a new stage of that like a renaissance of the exchange program. This is the third group from Khabarovsk and
 staying here in Portland. And I brought together with my colleague, Laura Struble, another Russian teacher at Franklin, the group of American students to Khabarovsk in June. Natalia is from Khabarovsk. Good morning. My name is Natalia Domina, and I'm a teacher at one of the state comprehensive schools in the city of Khabarovsk.
 I can't but mention that we have been twin cities. I'm in Portland, the city of Khabarovsk, for 30 years, since 1988. And we are here with a group of students from gymnasium number five. There are eight of them. We're all here.
 Welcome. Thank you. Good to see you. Good to see you. And thank you for being here. We are happy because it is a great experience for us. Of course, the main goal of visiting your city and America, well, is to learn more about your culture, to go sightseeing, and to improve our English.
 So we have already visited Seattle. It was a great experience being on a baseball match, the Yankees against Mariners. We're so excited because we have never seen such a thing in our country, in our city.
 and the system of education differs from ours greatly, but my children are happy to go to Franklin High School because everybody is polite, helpful, and it's simply great. Thank you. Well, thank you, and thank you all for visiting Portland.
 And the United States. And thank you, Mr. Ellis, for all the work you do on our sister city relations. Thank you. President Sussman, could we get a photograph with the students? Would they like that? Would you like to come up and get a photograph? Yes. Okay. All right. Are you ready? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, now we're ready for our only time certain this morning, 962. Report on recent work from the City Auditor, Police Training Follow-Up, Bureau of Environmental Services Stormwater Requirements, Short-Term Rental Regulation. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners, Mayor and Abstentia. I am City Auditor Mary Hall Caballero. I'm here today to share results of our latest audits.
 and introduced brief presentations by the staff who led them. We began delivering audit results to City Council on a quarterly basis about a year ago. Our hope was that these appearances would be taken in the spirit in which we intend them, which is for the city to become more effective, efficient, and equitable. We hope to use these opportunities to speak to you as a group and to highlight themes across audits that can apply to any operations and programs, whether they are the subject of an audit we are presenting on any given day.
 I appreciate your attention to our findings and recommendations, and for the spirited discussion that sometimes follows our presentations. Performance audits are independent, methodical assessments of how well management is implementing the policies and programs established by this body. We choose topics based on a variety of factors, such as indications that a bureau or program is in danger of not achieving its goals,
 or the level of taxpayer funding invested in them. Most important, we want our audits to be timely and reliable sources of information for the public, council, and city managers. Today I'm introducing three recent reports. The first highlights the Police Bureau's progress on recommendations we made in a 2015 audit of the training division. The second focuses on two programs managed by the Bureau of Environmental Services
 to prevent sewer and storm water from damaging property or ending up in our waterways. And the third is an assessment of the city's regulation of the short-term rental market and its effect on the housing crisis. And we'll begin with the police training follow-up.
 Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Martha Prince. I'm a senior management auditor, and I led our June 2018 audit of police training, which was a follow-up audit. In a follow-up audit, we revisit recommendations made in the original audit. In this case, the original audit was released in March of 2015 and had 12 recommendations.
 Gaining and maintaining the public's trust is more likely when officers do their jobs as they should, and training helps officers keep up with the rapid pace of changes in societal, legal, and policy expectations. The 2015 audit found improvements had already been made to training since the 2012 U.S. Department of Justice report on the Police Bureau, which included a number of training-related recommendations.
 In this 2018 audit, we found that five of our 12 2015 recommendations had been implemented, six were considered in process, and one was no longer relevant due to an operational change made by the Police Bureau. They're grouped in this slide by topic area.
 In the interest of time, I won't go through each recommendation individually, but the comments I'll make in the next several slides are grouped according to the themes shown on this slide. It's important for police agencies to know their officers receive required training. Our 2015 audit found problems with some aspects of how Portland Police tracks officer training.
 The Bureau got a new database in January of this year. They're still working out some kinks with it, but we found the new system had better search capabilities than the old system. It also has a robust reminder system if an officer is found to be missing a required training, as well as other improvements. At the time of our audit, the Bureau was figuring out workarounds for the unresolved issues. Thank you.
 It's also important that the Police Bureau know what types of training officers need, and after training is delivered, the Bureau needs to evaluate how well that training actually worked. The Police Bureau had just begun doing formal needs assessments when we did our 2015 audit and is now completing an assessment each year. The assessments draw upon a variety of sources and have been improving over time. The Bureau is also doing more and better evaluations than they were in 2015.
 This Police Bureau graphic shows some of the inputs and outputs in their needs assessment and evaluation process. Although the Bureau is doing more evaluation than in the past, they aren't yet doing as much as we said they should in the 2015 audit. The Police Bureau also still needs to work on how to communicate with the Chief about training effectiveness. Police training programs should address important topics thoroughly and consistently.
 In 2015, we recommended the Bureau provide more scenario-based training as opposed to classroom-based training, and you've got a photo there of the scenario village, and that they more consistently cover such topics as confrontation management, dealing with mental health crises, the need for officers to get medical help for subjects when needed, and not using profanity.
 In 2018, we found a lot of variability from year to year in the hours of scenario-based training the Bureau offered since the time of our original audit, as you can see in the chart on the slide. The Bureau also didn't use actual cases as part of training for tenured officers as much as they could have. In 2018, we found that officers were receiving more training on the need to get medical help than they had been in 2015, but needed additional training on not using profane or demeaning language.
 In 2015, we found the Bureau's three precincts had inconsistent procedures for checking out weapons. We also found that officers didn't always include weapons information when they logged into the Bureau's dispatch system, which they were required to do. The Bureau now has consistent and more thorough procedures for checking out weapons. Those procedures include directing supervisors to conduct an inventory of the armory during each shift and to make sure officers check out weapons properly.
 Finally, our 2015 audit recommended that the Bureau provide refresher training on how to store ammunition for less lethal weapons to avoid repeating an incident in which an officer accidentally loaded live ammunition into a less lethal shotgun, which resulted in an injury. That's no longer possible because the Bureau changed to a different less lethal launcher, which can't be loaded with live ammunition. And that concludes my presentation, and I would be happy to take any questions you may have.
 Okay, thank you. Questions? Thank you. This is a very helpful update, and I'm really pleased to see the improvements that have been made under Chief Outlaw. I think the audit confirms that we are making progress, and just that graphic you just showed does. What kind of training do they do on the issue of profanity and language? Well, they...
 One of the things that we saw and why we did not consider it to be totally implemented is they're saying it's woven into a lot of different trainings. But I reviewed all kinds of lesson plans and other similar materials. And I didn't find as much as we thought there should have been. And also, we wanted to see very specific trainings.
 We also found that there was more of that type of training in the initial training that officers were received, but it didn't seem to be as much in the ongoing, you know, the in-service training for the tenured officers. So we just wanted to see more about that. Yeah. I wonder if they knew what proportion of the complaints to Independent Police Review...
 are related to profanity, if that would be helpful. And they did talk about their impression that the complaints were often more about respect and not specifically profanity. I mean, demeaning language, obviously there's a lot of variability
 in how you look at that, but that it was kind of part of their procedural justice work that they're doing. But you know, just in short, we just wanted to see more very specific talk about that. And so that's why we considered it in process. And how often do they receive training on de-escalation? I don't know off the top of my head, and I don't recall if it's on a specific schedule.
 So I appreciated you highlighting the new tracking system, which will make it easier to check. Are they required to take refresher courses on a regular basis? Yeah, there's a lot of training. It's ongoing. And one hope for the new system was that they'll just keep better track of – because a good portion of the training is delivered via video. It's not always going for the two days of in-service training that we might think of. So it's sort of –
 pings you continually the officer at the officer level if you didn't take it and then it goes up the chain of command so I think they like that that sort of automate you know it can go all the way up to the chief actually so just to really make sure everybody's doing all the different trainings that they're required to do
 I'm glad we have that. When I worked at OHSU every year you had to watch five videos, electrical safety, fire safety, and every year I'd be like, oh, I've already seen this 15 times. Every year I'd be like, oh, that's new. Exactly. And it was very helpful to have those automatic reminders to, you know, you haven't done this. Right, right. And they want to keep things fresh in the officers' minds. Yeah, that's very positive. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Are there any standards for scenario-based training in terms of how many hours a year an officer should have? No, they didn't have a goal. They weren't entirely sure why they had had that variability. I think they do want to do more. They talked about, you know, it takes a lot of planning, it takes a lot of time, and –
 The other thing they mentioned, of course, there are always new requirements. And it's been an intensive time as far as this audit being concurrent to the DOJ settlement. So I think they just expressed that they would like to do more. So how did they manage that? As you say, the policies have been changing. What strategies did they use to make sure that their staff know what the latest changes are? Because I get their police directive, and there are dozens of them.
 Well, I mean, I guess I would just say they did talk to me about the fact that it's challenging and that it's so fluid. And I think that's one reason why the audit basically says, you know, it's improving. There's still work to be done. It's one of the most dynamic areas of the police bureau, I think, as far as people tend to look to training as being very important. Of course, there are other things that they want to look at if things don't go as they wish they had. But it's a very high-profile area.
 It gets a lot of attention. So many changes, it seems like every month they should have an update of what's the most important things of the latest changes. Right, right. And satisfying the DOJ and sort of ongoing, you know, a lot of back and forth and then something else changes. So it's, and you know, in their opinion, they need more staff. We didn't comment on that, but just it is a very...
 a very intensive area, or it has been the last couple of years for sure. When did you finish your analysis work and move into the writing yourself? I don't have an exact date. I mean the audit came out in, oh gosh, when did it come out? June. So usually there's at least a month when you're finalizing things, sometimes as much as two months. So I'd say roughly May. Okay, so we did actually approve more training staff in this fiscal year budget. I'm sure. So hopefully that addresses it. Thank you. Right, right. You're welcome. At least it helps.
 Thank you. Okay, thank you. So the next audit we want to discuss was our audit of private stormwater management. Do I need to move this closer? My name is Elizabeth Pape, and I'm a senior management auditor, and I led our July 2018 audit of private stormwater management. This is the first in a series of two audits of BES stormwater management. We're still working with the Bureau, and we'll release a second audit on management of green streets and restoration projects this fall.
 Stormwater is the rain that runs off hard urban surfaces like roofs and pavement. BES relies on private property owners to treat stormwater generated at their sites to prevent local flooding, system sewer backups, erosion, and pollution in natural waterways. This diagram shows how private structures prevent sewer overflows during heavy rain events. On sunny days and days with light rain, the system collects and treats all sewage and stormwater.
 On days with heavy rain, untreated mixed wastewater can flow into the river. But when stormwater is managed on private property, the system is less likely to overflow during heavy rains. There are a variety of types of structures property owners can use to manage stormwater. Eco roofs collect rainwater to reduce runoff. Dry wells collect runoff below the ground and allow it to disperse into the ground.
 Planters collect runoff above the ground, filter it, and can allow it to disperse into the ground. And swales collect runoff at the ground level, filter it, and can allow it to disperse into the ground. We looked at two of the Bureau's programs related to stormwater management on private property. The first was requirements associated with development contained in the Stormwater Management Manual.
 BES requires management for any development that increases impervious surface more than 500 square feet. The second program was the Clean River Rewards Program, which offers discounts for the on-site portion of the stormwater utility fee. These discounts can apply to rate payers who operate the kind of structures required by the Stormwater Management Manual, and also similar structures retrofitted to existing properties, and not only those associated with new development.
 Our first finding was that data management systems were not adequate for the design of stormwater infrastructure. The calculations the city uses to decide on the size of pipes and the number of regional stormwater facilities requires knowledge of what structures are out there. Individual systems interact with regional facilities, and they need data on where facilities are located, how much stormwater they are designed to handle, and what conditions they're in.
 The Bureau relies on a variety of data collection methods for private structures that are not organized into a coherent system. Information is stored in three data systems, each managed by a separate group. Data collected involves a manual transaction between two systems, introducing the potential for data entry errors. One program relied on geographic information systems layer that did not include some participating accounts.
 and one program's information was not shared with system planners. In addition to issues with data management, the Bureau also did not have good information on the condition of private structures because it did not regularly inspect most of them. Of the total 37,000 properties, 6% were regularly inspected and 78% were never inspected, and most of these were single-family residential properties.
 The Bureau risked overspending by building higher capacity stormwater infrastructure because data systems could not account for the benefits provided by private stormwater management. Private structures can have significant impacts on budgets. For example, the Woodlawn King project budget decreased from $6.4 million to $2.2 million after including private structures.
 The Bureau used field researchers to compensate for incomplete data. To its credit, the Bureau's field research meant that the city incorporated information on private structures into project planning and did not build more pipes and system upgrades than needed. However, the process could have been faster and easier if information was available through well-managed data systems.
 Our recommendations to address these issues were to develop a single information system to inventory private stormwater structures and to develop additional risk-based monitoring programs. Our second finding was related to program evaluation. Since the Bureau adopted the permitting program almost 20 years ago and the Clean River Rewards Program over 10 years ago, it has not gone back to assess whether the programs meet goals for stormwater management and rate fairness.
 Staff said they were unable to quantify the effects of private property structures on the entire system without investing a couple months of work. The Bureau did not have information on the cost of private stormwater structures, so we could not calculate costs associated with the permitting program. Adjusting thresholds could make the program more efficient. The Bureau's threshold... Sorry. The Bureau's threshold...
 for incorporating development into the program is at 500 square feet, which they said was one of the lowest in the country. This low permit threshold may have a high cost with little benefit for stormwater control. Increasing the threshold from 500 square feet to a more standard 1,500 square feet would reduce the number of permits by 8%, but decrease the area of impervious surface managed by less than 1%.
 Goals for rate fairness were also not evaluated. Most rate payers who manage stormwater on-site do not participate in the Clean River Rewards Program. The Bureau estimated that only 30,000 of 90,000 eligible properties participated. We calculated that 86% of properties with permitted structures were not participating even though they should have been eligible.
 Could you just explain to folks at home what is the Clean River Rewards Program? Sure. It's a program where – actually, this one's better –
 You get a discount on the on-site portion of the stormwater fee, which is in this chart that $9.60. So the ratepayers still pay the stormwater fee that applies to the entire system, but they don't have to pay the part that goes towards managing stormwater on-site. And the ratepayer has to apply for that discount, doesn't get it automatically? That's correct.
 So these rate payers, though, who had permitted stormwater structures but were not participating in the Clean River Rewards Program, not only missed out on the $9.60 a month discount, but also paid $1.70 more each month to cover expenses not paid by those who did participate. So therefore, the majority of eligible rate payers were worse off than they would be if the program did not exist.
 The Bureau's outreach efforts had a large impact on participation. Over half of participants enrolled in the program's first year when there was more extensive outreach. First-year enrollment was over 16,000 accounts compared to around 1,500 accounts every year since then.
 Without evaluations, the Bureau could not prove that the benefits of private stormwater management exceeded costs imposed on the private sector and could not adjust program elements to optimize efficiency or effectiveness.
 Our recommendations to assess the performance of the Bureau's approach to encouraging private stormwater management were that the Bureau should create a schedule and assign staff to periodically evaluate outcomes of the permitting and clean river rewards programs against stated goals and to use the results of evaluations to ensure the achievement of program goals and expectations.
 And that concludes this part. So if you have questions, we can answer them. Thank you. Questions? Why do you not recommend that they just automatically enroll people if they've got the permit?
 We usually don't issue very specific recommendations and leave decisions like that up to management. That's one of the things that I brought up with them. There might be some complications related to details in their data systems, so that was why.
 I'm sure Commissioner Fish will be looking into it. It just seemed like, although it says that there's an increased effect for paying for those who participate, if they've saved $4 million on having a smaller pipe, that's kind of a built-in, actually you've saved the ratepayers still, even after paying for the discount. But as I say, I'm sure Commissioner Fish will look into it. Thank you. I guess I had one question.
 So I want to make sure I heard that right. So, yes, the Woodlawn King project decreased by $4 million when they went out and actually documented how much stormwater was being retained on site. Yes. So when they did the original project design, based on what information they had about assets within the system, they needed $6.6 million in improvements or something like that.
 Once they went out into the field and they looked at the actual structures in the neighborhoods, they found that a lot of the homes were actually connected to dry wells, and so they didn't have the needs they anticipated and reduced the project budget by $4 million. That's pretty impressive. And then why do you think there are so few people enrolled in the Clean River discount program? Is it just—
 Lack of knowledge? Yeah, I think people don't know about it. There's not a lot of outreach, especially compared to the first year of enrollment. Most of the people who enrolled enrolled in those first years. So I think people just don't know about it. Do they have to keep re-enrolling? No.
 You don't, but it's based on the rate payer, not on the property. So if you're a tenant and you'd have to enroll each time, so each new tenant would have to re-enroll for a property. And if you bought a property, you wouldn't know that that was available to you necessarily? You wouldn't necessarily know. Thank you. Thank you. One more?
 Okay, excuse me. Okay, so the next audit is on short-term regulation. My name is Alexandra Furchack and I led this audit which was released just last month. In this audit, we found that most short-term rental hosts do not have the required permits and the city rarely enforces its regulation.
 And despite concerns about the effect of short term rentals on housing availability and affordability, the city does not collect data needed to effectively regulate these rentals and to monitor the housing market. The city began regulating short term rentals in 2014 when council changed the zoning code to allow residents to rent their homes for short terms.
 Now, the intent of the regulation was to preserve the residential character of neighborhoods and to prevent commercial short-term rental activity. But we found that the city's current regulation approach cannot assure this. Now, this graph shows that the market has more than doubled since 2015.
 Note that their largest growth is in the rentals of entire homes compared to private rooms within a home. I should also note here that in order to evaluate the regulation of short-term rental market, we had to obtain data from a third party because the city does not have this information. We presented an interactive version of this data on the city's auditor's website, so people can go on there and look at all the details.
 The regulations require each host to obtain a short-term rental permit and to follow certain restrictions. As of October 2017, development services issued over 1,600 active permits. However, during that time, there were over 4,600 rentals listed just on Airbnb alone.
 Adding the number of rentals from all the other booking agents that are operating in Portland, such as HomeAway or Vicasa, we estimate that only about 22% of rentals are actually permitted.
 One factor that has limited cities' bureau ability, as I mentioned earlier, is to enforce the regulation is the lack of data about short-term rental activity. And this includes addresses of rentals and also how often or for how long the listings are rented. Of the approximately 15 booking agents that are active in Portland, none provide data to the city.
 This map shows the rentals available in the city of Portland. As you can see, it clearly shows some neighborhoods that have a higher concentration of these rentals. And as the number of these units has been increasing since 2014, their effect on housing market and neighborhood quality has not been monitored. No city bureau has officially been assigned the responsibility to monitor the impact on housing.
 And this map is broken out by neighborhoods where we account for short-term rental activity and also the number of housing units per neighborhood. As you can see, neighborhoods in inner northeast and also inner southeast are more frequented by renters than other parts of the city. These are also neighborhoods that have experienced historically gentrification and are facing affordable housing shortages. These neighborhoods should be monitored to determine how this market actually affects them.
 Data also shows that there are hosts with multiple short-term rentals. This map shows hosts with six or more rentals. But since the city doesn't have the information on these, such as addresses for the host and also their listings or rentals, it's not clear how much of this activity actually represents illegal renting.
 For example, some of these hosts are hotels or bed and breakfast that are listed on the platforms. Some are separate rooms that people are listing in their houses. And some host, I'm sorry, some may be management companies that list units for their clients. But the main concern here is that these may be hosts listing multiple rentals that are not their primary residence, which would be a violation of city code.
 And because the city doesn't have access to the complete data on these listings, it cannot determine whether these renters are illegal or whether they are removing residences from the housing market, such as specifically the long-term rental market.
 So to effectively regulate the short-term rentals, we make a number of recommendations which are summarized here. They include obtaining complete data on active short-term rental hosts and their listings. And this data should either be obtained from the booking agents or from other publicly available sources. And the city should use it to proactively enforce the city's zoning and tax code.
 We also recommend revising the permitting and enforcement process to meet intended regulation goals. And to assess the impact of short-term rentals on the housing market, we recommend the Housing Bureau develop a monitoring process of this market in order to evaluate effects on cities' housing and to report the results to City Council.
 And that concludes my presentation. So if you have any questions. Thank you. I have a few comments that I'd like to put on the record, and I welcome your feedback. I try not to use the Airbnb as, like, the Jell-O or Band-Aid of short-term rentals because we know there's 10 or 15 platforms, but most of my dealings have been with Airbnb. And I will say that...
 While the city has really tried to listen to and respond to their concerns and frustrations, especially those of the legitimate, small-time hosts who are actually following our rules, I have not felt that Airbnb is bargaining with us in good faith. They've been dismissive of their impact on our rental market.
 They have refused every simple suggestion that we've put forth to exclude hosts who are not in compliance with our rules. And they're dragging their feet on giving us their host data. And it's one of the biggest frustrations and disappointments I had with BDS was that I wasn't able to advance that.
 enforcement. Because of that lack of data, it's difficult and impossible for us to prove that people are violating the owner-occupied home rule. And it would be extraordinarily expensive because it would basically be, I don't know, we're going to hire hundreds of private investigators to sit outside people's homes and see how often they're, you know, it's...
 However, the multiple, the host with multiple listings
 seems like it would be very simple for Airbnb to eliminate. And in fact, they rolled out something called One Host, One Home. Is that the name? Yeah. Which was a pilot project where they supposedly eliminated all these multiple listings from hosts. But we know that that simply isn't the case. There's someone on Airbnb right now, I think, named Nadia who is renting out 54 units in a high-rise apartment building in downtown Portland.
 So I appreciate the audit and even though this is no longer in my portfolio, it's something that I'm just going to continue to hammer on and pursue. And if they don't want to comply with our rules, they should get out of our city. So once we know of a violator, then what happens? Yes.
 I mean, I would need, oh, I see the person I need right there in the back of the room. It doesn't look like he maybe wants to come up here, but Mike, would you be willing to come up and explain that process?
 And feel free to respond to anything I said as long as you entirely agree with me. Of course, of course. Mike Liefeld, Bureau of Development Services. With respect to enforcement of accessory short-term rentals, we changed our enforcement response in, I want to say, 2017 or 2016 to move away from a compliance-based approach where we –
 provided notice, a compliance period, and we found that just wasn't effective, and we needed to adopt a citation-based program. And so that is now receiving violations received citations. The first citation is $1,000. Second citation for repeated offense is $3,000. And then third offense and all other future offenses are at the $5,000 mark.
 In addition, if those simply are not working, become the cost of doing business, we still retain the right to proceed with a code hearing and seek up to $1,000 a day, which we have done successfully. So in the instance that Commissioner Daly pointed out with over 50 different years, is that $5,000 per unit or $5,000 per person doing the violation? It could be. It's the admin rule.
 that it's, I believe, per violations. So it could be implemented on a unit-based approach, and it could be...
 for each night. In terms of trying to gain compliance and educate, we've found it to be effective. Because if you've got 50, then $5,000 over the 50 is the cost of doing business, as you said. And if we reach the point where we've issued a second citation, our goal is to not do the administrative work, to just continue to issue citations. So our approach has been, upon issuing a second citation, we do increase the penalty. We let them know that,
 while we do it per booking generally, we may move to a nightly offense, and then that would be $5,000 for each night. And so there are some tools at our disposal that allow us to get compliance. Okay.
 I think at some point in the future it would be helpful to have a report from BDS about what kind of compliance enforcement you have, because obviously it has previously been complaint-driven, and I know that there are community members who see this happening. Yes, we can't afford to hire private investigators, but some of these rentals cause a lot of problems with compliance.
 late night partying and basically becoming like a hotel and having similar problems. So then you get a complaint, then you investigate it. So obviously you have a new commissioner in charge with Mayor Wheeler, but it would be interesting to me to get a report on, a summary report of over the last year, how many complaints, what the outcomes were. Unless, was that looked into in the audit? No.
 We did look at complaints and the report also contains a map of where the complaints are actually originating, I mean where the rentals that have been complained about. Did you look at what happened in those complaints, whether they were enforced upon? We did look at the, as far as tracking when the complaint was submitted and then whether they were substantiated or not. And as to whether they've continued to do it or not?
 Or if they came into compliance? Yes, we did look at that, yes. Yeah, I don't have that information right now, but I can provide that. I would be very interested to see that. Thank you, and obviously it's something we've been grappling with for several years, and until we get a handle on this, I think all of the discussions about zoning code changes, accessory dwelling units really should be pending, getting this in line. Thank you both for your work. When did you move to the citation-based approach?
 I believe I want to... It was like a year ago or two years ago? It might have been a... It may have been December or February of 2017 or December of 2016. That's the time period that I'm recalling. Yeah, I think it was finalized in January, February 2017. Yeah. And have you found that so far that hosts that are cited initially are coming into compliance after their citation or...?
 Or is it like Commissioner Fritz suggested, just a cost of doing business type of a thing? We have fewer repeat violators. We do have properties that have received multiple citations and have allowed a lien balance to grow quite large. But overall, the citation-based approach is extremely effective.
 $1,000 for folks who were making the calculation that it was the cost of business quickly answers that question for them. They're not willing to engage in that risk-based approach, and that listing is taken down, and we're seeing that the property is being put into legal uses, more conventional 30-day rentals, or it's simply being sold because it's not a good investment property any longer.
 And our rules about private homes, you have to live in the home, is it six months a year? Nine. Nine. So that's pretty alarming, I guess, that there's so many private homes that are apparently not getting permitted at all. Well, thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it. Auditor, you're doing this periodically. I think it's important to bring your audits to us and summarize them and get our feedback. Great. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you.
 It's important to allow testimony on these audits as well. We're going to have these audits as a report. Oh, yeah, well, you know, I'm willing to let testimony. We have time this morning for one thing. So how many people want to testify? Okay, we got three or four or five? Okay. So why don't you come up in a group of three, no more than three at a time, and I'll give you three minutes. Thank you. You all know the drill. Give us your name for the record, and you each have three minutes.
 Thank you very much, Mr. President. My name is Dan Handel, and I'm a member of Portland Cop Watch, and really appreciate the ability to testify on reports. We think it's very important, especially when it involves the police.
 This, about the report on training, like many statements that have been coming from various parts of City Hall and the Bureau, it seems to imply the Bureau is doing just a great job, it's almost done with the U.S. DOJ settlement agreement. We would argue at this point, because it's been documented how many people who've been subjected to deadly force by the Bureau since the DOJ came to town were in mental health crisis.
 The underlying issues of racial profiling has not changed nor any notable progress been made on collecting or analyzing the stop data as required by the agreement. It was alarming to read that the Bureau is not willing to use real-life Portland scenarios in training because they don't want to embarrass the officer involved who might be present at the training.
 This is outrageous if the Bureau is truly committed to learning from its mistakes. If the person who was involved recognizes they could have handled the situation better, there should be no embarrassment. This is not second grade. These are people who are trusting with guns and tasers and batons and pepper spray and flashbangs and a number of other weapons and tactics that cause considerable harm and trauma in our community.
 In the analysis of the needs assessment process where the Bureau decides what kind of training is needed based on various factors, there's no mention of public input. This includes the Training Advisory Council, who has a meeting tonight, and I doubt that they were given a copy of this report ahead of time. They're specifically tasked in the DOJ agreement with helping to develop this assessment.
 The report says that officers are not consistently told to avoid profanity, demeaning language, and demeaning labels. There is training for new recruits in advanced academy but little in-service training, as you heard a little while ago. The Bureau claimed they weave the concept into other training and plan to do more about procedural justice and implicit bias in the future, but that just means they have plans and there's not really progress.
 It's also of interest that the auditor dropped an early recommendation that they talked about, about not loading shotguns with live rounds instead of less lethal, because the PPB changed their less lethal systems. But we have seen, of course, some of this happened after the report came out, but previously they were using flashbangs and other less lethal devices, which are very alarming and cause harm to people in the community. And there's no mention of them looking at the training for those new less lethal systems. They only said, oh, the old one is gone, so we don't have to...
 continue making that recommendation anymore.
 We also asked, and we sent you these comments on email yesterday. I hope some of you had a chance to read them. But the auditor's office also oversees independent police review, and their annual report came out in June of this year. It has been years since the last time an IPR report came before this council for your edification about what's going on with oversight and for the community to have input into what's going on with police accountability. And we would like the council to request the auditor bring that IPR annual report before you
 All right.
 And we hope that you will encourage the mayor, when he presides, to also allow testimony on reports, because it's not taking up much of your time and it's very helpful for our discussions. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. My name is Mimi Gurman. Thank you very much for allowing us to testify on this so-called report, which should not be a report but a regular agenda item, and especially when it has to do with the police and an audit on what's going on with the police.
 The mayor ran on a platform of transparency for the police. Not allowing us to testify on what's going on is a complete negation of part of what transparency is all about. So, again, thank you for allowing this testimony.
 During the audit report, it was interesting to me that the police can't even figure out how to work their computer system. I know that there are kids in high school and perhaps middle school who could help them get a grip on their computer system. I'm fairly certain of that. So for that to be an acceptable...
 I don't know, piece of the review, that this is just okay, this is what's going on, after city council, either last year or the year before, gave them money to revamp their system, thinking that maybe they could revamp their system,
 There was no oversight on who's going to do that, apparently, because still, a year or two years later, after having given them money, and Chloe's vote was a part of that, we are still seeing audits where they don't know how to work their machinery, their computers. It's unacceptable. Many of the things in the audit today are unacceptable, should be unacceptable to you, should be unacceptable to the mayor, should be unacceptable to the residents of Portland,
 when hearing that certain things that should be in compliance are still not in compliance, as the auditor's report told us today. That there are certain things pending, there are certain things that haven't gone through, certain things that they've just waived off, certain things, oh, that they still haven't figured out how to tell the chief what's going on, that was in the report today, with reference to certain aspects of the audit. It's all in that report, right?
 They can't figure out how to tell the chief certain things. That is unacceptable. That the chief is supposedly the one who is supposed to know what's going on, but the minions beneath her can't figure out how to get the info to her? Unacceptable. So much in that audit was unacceptable. The fact that I had to yell out to get testimony on this, which is called a report, which shouldn't be referred to as a report, is unacceptable information.
 This is the kind of thing that Joe was talking about earlier, that Joe Walsh was talking about, where you have to bridge the gap between this lack of transparency, call for transparency, call for honesty, and bring the city's people to the table to discuss these things. Absolutely unacceptable. Thank you again for allowing this testimony. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Mary Seif. And I'd like to echo everyone else's expression of thanks for allowing testimony. And what I'd also like to do is to ask all of you to perhaps try to persuade Mayor Wheeler to change his position.
 on not allowing testimony on reports. I've been here many times where I've had information that I really think if I had been able to share it with you, you would have all been quite surprised and that it would have been very beneficial for you to know. But because it was a report, I was unable to share that information. What I want to speak about is the short-term rentals.
 I am pretty certain that the building that Commissioner Udailey referred to, that is renting out 54 units, is the building across the street from where I live. It's not in the Pearl, but... It's not? Okay. Well, I can tell you that the building across the street from where I live is doing exactly the same thing. That's great. And it's...
 There's a number of things about it that really alarm me. One is that there's actually two buildings across the street from where I live that are using Airbnb, and it is like living across the street from two high-rise hotels.
 And one of the big concerns about it is that what this is doing is that it is allowing them to offset the problem that they're having in that they built almost 800 units of luxury homes in this six blocks area in a three-year period that they can't rent.
 Now, because they can use Airbnb, the natural progression of things is not allowing that situation to drive the rents down in the neighborhood. And we definitely need to do something about this. I also was doing some research, and I was...
 My conclusion when I did this research was it appears to me that these regulations about the short-term rentals may only apply to residential zones and not to mixed-use zones.
 I may be wrong about that, but that was the conclusion that I was getting, which tells me then there's no regulation in the Pearl District because it's a mixed-use zone and that all of these apartment buildings could be doing what buildings in my neighborhood are doing.
 So what I would like to say is if that is the case, red flag. That needs to be addressed in the scope of what you regulate with the short-term rentals. And again, thank you. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Joe. Were there two other people that wanted to speak also? You can come up to the table. We've got two seats available. Okay. So we'll take these two and then we'll take you. Thank you.
 And that will complete the testimony. Are we ready? Yeah, ready. Good morning. My name is Joe Wallace. I represent Individuals for Justice. And again, I would like to echo our thanks for allowing us to speak. I realize it is an option called by the presiding official or the president of the council. Chloe, if you leave, we have to adjourn. One of the things that I thought about when the presentation from the auditors was that
 This all began as an idea that someone had a house and there were some vacant rooms and they decided to rent them out. Seems like a reasonable idea for everybody. People coming to town could get cheap rates. They wouldn't have to pay the going rate at the hotel.
 And they couldn't afford them anyway, so they stayed with people in-house, kind of like couch-serving, except they had a room. And then the city said, whoa, what is going on here? We could make some money on this. So the city wants to permit it. It seems to me that that's big government, you know? It's overbearing government.
 And it seems to me that we have better ways of doing it. Why couldn't we ask the organizations that pop up to legislate themselves, you know, and work with them? What we do is we attempt something and it doesn't work and then we just get really nasty and we start with a $1,000 fine, a $5,000 fine.
 Why don't we continue working with these groups and say, you know, we're worried about these items, you know, the cleanliness and all these things, and work that out. People are usually reasonable, I think, and they're fighting you. They don't want to pay for permits. They don't want the extra expenses.
 You know, that's what crossed my mind. It seems like big government, that someone came out with a good idea, and government said we can make a buck over here. And this is almost like you guys permitting apartment buildings with no off-street parking and then building parking garages and then owning them and making money off them or subcontracting to them. See what I'm saying?
 solutions that you come up with really suck. They really do. And I don't understand that. You have really bright people in your committees. I've been around them. So why don't you do really good stuff? I don't know. There's something wrong here. There's a message being missed by somebody. Thank you. Thank you. And by the way, we do fully endorse Dan's presentation. How are you doing? Okay. Who's next? Mr. Johnson. You're next.
 Thank you, President Saltzman and fellow commissioners. I think that Joe Walsh has been at the end. For your practical concerns and for the practical concerns of all the citizens listening, that is probably the best use of our time is to go back and review the testimony of Dan Saltzman. But that shouldn't necessarily be the most useful part of this whole 30-minute... in excess of 30-minute song and dance. Um...
 Those of us who are here in chambers have a lot of paperwork that we can review, but people who are at home looking at the agenda, when they click on 962, they just get a little bit of two-page PDF. None of this material is available. For public officials that are supposedly campaigning on transparency and accountability, there's so much room for improvement. Thank you.
 I hope that you'll look at ways to, you know, it's complicated because there are little silos and turf, no turf wars between bureaus or people in Portland ever. I'm sure it never happens. But some things can happen quickly. Within the past few months, somebody came and said, you know, when Portland.Oregon.gov.smart is typed into the computer, it shouldn't go to, it should be about parking. Right.
 And that was changed pretty easily and pretty quickly. So I'm sure that if the information technology people talk with the clerk and talk with the auditor, you can improve delivering all this information, this copy of a June 12th joint letter from the mayor and the chief of police to the auditor. There is an e-file system, but...
 It should be just linked as part of this agenda item. We shouldn't be expecting citizens to become masters of the e-files, e-gov document system. So later on, people will probably make an outtake, a separate video file to put on Facebook and Twitter and all that and share with NotifyPDX Twitter so that you can review Mr. Schaltzman's testimony about the hard work that's ahead of us
 to not have a paramilitary police organization, but to really live up to this idea of the PSEP committee and have community-engaged policing where every community, every neighborhood feels safely and fairly engaged with the police and it doesn't become such a dramatic thing when the chief of police...
 goes on the Lars Larson show to do her public engagement and talks about how whiny the citizens are and how thrilled she is that they got smashed down within weeks of having a grenade. Videos all over the internet. We can see Portland police officers not using five degrees of elevation, not using 15 degrees of elevation, but just shooting things into the back of people's head. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mr. Johnson, the auditor obviously had to leave. She is an independently elected city official, so I would suggest you contact her with your suggestion about linking the reports, because they are really good reports, I agree. They are there. Excuse me, they are there. They are linked on the page. They're there. Okay. Thank you for clarifying. Maybe it's my technology error, but when I just clicked on the 962, I just got two pages of PDF. Oh, sometimes there's a separate breakout underneath. Thank you, Carla. No, it says all audits can be viewed on the audit services webpage, and it has a link to the page.
 to the audience. They're all available on their website. Excellent. Thank you for that. More interjections from Carla would make this a much better program. I agree. Sir, do you want to come up to the table too? We have a chair now. Go ahead, Mr. Lightning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity Disruptor Attack Dog. One of the concerns I have on this short-term rentals from these...
 the apps or the platforms themselves is that when we think of technology and the advance of technology, these companies need to also show a social responsibility to our city. And they need to understand is that if you do not begin to provide the proper data and to show the true effects which they've done in San Francisco on these short-term rentals, on the –
 housing for all the people in the city to utilize, and it's being limited because of this platform. You are showing a disservice to the city and the people of the city. And let me make an example or show you an example to look at. It's the same thing on Uber and Lyft. When I was speaking against them to have a cap put into place and then see what the market does,
 This can get out of control if you do not show social responsibility to the people of this city and to provide the proper data and make sure the proper permits are utilized. It is your responsibility as a technology company, as a platform provider, to
 to assist all the people in this city. And you need to step up and start doing that because this can get out of control very fast and literally create homelessness. And we can decrease homelessness if we have the proper data provided. Now, issue number two on police training, I want more training on de-escalation.
 I want more training on the profanity issue. And these officers know what profanity is and what it isn't. And we need to have an understanding. Let's just tone it down. Do your job in a professional manner. And a lot of people in this city will begin to respect you. You use profanity against our people in this city. We're not going to respect you for that. Now, issue number three on the stormwater fees.
 I really think we're missing the mark on this. A lot more people should be in this. I'm not quite sure how you came up with the discount rate on that, but we're obviously missing the mark on how many people are in that program. It does need to be increased in some manner, whether it's more efficient marketing, more face-to-face or knocking on the doors, but they need to get into these programs. Thank you.
 Sir, if you could just give us your name and you have three minutes. Okay. My name is Richard Hernandez. My first item I'd like to talk about is gentrification. Folks, a lot of people of color have experience. Okay, when they talk about at past rallies why America was never great, these gentrification policies follow the –
 I'm white, and of course I've had some benefits. But people of color, and you ask them why, except for a few, have never been able to experience this full, what America has been founded on.
 on vases, you know, because of a color, and people from the times of Martin Luther King. And every time a black person is shot and killed by police, it stirs up hatred, you know, as being put down, as being put down, continues put down by the system that enslaved them over 300 some odd years ago. And in the...
 A policy of neighborhoods still goes in policy of instead of improving these neighborhoods for people of color and minorities and gender, it's being improved so a bunch of rich white people can have all that property. And so what policies are being played? Nothing. And so...
 You know, here's my prediction. So when these white nationalists come back here, you know, I probably think flashbangs are going to be used again because they're going to protect them because there's a lot of people who think that they think they're right and they want people of immigrants to be pushed down. And these white nationalists are not going to stop, you know, trying to push their agenda and push their racist bullshit on people. And, you know...
 And I hope that's not the case, but as long as these issues come out, the police are going to have their little paramilitary because they're going to protect these people they think that are the better of everybody of society. And, of course, these white nationalists and neo-Nazis think that they are the select people to govern over the rest of the world population. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, we need a motion to accept the report. So moved. Second. Okay. Please call the roll, Carla. Udain Lee. Aye.
 Fritz. Well thank you to the auditor and her team for the work done here. I'm much too pleased with the results in the police training audit. It shows that they are making progress. It showed particularly a lot of progress in 2017 which of course is when Chief Danielle Outlaw took over. Obviously still things to improve upon. Thanks Dan Handelman for pointing out the things that you did and I will be following up with Chief Outlaw on those things. I appreciate that. I know that the
 Environmental Services Stormwater Manager was here, and we'll take the feedback back to Commissioner Fish. And, of course, he already reviewed the audit. And evidently, we still have a problem with short-term rentals that we all need to help address. And I appreciate the audits that point that out. Aye. Saltsman.
 Again, I want to thank the auditor for doing this. I think it's a good, healthy thing to bring audits periodically to the council and make a presentation to them and also to the larger public who's viewing us. Okay. We'll move to a regular agenda now, which is item 971.
 Assess benefited properties for street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Southwest Dolf Court Spring Garden Street Local Improvement District. Okay, this is a second reading? Okay. Yes. Please call the roll. Udemy. Aye. Ritz. Thanks again to Andrew Abbey, the Local Improvement District Coordinator. Great cooperation between Transportation Parks and the other bureaus and I appreciate it. Saltzman. Aye.
 Okay, the ordinance is adopted and then item 972. Authorize $15 million of long-term bonds for local improvement and sidewalk repair projects and financing of system development charges plus additional amounts for issue costs. Second reading, please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Salsman? Aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 That concludes our regular agenda. Mr. Lightning, did you want to present your testimony now on item 964? Oh, yeah, Carla, I guess you need to read it. 964, declare one modular building as surplus personal property and authorize the Office of Management and Finance Facilities to proceed with disposition of the property. Yes, my name is Lightning Super Creativity Disruptor Attack Dog.
 One of the concerns I have on this, again, this is relating back to the Homer Williams purchase of the parking lot underneath the Broadway Bridge and moving that forward into another location. And again, I must say to the city, of anyone that should be able to do something correct and right and get the job done,
 It would be the city, considering you handle all the permits, the zoning issues and everything else, and know how to do that up front and not spend money on structures that may end up, oh, we can't end up doing our plan there, which is, to me, foolishness. I would like to have this looked at under the E&O insurance policy of just plain missing the mark. And now you're going to try to sell this modular...
 property structure that my understanding was purchased at $216,000. You want to do a sealed bid auction on this? No, I want to have that open to the public so we can hear the numbers being thrown out on this property. And also, I'm really kind of concerned, did you really show it
 and present this to a lot of nonprofits. I would think someone like Homer Williams might have an interest in this structure, considering it was originally his money that went from the parking lot over into this other project and funded this. It was his money that was done
 which I didn't even get a chance to bid on that parking lot which is underneath that bridge, which I think was inappropriate at the time, but which I have investors could easily buy this and stand alongside Homer Williams all day long and purchase this
 I didn't have that opportunity to do that. And the reality is I think a lot of this was done in a backroom deal. A lot of this stuff was done with Charlie Hales, who should be out on his sailboat, and I'm glad you've left the world of politics and you're not coming back because you're not going to get reelected anyway. That was one of those deals that was just mishandled.
 done wrong, didn't know what they were doing. And again, you're the city of Portland. You should set the example for the public on doing things right and not spending that money up front and then coming back and saying, hey, let's give away the $216,000 structure. And you know what? You know what's going to be even more interesting here? I wonder how much you'll actually sell this for.
 You know, maybe this should be another deal like Randy Leonard liked with some of the fire trucks, and we give them to Mexico. Let's just give our taxpayers money away to Mexico like Randy Leonard does, or let's give this away for little to nothing. This is absolute incompetence at its highest level. Congratulations, City Hall. You get the lightning award of F-. F-.
 minus. Have a wonderful day city of Portland and I love you too. You're going to testify on this item? Yes. Good morning Commissioner Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson President. Pleasure to be here with President Dan Saltzman and to issue LaShonna Tova and anybody else who might be observing any lunar calendar holidays. On this particular item I think that if we filter through the Super Attack Watchdogs testimony
 and look at the four pages of PDF, we will realize that even though we're proposing to get an unknown amount of money from a theoretically unneeded, unused, modular thing, in actuality, the plan for services, the need, is even greater than when this expenditure was made. In the agenda link, there's talk about showers and hygiene services, and there's talk about the need for a new,
 Related to a particular rest area. But we know that there are even more people living without homes. Living under bridges. Living in campsites all over the city. And it's not the highest priority to task the money we recover from this. If you go to, I guess it's on page four. Under the now therefore. Part C. Parts.
 We do get down to the end, the very last line, C, if there is a remainder, allocate to campsite services programming. The reason the city has so many people calling you to complain about the smell of urine or open feces is because we're not allocating enough money to downtown campsite services keeping...
 This heavy-duty industrial-strength toilet, open 24 hours a day, three stainless steel, jail, almost indestructible lavatories, but we lock them for mythical, idiotic reasons. It's like, well, we've never heard you rationalize why you can sell a modular unit and lock these toilets. What are you thinking, that if somebody goes in there
 If the door is locked, nobody will overdose outside the bathroom. They'll just decide not to overdose or not to commit a rape there. That is ridiculous. I don't know which bureau is in the shuffle, has control of that bathroom, but it needs to be open 24 hours. Put a camera around the gate if you want to, but this city deserves feces and urine all over this building as long as that bathroom is locked. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, well that completes the morning meeting of this. I vote on that. I have to vote on this. No, we can't vote on this. It's an emergency. It's not an emergency. I thought we had to. This will be continued. I'm sorry. Sorry. Testimony's over. We're continuing. Do you have the fine Westland and all the physically and mentally disabled out of there? I'm sorry. We're debating another item right now. This will be continued to 3 p.m. today. Okay.
 So we are adjourned until 3 o'clock this afternoon. Welcome. Thanks. It's a big crowd for after school. Okay, we're ready to convene the afternoon session of Portland City Council on September 12th. Carla, please call the roll. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Saltzman? Here. And could you please read the item? Okay.
 Would you like me to read the council conduct script first? Oh, I'm sorry. Yes. Let me turn to our attorney to cite the rules of council conduct. There you go. Okay. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business.
 The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during the City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Thank you.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on, and when your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. Okay, thank you. Now, Carla, could you please read the item?
 Do we want to take care of the consent agenda and that pulled item first? Oh, right, from this morning. Yeah, sorry. I totally forgot about that. Yeah, please call the roll on the consent agenda. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Okay, those items are adopted. And do we have to vote? Yeah, 964, we need to do. It got pulled. Okay, so got to vote on that separately. Staff was here if you had any more questions. I don't have any more questions. Udailey? Aye.
 Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Okay, now we're ready for the main attraction. 970. 970. 3.
 consider the proposal of Andrew Tull, 3J Consulting, Inc., and the recommendation from the hearings officer for approval of a comprehensive plan map amendment, zoning map amendment, conditional use master plan, and adjustment review for Parkview Christian Retirement Community at 1825 Northeast 108th,
 Avenue and the properties at Northeast 106 Avenue LU17 dash 113086 CP ZC CU MSAD and item 974.
 amend the comprehensive plan map and zoning map, and approve a conditional use master plan and adjustment for Parkview Christian Retirement Community at 1825 Northeast 108th Avenue and properties at Northeast 106th Avenue at the request of Andrew Toll, 3J Consulting, Inc., LU.
 17-113086CPZCCUMS. Okay, thank you. First, the city attorney will now make some announcements about today's hearing. Okay. This is an evidentiary hearing. This means that you may submit new evidence to the council in support of your arguments.
 The testimony will be heard as follows. We will begin with the staff report by BDS staff for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, the City Council will hear from interested persons in the following order. The applicant will go first and will have 15 minutes to address the council. After the applicant, the council will hear from individuals or organizations who support the applicant's proposal. Each person will have three minutes to speak.
 Next, the Council will hear from persons or organizations that oppose the applicant's proposal. Again, each person will have three minutes. If there was testimony in opposition to the applicant's proposal, the applicant will have five additional minutes to rebut the testimony given in the opposition to the proposal. The Council may then close the hearing and deliberate. As this is a non-emergency ordinance, it will pass to a second reading. The Council may make amendments to the ordinance and findings or direct staff to return with amendments.
 I would like to announce several guidelines for those who will be addressing the council today. Submitting evidence into the record. Any letters or documents you wish to become part of the record should be given to the council clerk after you testify. Similarly, the original or a copy of any slides, photographs, drawings, maps, videos, or other items you show to the council during your testimony should be given to the council clerk to make sure they become a part of the record.
 Any testimony, arguments, and evidence you present must be directed toward the applicable approval criteria for this land use review or other criteria in the City's comprehensive plan or zoning code that you believe apply to the decision. The BDS staff will identify the applicable approval criteria as a part of their staff report to Council. You must raise an issue clearly enough to give the Council and the parties an opportunity to respond to the issue. If you don't, you will be precluded from appealing to the Land Use Board of Appeals based on that issue.
 Additionally, if the applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues related to a proposed condition of approval with enough specificity to allow the council to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing an action for damages in circuit court. And that's it. Okay, thank you. Mr. Chair, can I ask a question? Sure. How many people here in the audience is this the first land use proceeding you've been to? Can you raise your hand? Sure.
 And then I'm just curious, how many people are – because this is a very robust turnout for one of our afternoon sessions, so we are very grateful you're here. We welcome you. How many people that are here today are from the Parkview Christian Retirement Community? Can you raise your hand? Got a good turnout. So thank you very much, and welcome to City Hall. Can you hear – is the sound system working now?
 Well, I'll tell you something. We had a work session this week where we were sitting around a table. I found it very hard, actually, to hear the testimony. So let's apologize in advance that it's not as good as it could be, but Carla can make some adjustments. Yeah, I've got it all pretty high. And to let you know, we have some assisted listening devices. We have some assisted listening devices, if anybody would like one of those. But our members are elderly, and we have to...
 So Carla has some assisted listening devices for anyone which are available, which will boost the sound even beyond what we have here. And I encourage you to use one because they're very helpful. But again, apologies, our sound system is not as good as it could be. They work with hearing listening devices as well. Please, please. Please, go ahead. So I wanted to...
 Ask if any members of council wish to declare a conflict of interest. No council members have conflicts of interest to declare. Do any members of the council have an ex parte contact to declare or information gathered outside of this hearing to disclose? So in plain English, that means have any of us visited the site or have we been lobbied by anyone that has a particular interest in this matter on either side? And I'll start by saying no.
 I believe I may have visited the site, but not recently. Okay. That was my next question, if any members have visited the site. Do the council members have any other matters that need to be discussed before we begin this hearing? Okay. Well, with that, we will turn it over to Bureau Development Services staff for staff report. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Andy Galizia. I'm a planner with the Bureau of Development Services.
 This is a Type 3 land use review for a comprehensive plan map amendment, a zoning map amendment, a conditional use master plan, and one adjustment. This hearing is not for an appeal. Land use reviews that include a comprehensive plan map amendment are subject to a recommendation by the hearings officer and then a decision by city council. And I'm here representing the hearings officer's recommendation.
 So this shows the location of the site. It's between Northeast 106th and Northeast 108th Avenues, just north of Northeast Wydler Street. This is at the northern edge of the Gateway area. You see here an existing conditions plan for the site on the left and the proposed site plan on the right. The site is currently developed with 117 apartments for retirees, all of which would remain, and five houses on the west side of the site that would be demolished.
 Three building projects are proposed for the site, a new 26-bed memory care building on the west side of the site with a new parking lot adjacent, a new 22-unit senior apartment building on the north side of the site with a new parking lot adjacent, and a 1,500-square-foot addition to an existing building in the interior of the site for use as residence common area.
 So the current zoning map is on the left. Most of the site is zoned R7, which is a single-dwelling residential zone. A small portion of the site is zoned R2, which is a multi-dwelling zone. The R7 zone is for single-dwelling houses and doesn't generally allow apartment buildings. The existing apartment buildings are non-conforming to the existing zoning.
 The proposed zoning map on the right would rezone the site to R1, which does allow apartment buildings, and the proposed zoning map would continue the existing R1 zoning immediately south of the site. This is a photograph of the site viewed from the north, from northeast San Rafael Street. You can see a couple of the existing senior apartment buildings that would be retained. One of the new parking lots would be constructed on the grassy area in the foreground.
 This is a photograph of the site viewed from the west from Northeast 106th Avenue. The houses shown here would be demolished and the new memory care building would be constructed in this area. This is a photograph of Northeast 106th Avenue adjacent to the site just for context. This shows a low density neighborhood with single dwelling houses and neighborhoods like this abut the site on three sides to the west, north, and east. Neighboring properties to the south are developed with apartment buildings.
 The Comprehensive Plan Map Amendment would apply the multi-dwelling 1,000 designation to the site. This is the designation that corresponds to the R1 zone. There are two approval criteria in the zoning code for the Comprehensive Plan Map Amendment. The hearings officer found these criteria were met. The hearings officer found the proposal is equally or more supportive of the goals and policies in the Comprehensive Plan and the statewide planning goals.
 The hearing officer's findings were based on a few key points. The site is contiguous with an area that has the same designation that's proposed. The proposal increases the housing potential for a site that's well served by transit and immediately adjacent to the Gateway Regional Center. The proposal would create new housing for older adults. On a per unit basis, multi-dwelling buildings can be more affordable and more energy efficient than single dwelling houses.
 And the stability of the lower density neighborhoods adjacent to the site would be largely maintained. Most of the subject site is already developed with apartments, and the additional development proposed would be only one and two stories in height. Applying the new comprehensive plan map designation allows the rezoning of the site to R1. There are three approval criteria for the zoning map amendment that were relevant to this proposal.
 Criterion A is for compliance with the Comprehensive Plan Map, and the hearings officer found Criterion A was met because R1 is the only zone that corresponds to the proposed Comprehensive Plan Map designation. Criterion B is adequacy of public services, and the Water Bureau, Police Bureau, Fire Bureau, and the Bureau of Environmental Services all found that public service levels were adequate for their proposal. The Portland Bureau of Transportation, or PBOT, found the transportation system was adequate for their proposal.
 Some neighbors expressed concerns to the hearings officer about traffic and parking impacts on the streets adjacent to the site. The hearings officer addressed those concerns in his recommendation, and he found the professional transportation impact study submitted by the applicant and PBOT's review of that study were persuasive enough evidence to conclude that the proposal would not cause significant adverse impacts on the adjacent streets.
 However, PBOT considers senior apartments to impose lower demands on the transportation system than other residential development, and PBOT did not find that the transportation system is necessarily adequate to support the maximum development that could be allowed in the R1 zone.
 So PBOT and the hearings officer recommended a condition of approval that if the retirement community were ever demolished, that redevelopment on the site would either be limited to 70 dwelling units or the redevelopment would be subject to a Type 3 zoning map amendment review to evaluate the adequacy of the transportation system at that time. So with this condition of approval, the hearings officer found that adequate public services were available and that criterion B was met.
 The last relevant criterion was Criterion D, that the site must be within the city's boundary of incorporation, which is met for this site. In the R1 zone, group living facilities with more than 15 residences are conditional uses, so the new 26-bed memory care building triggers conditional use review. The applicant proposes a conditional use master plan, which is essentially a kind of conditional use review that's valid for 10 years rather than the three years that a standard conditional use review is valid for.
 The hearings officer found the proposal met each of the conditional use master plan approval criteria. The applicant's submittal included the components required by criterion A. For criterion B, the hearings officer found the conditional use approval criteria were met, which I'll go over on the next slide. For criterion C, the hearings officer found that with the one adjustment requested by the applicant, which I'll go over in a moment, the proposal would comply with the applicable zoning code requirements. Thank you.
 There are five conditional use approval criteria that apply to this proposal. Approval criterion A requires that the proportion of household living residential uses in the neighborhood is not lessened to the point that the residential character of the area is lost. The hearings officer found that criterion A was met because a majority of the site would be developed with apartments, which are household living residential uses. So the site would still contribute to the residential character of the area.
 Criterion B is for physical compatibility, specifically that the proposal will mitigate differences in appearance and scale with neighboring residential development. Again, there are three building projects proposed in the master plan. One of these is a relatively small addition to a building in the interior of the site. From outside the site, this addition would mostly be blocked from view by other buildings. The other two projects in the master plan are the new memory care building and the new senior apartment building, which are both illustrated here.
 The memory care building shown in the upper left would be a single story. The new apartment building shown in the lower right would be two stories. And one of the neighbors expressed a concern to the hearings officer that this would be out of character with the one-story houses across the street. The hearings officer addressed this concern in his recommendation. He noted that the two-story building would be 25 feet in height, which is substantially lower in height than the maximum height in the R1 zone, which is 45 feet.
 and that the new building would in fact also be lower than the 30-foot maximum height allowed by the R7 zone across the street from the site. The hearings officer also noted that both new buildings would have a residential appearance with horizontal lap siding and gable roofs, and both new buildings would be set back further than required from the abutting lot lines. So for these reasons, the hearings officer found that Criterion B for physical compatibility was met.
 Criterion C is for livability impacts related to noise, glare, late night operations, odors, litter, privacy, and safety. The hearings officer found that Criterion C was met because none of the proposed developments would create significant impacts on any of these factors. Most of the site would be in household living use that's allowed outright in the residential zone, and the new memory care building would house no more than 26 people needing care.
 Criterion D is for the adequacy of public services. This is essentially the same approval criterion that applied for the zoning map amendment. And as I mentioned earlier, the hearings officer found that adequate public services are available. Criterion E is for consistency with area plans. This site is within the Cully Park Rose community plan area. The hearings officer found the proposal was consistent with this plan because the development would be close to arterial streets and transit service.
 because there are adequate public services available, and because the perimeters of the site would have substantial landscape buffering. At the time of building permit review, the non-conforming upgrade standard in the zoning code would apply bike parking requirements to the existing apartments on this site in addition to the new ones. So the applicant requested one adjustment to reduce the long-term bike parking requirement for the apartments from 1.1 bike parking space per unit to one bike parking space for every eight units.
 The three adjustment approval criteria that are relevant to this adjustment are shown here, and the hearings officer found that each of these criteria were met. The hearings officer found that one bike parking space for every eight units was an appropriate requirement for senior apartments and that the purpose of the standard to provide adequate bike parking to meet demand would be met. The hearings officer found nothing about the adjustment proposal that would detract from the livability or appearance of the area, and the hearings officer did not identify any negative impacts from the adjustment that would need mitigation.
 So the hearings officer found that all of the approval criteria for the proposal could be met, and the hearings officer recommended approval with conditions of approval related to redevelopment, stormwater management, and the sequencing of projects. And that concludes my presentation. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions of staff? Okay, next we'll hear from the applicant. Welcome. And if you can just make sure you give us your names for the record, and you have a total of up to 15 minutes to make your presentation. Good afternoon, Commissioners. My name is...
 Great. Good afternoon, Commissioners. My name is Garrett Stevenson. I'm an attorney with Schwabe, Williamson & Wyatt representing the applicant. With me today is Keith Milsark, who's Executive Director of Parkview, and Andrew Toll, who was our land use planning consultant on the project.
 I'm going to give a really quick intro here and then turn it over to the two gentlemen next to me. But as a point of order, I'd like to reserve any extra time that we don't use in our presentation for rebuttal in case somebody actually comes up and has testimony that we'd like to rebut.
 And before I begin, I just want to thank staff, particularly Andrew Galizia and Bob Haley, who did a wonderful job and put this project through its paces, but I think we've got a better project for it. So I wanted to thank the two of them and also make a clarification on one of the statements that Andrew made in his presentation when he said that the site is nonconforming with current zoning. And I think that's largely because this site was actually developed
 under Multnomah County jurisdiction and then was later annexed into the city of Portland. So it always had apartments on it, and then when it was annexed, it got this fairly low-density residential zoning placed on it. And that's kind of one of the things we're trying to fix with the application. Thank you.
 As Andrew explained, what you have before you is a recommendation for approval from the hearings officer who found that all the applicable criteria are met or can be met with the conditions. We don't have any problem with the conditions as proposed. We think they're reasonable, including the trip cap that Andy talked about.
 So I'm going to leave it to Keith and Andrew Toll to talk about the project, but I just wanted to touch very briefly on two of the issues that were raised during the hearing below.
 And I think that Andy did a pretty good job of covering that. But in addition to what Andy said, you know, one of the issues that a lot of folks at the hearing had was how is this going to affect parking on site? And we actually did, as part of the transportation impact study, a parking study to take a look and see, well, when we develop this, what's the effect going to be on parking?
 on-street and off-street parking? In other words, are we going to be forcing more parking onto 108th or is there going to be additional capacity? And what we found is that
 With this project, you'll have a net increase in 15 parking spaces, at least that's what we anticipate, over what it would be if we didn't do the project. So we're actually going to see an additional supply of off-street parking to accommodate the residents and staff and so on. And I'm not going to add too much about the compatibility issue.
 explanation that Andy provided except to say that the reality of the site is that Parkview basically occupies an entire block that's surrounded by three rights-of-way. So we think that this new zoning boundary makes sense because you don't have an arbitrary zoning line running through a neighborhood. It's
 completely surrounded with rights of way. And in addition to the setbacks that we have, which are going to be greater than required, you're going to have that entire right of way providing that buffering. So with that, I don't really have anything to add to staff's presentation. And unless you have any questions, I will turn it over to Keith. Go ahead. Thank you.
 Thank you for letting us be here today. My name is Keith Millsark. I am the Executive Director of Oregon Baptist Retirement Homes, which does business as Parkview Christian Retirement Community. We are a church-related nonprofit retirement community chartered in 1944, providing low and moderate cost retirement housing and services for senior citizens in Portland.
 We provide an array of senior living services, including independent living and assisted living, and we're here today because we wish to expand our services to cover more seniors. Our current facilities were built in the mid-'70s and include a mix of studio, one-bedroom, and two-bedroom apartments. Our independent living section consists of ten buildings, all but one single-story. Our assisted living building is three stories and is located at the corner of Northeast 108th Avenue and Wydler Street.
 Our residents come from every zip code in East Portland, from the Willamette River to Gresham. A market study we had done recently indicated that there's enough demand in the East Portland area to support as many as 159 additional independent living units and 90 dementia care units. Our plan, as you know, includes a memory care building so that we can provide care for residents with Alzheimer's or other dementias.
 The additional independent living building of 22 studio, one-bedroom, and two-bedroom apartments will help us provide services and housing for some of the more than 100 people on our waiting list. Our plan also includes an expansion of our main building, which houses offices, dining room, chapel, library, and other facilities.
 so that we can expand the services we offer to our residents, as well as enhance the working life of our employees. We desperately need a larger library. We have books in boxes on the floor in our current library because there's no room on the shelves. We also need an art studio, a larger chapel, a private office for our chaplain, and an employee break room. Our employees have no break room right now.
 These are necessary upgrades to keep us competitive in our industry so that we can continue to serve low- and moderate-income seniors in Portland. We are the only moderately-priced, church-affiliated rental community in Portland. And as a nonprofit, we're committed to keeping our rates as low as possible. Seniors of limited income who desire a Christian atmosphere really have no other place to go. I have over a dozen residents here today in support, which really...
 Touches me. So we appreciate staff's guidance and help through all this process, and we really hope and pray that you will approve our project. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Councillors. My name is Andrew Tull with 3J Consulting. I'm the applicant for this project. Staff, once again, has done a very good job describing the application that is before you today. I do not have much to add to Mr. Galizia's presentation, so I will keep my comments brief and just say that we are very excited to be a part of this project. The applicant has accepted all of the staff's findings and conditions of approval, which were upheld by the hearings officer.
 We believe that this project is widely supported by not only the residents within the area, but certain aspects of this project, such as a significant amount of tree retention within the Northeast 106th Avenue right-of-way. It is widely supported by our immediate neighbors, who were very concerned about seeing that grove retained. Closing us out today, I will just say that we respectfully request your approval of the application before you, and we look forward to bringing an amazing project to bear in a great neighborhood. If you have any questions of us...
 My office is here to answer any civil-related questions. We have traffic consultants in the office. We have our architect here, and we're happy to take any questions you may have. Seeing no questions, thank you very much. And next we will hear from supporters of the applicant. I show three people signed up. They are Dan Edwards, Matt Bell, and Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Dan Edwards, Matt, come on up, have a seat. Yeah, come on up to the table.
 Commissioners, my name is Dan Edwards. I am the architect for the project with LRS Architects. My intent really is just to say that we have been through this process for about a year now.
 All of the hearings that I've been to, all the support meetings that we've been to for neighborhood associations and that sort of thing have all garnered a lot of support for the project. And I just want you to consider that as you move forward with your decision. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Johnson.
 Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and also in support of this project, again, LaShauna Tova. And it's a pleasure to be here. Oh, yeah, get back from the microphone so we can have our super audio going on today. So we can hear you. Yes. The project is needed. The only two similar but not church-affiliated facilities I'm familiar with are near the Mount Tabor Reservoirs on Division, further in, and Holgate.
 So I think what's critical is you heard that on their own, the Oregon Baptist Retirement Homes looked at the need in the community and their expansion is not equivalent to the need. So while we approve this, we also need to, even though the city is not the primary regulator or developer...
 We need to be thinking about the generation before us and what's there for them. There's a number of complicating issues. We even have an aging population in prisons that the state is going to be looking to offload from the state's budget. So while we're here on Leonard Peltier's birthday, you should all be thinking about not just approving this project,
 but also the responsibility you have to Portland citizens of every generation to make sure that good projects like this are available in accord with the demographics. The site on Division and 60th, the Odd Fellows at Holgate, which was recently brought up at the county, there may be reasons for the Housing Bureau or Home Forward
 to look at financing options with the hospital board, which is actually the same as the county commission, to finance further growth so that we can see creation of units that really serve actual people instead of imagined high-income investors who are going to someday move in and fill up all our Airbnbs that are empty. So I look forward to your approval on this project. Thank you. Thank you. Now we'll hear from opponents of the project.
 Do we have anybody signed up? No one signed up. Okay. Anybody in the audience? Okay. Well, that concludes the hearing. No need for a bubble, I think. And we will now move to council discussion about this. And I'm certainly happy to entertain a motion to approve or disapprove. Commissioner Fritz? This certainly seems like a really good project. Obviously, it's near our new Gateway Discovery Park. I hope you've all been able to walk across the street and visit that. It's
 certainly brings a smile to my face every time I go there. So I'm happy to support this project to bring more people close to our new park. And there will be more senior living next to the park and affordable housing next to the park, which is also going to enliven the community. So thank you all for coming down here. I move approval of the recommendation of the, I move approval of the hearings officer's report.
 I'll second that and I'd just like to say you had me at bigger library. I thought you had me at the art space. Well, and then the art studio and then the break room. I mean, and of course the additional housing is wonderful.
 What a lovely hearing this has been. Yeah. Not always like this. So I just want to add my parents-in-law live at Cherrywood Village a little further south, and I just really appreciate the opportunity for people to live in a community like you provide, and especially that you provide it in the kind of way that the residents obviously support. Thank you for coming here today.
 It's good to know that we are a community that cares about seniors and wants to help you thrive. Okay, and I also forgot to mention that the evidentiary record is now closed for this hearing. But we have a motion and a second. And...
 And is this a tentative decision? It's a tentative vote. And do we know when council's coming back? Do we have a date to come back to adopt final findings? And then, and just as a reminder as well, there'll be two votes. There's two items with a comp plan zone map. Right. Can we not just do it on regular basis?
 Or do it next week. Does the city attorney's office need time to review the findings, or have you already done that? Yeah, we'll want to just take a look at the findings. It's not an emergency ordinance, so it does need to come back for another reading. How long do you need? How long? Are we good to go? Any major changes? Yeah. So, yes, it could come back next week. Could come back next week. Okay.
 So it comes back next week for a second vote without further discussion. So it doesn't have a formal hearing. It's just part of our agenda, and we cast our second vote. We're going to take a tentative vote today, and we get to vote again next week. Next week, September 19th, would be 1045, time certain. Commissioner Saltzman's gone, but everybody else will be here. Good. Sorry, 945? Yes, 1045. 1045. On September 19th.
 Okay, great. Then we have a schedule for the next vote, the final vote. So you can take a tentative vote now. Take a tentative vote now, and Carla will please call the roll. Udaly. Well, thank you, everyone, for being here today. I'm very pleased to vote aye.
 Fritz. Thank you to those who have done the project. Thank you to the staff who've reviewed it and worked very diligently on it. And thank you especially for reaching out to the Neighborhood Association. That's the way to have a splendid hearing like this where everybody's on board, is by making sure that everybody's had their say beforehand. The vote next time is just because it's a legal issue. We have multiple different things to do. But this is the real one where we say, yes, good job, carry on. Aye.
 Well, this is a very rare hearing for us. It's very rare that it lasts, or rather it is this quick. It is very rare when there's no opposition. And it is very rare where we adopt a hearing officer's findings without any discussion about the conditions. So I want to begin by complimenting the applicant, the professional team that was assembled,
 Of course, staff, we are spoiled here with the quality, and the folks that are here for the first time, you got to see that staff presentation. We're very spoiled. That staff presentation was timed to the second and gave us all the information we needed and is illustrative of the high quality of work that we get from the Bureau of Development Services. My grandfather lived to 102.
 And on the occasion of his fourth or fifth marriage at 100, he was asked what the secret of his longevity was, and he said, everything in moderation. So he had a good sense of humor, too. I read somewhere recently that with this big gray tsunami that's coming through our society of boomers retiring, we have an enormous challenge in that too many of our
 soon-to-be retirees are entering retirement with little or no savings. And so if we don't have nonprofit and faith-based care providers that are offering quality care to people of modest means, then we're going to have a heck of a problem in this country. So I want to thank the applicant for the services that they are providing. I assume you screen all your applicants so you don't take sinners. Okay.
 And I also want to say that I've been on this body for 10 years. No one has ever concluded a presentation by saying they hope and pray that we do the right thing. But I think your prayers were answered because we're about to do what you asked us to do. So good job on the advocacy front. And thank you for the thoughtful design. I think what we were all struck by was...
 how attractive the building is, the fact that you didn't build to the full footprint and the full height, the fact that there's a setback, and that it does make an effort to harmonize with the surrounding community. Not every developer does that, and that's why these hearings sometimes last longer and are more contentious. So when you do the right thing, hopefully you get rewarded for it, and today I'm very pleased to vote aye. Saltzman? Well, I also was very impressed with the plans and –
 I don't think I've ever been to the Parkview Retirement Community, but it looks very attractive and a very tranquil setting, considering where it is right there on 106th and 108th. But it looks like a very tranquil area, and I think the designs and improvements are going to only make it a better place for all the residents and the neighborhood as well. So I do want to also compliment the design team for their work. And I'm pleased to vote aye.
 So with that... And we could take 974? Yes, please. Thank you. Carla? So a motion and a second to amend the comprehensive plan and zoning map is needed, and then Carla can come up. Okay. So moved. Second. Okay. It's been moved and seconded on item 974. No further discussion. Please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Okay. So the plan is approved. The change is approved. It's a tentative. It's a tentative.
 And I also want to commend staff for their good work as well. So with that, we are adjourned. Please, sir. We will be pleased to invite all of you to our groundbreaking. Very good. Great. And thank you.