Okay, I think we should get started. Good morning everyone and welcome to the September 14th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Saltzman? Here. Novick? Fritz? Here. Bish? Here. Hales? Here. Commissioner Novick will be here, but will be a little late. Before we get into the council calendar itself, I want to turn to Commissioner Saltzman who has a pre-gabble item for us. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. Today the flag of the City of Portland...
 is lowered in honor of two-year-old Zachariah Luda-Dougherty and 15-year-old Fallon Smart. Young Zachariah, still a toddler, suffered traumatic injuries sustained from his mother's boyfriend, a man now in custody facing a charge of murder after Zachariah died August 16th at Doernbecher's Children's Hospital. We know little about young Zachariah's short life and only wish that we as a community
 could have recognized the signs and dangers he faced so that he would not have suffered this way. We also want to take this opportunity to remind anyone with information about this case to please contact Detective Mark Slater at 503-823-9319. Sadly, Zachariah's life is not the only one we're honoring today.
 The city flag is also being lowered in honor of 15-year-old Franklin High School student Fallon Smart, who was the victim of a reckless driver on Southeast Hawthorne August 19th. Although the driver is in custody, we know that that may come as little comfort to the family and friends of Fallon and everyone in the Franklin High School community grieving her loss. To everyone that came out for Memorial Bike Ride in Fallon's honor on August 26th,
 We hear you and understand the fear many of those using our public streets face when we fall short of our Vision Zero goals. Portland must do better. We are honored this morning to have Fallon Smart's mother and father here, Fawn and Carl Langvinas. And I believe Fawn wanted to say a few words in honor of Fallon. So please come on up. Thank you for being here. Thank you for allowing me this opportunity to speak.
 On August 19th last month, I lost my daughter, my best friend, when she was struck and killed by a car on southeast Hawthorne. I know we all want to help solve street safety in our Portland community, and I would like to extend a thank you to the Portland Police Bureau for how supportive they've been through this process. Portland has been my home from the formation of my first memories, and I've tried to prepare my children for life here.
 From ages one to nine, I always insisted that Fallon hold my hand when we crossed the street. I always made her and her younger sister stop and look for cars. Until one day, Fallon shot me an irritated look, and then I knew she was ready to cross without me. At the age of ten, I let Fallon go to the park with her neighborhood friends, even though it was only one block away. The first time I let her go by herself, I paced around the house for about an hour."
 When Fallon was a little older, I took her to see a public screening of a film her grandfather wrote and produced about Portland bike culture. At the end of the film, the main character unexpectedly gets killed in a collision with a car on Sylvie's Island. And we left Hollywood theater in tears because it represented our deepest fears. At the ages of 11 and 12, I started to teach my daughters to ride their bikes in the city.
 I would always shout to them, you must always stop at stop signs. Don't expect the cars to see you every time.
 When Fallon was in fourth grade, and again in sixth grade, her entire class participated in a bike ride from Oaks Bottom down the east side esplanade across the steel bridge to a park and back. I chaperoned a group of six girls who braved the streets, signaled to cars, fixed their chains that fell off, and earned a sense of empowerment in their city.
 When Fallon was 13 years old, we bought a house in the Foster Powell neighborhood. We never thought we'd be able to buy a house. As a family, we were attracted to the Foster Streetscape Project and the potential of Foster Powell becoming a walking and biking-friendly neighborhood. When walking to the Holgate Library, I would tell Fallon, it's not enough that cars stop when you're trying to cross the street. You must make eye contact with the driver because you don't know if that driver is stopping for you.
 Once Fallon turned 15, she started studying and stressing to earn her driver's permit. Fallon, who was always an advanced student, experienced failure for the first time. On her first attempt, she failed the driver's permit test. You see, my daughter had a scientist's mind.
 And she was always being years ahead in academics, so she was always trying to answer the questions with the most logical solution rather than just memorizing the answers. The night before Fallon passed her permit test, my husband asked Fallon, where do pedestrians have to cross? She responded, at a crosswalk. In turn, my husband asked, where is the legal crosswalk? Fallon responded, every intersection is a legal crosswalk.
 The morning of Fallon's death, we were spending time together on Hawthorne as we had done so many times. It is the neighborhood I grew up in, so I enjoyed passing the tradition down to Fallon. She loved it there. We enjoyed getting tea and whole bowl, and since she was a little girl, we would shop at Powell's Bookstore just as I had done with my father.
 Fallon was going to meet some friends that day and go window shopping. Surprisingly, she wanted me to go to the bubble tea restaurant so we could just sit together. We parked on the opposite side of Hawthorne early that morning, not at the time of the accident. Before we crossed, she asked, where's the crosswalk? And I told her every intersection is a crosswalk, a statement that will haunt me forever. I heard her.
 I left her that morning in a bubble tea shop so she could socialize with her peers. I didn't say goodbye because I didn't want to embarrass her. I didn't tell her I loved her. After the crash that afternoon, I blamed myself for hours with time. I have come to believe that I did everything I could to keep her safe. I taught her everything I knew about pedestrian, cyclist, and motorist safety, and it still wasn't enough to keep her alive."
 The truth is, I'm only a mother who needs your help. I won't fool myself into believing that I know the solution to what is ailing our city. I do realize that vehicular pedestrian collisions are increasing, and the individual responsibility wasn't enough to keep Fallon alive. Something larger has to be done so the children aren't harmed, and that other mothers have a chance to say, I love you. I am asking you for your help. Thank you for hearing me. Thank you, Ms. Langvinas, very much.
 Now I would ask that we bow our heads in a moment of silence to honor Zachariah Daugherty and Fallon Smart. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you for being here to give voice to your family's loss and to our city's loss. All right, let's begin the work this morning, please, with communications. We have some folks that are signed up to speak to the council and want to call on you each to do that.
 I want to note for the record that Commissioner Novick has arrived, so the full council is here. And let's please take item 1011. Request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding our homeless citizens. Good morning. My name is Craig Rogers, citizen of Portland. Two evenings ago I called up a friend of mine I haven't spoke to in a while. Her name is Gail. And through Gail I met a gal named Cindy. Hi.
 And my friend Gail told me something that rocked my boat, is that Cindy is Fallon's grandmother. I remember when Cindy bought the van. So proud to have that van take the grandkids around. And it really rocked my boat. You know, I had to process it. It took more than one evening. And fortunately, yesterday, Leah, Rob, and Cindy arrived
 were on Think Out Loud on OPP, on Vision Zero. And it was really incredible. In Steve's lingo, they hit home run. The amount of information that was contained, there could have been more, but I mean, for what they did, it was really incredible. And they talked basically about tough love, you know, behavior modification, what we're going to have to do to change people's habits. I liked it when Leah said...
 Mahatma Gandhi phrased that there's more to life than increasing its speed. So if you have the opportunity, you can find this online. Think Out Loud OPB. It's really worth a listen. It's so good. So anyway, with regards to the homeless, we have a big problem. And these people, a lot of them, they need to be helped. And so...
 I really encourage you in your position when you make decisions, rather than to just make a few people happy, try and make decisions that serve for the most good. In other words, to serve the people rather than to rule. And I appreciate this opportunity to come and speak before you because I know myself I can end up in a bubble
 I have mountains of mistakes behind me. I try to learn from them, which makes me a better person. Those mistakes are valuable. They guide me a better way. So I really encourage you to be very astute in how you spend the money. Where Right to Dream 2 was going to be built, that's cost a lot. Wapatoe's hanging out there. It's already built. It's a roof over their heads. It's stability. Make pertinent decisions and put your heads together.
 Really work as a group, a unit, so you can come to some good answers here. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Okay, item 1012, please. Request of Crystal Elinsky to address council regarding unethical contracts and bullying. Good morning, commissioners and Mayor Hales. My name is Crystal Elinsky. And regarding the circumstances of our city,
 the homeless and those that are vulnerable to the dangers that are overcrowded and an inaccessible city is, is it's blown. It's just blowing this out of proportion with young people, car accidents more and more and places I used to live or just they're dangerous. And I'm not sure why people get away with the, the way they disregard the city and,
 and people's lives. I bow my head every day for people we've lost, people in car accidents, and on the streets, and in custody, police custody, places where they're supposed to be taken care of. We have more and more people with mental illness, and it's no wonder. There's a lot of young people losing hope with our environmental circumstances and
 lack of housing and food having to steal and these multi so-called they're called multi-family housing but they're tyvek particle ted wheeler particle board four-story condoms for the rich and not encouraging any sort of a living livelihood we need rent control we need
 living wage, just as much as you all earn. And we need consideration for our transit system, the people who serve us, whether they be police officers and businesses, our teachers, and our neighbors, homeless people. And that's why I'm here today is last time I spoke with you, I asked for your endorsement for the Citizen Review Committee. And I'm here today to talk
 oversight of the police and I've since gotten references on that board as well as family members of those people and I have done my research I told you that it was Kathleen Sadat that encouraged me to not give up on Coab
 And I've been following it closely. I did my research. I've cleared up my time. And I would like to say for the record, I wanted to make sure I was here to ask you for your endorsement again, Mayor Hales. I tried to be here on the fort earlier, but this time of year, of course, you remember this was 2013 when the federal agent died.
 attacked me here in City Hall, and that still has not been resolved. And so if we could have that 10 minutes that you told me and your staff that we would have, we could discuss this at length. I'd also like known for the record that I did not say to the woman who resigned and took the other post, Commissioner Fritz was telling me that
 I had criticized her for being overwhelmed and overworked. I would never criticize another woman for that. But my point was is that the way she spoke to the people at the meeting that I was encouraged to go to by Kathleen Sadat, I was surprised. I found it demeaning and bullying and not encouraging our citizens. We need to get more people involved. And I would do a very good job in getting people involved in police oversight. Okay.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, let's take Item 1013, please. Request of Frederick Allen Maxwell to address council regarding finding that Chinook. Maxwell, are you here? Okay, let's move on to the next one, please, then. 1014, request of Mike O'Callaghan to address council regarding shelterless. Thank you, Michael O'Callaghan. A little update from Springwater Trail where I live. Okay. Okay.
 A little more of an update on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Obviously, they denied the expedited or, excuse me, the restraining order. They did accept the expedited consideration, and they're assigning me an attorney. Okay? And, Charlie, I give you an A for compassion on this sweep. This is the most compassionate sweep I have ever been swept in.
 Now, as far as legality of the sweep, I don't know where you're getting your information from, but heads should roll, Charlie. Anna Aiken, here's a quote. Anti-camping and temporary structure ordinance against the homeless are based on improper motives. I find the plaintiffs sufficiently state an equal protection claim. You lost, okay? The sweep violated equal protection claim.
 from the district court here. You just weren't to uphold the Constitution. Okay, Portland, this little thing here is really quite a gas, Charlie. Okay.
 Anyway, you guys stole three-tenths of mine. Okay? I contacted 22 different contacts, nine agencies until the ninth. I have not received my three-tenths back or any response from anybody. Okay? And this is the third time that my property has been stolen by the city, and I have been unable to reclaim it. The last time they told me it was across from the bus barn on Barbara Boulevard. I went out there with the camera. They called.
 told me the address, it didn't exist. So, you know, these are a few problems here, Charlie. I gave her a copy of the solution. You've heard the solution, okay? It's basically the duplication of Right to Dream and Dignity Village and Hazelnut Grove in smaller units, okay? And you guys need to pass. Somebody was telling me that
 that i nick you've signed some kind of letter to allow dignity village to not violate the zoning they're on so whatever you guys got to do my basic thing is as i've said many times leave us alone okay if we take on these responsibilities as small villages you're not responsible we are okay they can get sued okay leaves you out of the loop really
 You know, we'll handle that. Okay. Because we can get a community agreement. That's one of the things you got to have a community agreement, nonviolence training and three people who want to start a village. Okay. That starts it. And the county gives the permit. Okay. Free permit.
 But just do what you've got to do, okay? And Charlie, I put in there all the contacts that I did. It's absolutely absurd, and I want to put you on notice. I'm going to sue you about this, okay? But if you settle, I won't sue you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, 1015, please. Request of Thomas Edward Mullen to address counsel regarding the homeless. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, sir. Counsel, allow me. My name is Thomas Edward Mullen.
 And I've been a citizen of Portland, Oregon for some 52 years. And I've been working on a homeless situation for over 40-something years. And I...
 I'm here to voice to the council. I've been trying to get some assistance, I guess, because I work alone and trying to look at different problems. I'm working with the situation of the homeless situation in the last several years, and I've seen the storm coming about the affordable housing and stuff. If they wouldn't have stopped the undivided house program that started back in the late 70s, that would have stopped a whole lot of these problems with the homeless and the –
 and the people that's middle retarded and everything with the 24-hour crisis center that we would have there, and for the families and everything that fell within the crack, as y'all called it back at that time, that couldn't afford affordable housing or whatever, until they could have got back on their place. Now, you're coming up 30-something years, and you have duplicated everything that we would have done. So you've stolen every one of my ideas. You overpowered me and took it from me. And so at the point of
 of 831, 1989, it became Thomas Edward Mullen versus Pope Williams of Portland, Oregon. So now I got the whole Catholic against me saying, oh man, you done ran over our father. So therefore, that's still within the loop, so we have to start that. So it knocked me clean out of the loop. And then again, I got injured by the city and
 of 1-14-1994 that took me all the way out physically. So now I can't work, can't get around or nothing. So this is all within the state of Oregon.
 As you started this motion today with the flag, that you dropped the flag, half flag, I am now going to make the sign of number seven. As the young man said, if you're going to speak on the flag, you must know the whole power of that flag. And it says within the flag codes, if you turn your flag upside down, it means that someone is threatening you, someone has stole your property, and the federal government,
 government of Washington, D.C. must be called in. Not asking what you want to do. You must be called in. Now, I've been signing my flag upside down for the last 15 years. Ain't nobody got here yet. So, therefore, all the way to Washington, D.C. is in violation because the law still quotes and it quotes now. So, therefore, you
 You guys want to cry about what that flag means. You want to honor the flag, but you've got to honor the whole policy of that flag. And that's where you're in violation. And I agree with that man about that number seven that refused to stand up for the flag, and I refuse to at this point in time and will until you honor your whole policy, not when you want to or when it helps you. And so, therefore, I am here to seek.
 money to get back into helping the housing thing as a citizen of this United of Oregon I should be able to do that and I'll show you a way that you guys have been Overlooking things that could move the situation along and what things that you over pointed I have put in more time you guys ain't been here over 15 or five years or whatever so therefore you're missing in by your
 person here and so therefore I'm speaking for the whole state of Oregon and people that's in the situation. I want someone to get back to me and if you're scared to talk to me, please hire someone that's not scared to come out and talk to Mr. Thomas Evermonde about this situation or else I'll try to take it politically or to the public. Alright, thank you very much. Thank you for coming. Thank you.
 All right, we have a consent calendar. I don't believe there have been any requests. There are only four items on it to take anything off, right? So let's then take a vote on the consent calendar as printed. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, let's take item 1016, please.
 1016, direct the Bureau of Human Resources to lead the City Employer of Choice Initiative to attract, develop, and retain a diverse, culturally competent, fully engaged workforce that provides excellent public services. And 1017, please. Adopt the strategic plan to implement the 2012 Model Employer Resolution. Okay. Anna, Kenwit, and other panelists are here to present this this morning.
 Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. Anna Canwitt, Director of the Bureau of Human Resources. We have two resolutions before you today. The first is the Employer of Choice Resolution, which would direct the Bureau of Human Resources to lead the Employer of Choice Initiative to attract, develop, and retain a diverse, culturally competent, fully engaged workforce that provides excellent public services.
 As a companion to this resolution, also presenting to you the resolution to adopt the strategic plan for furthering the city's goal to become a model employer of persons with disabilities. I do have...
 three people who are also going to be testifying in support of that resolution along with a video testimony, which if I don't have the technology expertise to do that, Gail Baird will help me out. So anyway, thank you. So moving first to the employer of choice. Thank you.
 We began this work back in August of 2014. Fred Miller talked to me and said, you know, the city is a pretty great place to work, and that's often not recognized. And we could even make it better. So out of that, the Employer of Choice concept was born. The initial work was done by senior managers within my bureau, and
 input from city council offices, from bureau directors, and from various employees, including staff that are part of a business hour group that OMF hosts. We also did a lot of research, and we test drove some of the concepts through engagement surveys with Bureau of Human Resources staff. Before...
 And from that, we learned that some of the things that employees would like to see in order to have a truly engaged workforce, autonomy, being able to problem solve, understand how their work fits in with the enterprise, that's the city, to be safe, to have bold ideas that are not shut down, and work where there's a commitment to diversity. And last, but certainly not least, is to be able to have fun. Work is an enjoyable thing to do.
 So why would we create an identity of the city as an employer of choice? One is to market the city to new generations of employees in an increasingly competitive labor market. Two, current employees should be recognized for and understand the value of their work.
 Three, the city's commitment to be a value-based employer will increase employee engagement, and the research is clear that if you have an engaged workforce, employees are more likely to stay. They have higher job satisfaction and provide better public and customer service.
 So what is an employer of choice? Gail Baird, who is the city's training and workforce development manager, is going to discuss that. But I just wanted to point out this is really part of a culture shift for us in the city. And to be successful, it needs to be intentional, rewarded, and embraced by all city leaders.
 To do this work, we created the Champion Circle, which is a cross-bureau team of very engaged folks who are willing to lead this effort for the city. They're committed to enhancing the city's identity. Our brand is an employer of choice and will serve as a clearinghouse for great ideas. Gail will cover those. They're attached to the resolution. So we really can work across silos and learn from each other. So with that, I'll go ahead and turn it over to Gail.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales, commissioners. I'm Gail Baird, training and workforce development manager for the city. And thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony on this initiative, which we think is really critical for the city and its workforce moving forward. Employer of choice, that term means different things to different people. Our model, the city's model, presents the underlying components of employer of choice with the understanding that each of us experiences it differently. Thank you.
 And as Anna mentioned, the literature over many years shows that the best employers, so most admired, most profitable in the public sector, considered most effective or best run, are deliberately focused on what they offer to their workforce and to recognize employees as their most valuable resource themselves.
 is what Employer of Choice is intended to do. So as an employer, the city offers job seekers operating on the basis of fundamental values of public service, public trust, equitable outcomes, diversity and inclusion, and ethical conduct. People who are attracted to those values are the ones that we want to hire and we want to keep them.
 So in our model that you have as Attachment A or Exhibit A, we have identified five broad themes. Under each of these are the descriptors of job satisfaction, engagement, and along with some programmatic areas. And so before I go on to each of those themes, just to mention that one,
 The term employer of choice doesn't mean that a particular employer is attractive or desirable for every single job seeker. Some people are not motivated necessarily by employment in the public sector. They're seeking other things. The people that we want are those who want to make a difference and who want to be part of making a difference at the City of Portland. So, um,
 Each of these shows of the themes, we have strategic creativity, effective leadership, employee development and learning, a supportive and inclusive work environment, and total rewards. So obviously the five things describe different parts of the work experience at the city.
 And within that, we show that the city is a values-based employer. So values are why I came and the work experience is why I stay. Those are the engagement factors that we want to support. Part of the work that we have done over the past couple of years on this involved taking an inventory, if you will, and seeking out, investigating what the city and within city bureaus, what we're already doing.
 Because we have found that many times a bureau, as part of its own internal employee programs, will develop problems.
 initiatives, onboarding programs, training, all different kinds of things that they do in recognition of employees. And part of our goal with Employer of Choice is to share those across the city to the extent possible so that we are creating a more enriched culture citywide.
 Just one more thing I'll add. Thank you, Gail. So part of this is why we're doing this is the city, you know, we want to fit our programs, initiatives around employees into our identity as an employer of choice, which is a value-based employer.
 One of the, not exactly an ask, but a forecast in the resolution is we know we want baseline data because we do want to provide metrics to you as we move forward with this resolution and our various ideas, and I mean our by citywide ideas, on how to enhance the workforce
 and we would like to do a survey, employee engagement survey across the city. Bureaus have done this for their individual bureaus. We've not undertaken it across the city.
 We don't have a specific ask today because that's not clear really what that cost would be. We anticipate working with someone like Portland State University could be something around $15,000, but that is not before you today. But the reason it's mentioned in the fiscal impact statement is that's one of the things we'll be coming back with at some point. Thank you. So any questions? Questions for either of these two leaders in this work? Okay.
 I have a question, and I appreciate the discussions you've had with staff about doing this as a goal and adopting a strategic plan and the relationship of that in the budget, because it will take additional resources to actually do it, in addition to the $15,000. So I'm asking my colleagues as much as you is by adopting this plan, are we affirming that we do want
 we do want to consider this as a high priority in the budget i think so yeah
 Well, I certainly would like that to be considered, but I do understand. I mean, in terms of when I address the model employer, the request there will be part of my budget coming in for the beginning of fiscal year 17, 18. Is that the fiscal year we'll be in? Yeah. So there isn't anything today that actually commits a budget adoption, but simply asking for support.
 And this is an opportunity for you to make your pitch for that. Okay, thank you for that. Because you have asked for this before, and if you could just talk a little about the consequences of not...
 adding staff to do that, and what would the staff that you will be requesting be doing? Sure. I'd love to do that. If you wouldn't mind, Commissioner, if I could do that, move over to the model employer and go through that, and I can address it there. I think that will provide a little more continuity, and I do have, as I mentioned, one video testimony and three other people are here in support of the model employer resolution. So I'll go ahead and start that.
 Great. If you just hang out in case I need you. That would be great. So the second part of the presentation today does concern the city's 2002 resolution for the city to become a model employer for persons with disabilities. And as Commissioner Fritz pointed out, I have this budget year will be my third year coming to council to request funding
 four positions to carry that resolution out to the extent it was originally intended by council, by the Portland Commission on Disabilities, by the Office of Equity and Human Rights, and by the Bureau of Human Resources, and I think everyone who supported the original resolution. Part of the issue is that resolution was adopted, and then we were in some –
 pretty decent budget cuts and I two of the staff from my bureau that would have been able to assist in the resolution were cut from the budget
 That's not to say that nothing has happened, actually. Quite a few things have happened since the resolution was passed. I want to note that besides the Bureau of Human Resources and the Office of Equity and Human Rights, individual bureaus are taking on programs and actions to improve employment and the environment for individuals who have a disability, notably,
 Bureau of Environmental Services and Parks. But I have to say, I was not originally aware of those programs. So it gets back to what we're talking about in terms of employer of choice. Bureaus are doing a lot of great things, but we don't have good mechanisms to talk to each other about what's going on.
 In addition to what individual bureaus are doing, in the Bureau of Human Resources, we expanded our focused outreach from .75 to one position to increase outreach to communities and individuals who identify as having a disability. We have been hosting a job fair with Insight.
 Again, focused on attracting individuals who identify as having a disability to employment with the city. I believe it's our third job fair is October 12th, and we have participation from pretty much every bureau in the city in that job fair as well.
 The city also participates and attends Night for Networking, which is an OHSU event.
 well, basically networking event, trying to tie people with disabilities with employers and employers talking to each other. I have attended for several years. That event is on October 26th. In fact, Ian Jaquis is here from OHSU today, who is one of the main creators of that event.
 The BHR also did a survey in 2014 to obtain data around how the city, our employees view disabilities and what the environment is like. And it's not particularly positive, that survey. That said, this year, last year, I was able to encumber approximately $50,000 from my budget in order to hire a consultant.
 to create a strategic plan to carry this resolution further than we have done so far.
 It is attached to the resolution. It is titled, actually, A White Paper and Strategic Plan because at 53 pages, I think it's a little long to simply be a strategic plan. We entered into a contract with Michael Sporluk, who is at once a member of the PCOG, the Portland Commission on Disability, does a lot of international work with the UN and Mercy Corps,
 on this type of work. Unfortunately, he will not be here today. He was traveling in several countries in Africa as well as the Middle East and injured himself. So I have remarks that I am going to read that Michael would have provided.
 What Michael Sporluk did is he met with a variety of focus groups and stakeholders, council offices, bureau directors, various employees to create – he did his own survey data and then created the plan that is before you as Exhibit A. Okay.
 The plan was also provided, well, both in draft form but the final form to PCOD and also to, again, this business hour group of employees across the city for review. Page 25 of the plan is sort of the detailed recommendations that Michael has that we wholeheartedly support. Significantly, there will be a budget ask for one-and-a-half positions for
 In my bureau, one position would be a centralized ADA accommodation position. This is immensely important. If you look at the word clouds at the back of the plan, one word cloud shows really what the environment is like. Fear, retaliation, et cetera, et cetera, that many people feel that inhibits them from coming forward to request accommodations and for us to truly create a welcoming environment.
 The BHR now has a centralized position for family medical leave and other medical leave requests. It has been very, very successful, and primarily for two reasons. One is it creates a safe environment for employees to come forward with their requests for leave, and it also ensures consistency across the city.
 This accommodations position would be similar. It would work with the Bureau-identified employees who work on Title I, but also would, again, provide a safe environment for employees to come forward with their request for accommodations and ensure that we create those accommodations. The second part, which is very important, is the recommended shift for the city from moving from a medical approach
 to accommodations to, I guess, a more humanistic approach, for lack of a better word. And what that basically means is the way we approach most accommodations today is we will ask the employee for information from a treatment provider that justifies that accommodation. Now, that's not in every case, but that is primarily the model we follow today.
 It doesn't make a lot of sense. It's no longer recommended under the Americans with Disabilities Act or by the federal government. And again, it leads to, creates barriers that don't need to be there. For example, if we have an employee with low vision who simply needs an attachment, a program on their computer, there really is no reason for us to ask them to provide information from a treatment provider that they need that accommodation.
 we can do it. Or the sit-to-stand desk, which actually we provide pretty much across the board now, you don't really need a treatment provider to tell you that an employee, because of a condition, really does need the ability to stand up at work rather than sit all day.
 So that's, of course, in terms of the budgetary piece, I think those things are very important. There are also a number of programs that are in here. One, the project search that is being spearheaded by Commissioner Fish's office.
 along with a job carving program OHSU has piloted that the Parks Bureau is looking at doing, where we create both of these, we create meaningful work for people with developmental disabilities with the goal of that work becoming actual full-time regular employment with the city at some point.
 So there are a number of things in here that I think are really important. And what I'd like to do is next read from Michael Sporluk's testimony and then have the other folks here come up to talk to you and then can take questions at the end. Excuse me? Sorry, go ahead. Okay. I'm being my New York quick part right now to try to save time. So again...
 For Michael Sporlu, and he's incredibly disappointed he cannot be here today. By the way, I think we are too, because if he was here, I would probably, with all my colleagues, compliment him on the way he went about doing this report, the meetings he held with us, the follow-up work, and really a superb document. Yeah.
 And I compliment you for hiring him because I think he really got at the core of some very important issues. Great. Thank you. I appreciate that. Just one second. We have an accommodation. Apparently the captions are not working. Let's get that working. Could we just pause while we... Yeah, yeah, absolutely. They usually go about an hour and a half, so I'm not sure what happened. It might be a technical problem. So is someone checking upstairs? Hang on. Back. Back.
 Yes, they're good. They're good. All right. We're back in operation here. All right. Great. Thank you. Just one comment on Michael Sporluk. One of the recommendations that came out of the review of the plan was that we should look at actually using his expertise in our design for the Portland building. Okay.
 So to be sure that that is actually, we're creating a welcoming environment as well. So I'm talking to Fred Miller about including that. I think it's a really excellent suggestion. So.
 All right, so this is from Michael Sporluke now. He had 11 observations from his consultancy with the City of Portland. Persons with disabilities want to and can be productive employees for the City of Portland. Some, but not all, persons with disabilities have support needs or reasonable accommodations to enable them to carry out their essential job functions.
 Employees are reluctant to make requests for reasonable accommodation because of the stigma of revealing their status as a person with a disability and their belief the request will be denied. While there are often costs associated with reasonable accommodations, those tend to be relatively minor and are less than the cost of failing to provide the accommodation. Thank you.
 Non-disabled persons tend to think of reasonable accommodation as special or extra, and therefore something that is optional. This attitude is damaging. The truth is, whether disabled or not, no one views their own needs as special. The clear intent of the Americans with Disabilities Act is to make the provision of reasonable accommodation routine. The only valid reason for a reasonable accommodation to be denied is if it causes an undue burden. However, with the city of our size and the size of our budget,
 The chance that an accommodation request would create an undue financial burden is probably fairly close to zero. And I actually agree with all these remarks as well. A new approach to the provision for reasonable accommodation is needed. There are many good reasons to provide the accommodations. Cost-effective, supports our independence, economic and social. It lowers the cost to society, right?
 i.e., reliance on welfare programs. No large city in the United States is doing this well. If this plan is approved, it will place the city of Portland at the forefront of supporting equity and the public safety for persons with disability nationally, if not globally.
 The City of Seattle has an excellent smaller and targeted program to support people who identify as having a disability. I hope it is studied in more detail and emulated by the City of Portland. I'm also encouraged by a new OHSU program to support the employment of persons with developmental disabilities.
 Conversations about the strategic plan have been had with representatives from the Department of Labor, Office of Disability Employment Policy, and they have expressed their support for this plan and an interest in today's outcomes.
 The International Labour Organization, a body of the United Nations based in Geneva, has also expressed interest in and support for this initiative. While their main focus has been on creating a global business and disability network to promote employment in the private sector, they recognize the need for the public sector to take leadership in this as well.
 The city has made a commitment to be an employer of choice and has stated that it values diversity and recognizes that everyone can contribute to make the city a better place for all. This plan is premised on and builds from that commitment. The BHR strategic plan offers a fix to improve who is given reasonable accommodation and how it is given. This combined with a focus on outreach and recruitment will help the city to attract qualified individuals with disabilities.
 There is, as noted, I already noted, the modest cost associated with the plan, which is the budgetary request for 1.5 full-time equivalent positions.
 Second, given the success of the Seattle program, the commencement of the OHSU program, and Commissioner Fish's expression of interest in a program to bring on board individuals with developmental disabilities, the Council may want to consider how to design and institutionalize a private program specifically focused on employment opportunities for persons with developmental disabilities.
 Third, Bureau of Human Resources is the overall lead for this strategic plan, and I'm confident in the commitment of BHR to do this work. That said, BHR will need other bureaus to step up as well. OEHR has a dual mandate on race and disability as the parent bureau for PCODD.
 Office of Neighborhood Involvement has a disability outreach mandate and is developing a disability leadership program. Parks has expressed an interest in a supported employment program for persons with developmental disabilities, and the police bureau's work with community of persons who use mental health services is ongoing. These bureaus will all need to make disability inclusion a priority within their work plans. Thank you. So that was Michael Spordlick's testimony.
 and then I'm going to go ahead and have the people here come up and testify. So, Dana Coffey. Great. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Commissioners, my name is Dana Coffey. I am a commissioner with the Portland Commission on Disability. My son has a disability. He's 23, and he is smart, perceptive, funny, kind, and educated. Thank you.
 But of course, even so, I worry about his prospects to be hired and to support himself. So I'm excited about this opportunity to talk with you today about the two resolutions before you. The U.S. Census says that more than 18% of our civilian, non-institutionalized population has a disability.
 ill-conceived attitudes and policies about disability needn't and shouldn't prevent someone with a disability from contributing to the workforce and earning a living. In 2012, our city council adopted the Model Employer Resolution to promote a welcoming and inclusive environment for persons with disabilities that was wise, humane, and just.
 Unfortunately, the budget wasn't available until now for the city to hire the modest number of staff, only one and a half full-time employees, to ensure that the resolution took effect. As of this year, only 1.2% of city employees self-identified as having a disability. That the percentage of such employees may actually be higher means
 because people fear to reveal that they have disabilities, is also addressed in the plan. No wonder about the reluctance. The survey cites legitimate reasons for that fear and widespread misconceptions and myths that people with disabilities can't do the work,
 they can't do the work that they're hired to do require expensive accommodations do not have the qualifications and will not work as hard it's a grave and continuing injustice to dismiss 18 of our population in this way the problem isn't disability the problem is accessibility as a commission we are encouraged by many aspects of this plan and we urge you to both support and fund it
 We also have some concerns and suggestions to make this plan even better. So while we ask for your support of this plan, we also ask that you continue to have human resources and the new staff work in partnership with us to make sure the voice and needs of people with disabilities continue to be part of the process. There is pride in being an Oregonian and a Portlander,
 So often we have led the nation in important legislation protecting our environment and our people. Recycling, public beaches, transportation. Here is another opportunity for us to lead the way. One poignant statement from the survey in the plan was, I've never met anyone blind. I've never met someone with a significant speech impediment or someone who is completely deaf working for the City of Portland.
 Too often when we have conversations about equity, we do not include people with disabilities. And yet people with disabilities represent all of us, over 18% of us in fact. And yet the disabilities community is historically underrepresented and discriminated against in the workforce, more so than any other group in our communities. Thank you.
 Let's begin to change that today by adopting the model employer resolution and the strategic plan that will help ensure it is effective. In my time on the Commission, I have been privileged to work with some of the most able and courageous people I know. I would like to introduce you to one now, my fellow Commissioner, Angel Chesimet. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. I really appreciate that, Dana. So Angel's testimony is video, so we'll go ahead and make that work. I'm going to just let you go. Oh, assist? Yes. Oh, Carla, great.
 While that's getting set up, I do want to point out one of the groups I missed when I was talking about the work we had done so far was the Employment Subcommittee of the Portland Commission on Disabilities. Travis Wall was a member of that subcommittee. He is going to testify today as well. But that group really worked. We spent a lot of time together creating the survey and doing a lot of the work that we've done so far.
 Hello, thank you for giving me this opportunity to speak with you guys. Sorry I couldn't make it in person today. My name is Angel Chesimet, and I am a commissioner with PCOD. I'm really excited about this opportunity that we have with the model employer and the strategic plan that we're going to discuss today. I feel like this is an opportunity that we have to start in the city of Portland and hopefully continue.
 to flow out to other businesses locally and maybe even nationally on leading the way in the disability movement. We, one of the minority groups, that any of us in this room today can become disabled. Any of us. Think about it. All the minority groups. You can't all of a sudden become black.
 or brown, you can't all of a sudden become gay. You can, any one of us can all of a sudden become disabled at any moment in your daily life. That's pretty surprising to think about, especially when you compare that to the low percentages of people with disabilities in our workforce.
 We have a right, it is our human right, to be able to earn a living just like anyone else in this room. But we time and time again don't get the opportunity to because we are judged on not things that people know because people don't understand and usually are not open to understanding what it's like to live with a disability.
 They're judging because they're judging on what they think they know about a person with a disability.
 When in reality, a person with a disability is actually a person who would be a very hard and loyal worker. And would be very responsible. We have a lot of qualified individuals in the disability community that don't even give an opportunity. Or not even given an opportunity because of the ignorance that people have around disability.
 are usually not a part of the conversation when it comes to equality for race and sexual identity and the LGBTQ topics. Disability is very, very, very rarely even remembered in the list of minority groups and marginalized populations.
 I'm encouraging us today to open up and let disability be a part of our conversation at the table. I am totally blind. I use my guide dog, Hennessy, to get around. I actually have a master's degree in clinical rehabilitation counseling from Portland State University.
 even with a master's degree, struggle and have struggled to be seen as equal in the workforce. I'm hoping that the city council would strongly, strongly and seriously consider implementing the strategic plan by 1st.
 First, allowing the city to have the staff to start the whole process and start the ball rolling, along with my other commissioners at PCOD.
 that we would be a part of the conversation to continue shaping and forming the strategic plan to ensure everyone gets an opportunity to be considered in any type of employment that comes up in the city. And hopefully, eventually, as the attitudinal barriers are slowly chipped away, that we
 would be more equal, I'm sorry, that we would be more considered throughout our city and maybe even eventually, hopefully one day, throughout our nation. So I encourage the city council please to consider the strategic plan and
 starting the ball rolling with the new staff member and the halftime staff member and to consider, continue to allow PCOT to be a part of the table as we move forward with this whole process. I thank you for the opportunity, and I hope that I will meet some of you guys in the near future. Thank you.
 All right. Thank you. So, Travis Wall is also going to come up and say a few remarks, and then Philip Wolfe. Okay. Great. Come on up, please. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you for accommodating me and allowing me to come in and appear before you today. I'm going to ask you to bear with me a little bit. I am unfortunately left-wing.
 one of the accommodations that I need to function, which is a pair of glasses in my car this morning, so I don't have the benefit of that. I also thought while we were talking about accommodations, I might just point out that there's an accommodation that's present in this room that many of us so-called able-bodied people often rely on that isn't necessary for everyone with a disability, particularly those who are blind. So all of you are the benefit of a lighting system.
 that without you, you would have a hard time reading the documents that are in front of you. It's something that we all take for granted as able-bodied people, but in fact it's an accommodation that's made for us to facilitate things in the course of our business.
 So some have already shared some of what I'm going to state, but I think it's important that we restate it for the record. And so I ask you to bear with me a little bit. The recommendations before you today are a real necessity to continue to address what has been a longstanding inequity, both in this country and state, but also, yes, this city. Thank you.
 People with disabilities have long experienced some of the highest rates of unemployment and unemployment of any group in this country. Here in Portland, 15 to 20 percent of our community are people with disabilities, and yet only about 2 percent of our city's workforce, in fact, are persons that identify as being someone with a disability.
 The unfortunate deleterious effects of unemployment and underemployment affect people with disabilities in all sorts of profound and often lifelong and devastating ways, including through poverty and homelessness as well as through racism. It's worth noting that a disproportionate number of people with disabilities are also people of color and other disadvantaged people.
 In response to these facts and these conditions and the moral, legal, and business case for increasing the employment of people with disabilities, the Portland Commission on Disabilities brought to you a resolution in 2011 to make the city a model employer with disabilities. We were very gratified that day, and we remain very thankful today that that resolution was adopted by you and that it's been lent the support that you have given it.
 But in order to continue to move forward, we must do a number of other things. We're very thankful for the leadership that Anna has provided through the HR Bureau on this issue, and through her efforts, the efforts of the HR staff, as well as the Commission on Disabilities and others. We have made some progress over the past several years, and certainly we've began to put together the vital elements to the strategic plan that you'll see before you today.
 But the recommendations that have been presented are really necessary to take the next steps. This remains an incomplete work, one that must be given far more attention if it's to succeed. So we would say let's make the economic recovery that many Americans are experiencing today a reality for people with disabilities. No longer should their dreams be denied and their dreams deferred. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Okay, I think we had some others that were going to speak. Other PCOT members? Yes. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for giving me this opportunity to speak on this. I support everything in front of you today. Put your name in the record, though, please. Thank you. Sorry. I'm new to this. My name is Ian Jaquis. I work at Oregon Health and Science University. I think I've worked with everybody on the council at one time or another and excited to have this opportunity to speak on this topic today. Okay.
 I've worked closely with Anna and Nicole at various times on various events, and I know the passion that they bring to the table, and I'm excited to hear some of the stories that are already happening in the city. And I think with the adoption of these proposals in front of you, it will further that, it will energize that, and I'm excited about the potential for the messaging that the city can send and making it...
 which is what I've always tried to do, make it cool to be a person with a disability. And I think that the city, like no one else, can promote that. And I think that that will help overcome the stigma, overcome the challenges that people with disabilities face. Michael's presentation, his strategic plan is exciting. For a person who's almost a lifelong person with a disability, this is an opportunity I never imagined.
 And I think that with your endorsement, with your support, with your messaging of that, it will go a long way to raise the 1.5% people here in the city who have self-disclosed.
 that will raise that level. And I'm sure the percentage is already much higher than that, but we want to empower them to feel comfortable about that. The messaging about accommodations is important, and all that's been mentioned is important. But I think ultimately, with the support of the city, that sends the message that it's okay for people with disabilities to apply, to be hired, to thrive. And I fully endorse and I fully support that.
 That said, thank you for this opportunity. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. Did you have some other advice? One more. Philip Wolf will be coming up. He's actually going to type in the computer. Can you bring up the word? I'm assuming we can do that. Or Kyle. We should explain that interpreters were called for Philip. Okay. We'll make it work this way. All right.
 All right. So as Nicole said, Nicole Charon said we had interpreters but didn't show up. So I am going to read what Philip writes for his testimony. That will work. Thank you. Hello. Okay. This is awkward. Hi, commissioners. My name is Philip Wolfe. I am a commissioner with PCOD. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to type my...
 message with you all today. I need a few more minutes than normal because my mind races faster than I type, so bear with me. Oh boy, okay, here I go. When I was 20 years old, I applied for my first job with The Gap at Beverly Hills, California. I got hired.
 Other employees got hired the same time when I got hired. Four months later, this employee got promoted, and I stayed in the same position for more than a year. I realized discrimination is in play, so I filed a lawsuit and settled out of court. Here in Portland, for six years now, I have...
 personally witnessed a serious disparity in hiring people with disabilities with the city. I have applied for three different city positions and got turned down. The most recent was for a position disability program specialist. It was a blow to my stomach
 that I am continued to be subjected as one of the statistics people with disabilities that are viewed as a burden. Evidently, all the bureaus and city people are not trained in providing accommodations with people and their disabilities. They often assume that we...
 must educate them and accommodate them, which isn't the case. And today, to see this council scrambling for interpreters for us today is quite distasteful. I, as a PCOD commissioner, fully support the strategic plan with an understanding that the HR shall hire staff
 to work with and follow through. I believe I could have expressed better through ASL, but this shall do for now. Thank you for your time. It is always good to see you again. And by the way, allow me to remind you, we live in a system of oppression, and here in Portland,
 I believe, can be a model to break, to break the system of oppression. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mayor, excuse me. My apologies for not getting the interpreter. Understood. Thank you. Thank you very much. Glad we worked out a semi-solution today. Thank you very much, Anna, for your help with that. Yes, thank you. So just in closing, I...
 I just want to say I have been very honored to work on this and with the various members of the Portland Commission on Disabilities and others. It's really been a pleasure. Those questions for Anna or Gail. Do we have a lot of people signed up? Why don't we give that person a chance? I apologize. I didn't realize I had someone else signed up. You can come back. I'll just take anyone else that wants to speak and then we'll have questions. Kathy Coleman. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 As you just heard, my name is Kathy Coleman, and I'm also a PCOD Commissioner. I'm here today to ask the City Council to approve the budget for the 1.5 staff positions to carry out the Model Employer Strategic Plan. As the director of a nonprofit, I'm more than highly aware of the importance of having enough staff and resources to carry out needed programs for our community.
 Without adequate staffing, funding, a budget, we won't be able to achieve the goals of the Model Employer Plan. It's been 26 years since the Americans with Disabilities Act was passed, and we still don't have equity. This is almost too high for me. We still don't have equity in employment for people with disabilities. Whether we are just entering the workforce or have a master's degree or PhD, we're still underrepresented here.
 In Oregon, only 35.3% of people with a disability of all education levels are employed, compared to 75.7% of people without a disability of all education levels. And this is a huge gap that needs to be closed. The city needs to embrace disability culture and our intersectionality as disabled people of color, queer, women, indigenous, refugee, and immigrant, etc.,
 As people with disabilities, we're in all parts of our community. The city will benefit from the skills, education, knowledge, and lived experience that people with disabilities bring to the city bureaus as employers, as employees, or employers. It could be either. It's a new century, and we should be well past the narrow thinking that places disability solely as a medical issue.
 With an emphasis on disability culture and identity, city employers can increase their awareness about disability and erase the biases that keep people with disabilities from being employed. PCOD can assist in strengthening the plan through specifying details regarding goals and objectives, important areas of data collection and analysis, and identifying important benchmarks as the number of employees with disabilities increases.
 This is the beginning of a really important journey I know started in 2012, and I hope to see an increase of my people employed in entry, mid-level, and high-level positions in the city of Portland due to the success of the Model Employer Program. And I'm hoping you'll all support that program. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Honorable Mayor, Members, Richard Robinson, I'm visiting from Los Angeles' City Council Chamber and its County Board of Supervisors Chamber. Sir, because of our Constitution, democracy, and freedom based upon the British bicameral parliamentary system, we're the best. The bureaucracy, which to some seems unwieldy to me, is a blessing of God.
 In directing your Bureau of Human Resources, consider the human aspect of life in the United States of America today. Most of humankind's problems are caused by human beings. All we need to do is exert the effort and our problems are solved. The glass is half full. The veneer of civilization is skin deep. There's a tendency to think all too often that...
 we're not we don't have the we don't have the ability to solve these problems but here in portland portland is a point of light i'm 75 years of age i've traveled worldwide i'm a student of child psychology i have
 Barack's my cousin, my stepmother's Joan Oakley, the Prudential-based group. We build about 10 rescue missions nationwide. So as you consider one of the most important, this sea change of direction in not just Portland, but nationwide, because of our... I got here when Bud Clark and Lee Brown were changing things, and I cannot express...
 It's inevitable. It's ineffable. The inevitable effect that you will have, sir, because of your position, Portland's position, not just here, but worldwide. Seriously, as Hillary is sworn in in January, and the world proven leadership is brought back to the process. I'm a Christian. I am cockeyed optimist.
 i'm peculiar but i see you and this legislation as seminal thank you thank you very much thank you for coming others would like to speak on this please come forward good morning good morning commissioners for the record my name is charles johnson and i have to tell you that this is uh shocking i'm amazed that our city had not taken a step like this
 back before the 2008, from 2008 to 2012 and up until now I can see the financial constraints, but really I would have thought that Portland would have had a full-time person looking at employee integration. Because although we're talking really on the urgent need for our city government to step up and do the right thing,
 Now, for people with identified mobility and perception impairments or whatever the politically correct language is, the truth is that the majorly successful workplaces, Microsoft, Apple, Google, pay many people to facilitate employee integration into the workplace. And if you want to be a city government, a municipal government that is –
 on the edge of highest performance of delivering service to the taxpayers and the citizens, it's strange that we didn't get to this point, you know, long before I came to Portland. So by all means, I think that you'll find that, you know, in city government, we don't do much ROI tracking, I don't think. But...
 I'm very confident that if you approve these 1.5 FTEs, you'll actually find that it probably makes sense to pull out another 1.5 FTE. Just on the general principle of instead of siloing people and forcing people onto a track, talking about how workers can collaborate in their different capacities and produce the best results for the people of Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 Hello, Commissioners and Mayor Hills. My name is Crystal Elinsky, and speaking on this agenda item is I'm very pleased to be here today with some of my heroes, people I've been following and working with for many years. Thank you.
 I am here to express concern about what I've seen over the years and also hope that this could bring. It doesn't operate in a vacuum. I mentioned earlier about our environmental declarations, our homelessness declarations, and
 announcements and lofty ideals that we put out without any teeth, any way to monitor it, follow through. I would really like to see this worked on. When we talk about engaging more minorities, women, minority contracts, for example, we know that we've been talking about it for a long time, and yet the procurement office, the auditor found that the procurement office doesn't really...
 operate. And we're using token agencies and not real tangible results. We are a huge city. We have a lot of talent, a lot of different ways of looking at things. We don't need to continue to do the same, let's say, I'm trying to think of a nice way to put this, but
 To say, okay, we've got that 1% dealt with and now we're doing well. So I would really like to see this. Like when we talked about the homelessness 10-year plan to end homelessness, that we have action like we did back in the days when Eric Sten was here and we worked on that. I have personal experience with agencies, nonprofits that pretend to be
 help people with disabilities. And mostly they just exploit people with disabilities, and they get away with it because we don't know what it looks like to have our standards set. If you as the city, as an employer, can get this right, working with equity, minorities, even with the issues with homelessness issues,
 We can set the standard for these nonprofits that, for example, I recently tried to get a job that had to do with housing, that a lot of disabled people are homeless. And we're promised so-called good housing, which turns out is not accessible. They're not very good at accommodating. And then they make you work, say, for example, cleaning toilets at PSU, my alma mater, etc.
 for minimum wage for 10 hours a day. I do not want to see this anymore. I hope you can set the standard. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Anyone else? Okay, we did have some more questions, I think, Anna, for you and Gail. So come back up, please, and address those.
 Questions, concerns? I just have a follow-up question to what you read from the report about the cost to provide the accommodation is less than the cost of not providing accommodation in terms of risk. But my question is, if an accommodation is needed, does the Bureau's budget take that, or is there a central budget for that?
 that a bureau could apply for? No, it would come out of the bureau's budget, Commissioner. I think that's something that we need to look at. It may be a lot more possible to fund an accommodation in a big bureau like Parks, for example, than it is in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement or even the Office of Equity and Human Rights. So I think moving forward, I don't know if that's included as a recommendation in the strategic plan, but as a practical matter, I think...
 I think it should be considered. Absolutely. It's not included in the plan, but can certainly be added to the work list. Yeah, and my other question, which is really not to you, but the rest of my colleagues, don't know quite where the Office of Management and Finance's budget falls in the rank order of how much each bureau is getting in the budget. But part of the question I think that we will be answering in the budget is,
 Do we have to give extra to fund something as crucial as this, or should a Bureau's budget be reorganized so that this becomes a priority, whether or not there's additional funding? Fair question. Good point. Okay, other questions or comments for Chad here? A couple of questions.
 Anna, nice work. Would you remind me, what do you anticipate will be Michael Sporlick's ongoing role? He's authored the white paper. He's interviewed us. He's made a number of very thoughtful recommendations. What is his potential future role? Well, in terms of this particular project, we are finished with that, so we'll be moving forward with the plan. But the potential role would be to...
 contract with Michael to work with the design committee for the remodel of the Portland building to ensure that that design does create a welcoming environment for everybody. Now that has just a suggestion that I'll be following up with Fred Miller on. You mentioned earlier in this presentation that
 We sometimes have challenges sharing information and that a bureau may be doing something and innovating, but it may not be that information may not migrate. I recently, at Fred's invitation, went to a meeting of bureau directors and we talked a little bit about communication with our customers and some uniform standards and I gave some feedback as a customer on something I had gone through.
 But this is the age-old challenge with our former government because each of us, we have commissioners in charge, they're independent actors overseeing bureaus, and yet we're trying to establish citywide standards. So I guess the conversation I'd like us to have as a follow-up to this is who is best positioned to set the marker and then make sure that we're meeting citywide standards? Is it...
 Is it the CAO, the chief administrative officer, through that process? Is it HR with a directive signed by the mayor saying these are the minimum expectations? Is it something that Dante James, Office of Equity, establishes as baseline expectations? And then are we expected, for example, to set those expectations in the written letters of expectations we give our bureau directors? So, I mean, it is – I almost feel like every time we go through –
 an important exercise like this, we have to be very clear about how we set the bar and how we enforce it. Because if we don't, then it's not entirely clear how we get there. I have often thought, actually, that just as the mayor issues an executive order or its equivalent assigning bureaus, we could get to a point where there's a similar flavor maybe at the time the bureaus are assigned.
 that sets – I mean, the power to set a bureau implicitly comes with the power to set some expectations about how you manage the bureau. And mayors are not shy in using that prerogative in assigning bureaus to say, you know, things like, you share my passion for X, Y, and Z, right? And that's a precondition to the bureau being assigned. Let's think about how we –
 how we get beyond good intentions to making it clear to all bureaus that there are baseline expectations and then some kind of follow-through. And it might be, particularly in the area of sharing best practices and innovation, it might be something where we do an annual work session.
 where those things come to all of us. But where a bureau is doing good work, it shouldn't just be communicated with Dante or shared at a FRED meeting. The other bureaus should be inspired to put that into practice. Good idea. It's the age-old challenge we have in terms of our form of government, but I'd like to maybe use this as a test for how we might take it to the next level. I think that's an excellent idea. One of the things that we have talked about that...
 haven't presented to any of the commissioners, the mayor yet, is sort of a general list of expectations for bureau directors as well. I mean, it would be particularly around these citywide initiatives. Yes.
 which I think would be very helpful, and annual work session, other reporting would be really great. Well, and I, you know, look at the work you've done, for example, institutionalizing the 2.02 training and work. I mean, it's now not discretionary. It's mandatory, and then there's tracking. We get all these emails following up. I mean, that's how you go from good intentions to a structure that requires that everyone get the training and the follow-through. Yeah.
 Commissioner, could you just explain to people at home what 2.02 is? 2.02 is the training we get on our policies around sexual harassment and related policies. Two other things. You know, we're going through a period of transition. We have a mayor-elect. We don't know how this government's going to be organized starting January 1st. But I have...
 said on behalf of the bureaus I have the honor of leading, we do want to put into place the pilot on Project SEARCH. And the beauty, Mayor, of that program is Seattle has already done a lot of the hard work, and it actually in Seattle came out of the mayor's office, so there was a...
 And so I think it actually has to come out of a mayor's office or a commissioner's office for this to go forward. I think we pick a bureau, and I think the Water Bureau wants to step up and be considered as the first pilot, work out the details with HR, and see if we can pilot this, test it, and then see whether it's something that we could export to other bureaus. So we do want to go forward with that, even though there's some uncertainty about who will be doing what in the new administration. Okay.
 And then finally, could you – I'm just unclear about the budget piece. Is it your intention to come forward in the fall bump or in the regular budget to seek the additional resources? In the regular budget. Thank you very much. Thank you. Other questions, comments, good suggestions? Thank you both very much. Let's take a vote, please, then, on the first of the two resolutions. Solve for. Well, I want to thank you.
 Anna and Gail and the Commission on Disabilities and everybody who's worked on this model employer resolution, certainly as the testimony indicates, and I think as we all know, we can and must do a better job providing employment opportunities for people with disabilities. I think, Anna, I think you sort of mentioned it in passing that, you know, work helps make people happy. Sometimes we don't feel that way when we're working too much, but...
 when people are out on the outside looking in of a work environment and which too many people with disabilities find themselves in uh i think there's a lot they they yearn for in terms of the the camaraderie we have from just being around people and uh the positive sense as you said i think maybe gail said that of working for the city uh the sense of public service
 that it instills in so many of us so this is very important work and uh appreciate all your hard work and everybody being here today hi no thank you i also appreciate your hard work and appreciate everyone's testimony today uh when michael swarlock told me about the appallingly low percentage of people in our workforce who identify as people with disabilities i was stunned
 And as Ian Jaquis said, the number is so low that doubtless we have a higher percentage of the workforce who are people with disabilities who aren't reporting that, which is itself a problem. But it's also so low that obviously people with disabilities are wildly underrepresented in our workforce and so.
 really appreciate the fact that HR is working to design policies and alert us to the policies that can hopefully remedy that situation. So I realize that technically this is the 2016 isn't about that issue, but I just wanted to add.
 So I probably won't say anything in the second vote, but again, thank you very, very much. And thanks to everybody who spoke today, and thanks especially to Michael, who just did phenomenal work. Aya. Great. Well, obviously, all of us are here, and I think everyone is recognizing there's such a lot of overlap between being a model and an employer of choice for everybody and also being an employer
 which values people working with disabilities and recognising that people with disabilities have already on a daily basis worked really hard and overcome many challenges, which is what we want from our city employees. So on the employer of choice, I personally will be very...
 interested in having the grant with Portland State or someone else to look at what are those factors and I would encourage some thinking too with the overlap on becoming an employer of choice for people with disabilities how could we structure a an employee survey in a manner that people feel much more comfortable with answering the questions on honestly you know I have six people working with me if
 and then sometimes, I mean, we get aggregated data, but since there's only seven of us in my office when it's identified as the commissioner of utilities, it's probably one of us people are going to do, well, I wonder which, so I think it should, when people are more comfortable,
 And I think it overlaps into people experiencing mental illnesses or who have experienced mental illnesses, which is one of the disabilities that we struggle to provide accommodations with in many different places.
 So I think this is a really good start. And as I mentioned in my previous comments, I believe we should be asking the new Chief Administrative Officer, how can you make this happen? And not always expecting the answer, give us more resources, but rather, this is the most important thing, which for a Bureau of Human Resources,
 You've put such a lot of work into this, Anna, and I really appreciate all of the work that you've done, your leadership, recognizing so many different equity issues and becoming more inclusive in many different ways. So thank you very much for your work and for this presentation. I want to join with my colleagues in thanking Anna and Gail and everyone who's been working on this. Anna, you've clearly...
 identified this as a core issue that you care about and that you've led on, and we appreciate that because it's going to take tenacious leadership for us to move the needle on this, and so thank you. I think Michael impressed everybody up here when he interviewed us and then wrote the report, and so he's done a great service. Someone mentioned in their testimony that it was 26 years ago that the Americans with Disabilities Act was passed.
 And it's worth remembering that it was assigned into law by a Republican president. So it was not then seen as a partisan issue. It was seen as a next important step towards a civil rights agenda that the underlying value was to make America live up to its highest ideals. I wonder today whether this could pass the Congress of the United States agenda.
 that currently has organized a Congress that consistently fails to address the issues of concern to Americans, but does find time to pass bills naming post offices. I wonder whether this would pass or would even have broad support from one party. We have work to do. We want to become a model employer, an employer of choice.
 And for all the reasons set forth in the white paper, I think we're ready to get to work. The one thing I would say on funding, and I want to echo what my friend Commissioner Fritz said, you know, when we sign on to strategic plans and model employer policies and the like, I think implicit in that is we're going to put the resources behind it to help you be successful.
 I've been a little frustrated, for example, when we adopted the Age-Friendly Portland Plan, but, you know, we're always having to sort of beg, borrow, and plead to get funding to do even the most modest part of that. So I take very seriously our responsibility. Once we've adopted a big plan with goals and aspirations, I think we have to follow through with the resources to give you and others the resources to be successful. Thank you.
 My bureaus look forward to joining with all the other bureaus in implementing a number of these recommendations, and I'm personally very encouraged by what Project SEARCH as a concept could mean to our city in providing opportunities for people with developmental disabilities. So thank you for your good work. Thanks to all the commissioners who came out today to testify, and I'm pleased to vote aye.
 Well, I want to thank these committed public professionals and the volunteers that have come here today to remind us that this is important work and that we're committed to it. So thank you very much. Very pleased to vote aye. And now on the second resolution, please, on adopting a strategic plan. Councilman. Aye. Novick. Again, thanks so much to Michael and Anna and everybody else who worked on this. Aye. Aye.
 So this is to become the model employer of people with disabilities. One of the first things I got to do as a new city council member in 2009 was to swear in and establish the Portland Commission on Disability, which Mayor Tom Potter had established or set on the path to being done with our great Nicole Chiron, who is now with the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 And then when Mayor Sam Adams and I co-founded the Office of Equity and Human Rights, we did so after robust participation from the people of the Portland Commission on Disability insisting that Portland, which is now one of the only ones in the nation that recognizes disability along with race as two of the biggest challenges that we need to address and we need to address them soon. I was very struck by the video...
 from one of the Portland Commissioners on Disability and also the comments from each one of them. The example of Philip Wolf needing accommodation and I appreciate what you did to make sure that that happened and that he could participate. It also took us up here noticing that
 uh commissioner philip wolf wolf was suddenly not tracking as he had been doing when he was watching the captioning before um so the video suggested that all of us are at risk
 to becoming disabled. And I think if we live long enough, it's fair to say that all of us will have some disability at one time or another. So I would encourage, again, going back to that survey, to check often as to... It's not a static number for the people with disabilities, so part of the equation is getting people to self-identify, but part of it, we may see an increasing... It might depend on the age of the workforce or what else is going on, and so...
 I don't – well, politicians are kind of in the public eye anyway, so we get asked all kinds of questions. But I would appreciate an ongoing annual survey to keep checking in because it's really important. We need to know where we are before we can figure out how we're going to get where we need to be going. Thank you very much. Bye. Bye. Bye.
 You know, it's about talent. That was brought up today that in a world where talent is preeminent and an organization's success, we need to make sure that we're attracting and accommodating talented people. So that's what this is about. It's also about doing the right thing. And, you know, we see a lot of plans and reports. This one was particularly compelling and clear. And I just want to read the seven key assumptions that are on page 10 and 11 of this report because I think they really are arresting.
 One is, number one, disability is a normal part of the human condition. Two, able-bodied privilege needs to be unpacked. Three, a model employer proactively addresses inequities. Four, a model employer strives to meet a standard above what's legally required. Five, requests for reasonable accommodation are legitimate. Six,
 Six, the Bureau of Human Resources needs to be the decider in reasonable accommodations. And seven, an inconsistent approach to reasonable accommodation could make the city more liable. That's very clear. That builds a really good floor for this very important work. Thank you very much. Aye. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, let's move on, please, to 1023. 1018? 1018. Sorry, did I miss one? I did. Sorry, 1018. 1018.
 Another time certain. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the Oregon Department of Transportation as the tax administrator for the City of Portland Motor Vehicle Fuels Tax. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, as you'll recall, council unanimously sent a 10 cent per gallon fuel tax to the voters earlier this year. And may the voters approve this ballot measure, which will fund important traffic safety and street repair projects all over the city.
 The money from gas tax will fix crumbling streets. It will fix dangerous crossings. It will build high-quality biking and walking infrastructure. It will make it safer for kids to walk to school, for seniors to walk to bus stops, for everybody in Portland to get around.
 One of the reasons that a gas tax made sense as a mechanism is that we can rely on the existing tax collection mechanism of the state to collect the revenue. However, we had to work out exactly how that would happen, and we've been in conversations with ODOT for some months now.
 and now thanks to the work of our committee in PIVOT and ODOT, we have the official intergovernmental agreement or IGA, as the cool kids call it today, between us and ODOT. So to walk us through the mechanics of that,
 I will give you Lee a treat and our finance guru, Ken Lee, who, by the way, has spent months and months working on various iterations of this fuel tax and prior proposals to raise revenue. And I want to take this opportunity to thank Ken Lee very, very much and to hope that he never leaves Peabody. All right. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you. And thank you, Commissioner Novick. As he said, we're here to finalize the IGA with ODOT so that we can administer their motor vehicle fuels tax. So we just want to take a few minutes to provide an update on some of the other progress that we have made on delivering on the projects.
 So again, in May, the voters of Portland put their trust in us to effectively use their tax dollars to deliver a pre-identified list of critical street repair and traffic safety projects. We are committed to delivering these projects on time and on budget in a very transparent and accountable manner. To that end, we're very pleased to report that we have made great progress in preparing for project delivery and ensuring a successful 2017 construction season.
 The following program controls and oversight components have been put in place. We have the Fixing Our Streets Oversight Committee that is going to convene for the first time Monday of next week. We have created a Fixing Our Street Staff Controls Group. This includes our highest-level managers who are going to oversee project delivery. They are Suzanne Kahn, who is our group manager for maintenance operations, Art Pierce, who is the great manager for policy planning and projects, and Steve Townsend, our city engineer.
 A draft schedule for project delivery over the four-year program has already been created.
 Projects that were already well-defined and will be easy to implement have been scheduled for the first year of the program. There are also a number of projects which we will still need to do robust public involvement in order to deliver and to finalize details. So an example would be expanding our Safe Routes to School program. We need to have open houses and engage our community partners in the spring of next year.
 So today, we're pleased to be finalizing the IGA with ODOT to administer tax collections. ODOT administers motor vehicle fuel tax collections for 16 other Oregon cities and two Oregon counties. We did evaluate the possibility of having the city of Portland, the Revenue Bureau, collect the tax. However, we did find that ODOT would be the most efficient option.
 Within the IGA to ODOT, we anticipate the cost to administer the tax collections are not expected to exceed 3%. And as is stated in the IGA, the tax collections will begin no later than January 1st of 2017. Collections will be done on a monthly basis, and PBOT will receive the revenue on a monthly basis. Thank you.
 And in closing, I want to tell you just about a couple of other program launch activities I think you may be interested in. This Monday, September 19th, we are going to have a groundbreaking base repair project at Southeast 104th and Bush. There's about $2 million every year that will be coming in from the gas tax, or excuse me, motor vehicle fuels tax, that is going to be allocated to our maintenance in-house crews to be doing base repair around the city.
 These are small pavement spot improvements that will prevent our streets from falling into further disrepair. And they also make our streets safer because they remove sunken areas. So, like, if you think about, you commonly see these at bus stops where you see pavement pushed up from buses riding on them as an example. Okay.
 October 5th, we're going to be hosting a town hall at David Douglas High School in East Portland. We want to continually communicate with Portlanders and receive feedback from community members about the Fixing Our Streets projects, and we're looking forward to having that initial launch in East Portland.
 And also, as I already mentioned, this Monday, we are launching our first Fixing Our Streets Oversight Committee. We are very appreciative to the number of people who applied and for those that we have selected to be volunteering their time to help us manage these programs. With that, I would like to turn it back to Commissioner Novick, who is going to introduce to you the committee members for Fixing Our Streets. Thank you, Leah. Thank you, Leah.
 We had 78 applications for a 16-person committee. We provided, I believe in the ordinance itself, that we were going to have a committee that would represent people with disabilities, people bringing the motor vehicle driver perspective, people bringing a pedestrian perspective, a bicyclist perspective, people from, I was going to say every quadrant of the city, but actually we had representatives from
 from five areas of the city separating out central Portland. So I don't know what that would be, a quintret of the city? People representing transit and freight interests, somebody representing businesses with 51 or more employees, somebody representing businesses from 1 to 50 employees, and people representing low-income communities and communities of color.
 the names of those who have been approved for the committee, and we thank them very, very much for volunteering. Thank them for their future service, and you'll recognize some of these names and some of them you won't do.
 Carolina Ereheta-Gonzalez, Elaine Friesen Strang, Elliot Levin, Garrett Kransky, Herb Jenkins, Jennifer Rollins, Justinian Ramos, Mary Ellen Kincaid, Mike Albrecht, Mitch DeFreitas, Rehana Ansari, Samuel Gola, Steph Routh, Tony Lam, William Henderson, and Xiao Zhang. I want to thank these individuals very, very much for their service to the City of Portland and thank all of PBOT staff for getting us to this point.
 And now I believe that we do have some invited testimony. I think that Jennifer Rollins, a member of the Oversight Committee, is here. And I want to thank her very much for her advocacy on this issue at the City Club. Good morning.
 Good morning. As Commissioner Ruvik said, I'm Jennifer Rollins, and I'm really just here to thank you all for your support. I'm here as a member of this new committee that's about to launch, and we're really excited about that. But I also chaired the City Club of Portland's research study on street funding, and as someone who spent more time than most normal people thinking about streets and funding them and maintaining them,
 I just want to say thank you so much for your support. There's a long history in Portland of inaction on this topic, and I'm just grateful that you're all willing to take an important first step. I know that I speak for the members of the Oversight Committee when I say that we're all really excited to get to work and see what can be accomplished. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, any other invited testimony besides yours?
 And anyone else that would like to speak about this before we pass it on for second reading? It's not an emergency ordinance. Thank you all very much. This will pass to second reading next week. Thank you. Easy as that. All right, let's move on then to 1023, please.
 Establish the redemption interest rate and the redemption penalty rate to comply with Code Chapter 5.30, Collections and Foreclosure Process. And 1024 while you're at it, please. 1024, amend Collection and Foreclosure Code to clarify aspects of the redemption process. So as it happens, I started my day yesterday at Lentz School.
 I was there actually to help film a video about solar panels on their roof. It had nothing to do with this issue. Across the street from Lent School is a zombie house. Boarded up, ugly, a blight on the neighborhood. If you walk down the street to Holgate and 97th, there are two zombie houses. Boarded up, in one case burned out, and needles in the yard everywhere.
 what people in Lentz might say other neighborhoods in Portland wouldn't put up with. They've been putting up with for way too long. This team of people is starting to change that. And these actions before us are two more bricks in rebuilding a system where we actually get these issues resolved. And I'm very pleased that the auditor's office, the city attorney's office, and the city treasurer are continuing to move this forward. And with that, I'll turn it over to our treasurer and our city attorney. Thank you.
 Jennifer Cooperman, City Treasurer, and Dan Simon from City Attorney's Office, here to speak on two ordinances regarding the city's foreclosure process for properties that are approved for sale by City Council.
 First, I'd like to briefly mention that regarding the five properties that Council approved for foreclosure back in June, title companies have been requesting payoff amounts for the lien amounts on three of the properties as part of potential sale transactions to new parties. So there appears to be activity that will hopefully lead to properties moving into the hands of new owners even before the foreclosure sale takes place. Also...
 Rules governing the conduct of the foreclosure sale were posted to the Treasury website on August 1st. Code requires that these rules be available at least 60 days prior to the foreclosure sale, so I anticipate gearing up the actual sale process starting in early October.
 Both of the items on today's agenda pertain to the redemption period, which is, again, the one-year period after a foreclosure sale when an interested party has the right to reclaim their property by paying in full the amount of the foreclosure sale price plus interest and penalty.
 The first ordinance establishes the redemption period interest rate and the penalty rate, both of which are required to be set by ordinance and are not currently in place. The recommended interest rate of 12% is equal to the interest rate charged during the lien collection process that's managed by the auditor's office and which is already specified in code. The recommended penalty rate of 20% is consistent with IRS tax code. The second ordinance establishes
 will first give purchasers the right to possess, maintain, and improve the property during the redemption period. And second, if a property is redeemed, will allow the treasurer to use all or some of the redemption penalty amount to reimburse the purchaser for costs that were incurred during that redemption period.
 Current code limits the rights and abilities of purchasers during the redemption period, and the current code also does not address how that penalty amount is to be used. Presumably, it would go to the city. These changes will align city code with ORS.
 There's a concern that unless code is amended, these properties may not attract bidders, nor will successful purchasers be able to address the health, safety, and livability issues until the one-year redemption period has expired. So I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Would you like to add anything? No.
 Mayor Hales, city commissioners, my name is Dan Simon. I'm with the city attorney's office, and I've been assisting Ms. Cooperman with this ordinance. I support everything that she said. I believe that the 20% redemption penalty represents some sound analysis and thinking on her part, and it balances the rights of the...
 redeeming party, potentially redeeming party to come in and redeem the party for the interest and penalty rate with the financial security that would be granted to somebody who would be purchasing the property at the foreclosure sale and their ability to make maintenance and improvements to the property and emulate some of the conditions that Mayor Hales was referring to earlier. Thank you.
 You may recall, counsel, that we created a new position in the city attorney's budget to focus on this issue. Mr. Simon is that person, so I hope you've had a chance to work with him. He's doing great work, and we appreciate it. Thank you. I have, and he has. All right. Questions for either of these folks? We also have the auditor staff here. Any questions about these two ordinances? If not, then let's see if there's anyone here that wants to speak on either of them. Mr. Lightning. Come on up, please. Yes.
 Thank you both. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. As you know, on the foreclosure process, one of the concerns I had is where the money will end up going. As you know, in 2015, the Oregon legislature amended Ordinance 275-275, directing the proceeds from the sale of real property acquired by foreclosure to an
 Account or fund to provide. Number one, funds for housing placement and retention support services for youth and families with children. Two, flexible rental assistance to place youth and families with children in housing. Three, funds to develop new low-income housing that is affordable to youth and families with children with 30% or lower MFI. Again, I want to have the HIF fund.
 account set up to transfer these funds for foreclosures to go into an investment fund, which then can't then be utilized for affordable housing. I've stated I wanted to see more impartial position taken from the code enforcement people that are doing nuisance liens upon the sale to where we separate that completely from any
 Backroom deals to nonprofits before these sales take place to transfer these properties to nonprofits. I want it to go into the HIF fund and then be used toward affordable housing and children with families that might need that type of assistance. Issue number two on the redemption period, I do have a problem within that first year that anybody goes in and touches that property without actually owning the property.
 And what my problem is, is that if they damage the property in the first six months because they don't have proper contractors in there, I redeem my property. Now they've damaged my property, I'm going to sue somebody for those damages. I want to have a cap limit set on exactly how much they think they're going to go into that property and set a cap because that's all you're going to get paid back, otherwise
 I'm going to look at who damaged my property and I'll sue them. An issue I've had before on the code enforcement liens is boarding up properties without you owning the property first. Again, why I have a problem with that, when you board those properties up, that can also limit any sunlight into these properties, create mold. Now you have a house worth nothing. You have an environmental liability. I'm going to look at who I want to sue for that liability. When I own that property,
 If I'm on title of that property, stay off my property. If you come onto my property, you damage my property, I'm going to sue you for all damages that you incur without my authorization to board my property up. Number three, I want to know why some of these properties can't be located. I want to hear their stories.
 I want to understand if they had any threats made against them by any code enforcement officers or law enforcement. And at that point, they can come back with their attorneys and sue you for making them flee their property. So I'm going to be watching this process very closely.
 I hope you follow the same type of guidelines that Multnomah County does, and you take interest and protect those people who are on title to these properties and make sure they're treated properly. And BDS, as you know, has the most complaints filed upon them of any bureau in this city. So I'm going to be watching this very closely. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay, then let's take a vote, please, on the first of the two.
 Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Well, many thanks to City Treasurer Jennifer Cooperman and for the new work going on in the City Attorney's Office. Thank you, Mayor Hales, for leading this. I do have a comment, though, on your statement at the beginning that
 This couldn't happen in other areas of the city, and you've seen more in Lentz. There was a home in my neighbourhood that was vacant for at least five years, and another one on my commute into town, the one that got burned out on Barber, that's been sitting there looking ugly, getting graffitied.
 Even where there's a market, presumably, for the one that was vacant for such a long time, has recently been demolished and a very nice new house is going up, I would expect it to be selling at an outrageously...
 A price that they wouldn't have even dreamed, that I wouldn't have guessed 20 years ago when I bought our house 30 years. So it's a very difficult legal issue of how to make this fair to the property owners, how to make it fair to the neighborhood, and how to avoid the government being saddled with the cost of these houses. So I really commend you for your work on this. I think it's very significant and moves the ball forward a lot.
 Fish. I. Mills. Well, I think it's important to stress that the houses that we're focusing on here are vacant and abandoned. They are in a condition, like you just described, you're right, all over the city that is really egregious, and at a time where we have a housing crisis. So we have young people trying to buy their first home being outbid, and there's a vacant house down the street that maybe somebody would fix up if it was in the hands of a responsible property owner.
 And so that's a big part of the message here. Yes, there are property rights, and we respect them, but there are also property responsibilities. And these are folks that have abrogated those responsibilities by letting their houses fall into just terminally bad condition.
 and maybe they can be fixed up or maybe they have to be torn down, but they become a blight on the neighborhood. Those are the very specific subset of houses that we're talking about. So I'm really proud of this work. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. I think this is, again, a case of bureaus really working well together, advancing a complex set of issues forward to real solutions, and I just appreciate it all from all of you that are working on this very much. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, and the second one, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? I appreciate that there's efforts to address the housing crisis from every conceivable vantage point, and this is one example. Aye. Thanks. Well, this is an issue that I have been hearing about and worrying about for the seven and more years that I've been on the council that Mayor Adams tried to address and that you have actually made progress on. So thank you to everyone. Aye. Thank you.
 Fish. Aye. Hales. Thank you. Aye. Okay. Good work. All right. Let's move on to 420. Sorry, I lost my number. 1025. Authorize revenue bonds for urban renewal areas. Good morning. Still morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioner Derek Johansson, City Debt Manager.
 This non-emergency ordinance before you this morning authorizes the issuance of revenue bonds in the amount of up to $112,305,000 to fund urban renewal projects in five of the city's urban renewal areas. The bonds will initially be issued in the form of lines of credit and will fund urban renewal activities for the next three years. The lines of credit will ultimately be repaid from the proceeds of long-term debt and from other tax increment revenues.
 I should say that out of the $112 million being authorized here, about $37 million of that represents the rollover of balances that are on existing lines of credit that expire at the end of this calendar year. The remaining $75 million represents new project funding in the five urban renewal areas over the next three years. Thanks, Eric. Questions? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 If not, it passes to second reading. And 1026. Expand the authority of the risk manager and designees to serve as agents of the city attorney to investigate and settle tort claims and clarify the scope of fair and moral claims for which the risk manager is authorized to investigate and settle. Second reading, roll call.
 Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 1027 and 1028 together please.
 27. Consider the proposal of Madeline Kovacs and the recommendation from the hearings officer for approval to change the Comprehensive Plan Map designation from High Density Single-Dwelling Residential to Townhouse Multi-Dwelling Residential and the Zoning Map designation from R5 to R3 for property at 4736-4752 NE Going Street, LU16, to the property at 4736-4752 NE Going Street, LU16, to the property at 4736-4752 NE Going Street, LU16, to the property at 4736-4752 NE Going Street, LU16, to the property at 4736-4752 NE Going Street, LU16, to the property at 4736-4752 NE Going Street, LU16, to the property at 4736-4752 NE Going Street, LU16, to the property at 4736-4752 NE Going Street, LU16, to the property at 4736-4752 NE Going Street, LU16, to the property at 4736-4752 NE
 133809 CPZC and 1028. Amend the comprehensive plan map designation and amend the zoning map for property at 4736 through 4752 Northeast Going Street at the request of Madeline Kovacs LU16133 809 CPZC. Mayor Hales? Yes, please. First, Carla, could you read that again? Sure.
 just kidding Mayor I was not here for the hearing on this matter and I have not subsequently been able to review the complete record because I'd have to look at the audio and video so when the vote comes up I will just step outside for a moment and I was also absent but did review the record so I'm prepared to vote so
 Anyone else? Any other procedural issues before we take a vote then? Let's vote then, please, on 1027. I believe we need a motion first. You're right. Move to accept the report. Second. Okay. Roll call, please. Saltzman? Well, I'm very pleased to support this zone change, and I appreciated the testimony last week from neighbors and others, some most in support, one opposed. Thank you.
 But this is definitely a zone change, and the intended development that Mr. Spivak outlined to us last week I think is really a fantastic step to provide more affordable housing product in our city and to do it in a very innovative manner, as Mr. Spivak is known to do. So I'm very happy to support this. Aye. I heartily concur with Commissioner Saltzman's evaluation. Aye. Ritz. And likewise. Thank you for being here. Aye. Bales. Excellent project. Aye. Okay. 1028. Saltzman.
 I just want to thank Matt Wickstrom from BDS also for shepherding this through to us. Aye. Novick. Aye. Aye. Hales. Build some housing. Aye. All right. Let's take 10. I think the next one is the second reading also. Okay, yeah. 1029 is the second reading. Let's take a vote on that, please.
 29, authorized grant application to people for bikes up to $800,000 for outreach and education associated with transportation infrastructure projects. Roll call, please. Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Capish? Aye. Hales? Aye. And you want to stay for the board?
 No, unfortunately, Kelly, I need to go, so as long as you can stay. There's four of us here. We can do the rest. Go ahead. I'm going to the Girl Scout lunch. You would not want to be late for that. All right, 10.30, please. Authorize a settlement agreement and amend contract with Tapani, Inc. for additional work.
 and compensation for the Interstate 5 at Southwest 26 Water Quality Project for, and our project number E08679 for an estimated $480,588. Mr. Fish, do you have some comments on that? Yes, thank you, Mayor. This...
 ordinance would authorize a settlement agreement and amend a contract with Tapani Inc. for additional work and compensation for the Interstate 5 project at Southwest... Excuse me, Interstate 5, Southwest 26th Water Quality Project, number E08679, for an estimated amount of $480,000. To be clear...
 Why is something going off here? I'm sorry. I want to just clarify a couple things about this. The $480,000 amount noted in the ordinance represents the amount of the settlement
 The overall amount reflected in the ordinance is $727,359. And so before someone questions our math, I just want to be clear. That represents both the settlement and the additional scope of work that was not disputed and that we are paying. This was a cooperative project between BES and ODOT to manage and treat stormwater flowing from Barber Boulevard and Interstate 5. ODOT contributed over $1.4 million to the project.
 But because the redesign of I-5 was complex and challenging, it resulted in additional work, which was agreed to and added to the contract. The additional work pushed the construction into the rainy season. The contractor filed claims for additional compensation due to delays and inefficiencies caused by working in the rainy season.
 With the help of the City Attorney's Office, BES was able to negotiate a fair settlement with the contractor. This ordinance would authorize us to amend the contract amount to a total of $2.85 million, an increase, as I said, of $727,359, or 34.22% above the original contract value. And Scott Clement...
 Scott is here from BES. He's here to answer any questions my colleagues may have. All right. Any questions for Scott about this settlement? Maybe not. All right. Scott, stand by. I see if there's anyone who wants to speak on this item, if I can speak myself. Okay. There are not. Then, therefore, let's take a vote, please. It's an emergency ordinance. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fish? Aye. Ailes? Aye. And now for fifth item 1030-1.
 I authorize the purchase of property located at 322 Southwest 11th Avenue, known as the Joyce Hotel, at a price not to exceed $4,220,000. Mr. Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. The Joyce Hotel, roughly located at Southwest 11th and Alder, has been an important resource since
 for our community, providing both short-term and low-barrier housing for people with limited housing options. This purchase will allow the Housing Bureau to rehabilitate and remodel the building and make necessary seismic improvements. The Portland Housing Bureau is purchasing the Joyce Hotel for $4.2 million. The building currently features 69 single-room occupancy units and ground floor commercial space.
 The rehabilitation of the Joyce Hotel will ensure the safety of the residents and contribute positively to the neighborhood. The Joyce Hotel has long provided transitional housing for vulnerable residents with limited options. So I'm honored that the Housing Bureau has the opportunity to add this essential community resource to our portfolio.
 As a city, we must continue to prioritize our resources to invest in the social safety net for Portlanders who are most vulnerable and at risk. I would like to recognize Dan Zilka, the owner of the Joyce Hotel, for his cooperation in selling it to us. Thank you to Ed Blackburn and Central City Concern for taking over management of the building during this transitional time. And I'd also like to thank Javier Mena.
 Carl Dinkles bill and the housing bureau staff for leading this important acquisition and also thanks to Shannon Callahan my staff for her work and we have Kurt Krieger our housing bureau director and Sean Hubert from central city concern maybe you want to say just a few words. Mayor members of council we know your docket has run long this morning so we'll be brief. Um.
 In 2001, the city council adopted a no net loss policy, and there was over 1,000 market affordable units in that particular portion of the city in 2002. The Joyce Hotel constitutes 76% of the remaining market affordable units in the central city. So it's an uncommon opportunity and, frankly, a fleeting resource. Okay.
 We were approached by Mr. Zilka's attorney in January, and it took several months for us to consummate a deal, partly because he had a long-term property management company providing services to the property at the time, both for hostel stays as well as for long-term rental stays. We did make an offer on the property in the winter, and
 which we consider to be a humanitarian gesture with all the tenants in place. And unfortunately, he made other business decisions, which caused many people to be displaced. Those individuals were paid for in the relocation covered by our budget. So, yeah.
 This is quite a different story because there are fewer than 20 residents remaining. I am pleased that Central City Concern has been handling the property on our behalf in this intermediate period of time. And Sean Huber is here to discuss the actual operation of the property. All right.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council Members. My name is Sean Hubert with Central City Concern. I'd like to start by thanking the Portland Housing Bureau for their efforts to acquire and preserve the Joyce Hotel, as well as Commissioner Saltzman, and to note our support of the acquisition of this critical housing resource. Homelessness is a complex issue. There are individual factors, such as poverty or job loss or addiction, and then there are structural factors, such as shifting and insufficient public mental health approaches.
 One of the most critical structural causes for homelessness is the loss of affordable housing. Between 1970 and 2000, the U.S. lost over 3 million low-income housing units, including a loss of over 2 million single-room occupancy, or SRO, housing units. These are typically the lowest barrier housing units available in a community, often offering daily or weekly rental options with low or no screening or application barriers.
 And not surprisingly, the increase in homelessness in this country largely mirrors this loss of affordable low-barrier SRO housing. To provide some perspective, San Francisco lost 50% of their SRO stock over this timeframe. L.A. lost 60%. Here in Portland, we've lost about 75%. While Chicago and New York lost about 90% of their SRO stock and saw homelessness dramatically increase.
 San Diego recently studied why they were climbing up the national homelessness rankings and attributed much of that climb to the loss of over 75% of their 14,000 SRO units starting in the late 1980s and escalating over the past decade. We know that there is a difference between the housing that the market delivers and affordable housing, which is why we invest in affordable housing.
 But there are also important nuances even within affordable housing, and we need a greater variety of affordable housing options if we're going to be able to meet the diverse housing needs facing our community. The Joyce represents a critical and scarce option in that housing continuum. So what is the profile of someone living at the Joyce, and why has this kind of housing resource been so important to them?
 The average age is 51, about three-quarter are male, about one-quarter female. About 60% are white and 40% are people of color, mostly African American and Native American. And the average monthly income is just under $900.
 One of the residents has been living at the Joyce since last fall. The Joyce afforded him a housing opportunity initially on a week-to-week basis and later on a month-to-month basis, which he couldn't find anywhere else in the city, including some of the more traditional affordable housing options. He has two evictions on his record, significant health issues, and severe agoraphobia. The only other option for him had been a shelter, which exacerbated his symptoms.
 Recently, he was hit by a car and is recuperating from his injuries. He believes that had the joist not been available to him at that time, allowing him to move in despite the fact that he had lost his ID and could not navigate the typical leasing paperwork and approval process, he would most likely still be on the street today.
 In the short to medium term, the Joyce can be renovated and perhaps play a role as a relocation hub while we preserve other low-barrier housing options in the downtown and close end, particularly as we move forward as a community with our resiliency and seismic improvement efforts.
 And over the long term, the preservation of the Joyce should be looked at as an important part of an overall strategy to develop and preserve a diverse range of affordable housing options that, taken collectively, meet the housing needs of all of our community members. Thank you. Thank you both. Questions? Thank you. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Two people signed up. Charles Johnson and Crystal Alinsky. Okay. Johnson's still here. Come on up.
 Good morning, Commissioners. Thanks for your time. It's a difficult issue to talk about because there are still 20-some residents trying to avoid homelessness there. But we also need to talk about bang for the buck. Earlier I mentioned a return on investment. And we're talking about $4 million to perpetuate a 69-bed flophouse.
 Now, I'm pleased sort of to learn that it's coming under central city concern management, although I think that housing activists, if we're really serious about our concerns, need to engage about the diversity of low-income landlords in the Old Town, Chinatown area. I know we opened up the Erickson, which is under a different organization, and there are some others in there, but –
 If we believe, you know, we're kind of on the fence here in Portland about socialism and crony capitalism. If we believe in competition and 80% of low-income housing is done in that particular neighborhood through central city concern, you all are going to become the complaint department for those central city concerned residents. The other issue that is problematic for people living these experiences on the street is,
 is at 333 Northwest 6th Avenue, the Westwind Hotel, which is fussier than the Joyce. They have premium bedbugs. Quite simply, if you were moral people, you would finally get back to eminent domaining the place. Everybody that lives in there is a victim of predation. When a person that gets a $700 a month check...
 has to give up $500 to live in an SRO that's full of pests. The job is not getting done as far as the level of service. We talked about these zombie houses and how some neighborhoods may or may not have a higher level of immunity. But I hope that...
 the type of work that's being done, uh, for the Joyce. And, you know, hopefully those people will move into more just living situations. Many people that stayed in the Joyce were in a similar situation where huge amounts of their paltry monthly income went to the Joyce's owner. He's not a saint. This is an extortionary deal, but, um,
 Equity means that there aren't just 20 or 30 or 69 cherry-picked winners in a pool of 3,000 homeless people. It's an awkward situation. I know you're not going to be able to respond with a perfect solution, but these issues, we can't forget about them and the people that are suffering in them. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else? Then this is an item we can take action on today, and we will. Roll call, please. Saltzman.
 Well, again, this is a vital asset, and it will provide much-needed housing in our downtown core for people of limited means. And it will also, as Sean Hubert from Central City Concern mentioned, provide us a staging area as other buildings in the downtown core undergo seismic renovations. We can move people in and out, and this is a great step strategically as well in terms of providing needed housing in our downtown core. Aye. No, thank you.
 Congratulations to Commissioner Saltzman and the Housing Bureau for pulling this off, and thanks to Central City Concern. Hi. Yes. You know, sometimes the most important work we do on this council gets the least commentary, and really today the room should be filled, Dan, with people to address this win for our movement. So a couple of things I want to just add. First of all,
 um, this reading about this in the press, it was sort of like the perils of Pauline. So, um,
 The one thing about Dan Saltzman is when he gets a bone in his mouth, he doesn't let go, and he's persistent. And it took a very persistent leader to get this deal done because, after all, the owner had no legal obligation to negotiate with us, which is one of the challenges generally with preservation. It takes a willing seller and a willing buyer. So, Dan, congratulations. Thank you.
 This is a significant win for our movement. To the professionals at the Housing Bureau, having worked on preservation when I was the Commissioner in Charge, these are some of the most complex transactions and we have a lot of talent at the Bureau. So congratulations, Curt, to you and your team. And finally, I just want to acknowledge something about our value system as a city.
 And imagine that you're walking through downtown and you're at Director Park, one of our treasured places, and you look south at a historic building, a building that in almost any city might be high-end condos or the home of a foundation or many other things. Instead, some of the most impoverished and disabled people in our community live in the Admiral because this council said we were going to preserve it. If you walk from there and you head towards Providence Park,
 and you come up to a high... Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters and the Maui Group. I've talked with, I think, mostly all of you about these issues on several occasions. I get the feeling sometimes that there's a question mark as to whether this is a real problem. People have trouble believing that this goes on in our city. But our history is rife with examples of, yeah, this goes on.
 And it's not just history. And aside from the work that I do for the Carpenters Union, I also plaintiff employment discrimination cases. And I can tell you that this stuff goes on day in and day out on a regular basis, far more than anybody wants to believe in the 21st century. The history is not in the past. It's right with us right now. And these numbers show that.
 they demonstrate that what we want to believe we're past we're not past we need to have the strong programs that you as the council are in a position to implement in order to provide the very kind of opportunities that mr mccoy is discussing that's going to really promise the youth of our city an opportunity in the future now there are certainly debates around how that's best accomplished
 But there's also great resistance to it, and it comes from within. All we have to do is see the numbers that we just saw to know that something that we've been doing is not working. When people show up, they're sent home after three hours, and that gets counted as utilization. That's got to make every one of you sitting up there think, what on earth are we doing with our dollars? Is any of this stuff working? No.
 No, it's not. We've got to be different. We've got to choose to make the tough choices. We've got to hold ourselves accountable. ECPC has given you a golden opportunity here to actually step out of this history to make the difference that's necessary. It's not going to be easy. I'm not going to pretend for a second it is. There's plenty of resistance in all kinds of quarters to this, from the top legal system all the way down to people who just don't want to change the way they do business.
 Right now, I would suggest that this information here is a precursor to you taking some very aggressive steps in terms of putting hard goals on every project that comes before the city. And that's the kind of thing that the taxpayers, that every citizen sitting in this room, that every citizen sitting outside deserves. Thank you.
 I was talking with Margaret Carter. I had the opportunity to speak with her. I'd never met her before. Wonderful lady. She has been working on this very issue, butting her head against the wall since the 80s. Since the 80s, that's 30 years. We're not looking at reinventing the wheel. We've got the tools. It's just a matter of doing it. We've got tools that are proven to do what needs to be done.
 The two CBA pilot projects shows us what a number of those tools are. I don't want to spend a lot of time talking about the CBA today because I'll be back next week to talk about that. But all of us sitting here, Mr. Posey, Mr. McCoy, everybody sitting in this room can make this work. The ECPC has a critical role in that because without the oversight that's necessary, the auditor's report, this city's auditor took a look at contracting practices and noted
 that some of the very practices in place are actually undermining the diversity work that we want. Now, we just have to be willing to take a look at some of this stuff and say, yeah, that's not working, and go with what does work. I don't think it's rocket science. We don't have to reinvent the wheel.
 And you've got to give the ECPC, because I'm really here to talk about the ECPC, and I believe that they're a strong, important tool to make sure that this doesn't just become something. Yeah, we mean it now, and six months down the line, we forgot about that in the press of business. And then 30 years from now, some attorney who's got ideas about making the world better comes in front of you and says, hey, 30 years ago we were talking about this problem.
 Let's really do something about it. We've got the ability to do it. We've got the tools. It may take courageous leadership. It may take willingness to step out. It's going to take forging a new connection, but we can do that. So I urge you all to support the ECPC in its work, to give them the respect, the support, the funding, the resources to do the job that needs to be done. Thank you.
 Wow, where to start? Good afternoon. My name is James Posey, Mr. Mayor and other commissioners. Most of you know me. Actually, Mayor Hales, you know where the ECPC started and why it was started. And quite frankly, I'm really disappointed that we've gotten down to the point where now we've got
 a one-sided view of the EC, a PC thing. Basically, it's a marketeering for the CPA and most of the people that are represented on the EC.
 on that the thing now have interest that really does not represent a balance. The three people who left the ECPC left for a reason. You all explore that and talk about it. Moving up the line on it, you know, the way it's structured, the lack of autonomy, Mayor, you were at the city club when you made the declaration that this was going to be a watchdog movement
 committee and it's been anything but a watchdog committee it's basically been sitting around twiddling their thumbs on a treadmill and quite frankly you know as well as I do the issue of tracking
 has been on your desk for as long as you've been mayor. How in the world can you expect to actually have any accountability if you don't know where the resources are going and who's benefiting from the program? That's common sense now.
 It defies intellectual honesty to really expect the program to work if you can't track it and you can't really see who is getting what. And I've been asking for it through Nick Fisher's office, through everybody's office, through Dan's office. You know, the reality, much of these problems would be solved.
 If we had transparency, true transparency, shine some light on this stuff, and the community at large would be in an uproar if they saw how mismanaged some of these things are. So you can start with that. Just to be clear, when you talk about transparency, you're not just talking – I don't want to put words in your mouth, but –
 You're not just talking about data which the city could pull from some spreadsheet. You're talking about verifying that data and getting beyond the data. So in fairness, there's some room that has all the data that you haven't gotten. You've raised some fundamental questions about how we collect the data and the integrity of that data. And the integrity of the data. Let me just give you an example. People mention the ESBs.
 and MBEs and DPEs, it might surprise you to know that many of the MBEs are basically front companies. Some of these so-called DPEs have companies that are really owned by 51% minority and 49% white women.
 It shouldn't surprise anybody that the marketplace is filled with white males because that's where it defaults to. And the pool of resources to build on building capacity is based upon that sort of aggregation. And, I mean, this is just common sense.
 And that's, you know, it's just being intellectually dishonest and not to see who's in these pools and these acronyms we talk about, ESBs, MBEs. I could share with you, if I saw the names, I could share with you who those folk are on what their websites look like, who really, some of these people couldn't identify with a minority community organization.
 outside of coming to your council and talking about it, they don't step foot at the MLK breakfast or down there at the barbershop. They wouldn't have a clue. So, James, you also know, and I don't want to cut into your time. I'm sure the mayor will give you more. I will. I will. You know that with the change in state law,
 We now have the authority to do some of those investigations to make sure that people who claim to be certified or claim to be playing by the rules are, in fact, doing that. So we're now – and, in fact, we're setting up a mechanism through the legal department to do that. So –
 We have – actually, the last time we had this discussion, we were talking about how do we receive complaints and how do we set up that system. But that has changed. That's one thing that has changed. That's very good. I want to commend you all for that. Well, thank the legislature for giving us the authority. Well, actually, it originated from here going up there. They didn't just –
 They didn't just out of the goodness of their heart jump off and do that. It was through some stuff that you guys are doing. But I want to talk to you about the math on that because this is about math.
 All those people who are fronts and who are in this marketplace are still there. They're competing against the people you're trying to promote right now. The whole accumulation of ESBs, false and fake minorities, they're out there right now. They're the ones that's driving this market down. So you can't get capacity. So now you...
 You've got an atmosphere in which a minority contractor who really wants to be a minority contractor is basically the probability of them being successful is null and void. And let me just be honest about this. We talk about, let's just take this for example. I don't know if you all know that most of the work that's done in Oregon is not by unions, it's by non-unions.
 There's no representation of the non-union people out here. Now, take it from a guy like me who started out dump trucking at the bottom end, worked my way up, did a lot of other stuff.
 If I had to go through a union to start my business, it's just an automatic turn, a turnoff. Now, as you progress, you get more money, you get more contracts, you can manage a union relationship. So you automatically really, I mean, don't take my word for it, just look on the Internet, look at what these PLAs have done, look at how they discourage, how they work attentively,
 against people of color, minorities, when they really are trying to make progress. Let me just say this one other thing. I know I'm taking all the time here, but the fact that a person is really striving to be a good contractor in this community, you're already working against a whole bunch of barriers, administratively and otherwise.
 So when we're talking about having all these various programs and these requirements and everything, that's an automatic turn off. And I said this, and Maurice knows this,
 I predicted the CBA catastrophe that you all are looking for. You're not even talking about it, but that framework report was real nice. It said, basically, you all saw it. It basically said you had city administrators doing the same work the so-called CBA was doing.
 Virtually no compliance, duplication, the consultants got more work than the contractors did. That's embarrassing. So, I mean, I'm going to come back and talk to you all next week and I could get it in a better form and maybe talk to you about explicitly what I have on my mind. But you guys got to take Dante, he's trying to say it nicely to you all. You got an Office of Management and Finance, that's a joke.
 These guys are begging for data that all public officials know you ought to have. Mary, you said you were going to put it on the website so the world could see who's getting these contracts and why and why not. Give it to a person like me because I would go out and walk the streets and really find out what these people are doing.
 I know the neighbors. I know where they live. And that's how white people do it. That's how they get, that's how they're successful. They have cousins and brothers. They have a community and they come together and that's how they're on these jobs. And that's how they mentor and develop people in their community because they have relationships. This is about relationships and there are very few
 black people out here who have relationships and very few success. You said it best. You need to reward the behavior you want to see. When you see people out here who are successful, you ought to reward them. Give them everything. I'm going to say there's one other thing here. Sorry about that, folks. I'm sorry about that. All right, James, go ahead. That's okay. We'll break for lunch, for dinner, and we'll come back for the hearing. Thank you.
 I mean, I go back a long way. The first disparity study that was done for the city had some good recommendations in it. And the sheltered market came out. I didn't like the idea of the sheltered market. That's another thing. We always got to shelter these minorities. We got to make them disadvantaged. We got to do this. We got to do that. There's no respect in that scenario. You're talking about disadvantage. Maybe underutilized is a better terminology. The terminology is demeaning. But here.
 Way back when, if you had a child that was having problems, you would specialize, you would put them in a situation and you would cultivate them. Some people call it incubation. When the level of malfeasance is so low, then you have to build things to prop them up so they can get to where they want to be.
 This is not about being legal or non-legal, this is about being honest and understanding what the problem is. We need an incubation program so we can prime the pump to get people in the system so they can be competitive in this marketplace. You've got to make special efforts over and above just leveling playing field. We're too far below now to get to where we need to be to make success. That's really what I want to say to you all. And I'll talk a little bit more next week about the CPA.
 In the meantime, go Google PLAs and go look on the market and see how it's affecting people of color across the board. You'll see what I'm talking about. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Are there others that want to speak on this report before we call Dante back for some further discussion? Are there other questions for him? No other questions for Dante at the moment? All right. Then let's take a motion, please, to accept the report. Second. Roll call, please. Saltzman? Yes.
 Well, I appreciate the report, appreciate the frustration. And, you know, unfortunately, I think this is something that gets reinvented every four years. Every time we have a new mayor, there has to be a new mayoral stamp of approval on his or her solution to this problem. So, you know, with all due respect to Mayor Hales, I mean, you've tried, but I think we're in for, you know, when Mayor-elect Wheeler becomes mayor, we're probably going to do this all over again. So, you know, strap yourselves in and let's try to do better. Aye. No, thank you.
 This issue of we get disaggregated data and then it's aggregated and has to be separated by hand is really frustrating. And I understand that these software issues that sound like, well, it's a software issue, why can't they just fix it, are often more complicated than that. But I'm looking forward to talking with the procurement about what does need to be done so that we have the data readily available. Is that an expensive proposition? Is it just time-consuming? Because in any event, it's critical. I think we need to get that done in particular. Thank you very much for the report.
 So I first met Mr. Rahming when his wife, Ali, and I were walking the picket line at OHSU. She was a registered nurse like I was, and we went out on strike on 17th of December 2001, and we stayed out for 56 days for many of the same reasons that we're talking about today, respect, retention, remuneration. And we need...
 I think we need something that's similar, like the Office of Equity and Human Rights and like the Department of Justice settlement agreement. It's not just the mayor's responsibility to do this, it's all of us. I think the ECPC, which is easy to say and harder to spell out, but it's equitable contracting and purchasing, commission, it's an important thing.
 I didn't realize that the Office of Management and Finance didn't send either a staff person or enough money for a staff person when we transferred the commission to the Office of Equity. And the Equity and Human Rights Office is so small that there isn't capacity to do something like this without additional staff. So I would...
 doing something in the full bump, now that I know of the problem, not waiting to the regular budget. And I hardly ever say that, because I think usually we should look at ongoing positions. But this is urgent. And it does remind me of when we had the State of Black Oregon report that showed us that for, in 17 years, for African-Americans on every single data point, there was a lot of
 Things were worse when that report came out than they were 17 years previously. I'm horrified to find out that now the data, such as we are able to call it, is worse than when I first started. So whatever we've been doing...
 I do remember raising my children. I think sometimes I stopped doing something that if I just kept doing it longer, it might have been more successful than switching every five minutes. But we need to be evaluating how are we doing this? How are we doing it in our bureaus? It was mentioned that Parks has got prime contractors for the East Portland Parks. It was mentioned that the Water Bureau had better than average participation on the job. Let's look at what we're doing right and celebrate that. And then let's do it again.
 So thank you very much to the Commission. It is hard to hang in there when you don't feel you're getting the respect. You're certainly not getting any remuneration, but you're there so that we can retain and keep people in the workforce and have the city become what the Office of Equity said. We have to have fairness in jobs, contracts, and services. And we're not there on the other equity issues, and we're not there on this yet, but we will keep trying. Thank you, Mayor. Aye. Yes, please.
 Let me begin by just finding the common ground here. We use a lot of acronyms. There seems to be some healthy tension in the community around certain ends or means. But let's talk about what unites all my friends in this room. We began this process because we wanted to expand opportunity to people that had been shut out from participating fully in these opportunities. Okay.
 And since we control a lot of public resources that are invested in the community, we wanted to make sure that the community was fairly competing for those resources. And there is no disagreement about that premise. Sadly, what I think has happened is that this well-intentioned effort has moved sideways. And so I have a couple of ideas about how to address that, but I want to start with where we agree.
 There is broad agreement on both the values proposition and on the goal. But how we get there and how we measure progress and what success looks like, there is some disagreement.
 So I thank you for the report. We are doing a formal exercise here of accepting the report, and I think the next step, Mayor, is to take some of the key recommendations and ask procurement, legal, and others to review them and to come back with us with a roadmap. But I'm going to take a slightly different view than my friend Commissioner Fritz and urge us not to rush the process.
 into addressing some of the structural problems because I think they run deep enough that we need to hit the pause button and hit reset. I have had conversations with a lot of people in this room who I have the highest regard for about these issues, and these are the things we have spent the most time talking about. What is the mission of ECPC? How do we deal with the fact that there's been so many changes in leadership?
 How do we attract and retain qualified members? Because you've barely got a quorum now, and if people are coming and going, that's not helpful to the cause. What's the role of ECPC? Is it primarily to oversee the CBA? Is it to look at equity and contracting? Is it to do some combination? But as my office always tells me, unless you know what lane I'm supposed to stay in, then I generally get into other lanes.
 So what's the purpose? What have we charged people with? And then, to the point that Amanda and others have mentioned, once we've clarified mission and role and leadership and membership, you have to have the resources to do the job. And we learned that the hard way for having for years oversight bodies of our utilities that used to come in and give reports and clarifications.
 object to the fact they couldn't get good information and they'd make a report. The report would be forgotten within five minutes with all due respect to the folks who presented it. And we had a structural problem. So we did something about it. We created a new oversight body. We gave them dedicated staff people. We paid for it. And we said, you're going to be independent whether we like your advice or not. You're going to have an independent role with independent staff. You're going to come in and you're going to have a clearly defined role. That was a sea change. So
 What I'm going to suggest is I think all those issues have to be revisited before I want to start moving forward with this model, because I think the foundation is not strong enough right now. And I think what we're at risk of doing is just putting some more plaster on the side of the building without addressing the foundation. And by the way, I appreciate that the appeal was made to this mayor for whom this issue has been very important during his mayor in a number of ways.
 And I appreciate that the council has been challenged to do something, but in reality, we're going to have a new mayor in a few months. And unless the new mayor comes in saying this is a priority and wants to put resources into it, it's not going to move forward. So we have a transition that's underway. We have a new mayor that has publicly said these are issues he cares about. I would like to see the reset conversation occur within that context. Or else we're going to be back here a year from now. In the next report, we're going to have the same conversation again.
 And frankly, there comes a point when shame on us for wasting your time. If you don't have a clearly defined mission and role, if you don't have a full complement of members, if you don't have staff that are assisting you, and you're not getting the data you need to make judgments, then frankly, we're wasting your time. And that's before we even get into this debate about what we heard today kind of foreshadowed that we'll hear more of next week about what's the best vehicle to accomplish these ends.
 how much does the cba you know improve outcomes or not that's a good question if we're going to be transparent we have to ask that and other questions but for me this has been a very frustrating hearing and i hear i the frustration is coming from you to us and i hear it and i don't like wasting people's time so i think we got to go back and take what was a well-intentioned ex effort a well-intentioned idea and we got to rethink it we got to rethink what its mission and role is and staffing and what kind of information it gets at who's around the table and
 we got to make sure that that the next mayor is bought into that and since there's a transition that couldn't come at a better time so thank you for the report there's are some things that have been put on the table that i'm very interested in pursuing i cannot believe we're still talking about insufficient data to even make uh judgments about this stuff and that that's on us and it's not just omf it's not the mayor it's on all of us and we got to fix that so thank you aye else
 Well, I have a number of thoughts based on this discussion and others. And let me put some of these out here now. Certainly perfectly willing to include the mayor-elect in these discussions. But I want to take off on what some of my colleagues said on a couple of points. I think I'm happy that this is part of my agenda. I'm not happy about where we are in it. We have a lot of work to do. And we have an unacceptable picture.
 that's just been clearly revealed to us by the report we've heard today um so maybe it's less about who's in office though i think our commitment matters and the future occupants of this table's commitment will matter too but maybe it's less about who's in office than how we set this up to succeed and that's a lot of what i've heard here today so if we're dealing with institutionalized racism maybe we need institutionalized authority
 to act on the problem. And we can certainly create that institutionalized authority. So if we want the power for change to be real, then it might need to be somewhat politician-proof. It's nice when we're helpful, but it will be hopefully continued when maybe we're not as helpful.
 I'm not casting aspersions on anyone in particular. I'm saying I believe the mayor elects committed to this. I am. Everybody up here is. But we have made the progress that we all want to make. And there's no excuse for not making that progress in the current situation. When I ran for mayor, there were two cranes on the horizon in the city of Portland. Look out any window today.
 If there was ever a time that we could be making real gains, it's in this marketplace. And this marketplace is going to last for a while yet. Sure, there could be a bit of a recession or a bit of a slowdown. We've got 1,000 people a month moving to this city, and we're building things to serve them every day, and there's a lot of work out there. And if there was ever a time that we ought to be able to really make change, it's in this time right now.
 So I've heard a lot today about policy, about data and staff, and about oversight. I want to spend a good part of the next three and a half months talking about what policies are working and what aren't and what should we change. What are the right goals? What are the right tools? What are the right programs? And next week's discussion is a piece of that.
 So data, I agree, is we've got to fix this, again, in a time where data is all around us all the time. We ought to be able to know this. This shouldn't be that hard. I am proposing in the fall bump some staff support for this function. So thank you, Commissioner Fritz, and we'll continue that discussion because I think that's obvious. And then, you know, oversight really matters. I'm committed to police reform. We're making a lot of it.
 But the fact that we have oversight from the federal government tightens us up and makes sure that we do a good job on it. So having real oversight authority for this shared purpose, shared by everybody here at this table, everybody in this room, and I believe actually by our city administrators. I don't think we have city administrators who don't want to make progress here. I'm going to assume good faith on all parts. And I think there is a lot of it out there to work with, but we're not there yet.
 So thank you. Don't, as Commissioner Fish said, don't let us waste your time. But don't leave just yet because I don't intend to and I don't think anybody here does. So thank you for a clear-eyed look at an unacceptable situation. And I look forward to working with all of you to make it better. Aye. Take a two-minute break. Let's take a brief break and then come back to the rest of our agenda. Thank you. Overhead. Okay.
 Thanks, Mustafa. Thank you. Okay, folks, let's return to business here, and let's take up item 1032.
 of Portsmouth Neighborhood Association against hearing officer's decision to approve the application of Bridge Meadows for a conditional use and adjustment with conditions for New Meadows, a proposed group living facility at 8710 North Dana Avenue, LU15-27.
 73480 CUAD. Okay, we're going to go through a number of procedural announcements here to set the stage for this. Some of you have been at city council meetings before. Welcome. If you want to speak on this item, you'll be given the opportunity to do that. Just let our clerk know. We typically allow three minutes for individual testimony. It doesn't look like we'll have any trouble accommodating that today. You need only give your name. You don't need to give us your address. Thank you.
 if you're here representing an organization let us know that we follow the rules of decorum in this chamber so if you agree with somebody's testimony and want to show support give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand and a polite hand gesture to the negative is okay if you disagree with them but we save applause for visiting dignitaries and students so unless you're one of those we'd like to keep it non-verbal in terms of the council communication so we can hear what's going on and everybody here gets their say
 So with that, I'll turn it over to our city attorney for some announcements. I have some procedural steps I need to go through as well. Okay. This is an on-the-record hearing. That means that you must limit your testimony to the material and issues in the record. We will begin with a staff report by the Bureau of Development Services staff for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, city council will hear from interested persons in the following order.
 The appellant will go first and will have 10 minutes to present his or her case. Following the appellant, persons who support the appeal will go next. Each person will have three minutes to speak to counsel. The principal opponent will have 15 minutes to address city council and rebut the appellant's presentation. If there is no principal opponent, counsel will move directly to testimony from persons who oppose the appeal after supporters of the appeal conclude their testimony.
 After the principal opponent, the council will hear from persons who oppose the appeal. Again, each person will have three minutes. And finally, the appellant will have five minutes to rebut the presentation of the opponents of the appeal. Council may then close the hearing, deliberate, and take a vote on the appeal. If the vote is a tentative vote, council will set a future date for the adoption of findings and a final vote on the appeal. If council takes a final vote today, that will conclude the matter before the city council.
 The scope of testimony. I would like to announce several guidelines for those of you who will be addressing City Council today. The evidentiary record is closed. Again, this is an on-the-record hearing. This hearing is to decide only if the hearings officer made the correct decision based on the evidence that was presented to it.
 This means you must limit your remarks to arguments based on the record compiled by the hearings officer. You may refer to evidence that was previously submitted to the hearings officer. You may not submit new evidence today that was not submitted to the hearings officer. If your argument includes new evidence or issues, you may be interrupted in reminding that you must limit your testimony to the record. Council will not consider new information and it will be rejected by City Council's final decision.
 Objections to new evidence. If you believe a person who addressed City Council today improperly presented new evidence or presented a legal argument that relies on evidence that is not in the record, you may object to the argument. Objections to new issues. Finally, under state law, only issues that were raised before the hearings officer may be raised in the appeal to City Council. If you believe another person has raised issues today that were not raised before the hearings officer, you may object to Council's consideration of that issue.
 the applicant must identify constitutional challenges to conditions of approval. Additionally, if the applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues relating to the proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow counsel to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing the action for damages in circuit court.
 I'll now turn back to you. Thank you. Those requirements, by the way, are all founded in state law, and so are these questions. So first I need to ask if any members of the council need to declare a conflict of interest. Okay, I hear none. And does anyone on the council wish to report ex parte contacts on this case, information gathered outside of this hearing? Okay.
 Okay, and if anyone wants to challenge those assertions that we have not had ex parte contacts or have a conflict of interest, this would be the time to do that. Hearing none, then we are going to proceed, and I'll turn it over to Ms. Stokes for a staff report. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, council members. I'm Kathleen Stokes, the assigned BDS planner for this land use review. Thank you.
 We also have Teresa Montalvo of the assigned Bureau of Transportation Planner in attendance to answer any questions that you may have for her. This proposal is for a project that goes by the name of New Meadows. It's a group living use for 19 residents. The proposed facility would provide housing and counseling services for 14 young adults who are transitioning from the foster care system to an independent adult living.
 There are up to four rooms that would accommodate both a young parent and a child, being one of the young residents with their child. One of the rooms would also house a resident assistant. The program will provide workforce development and educational support and life skills training, and a full-time counselor would also work at the facility.
 The applicant's also requesting, in addition to conditional use approval for the group living use, an approval of an adjustment to reduce the spacing requirement in the code between group living uses, which generally requires them to be 600 feet apart, to reduce that to 185 feet.
 Bridge Meadows is the applicant for this review, and the Bridge Meadows development, which is an intergenerational project, is located just 185 feet away. Bridge Meadows site has an approved conditional use for a group living facility for up to 52 residents.
 And that includes, in the intergenerational model, children and foster or adoptive parents of those children and also surrogate grandparents. And the plan is that these individuals would also have an interactive relationship with the residents of New Meadows. The proposal for New Meadows is, as a group living use, was significantly revised to address concerns of the neighborhood regarding the original design.
 The revised proposal was approved with conditions by the hearings officer on July 14, 2016. That decision was appealed by Portsmouth Neighborhood Association, mainly based on remaining concerns regarding scale of the development and the reduced distance from another group living use. This, as it has been said, is an on-the-record case.
 But following the neighborhood appeal, the applicant did extend the final day for a local decision on this case until February 17, 2017. The proposed development shown in the site plan here would include a parking area for five vehicles, as well as detached accessory structures and an outdoor area and stormwater as well with the main residential facility.
 The hearings officer decision required the applicant to install L3 landscaping and an architectural split-faced masonry wall along the north property line. The wall had to be six feet tall except for the part near the west property line where it would be reduced in height to provide adequate sight distance at the street edge of the driveway.
 There was also a condition that required landscaping in a six-foot-tall, fully site-obscuring wood fence to be installed along the east property line for a distance of 45 feet, running from the north property line to the edge of an interior walkway on the site. Now, these are drawings that show the original proposal as it was submitted by the applicant. These renderings were revised in response to the neighborhood concerns.
 and the applicant actually canceled the originally scheduled hearing in order to meet and work with the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association. The applicants will talk about their participation in those neighborhood meetings and talk more at length about the changes that were made to the design, but the final submittal or the revised proposal is shown here in these street views. The building is now proposed to be two stories with multiple entrances and varied roof lines. Thank you.
 So looking at the area, the subject site and the surrounding area is zoned single-dwelling R5. And approximately 250 feet to the north, there is an R2 low-density multi-dwelling residential zone that covers most of the new Columbia housing development. And then a little bit further to the north and to the east is the University Park and also community center in the open space zone.
 Here's an aerial photo that shows the context that I was just speaking about with the New Meadows site. They're marked in red as site. It's at the corner of North Dana and Hunt, and it's a half a block approximately northwest of the Bridge Meadows site.
 The closest nearby uses that aren't in the household living use category is the residentially zoned Rosa Parks Portland Public School. And then I had already mentioned New Columbia to the northwest, which is residentially zoned and is developed with household living uses. And then...
 the University Park and Charles Jordan Community Center, which are to the north and east of the Rosa Park School. The following photos that we're going to look at will show the site and the context of the nearby properties and their development. This is the subject site, a photo taken from North Hunt, looking to the north. The site used to be developed with an electrical substation, and we can see some of the remaining perimeter landscaping that was a screen for that substation.
 The utility pool that you see on the right-hand side and the tire tracks are at the east edge of the property in the public alleyway. There's a close-up of that alleyway. It's 15 feet wide, running from north to south through the block, obviously unimproved. The applicant doesn't at this time propose any changes to the alley in part because of the need to relocate the utility pool.
 Here we see the site from North Dana looking north-northeast. The garage seen in the distance right behind the utility pole serves a home on North Wayland in the next block. That garage is adjacent to the northeast corner of the site, and it's accessed via the alley that we were looking at.
 The taller buildings that are to the left of the garage are single-dwelling structures that are located on narrow lots running onto Weyland to the north and northeast corner of the subject site. The site seen here in this view from south to north contains previously platted lots, narrow lots 25 by 100 that could allow by right the development of up to six single-dwelling residences.
 which would include four detached houses and then on the corner two lots. They're a little bit undersized, but you could still use the provision to have two attached units on those two lots, making up the six possible homes on this property. This view is showing a home on North Dana that abuts the north lot line of the subject site.
 As was discussed in the hearings officer's decision, the property owner of this property submitted a letter that raised concerns that the new Meadows facility would negatively impact his family's livability. And it was particularly in regards to the proposed location of the parking area, which would be adjacent to his property. This is a home to the east of the site at Hunt and Wayland, a budding alley with the subject site at the far left of the view.
 Another view of the same home. It's immediately across the alley to the east of the subject site with the main entrance and garage oriented towards North Hunt Street. And here we have a view to the west along North Hunt Street. And this is Wayland Avenue looking north from Hunt Street. The photo reflects the predominant character of the area with a mixture of one- and two-story single-dwelling residences.
 And this is a home that's directly across the site from the site on North Dana. These homes also are on North Dana, and you see homes like this on both Dana and Wayland with the narrow lot development. These skinny homes are constructed on originally platted 2,500-square-foot lots, the same as the plating configuration that's on the subject site.
 Now, two of these homes on the left side of the picture are directly across the street from the proposed New Meadows site, and the other two are abutting toward the north and west of the site.
 This view is showing the south side of Hunt Street. We see part of it on the left-hand side of the picture. There's a dilapidated overgrown property that's directly across the street from the subject site. And we can also see some of the homes on North Dana Avenue here to the south of the site. On the right-hand side of the photo here, we see that dense vegetation of that property that's dilapidated that surrounds that home.
 And beyond that, to the east, are taller new homes. And in the far background, the gold-colored building is one of the Bridge Meadows buildings. I'll finish with a few slides of the Bridge Meadows development here at North Hunt and Wayland. And looking down the street here between Wayland and Foss Avenues. And the last picture of the Bridge Meadows development.
 So the approval criteria for this review, for the record, are found in Code Sections 33.815.105A through E, Conditional Uses for Institutional and Other Uses in the R Zones, and this is required to meet that approval criteria for the group living use for 19 residents. The adjustment review criteria is found in Code Section 33.805.040A through F,
 And, of course, the adjustment is to reduce the minimum spacing requirement between group living uses from 600 to 185 feet. The hearings officer found that with conditions of approval, these criteria were met. And I had already actually referenced most of the physical conditions. There was also a condition for an adherence to a set of house rules that,
 and a requirement that there be a good faith effort to establish a good neighbor agreement and that there be implementation of safety and crime prevention measures. So at this point, City Council has to decide whether the aspects of the proposal that were previously discussed and the issues and solutions raised by the applicant and those that testified in opposition but knew—
 or they make their decision based on that, new evidence cannot be considered, as has been said previously. Council can approve this appeal and overturn the hearings officer's decision or deny the appeal and uphold that decision, or you can actually determine that it's appropriate to request further revisions to the proposal that are in keeping with those previously raised issues. That concludes my presentation. Do you have any questions at this time? No questions.
 I have a question. There's a reference to a crime prevention measures. So what's the context for that condition? I'm sorry, you mean the approval criteria or the... What is it about this particular facility that requires a crime prevention plan?
 It's a standard requirement that the Police Bureau generally makes for these reviews. One of the approval criteria states that the proposal won't have neighborhood impacts on safety, and there's also an approval criteria that states that
 the city service agencies have found the proposal to be adequate and it names specifically the police bureau. So in light of those approval criteria for these types of reviews,
 We often get responses from the police bureau stating that they want to have an assessment to ascertain that the site will meet crime prevention through design standards, that there be adequate lighting, that there be visible signs showing the address so that emergency responses occur.
 vehicles or personnel can find the site. Those sorts of things are sort of standard requirements. That's helpful. So that goes back to something we talked about, even going back to Tom Potter, about crime prevention through environmental design, not who is occupying the premises. Correct. That's what I wanted to just make sure I understood.
 I have a clarifying question too regarding the hearings office's decision about condition E, about the good neighbour agreement. Yes. So it states that the applicant must develop with the Portland Neighbourhood Association representatives of Bridge Meadows a good neighbour agreement or must document that the New Meadows and Bridge Meadows representatives met in good faith with the Neighbourhood Association for the purpose of meeting for one. Do we have an assurance from the Portsmouth Neighbourhood Association that they're willing to meet on that issue?
 It's my understanding that the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association is willing to meet, but they have part of their appeal statement. They claim that they thought that there should be a requirement for a good neighbor agreement rather than, you know, that it be finalized ahead of time rather than that there just be a requirement that they meet and try to create one. And I can explain that in the past...
 some neighborhoods and some situations have held up projects by failing to agree to meet or holding projects from being able to go forward based on certain stipulations that they would not compromise on. And so generally over time,
 Bureau of Development Services staff have worked with softening the phrasing on that type of condition to say, you have to at least give it a good effort to try to have an agreement. And so that was the recommendation that went to the hearings officer, and he adopted that language. And I agree with that, because you can't force people to come to an agreement. The concern I have, the way the language meets, is if the neighborhood association refuses to meet, then that condition cannot be met.
 Well, I believe that the condition says
 that the applicant has made a good faith agreement to meet with the neighborhood. No, it actually says it must document that they met in good faith with the neighborhood. Or made an attempt? No, it doesn't say that. I beg your pardon. I adopted this case after the previous planner retired. Mr. Prince, the language is met in good faith? No, this is way down in the weeds, and we can discuss it later. Let's hear the appeal, but I just wanted to make that initial.
 So that is something that we may need to look at modifying that language of that condition. And I just understand that I'm tracking the issue because I'm interested. Is your concern that it's a standard the applicant can't meet or that it's a standard that the neighborhood can frustrate? It gives the neighborhood veto power. And the current language is they have to show they met in good faith. Right. Right.
 So I think the language needs to change. It made a good faith effort to meet rather than met. I agree. All right, let's flag that for discussion. And obviously, since it's in the record, people can testify on that question if they'd like to. Okay, anything else from Kathleen that we need at this point? Okay, thank you. Thank you very much. Let's hear from the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association because you're the appellant. Good afternoon and welcome.
 This is Brianna Robbins, R-O-B-B-I-N-S, and I am appearing today on behalf of the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association, but also on behalf of my neighbors and myself. I do live in the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association. Didn't want you to get me confused with a lawyer or somebody who knows what they're doing. So I'm just going to go through one by one the specific criteria, and I don't know if you have the appeal document in front of you.
 But I'm just going to give you an explanation of each one of these and the concerns of the Neighborhood Association and the neighbors. So in the approval criteria 33.815.105, just to highlight this point, this approval criteria allows institutions and other non-household living uses in a residential zone that maintain or do not significantly conflict with the appearance and function of residential areas.
 So we're appealing based on the first A1 here. The overall residential appearance and function of the area will not be significantly lessened due to the increased proportion of non-household living uses.
 We do believe it will significantly conflict with the appearance and function. And as you can see from some of the things that were just brought up on the picture, there was a map, there was a zoning. And you can see that this area, this proposed area, is already surrounded by Bridge Meadows, which is a group living facility, Rosa Parks Elementary, which is a non-household use, Charles Jordan Community Center, which is a non-household use, the R2 zoned New Columbia.
 as well as there's a church that was just off the picture. So there's actually already quite a bit of non-household living uses. We believe it'll be an unreasonable concentration of non-household living uses in the area. There's already several. And at some point, we have to say, all right, that's enough. And maybe we can move to a different location to continue to build other non-household living use areas. One moment. In the hearings officer's file or decision,
 He stated that the group living use will essentially, while not technically, under the Portland Donating Code constitute a household living use.
 I disagree with that in noting that the proposal is like a dormitory facility. It's a little bit more like a community service institution, like the institutional use of a community service, where these people are getting treatment. They have a full-time employee there to assist them. They have an RA. This is quite a bit more like an institutional use for community services, except that –
 possibly, not necessarily, the people living there will be there for more than a month. I don't know that that's the case, but it seems to be. So I would like to make a point here that it is a group living use, and it is not close to a household living use. It definitely is that, as the hearings officer tried to make it sound like it maybe isn't. There was also inconsistency we wanted to point out where the hearings officer talked about the impacts within 400 feet and within 600 feet.
 I think that within 600 feet would be accurate, but we were confused as to what exactly he was meaning. We think that whole neighborhood area would be affected, everything you saw in that picture and beyond. In A2, the intensity and scale of the proposed use and of existing household living uses...
 The hearings officer erred procedurally in addressing this condition. And the reason I say that is because primary argument here was about what could be built there, which is also what was just brought up. There could be six houses. It could be divided into that. And while that's true, that's not actually what makes this condition met. It's not what's possible and what's being proposed here. We'll only look at what's being proposed here. And I believe I'm correct on reading the law that way.
 So in only looking at what's being proposed here and not a various amount of possibilities of other things that could be, maybe, might be, the scale is not compatible. The proposal is several times larger than any household use in the area. And it is on a bigger lot, which is one thing that I believe the hearings officer noted. But the bigger lots should have several smaller style buildings, just like other bigger lots in the area or the smaller homes.
 The style is not compatible. I was pleased that they agreed to meet with us and do a focus group and kind of talk about our concerns, but the main concerns of the people in that focus group were that they wanted individual buildings. They wanted to feel the characteristics of household living uses, of a neighborhood, of residential, and what they're getting is one giant building. And
 That concern was not addressed. Instead, they changed the style and the roofing and the facade, which is geometrical changes that were nice, but again, it's not addressing the concern that we actually had. The next point here is under B2, the proposal will mitigate the differences in appearance or scale.
 so like i said in that control group the neighbors requested separate buildings and were denied that the neighbors requested a mix of single and multi-level like bridge meadows they have two-story one-story two-story that kind of situation we were denied that neighbors requested moving the parking lot to the alleyway side so it's not into interfere with neighbor livability the parking lot's currently directly next to somebody's home when it could very easily excuse me it could be very easily be moved to the alleyway side
 And if it's on the alleyway side, it can have access to the alleyway as a roadway. And it won't be bothering somebody's home. And when I was in the focus group,
 thing they brought up to not move that parking lot was because they might have to move a light pole. And I believe that a person's livability is more important than a few thousand dollars to move a light pole. Correct me if I'm wrong on that. But I do believe that Cliff, who's the neighbor there, his livability is more important than that. And I think it would be an easy reconstruction to move the parking lots to a different location. The next I have here is under C1.
 which goes into livability. I could have segued that better. The proposal will not have significant adverse impacts on the livability of nearby residential zoned lands. And specifically, I want to talk about noise, glare from the lights, late night operations, that sort of thing. So I know you've already brought up the good neighbor agreement, and I was also confused on the language. The good faith explanation makes a little bit more sense now. I wasn't really certain what that meant earlier.
 What kind of documentation that would be. And you did note that it said met in good faith as opposed to. As I understand from the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association, we are definitely willing to meet on a good neighbor agreement. And to give a little background about that, which I believe has been.
 addressed in this. Bridge Meadows also chose to go into a good neighborhood agreement with the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association. And we think that although I know they're trying to soften the language so that people don't sandbag and draw the process out, I think it would be safe to say that it should be required because it's already in place for another one of their facilities.
 And I don't think that for it to already be in place on one facility and to say on this one, yeah, at least they met, is quite the same thing. I think that since it's the same company, it's easy to say that it should be required in this particular case. Can I ask you a question since you raised the good faith? She has to finish, Commissioner, so she's got time. I know, and I have a question that's germane to what she just said. You mentioned the good faith. The mayor will, I'm sure, stop the clock and give you the additional time.
 You mentioned the good faith agreement. What has been your experience with the good faith agreement at the other location? Sure.
 You mean meeting in good faith? The Good Neighbor Agreement. The Good Neighbor Agreement, excuse me. So the Good Neighbor Agreement that occurred at the other location preceded me being involved. So it happened, I believe, in 2009. And I believe they met and they came to agreement on it. Now, I don't have a copy of that in front of me. And as I understand, Dorinda Schubert was supposed to provide one to Mary Margaret Wheeler-Webster, who's the chair of the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association. I didn't mean it so technically what I meant. I guess what I'm trying to get at is...
 You have a good neighbor agreement at a related facility, which would shed some light on what's the experience been in interacting with them. Because a good neighbor agreement is not just a piece of paper. It's an invitation to a relationship. So would you care to offer a perspective on the relationship between the neighborhood and the existing facilities?
 My understanding is the existing facility and the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association, now I don't know about specific neighbors, but they've interacted very well. In fact, sometimes we hold our meetings at the community center that they have at Bridge Meadows. So we've gotten along in the past. They've connected in the past. It has not seemed to be a problem. Thank you. Yeah. Let me get back to where I was.
 So just to restate, I do think that it should be required, especially because so many neighbors, and this should be part of the record. It was submitted by another neighbor, Allison McManus, I believe it was over 30 signatures of various neighbors saying that they're opposed to this project, they're concerned about this project. And I think to help quell those concerns, a good neighborhood agreement should be required, not just meeting in good faith. All right. Oh, and as a note on that, they, and I don't know who, who,
 who exactly wrote it, but they were saying they would have quiet hours from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m., which is not even consistent with Portland Ordinance. Portland Ordinance is quiet hours from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. So again, this is part of the reason I think it should maybe be required, because we need to at least follow the law as well as making a good neighbor agreement. So I'd want those things clarified in that good neighbor agreement. As a reason we think that this should also be a requirement, this isn't just a facility with
 some parents and some children and, you know, that kind of thing. This is specifically 18 to 24-year-olds. This is a specific age range, and they're all people who have a specific background being foster youth. And so our concerns are a little higher because it's a younger crowd we're looking at.
 And we, as most of us know, there could be an increased level of noise and late-night activities associated with those residents, and especially when they're concentrated in a specific area. Because it's more like a dormitory on a college campus, which will have house rules. That's why, again, why I think the good neighborhood agreement is a little bit more necessary in this case than it would be in other cases. Moving on to D2, which is about the transportation. Is the transportation system capable of supporting the proposal in addition to...
 to the existing uses in the area, on-street parking impacts, neighborhood impacts. Now, the only, and again, I don't know if this is standard practice, but the only evaluation done was the traffic consultant hired by the applicant who did a study on a single day. And coming from a scientific background, generally you don't take one experiment and create a fact out of that. You would go multiple times, and they believe they went late at night in January or December. Yeah.
 So this is concerning because we contend that the studies, the applicant cannot be relied upon or considered when determining if the condition has been met. So basically, I would think that the PBOT would do their own study to make sure that there's no impact. So you have to remember, there's a community center on FOSS, which is parallel, and there's also right down Dana Rosa Park. So there's already increased traffic because of people attending these places. Right.
 There's been claims that maybe the people in this particular building will not have cars. But that doesn't mean their guests won't have cars. There's somebody that their job is going to be to go there, the person who's a LCSW, I believe. So I do think that that needs to be looked at once more because many, many, many neighbors have concerns about parking impacts and traffic impacts in that area. Yeah.
 You've used your time, so we're going to dive into a couple questions if we can. One is, did you raise this issue about the location of the parking lot not being on the alley during the earlier hearing? I was looking for that in the response, and I didn't see what the hearings officer's response was to that. They believed that the concrete wall was sufficient. So what they decided to do was build a concrete wall between Cliff's property and the proposal. All right.
 I have a different concern, which is if we have alleys, we ought to be using them, but that's perhaps not germane to this hearing. Okay, other questions? What was the alternative that you proposed or anyone's proposed about where the parking should go? Because it seems to me if you put it at the other end of the property, you also have the challenge of putting parking –
 on an intersection and a corner, and our zoning code encourages putting buildings, not parking at the street level like that. So was there an alternative proposal at some point that the neighborhood put forward about where the parking should be? I believe we've said that the parking should be on the alleyway side. Now, if you picture the corner, the property is like this.
 They're proposing it's right here, like this is the actual corner. Here's a road, here's a road. And I'm just saying it should go right here. It would basically be in the same place, but just on the opposite corner, and it would be adjacent to an alleyway rather than someone's home. Does that make sense? Yeah, it's shown in the diagram too, yeah. Okay, other questions? Did you have other issues that you didn't get to in your prepared remarks? Just about the adjustment. I think the whole purpose of an adjustment is,
 is, the whole purpose of that law is to prevent a concentration of group living uses in a residential neighborhood, right? That is kind of the purpose. So to trump that purpose with just another building owned by the same company seems frivolous. They have plenty of other places they could be building this and it would still serve the same function. So basically that would be the
 the reason that we think the adjustment shouldn't be granted. But we also are saying that the conditional use should not be granted. Can I just ask you a philosophical question? Let's say that instead of this use, a developer came in and put, how many houses would fit here? They are claiming six. Let's say that someone came in and built six homes, and each property owner decided to bring two foster children in.
 For a total of 12, what would be the different impact on the neighborhood? It would be different because those would be separate homes. It would be consistent with what looks...
 the character of the neighborhood, right, which is part of the conditions, is a building that's consistent with what the neighborhood already looks like. We have individual homes. Most of the homes are under 1,000 square feet. The proposal, I think, is several thousand square feet, so it would be noticeably different than the character of the neighborhood. And while we do have modern buildings and less modern buildings, you know, 1975, 1920 built houses, it would still be consistent with a neighborhood feel rather than a group living feel. Does that make sense? Yeah.
 Other questions? Okay. Let's thank you very much. Thank you very much. Let's take supporters of the appeal, individual supporters of the appeal. I have two people, Dylan Cruz and Allison McManus. Come on up, please. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you very much. Hello. Hello. My name is Dylan Cruz. I am a resident at 8811 North Dana Avenue, for the record.
 Thanks for the opportunity to be here today. You know, I know that we'll have some conversations after this about the organizations, Bridge Meadows, New Meadows, the tenants, the type of program that's being implemented, the need for these services within our community and the city.
 um no one's disputing those i'm certainly not disputing those needs or those purposes this is a social program it's a group living facility these are things that we need to do no one's trying to stop those purposes what we are trying to talk about today is the design of the facility i have been involved in the focus group and i've been working on this project as long as well as with the developers since the beginning and what we are simply asking and how to ask for from the beginning gets to commissioner fish your question your philosophical question
 We want houses. We want individual buildings. We want this facility to be broken up instead of having an apartment complex on an area zoned for residential houses in a community with small single-family homes in our neighborhood. Building houses, breaking up this facility into smaller units does a number of things. One, it still allows them to administer their program on that same site. Two, it allows them to administer their program on that same site.
 Two, to that point about how many buildings we could build there, they can still house the same number of tenants. Four four-bedroom houses, five three-bedroom, six three-bedroom, there's multiple options, but they can still house the same number of tenants on the property. And if they do that, they can maintain the existing R5 designation and respect the wishes of the homeowners, the individuals, and the tenants who have been opposing this project and asking questions about why it has been designed the way it has.
 It's a win-win for everyone. We think it's a reasonable compromise.
 It also provides a contingency option. Things change. The uses of a facility changes. It's being managed by a nonprofit. It's contingent on funding in the long run. If we're building a very unique group living facility with a very specific purpose and four, five, six years down the line, things change in those circumstances as far as their funding and administration changes. We have a problem on our hands at the neighborhood. But if it's individual buildings or homes, we can sell off those assets and do something different with the site, right?
 The other thing I want to add is that this is not an isolated complaint. I mean, we're here today. We've taken time off for work to come here, but we do have a petition from 29 homeowners and individuals in the immediately adjacent area that are affected by this that have opposed and objected to a number of the criteria. You have multiple letters from homeowners in the affected neighborhood, and you also have the appeal from the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association. So this
 large group of neighbors the neighborhood who are asking serious questions and coming forward with some alternative proposals and the last comment that I want to make and I think it follows up on our last discussion is thinking about development thinking about equity in the city that matters to us I've been involved in the focus group since the beginning and we have been repeatedly told that we need to make this work it needs to meet the needs of the developer we have to compromise on this we have to do what they need to do so they can implement their project and
 But for those of us that live in the neighborhood, those of us that have bought homes there, those of us who are looking to move there, it's important that we're maintaining that single-family home status. And so we think there's a reasonable, balanced compromise that is equitable for everyone involved that lets New Meadows do what they want to do with the same number of tenants and respects the wishes and the desires of homeowners. And we have that compromise and proposal in front of you now. We appreciate your consideration. Thank you very much. Welcome.
 Hi, my name is Allison McManus. I'll try not to say too many things that have already been said. So I'm an owner of one of the 1,000-square-foot homes on the street. I have a 5,000-square-foot lot. So small home, big lot. That's kind of the gist of what our neighborhood looks like. I also don't oppose the New Meadows program. I oppose the building scale and size and the impact it may have on the quality of life of some of my neighbors here.
 In my neighborhood, we already have a group living facility within 200 feet of the proposal, so they need an adjustment. Usually it's a 600-foot minimum. Part of the Bridge Meadows conditional use is
 It was recognized that their group living facility portion of their project is different than the internal neighborhood on North Hunt. They actually built only homes, triplexes and duplexes, in the inner part of the neighborhood, and they left their group living facility on North Willis, which is a major thoroughfare over 1,000 feet wide and a two-lane connector.
 In this case, we've asked multiple times that those same criteria of what really is considered compatible with the inner neighborhood is looked at in this case as well. Like we've talked about, there's multiple buildings that could go onto this property and still house the same number of tenants. So I just don't really understand why we're not looking at the same kind of compatible uses for this conditional use and this adjustment than we did several years ago with the Bridge Meadows conditional use.
 I really think we have an opportunity to find compromise between the homeowners and the New Meadows people on this project by scaling down the buildings or looking at a multiple building design. We continue to debate what the definition of compatible is and if the New Meadows facility as proposed is compatible with the neighborhood. Some of the definitions of compatible are being able to exist without conflict, right?
 or designed to work with another system without modification. We're here today talking about this, so clearly there's still a conflict happening, and we're talking about what adjustments need to take place so that this can happen as proposed. So we're asking for a modification as well. I mean, clearly we're not meeting the definition of compatible at this point. I think we have the opportunity to.
 In my opinion, this isn't an all-or-nothing issue. I think there's room for compromise between the New Meadows group and the local homeowners. And overall, I think compromise will be the best solution and have the best long-term effect on the success of this project and the future of our neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Questions? Thank you. Any other supporters of the appeal? Okay, so then let's move, please, to the applicant opposing the appeal.
 good afternoon mr mayor commissioners for the record my name is sarah stoffer curtis and i'll warn you i'm a land use lawyer with stoll reeves law firm appearing today on behalf of the applicant bridge meadows i'm going to let the other members of the team do most of the speaking about this project and the work the applicant has done to work with the neighborhood association and carefully consider feedback from neighbors and others
 But I did want to respond just briefly to one point about the nature of this proposed use and the spacing between these two group living uses. The nature of the use and the spacing is precisely why we are before you today, and the applicant is seeking conditional use and adjustment approval. If the proposed use was a household living use and we were talking about individual houses here, the use would be allowed outright and there would be no land use process required.
 What we have recognized as a community, however, is that there are times when we need our land use standards to be somewhat flexible, enough to allow for well-designed proposals that are not allowed outright within a particular zone. In those instances, the city opposes additional standards to make sure that there will not be significant impacts on the neighborhood and the surrounding community. That is precisely what has occurred here.
 The city has applied its standards and found that they have been met. And for that reason, we ask that you deny the appeal and affirm the hearing officers of approval. With that, I'm going to let the other team members address the specifics of the proposal. Hi. Good afternoon. My name is Sean Sub. I'm the executive director at New Haven Youths for Youth, and forgive me, I'm going to speak
 speak very quickly because we have limited time. First, I want to thank the Mayor and the City Council for the opportunity to respond to this appeal and share more about the proposed New Meadows project. Many of you are familiar with New Avenues and know the work that we do with homeless youth in the Portland community, including over the past 20 years operating a number of different highly effective housing programs. Some of you also know about our organization's commitment to preventing youth homelessness through our work with youth transitioning out of foster care.
 New Avenue is currently one of the main providers for life skill transition services for foster care youth in the state. We began doing this work because we recognized a strong relationship between kids aging out of foster care and those becoming long-term homeless youth. This is especially true of those in foster care who become teen parents and lack broader family and community support systems.
 I know this council understands and appreciates the impact of homelessness and the impact homelessness is having on our community and the need now more than ever to come up with creative and collaborative solutions. For the past three years, New Avenues and Bridge Meadows have worked together to develop the New Meadows Project to address significant gap and need in our community. The New Meadows Project responds to the displacement in North Portland of youth from communities of color,
 and youth coming from some of our community's most impoverished families. The project leverages the strengths of our two organizations, creating wraparound services, providing opportunities for foster youth to learn and practice skills, and the chance to have long-term, meaningful relationships with adults. You'll further hear from our team about the intentionality and the neighborhood consideration we put into the design, how the design is focused on developmentally –
 what these young people need most to be successful, and how we plan to and are working with the North Portland community to help these young people have successful transition to adulthood.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and council members. I am Dorinda Schubert, Executive Director of Bridge Meadows. And as my colleague, Sean, has said, we have worked diligently between our boards and our leadership staff to come together and leverage our collective strength and our expertise. For the last five years, as you know, Bridge Meadows has helped foster youth by providing them with forever families opportunities.
 supporting their adoptive families so that they are strong and thrive, and providing meaning and purpose to elders as they serve as grandparents and mentors to the kids. In the five years that we've opened Bridge Meadows, and thereby our city of Portland, has received national recognition and awards for this innovation.
 New Avenues for Youth has also received recognition for their innovation. The youth of New Meadows will have high-quality housing built by the Home Builders Foundation, led by Renaissance Homes, and designed by Carlton Hart Architecture. A resident advisor will live on site with the youth, providing real-time support. The youth will have access to academic, vocational, and health services.
 services through New Avenue's high-quality programming, and additionally, there will be a significant amount of intergenerational community support to these youth, providing them with that last leg of important support, family. The proximity of New Meadows to Bridge Meadows is a critical factor in creating those lifelong bonds and relationships. It has always been Bridge Meadows' intention to be a good neighbor.
 Each week, elders from the surrounding community attend Tai Chi, and neighborhood children play at Bridge Meadows just like any other neighborhood kids. We do have a good neighborhood agreement. We developed that several years ago, and I did provide that to the current president because she could not find it. Until recently, the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association meetings have been held at Bridge
 allowed our elders easy access to those meetings. In addition to the Bridge Meadows and New Avenues for Youth leadership staff and our board of directors, the community members of Bridge Meadows cannot wait to welcome these youth home and provide them with the support that they need to live successful lives. Thank you. Could you just hold up for a minute? Were both of your points made to the hearings officer? Because I don't see any reference to them in the findings. Yes.
 Exactly which points, Commissioner? Well, the points about the wraparound services and the proximity to... Yes. Yeah, that was... During the traveling, during the hearing, but I presented, and I presented all of those points as part of my testimony to the hearings officer. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Brian Carlton. I'm with Carlton Heart Architecture and have been very proud to be associated with this project. I've got a presentation that unfortunately I can't get below 15 minutes and I only have nine minutes left, so I'm going to dance around a little bit for your sake as well because a lot of what I had to say you've seen up on the screen and have heard as well. Okay.
 I do want to take you through a little bit of the process we've gone through, though, and hopefully address some of the comments that have been made by our neighbors in their appeal. This is the original design that we first worked on. It was designed—it is designed as a single building. It was designed to be modern, appealing to the young adults that we would be inviting here to live. And—
 uh really wanted to have that energy and that appeal to young adults more importantly i wanted to point to the the floor plan that we're showing here which is a single building
 And it's a collection of studio and one-bedroom efficiency apartments, very small apartments, with a community space, collective space that provides a central kitchen, dining, living room that gives us a lot of opportunity for community development amongst the youth. And also one of our apartments is for a resident assistant, resident manager to live here full-time.
 It's really important in this design, and I'm going to go ahead and read just to keep myself on focus here. It's critical to the program of New Meadows that the residential setting encourage regular contact between the residents and with their resident assistant. The shared lounge, kitchen, dining, and counseling spaces encourage communication and relationship building.
 Internal front doors along the corridor allow the resident assistant to watch over his or her flock and keep an eye on residents and identify people who need encouragement or assistance along the way.
 So this concept of a single building is really critical to the mission and to the program, and the idea that we're bringing people who might be subject to a tendency towards isolation, and we're really trying to bring them into a community setting where they can mutually support each other and get that assistance from the resident assistant. We've heard loud and clear, and I'm going to...
 Quickly transition to this was the design that we presented to the Neighborhood Association, and this is some of the feedback that we got. And we heard loud and clear the desire for single-family homes. It's come up in every discussion we've had. We've acknowledged that all along the way.
 And quite honestly, we have tried to explain our position at every meeting that we've had, where it's just absolutely critical to the program that these young adults are living in close proximity to each other. And whether you call it supervision or guidance, where that resident is,
 assistant really has that constant contact with these folks and is really helping them develop their life skills and launch them into adulthood. The idea of breaking them up into separate homes,
 While that works for certain groups of people and certain people with upbringings that allow for that type of socialization, we've been very clear that we're working with kids who don't have that background, who don't have those skills, those socialization skills. And we really need them in close proximity to each other to really make this work. So we have continued to show the single building concept.
 This is a quick rundown, a lot of what you've heard already today, of some of the concerns the neighbors expressed beyond that in terms of scale, size, also setbacks and more front yard appearances, that type of thing. And we have talked about the parking. I'll come to that here a bit.
 So this is the revised plan that has taken that single building and really worked hard to break it into smaller, more home-like components. We used inspiration from the neighborhood in some of the newer infill development in terms of the proportions we used. We've improved.
 created these notches in the building and single story elements to try to create the massing and scale of single family homes. This gives you a description of how we've created notches in the building and tried to set the massing up to be more reflective of what's being built in the neighborhood.
 this this is slight demonstrates that those notches in the building actually were set to reflect the typical spacing and some of the infill development that's happening skinny homes and infill homes the distance between those homes within the neighborhood the photos that you're seeing are all taken from the neighborhood the site we've increased landscape areas and setbacks to create more front yard space
 and introduced some additional landscape features to try to soften that and create that front yard. We also did agree to introduce the CMU wall along our northern property line as well as a cedar fence along the alley to provide more buffer. If I could take an opportunity to address the parking issue, we did look at multiple schemes to try to look at how we could potentially relocate that parking area
 We did look at parking along the alley. We were told by PBOT that in order to use the alley, it wasn't a matter of just relocating a light pole, as well as several underground electrical facilities. We'd have to fully pave the alley. We'd have to introduce stormwater treatment facilities to the alley. The budget for that was quickly getting into the six-figure range.
 so it's not a simple fix to just park along the alley, given PBOT requirements to improve that alley. Don't you have the same stormwater requirements for the parking lot to the north? Yes, but it's a much more consolidated lot that is much more contained. We'd have to take that alley, develop a 20-foot wide street, and add paving.
 all of the facilities for that. If the city's requirements were more reasonable, if, for example, we allowed you to use pavers and sand in an alley that's now dirt and access a parking lot from an alley that once again becomes functional as an alley, would that make this more practical?
 Instead of requiring you to build a 20-foot street where none such exists and where the rest of the alley is not that and isn't likely to be, I'm frustrated with our own bureau, as you can tell by my tone of voice. We either have alleys or we don't. We have them. We've got to figure out how to use them. This isn't just your problem, but I'm just trying to figure out why we're not letting applicants solve this problem instead of walk away from it. Okay.
 I don't have a simple answer to that. There are always unintended consequences, and every time we try to use alternative paving or modular paving, it ends up costing more for some reason, and we can all sit here and break that down. It's not an easy answer. I think programmatically, and I don't...
 I'm going to feel the daggers from behind me from my staff who have reinvented this project several times over. Programmatically, it does some nice things for us if we're parking off the alley. And we believe we could potentially rearrange the site to make that work. It just truly is cost prohibitive at this point for what we know. Thank you. Okay.
 I'm sorry, we interrupted you. You can go ahead and answer any other points you want to make. Sorry, go ahead. In terms of compatibility, we really did try, and we do believe we are, from a design perspective, working with the design team.
 being compatible with the neighborhood. It is a mixed neighborhood. It's got diversity of development and housing types in it. All of these photos are of projects that are within three blocks, three to four blocks of the site, and this isn't including the Bridge Meadows development. It's not including any of the new Columbia development. These are old established developments in the site and newer infill of residential. Okay, we did include Bridge Meadows. I apologize.
 There's also examples of some larger homes that are being developed on the site that are maximizing their site capacity. We did take very seriously the issue of what could be developed on this site in terms of our analysis of compatibility.
 the ability to develop six homes, and if you've got a family of four to five people in those homes, you're quickly out-distancing the capacity of New Meadows, which we've set at 19 residents.
 We also believe that because of who our residents are going to be, we've got a disproportional reliance on mass transit and bikes. So I think we feel we've got a lesser impact on traffic and parking in the neighborhood. What is the outbuilding? That is a trash enclosure, just a small sitting porch attached to it. Can I just ask, why do you need on-site parking?
 Why is that central to the design? I mean, there is on-street parking. There might be other ways. We felt it important in terms of a gift to the neighborhood or recognition of the neighborhood's concern for parking that we felt it important to have a certain amount of on-site parking. There's nothing programmatically that drives that. You're not required to provide that on-site parking, are you? No.
 For all the discussion we've had, I don't have the exact answer to that. Is there a school bus that gets parked there? I believe we actually have to have a minimum number of spots on site. I don't think we're totally exempt from parking on this site. Check with staff on that question. And I apologize, this is an issue that we hashed out a year ago, and I'm trying to remember what we hashed out. Okay.
 But we did feel that it important in terms of our addressing neighborhood concerns that we provided a certain amount of parking on site. Can I just add that there were a lot of very vocal neighbors that were very upset at the idea of there not being parking, and we settled on what was the required amount, not more, not less. Right, which also had neighbors that were vocally concerned about green space. So they lost, and the people that wanted parking won. So I'm not sure if that was a good bargain. We'll talk with staff about that. Thank you.
 And we did have neighbors who asked that same question. Why do you have parking on site? Presumably some of your young adults will have cars that they need to drive to work, and there may not be enough spaces on the street. We also feel, pertinent to our request for an adjustment for the distance, we also feel that it's very important that this New Meadows program was conceived
 to be a sister program or feeding off of the success of Bridge Meadows and the adoptive families that we have there and the elders that we have there. And so that proximity and the ability for residents of New Meadows to travel quickly and easily over to Bridge Meadows and, more importantly, the residents and specifically the elders to be able to travel quickly and easily over to New Meadows is a key part of the program in terms of...
 developing a sense of community with these young adults, a community of people who understand what they've been through, understand their background, and are there to help them launch into their life. So that proximity, as Sarah said earlier, is really important in terms of accommodating this program and really building it for success.
 I believe that is all I have with a minute to spare. Mayor, I have a question, but could you indulge me for a second and ask their attorney to come back for a moment? Sure. Would you please? So thank you for your presentation. There was a comment made by an opponent that I want to give your attorney a chance to answer, because I just would, since you do land use work, I'd be interested in your take. Sure.
 She said in so many words that there were now an abundance of non-residential facilities in the neighborhood which were beginning to change the character. Now, frankly, I think typically we don't think about schools and rec centers as being facilities that change the character of a residential neighborhood. In fact, we have residential neighborhoods around the country now.
 beating beating down our door to uh for us to put a community center or other amenity in their backyard but but she referred to a school um rosa parks uh charles jordan um a church and bridge meadows and now we're doing new meadows so let's take the the community facilities out of the equation and say bridge meadows has been a success that's the neighborhood new meadows has been spawned from that if that goes forward it will likely be a success
 At what point do we have to consider concentration when we are, in effect, building on the success of something which, after all, is seeking a conditional use to operate in a neighborhood for which it wasn't initially envisioned?
 At what point does concentration become a factor that we are required to consider? Right. Well, I think that that's a really appropriate question for this type of review. It's the reason the city has a spacing standard to begin with that would require that these types of group living uses, generally speaking, be spaced at a distance from one another so you don't have –
 uses that are non-household living uses in character overwhelming a particular neighborhood. What I think is important about this adjustment process is that you evaluate these cases on a case-by-case basis, and so...
 Here you have a well-designed proposal, and there is a reason for there to be an adjustment of the spacing standard. You have evaluated all of the key factors related to impacts to the neighborhood. And the fact is that if yet another group living use were to come into the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association and ask for approval, then
 then you consider that question as these uses are proposed.
 So where that, you know, do we know it when we see it? Where that tipping point is, I'm not sure. I would submit, however, that in this instance, I think these are two organizations that have a track record of success. This is a well-designed proposal, and in this instance, I think an adjustment is very appropriate. And I think you make that point very effectively. I'm just contemplating that there will be,
 the son of Ridge Meadows, son of New Meadows, where the argument is we're building on success, proximity, shared services, and I'm just trying to get my head around at what point
 Is there a line where we say, actually, no, you're now changing the character of the neighborhood by doing this on an ad hoc basis, and you're saying we should look at these things on a case-by-case basis and apply the criteria. I'm just flagging that at some point in this, I think there is a line that we have to tackle. I'm not sure what it is. Commissioner, I think you've put your finger on it. It is a discretionary decision, and each one is considered case-by-case. I don't think I –
 two entire pages in the hearings office decision dealing with one criteria on the specific one. And also an in-depth discussion of the definition of large, which comparing it with what large meant by the same hearings officer in a previous decision. So I think it
 It is something that grows a bit over and over by time, and that's why it's been stated that we look at each one and we listen to both sides and make a discussionary decision. That was an old expression, I went to the fights and a hockey game broke out. And I think here roughly the analogy is I moved into a residential neighborhood and at some point all these wonderful group homes and programs run by blue chip nonprofits started coming in.
 And we're doing this under conditional use. So we're saying in each instance there is a – we are potentially saying there is compelling public policy reasons to do this. But since an opponent raised the question of concentration, I wasn't persuaded with the concentration argument when she brought Rosa Parks and Charles Jordan in because I think in most –
 residential areas in the city, they would love to have a high-performing elementary school and a great community center. But here, there is this question in the back of my mind about at what point do you get to that tipping point where you actually are fundamentally changing the character of the neighborhood. So, thank you. Are there additional points you want to make? Just real quickly, I do want to just, one comment was made by an appellant
 that pertains to Commissioner Fish's comments about when is enough enough. In really making sure we're characterizing this program appropriately, we're not providing treatment. These are not patients here. This is a group living situation. It's not an institutional function. We're providing counseling and training here.
 for these young folks. And so in a lot of ways, it is another residential option in a diverse neighborhood. And actually, Brian, I would say I listened carefully to the opponents, and I didn't hear anyone picking a fight over the people who were staying there or the services being provided. So that's why I'm focused on design, scale, compatibility, and really about –
 how many conditional uses are we going to allow in an area where it then begins to change? I didn't, and I think it's,
 great that you mentioned that, but I didn't really hear an opposition based on programmatic research. I agree, and I was only responding to words I heard. And I'd actually, if I could take a second and add, it's something that I said several times over and went back to the office and talked about. It's actually been a pleasure working with this neighborhood association and the representatives in this case. It's been contentious at times, and it's been a little bit frustrating at times as we've tried to
 explain the program. It's been a very respectful relationship throughout and having been in many neighborhoods throughout Portland proposing projects that people weren't really excited about having across the street from them. They've done an incredible job of staying focused on the issues and on the concerns and quite frankly throughout the hearings process on the approval criteria and I do want to compliment them for their work on this.
 I just have one further question. Do any of you know whether the Bridge Meadows approval required a good name agreement or required to try to have a good name agreement? It did. It required one. It required you to have one? No.
 Yes, Commissioner Fishett did. And Greg Wilhelm, the former president, and I worked on that together collaboratively and created a document that stood the test of time. And what I'm hearing is that you're very willing to do that in this case also? Yes, we are. And I heard from the Neighborhood Association that should the appeal not prevail, that they were willing to meet as well. So I think we can have some language that would get to that. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions? Yes.
 Thank you very much. So individual supporters of the opponents of the appeal, are there any signed up? We have two signed up, Kevin George and Kurt Krieger. Kurt was here as a resource. Yeah, he was here just for questions. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Kevin George, and I work for the Department of Human Services as a Child Well-Being Program Manager for Child Welfare Services.
 As a part of my job is program and policy development for children, youth, and young adults in foster care and for developing transitional services for supports for youth, young adults who are exiting the foster care system without a permanent family or a permanent support network as they move towards successful adulthood.
 I thank you for this opportunity to speak in support of New Meadows Project to assist young adults transitioning from foster care. In the last 12 months, there were 78 young people in Multnomah County alone who exited the foster care system without a permanent family to provide that ongoing support, safety net, as these people launch into adulthood.
 Most often as these young people leave foster care after the age of 18, these young adults move into their first apartment, into someone else's house or apartment with little to no support on how to navigate the world living independently. And most of us have had to fall back on for emotional support, had families to fall back on for emotional support, financial support, or to help us understand what it means when you get a water bill, electric bill, and a rent bill.
 Most young adults have positive, caring adults, family, and friends to help them navigate this new world of adulthood. As a parent of three young adults currently in this phase of their life, I can fully appreciate the need for positive, caring support in navigating the new world. The young adults from foster care do not have the positive, caring support they need so much, so programs such as New Meadows is the right program for them. What is unique about New Meadows is the intentional connections and relationship to supportive, caring adults.
 The community connections to the youth engaged in their own community. And the demonstrated success of peer-to-peer group living in a semi-structured environment. There are other examples in Oregon of young adult transition models for former foster youth. Lane County has a neighborhood economic development corporation, has a 12-unit apartment in Eugene transitioning foster youth.
 Salem has Center Court Commons through Catholic Community Services, and they developed a supportive dorm-style apartment where they are transitioning youth out of foster care. And in the Dalles, the Next Door program has had a model for years assisting transition to adulthood. Thank you.
 While these programs have been a success, they are also limited to provide these young adults with the intentional connection to supportive adults and fully engage them in their community, which will be a significant component of the new METALS program. I am most excited about the opportunity to have these young adults learn from METALS
 and develop relationships with the older population. Often this is where the culture and community values are found and can be passed on to young adults who do not have opportunities to develop this type of relationship. Respect for elders and culture must be learned, valued, and passed on.
 The intentionality of the shared living space is critical to the success of this program. The Department of Human Services has worked with Bridge Meadows and New Avenues for Youth for a number of years and has seen their individual and organizational commitment to quality and services for children and families. New Avenues has been committed to ensure young adults in Multnomah County have options other than the streets to move to, to adulthood. They have been instrumental in taking a holistic approach to young adults in research, best practice models to develop comprehensive service.
 The new metals project will not only be a tremendous resource for young adults experiencing this program, but will further enhance the overall positive experience of the bridge metal residents and that community. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Thank you. Thank you very much. Anyone else? Okay, now there's an opportunity for the appellant. Kurt Krieger is going to speak. Oh, sorry. No, Kurt. Oh, that? Okay. Sorry. I thought he was going to say that. Okay.
 Good afternoon. For the record, my name is Kurt Krieger. I'm the Director of the Portland Housing Bureau, 421 Southwest 6th, Suite 500, Portland, Oregon, 97204.
 I wanted to speak in favor of New Meadows and in opposition to the appeal. First, I do want to respect the Portsmouth neighborhood. Neighborhoods that value their neighbors and their neighborhoods should contest change in their neighborhood. I don't think any one of us would want to live in a community that didn't care enough to raise issues and to –
 forward their case. But in this instance, we don't think that there's a reason to reverse the hearings and the examiner decision. It's also important for the record that you know that we have a million dollars from the City of Portland Housing Bureau budget supporting New Meadows, $800,000 for construction and $200,000 for soft costs. Was that presented at the hearing? Yes. Carl Dinkelspiel was a witness at the hearing. Okay.
 And he's an employee of the Housing Bureau and a manager of our Housing Investment Fund. The emancipated youth is the term of art in our industry. When youth, foster youth...
 age out of the system. And I always thought it was a little bit of a sardonic term because emancipation talks about freedom, right? But in this instance, freedom in a very tight housing market, freedom without resources means often that these youth are the most vulnerable in our society. They are victimized and they're often preyed upon by older adults.
 So group quarters that allow some means of shared costs really helps them succeed in life moving forward. In this instance, the property will have 19 individuals, of which a few will be small children. If it were developed in single-family conditions,
 density, which is permitted, there would be a capacity for six single-family homes. And under the Title 33 definition of a household, one or more persons related by blood or marriage, domestic partnership, legal adoption, guardianship, plus five additional people, you could have six people per house in six homes or 36 total individuals. Okay.
 whose behavior is going to be totally random and up to their own standards of behavior. So by having 19 individuals supervised in a group setting, connected to programmatically by the nearby bridge meadows, this is actually less dense than it would be if it was developed as single-family detached homes, which what you're hearing is people want single-family.
 We believe at the Housing Bureau that the connectivity between the two programs is essential to their success. There is mentoring and role modeling for the youth by the elders nearby. There is staff supervision and double coverage of staff supervision by the two properties. And maintenance and repair staff can respond more quickly to any request to provide repair and maintenance.
 replacement needs. So we think that this is overall a good solution to a community-wide problem. And I do want to underscore that these kids are from North Portland. They're not being imported from someplace else. Thank you. And, Kurt, the question that preceded you from an opponent was, what happens if this program, for some reason, discontinued? We've got a conditional use. You're an investor. The city is an investor in this. What happens to the building? Okay.
 Well, if they went out of business, I think we would want to secure our lien rights in the property and make sure that another responsible nonprofit were engaged to operate the facility. Would that come back to us on a conditional use? Yes, it would have to. If it was a different use, it would have to, not a different operator. Okay.
 We have a regulatory agreement that will run 60 years. So we have, through that regulatory agreement, the means by which to replace the operator. If there was a change in operator or a change in use, would you bring that back to council? The commissioner in charge, I'm not sure that it would come to council, but the commissioner in charge at the time would have ultimate approval authority. Well, can you put in the regulatory agreement that the council would be notified of any change in use?
 in operator or use? I don't see a problem with that. I think that just... It's a potential condition. I just think that gives the council notice. The council didn't... I saw the council nodding or not flinching. It goes in the regulatory... So that someone has an obligation to tell council if there isn't contemplated change. Yeah.
 So you're just concerned about the operator or are we going to something completely different? Both. Because if it was going to something different, then it would have to come back. If it was a different use, it would have to come back. Well, I'm just thinking we've got the hook of a regulatory agreement to make explicit that that comes to council. We may not be here when that event happens. I just want to have someplace where it's memorialized. Okay. Thank you.
 All right. Thank you, Curt. We have no opposition to that. Thank you very much. All right. Is there anyone else that wants to speak? Now, the appellant, you have the opportunity for rebuttal of any of the testimony that you've heard. If you'd like to avail yourself of that, come on up. Thank you.
 I'll just try to cover a couple of points they brought up, although I would love to talk for longer than that. We obviously heard from the other testimony as well as mine. We agree that it's an honorable organization providing important service to the community. That's not being judged here. That's also not part of the conditions. I'd also like to note he just spoke that the youth would be from North Portland, but we heard prior testimony from Sean Suib saying that they could come from all over, from other states even. So that was inconsistent information.
 But in their testimony, I didn't actually hear anything about them meeting the conditions, the legal conditions. I didn't hear much about the law. They stated what they needed to have their program work, which was a single building and to be in close proximity to the Bridge Meadows.
 And I just want to show you on the map, provided the zoning map, this little star I put right here, there's a road here called Trenton. It's just off the map. There's an empty lot there owned by Portland Housing Authority in an R2 zone that would perfectly suit their needs. A person would need to walk a couple blocks in order to reach Bridge Meadows. I presented this to them prior, and they just...
 completely disregarded me but i think that if they want their needs met they can do it they just can't do it with this property um i believe that it's not too much to ask for them to either consider single homes and this isn't a density thing this is a character of the neighborhood thing which is part of what the law says it's not changing the character of the neighborhood it's not impactful in the character of the neighborhood so we require either single homes or
 Or that there be distance between group living facilities. And what Commissioner Fish brought up was exactly my concern. At what point will this concentration be enough that there's finally a rejection of a proposal? And I'd like to point out that the dilapidated property directly across the street, that is owned currently by a property development place. It doesn't look like it does in the pictures anymore. So that's going to be developed.
 and the property right back here is also being purchased, I believe, by a developer. So bear in mind, there's other properties that this could happen. If we're just continuing to allow it, it's setting a precedent that this neighborhood is a group living facility neighborhood. And the people that bought homes here that spent thousands and thousands of dollars, the neighbors that have been coming to me and coming to the Neighborhood Association, they made investments in a neighborhood, a single-family home neighborhood. And it seems disrespectful to them
 to not listen to their concerns, to not at least respect maybe making a little bit bigger of a distance, or respect maybe having separate houses. If they want their programs needs met, they can absolutely do it. It just would be a couple blocks away.
 And we're not simply contesting a change for a neighborhood. We're contesting the character of the neighborhood. We want an R5 zone. That's what we, you know, when I bought my house, I looked at the zoning. And I looked, what can people do? And I didn't think that not only would somebody be asking for a conditional use, but also an adjustment. That seems like quite a bit to ask if we're trying to maintain a neighborhood, a single-family home area. I mean, I have some time, so I might as well just check if there's anything else I want to say. Okay.
 And I understand that it may be difficult to deny the applicant's proposal, considering their social purpose and that they're doing good in the community. However, it's important that we follow the law regardless of that message. If a proposal does not meet the necessary conditions, it should be denied. The applicant has every ability to create a building or achieve their social message in a way that is compatible with existing laws and regulations. They have that ability, and they can do that. I believe that they will be able to do that, especially with the knowledge of how much money they're getting from Portland employees.
 the Housing Bureau, they are going to be able to build this in a place that's more appropriate, or they can build houses in the land that they've already purchased. I think that's all. Thank you so much for listening to me today. I appreciate it.
 So I have some questions for staff, so I'd like to ask Kathleen to come back up and also Kurt Kruger, the other Kurt in the room, because I want to return to the parking issue. We have some BES people, although not our experts on the issue that… Yeah, okay. BES would be a factor here. But, okay, so…
 The key test, well, one of the key tests in this case, and it's been extensively discussed in everyone's testimony, is that the proposed development would have to significantly lessen the overall residential appearance and function of the neighborhood. We've heard from the appellant that they don't believe that the project has, and we've heard from the proponent that they think it does. Okay.
 There are two ways, I would say, in which this proposal is different than the prevailing pattern of the neighborhood. One, it's a bigger building, and two, it has a parking lot. So let me return to the parking lot question. What is the provenance of the parking lot? Did the applicant propose it, and did PBOT approve it, or did PBOT require it?
 Kathleen Stokes, BDS staff. And I have actually two or three clarifications, but answering the question about the parking lot, first of all, and I know there was a question like, why are they having the parking spaces? Well, the zoning code requires parking for residential uses and most residential uses. Yes.
 And the standard for group living uses is one space per four residents. So the 19 residents here triggers a requirement for five parking spaces on site. On site. Okay, but let me interrupt you because PBOT's report that's in the record says at this location,
 The city's transportation system plan classifies these streets for all transportation nodes and that local streets provide local circulation for traffic, pedestrians, and bicycles, and except in special circumstances, should provide on-street parking. Why are we not relying on on-street parking to meet the need? We generally look at the code required, on-site parking, but it's only one space.
 per residential unit normally or one space per four residents. Most residential uses generate more parking. We don't require that additional parking for visitors and other people to be on site. That's where the on-street parking can be used.
 And as far as the questions about the location of the parking area and the alley improvements, Mr. Kruger here has, I believe, some additional information. I'd just like to make a point, especially since we haven't gotten to our next item yet.
 The code requires the five spaces Ms. Stokes just said. The applicant did not request an adjustment to that. I get it. I get it. So, no, I wanted to know what the provenance of it was because Mr. Carlton, understandably, a year later wasn't sure. So it was our requirements, not their proposal. Let me try to take a little stab. When we're doing a conditional use review, we're looking at the actual specific use that's proposed on the site. Right. Excuse me. Kruger with PBOT for the record. Okay.
 The code isn't exactly prescriptive as one space here or three spaces for this project. A church is a good example. We look at a church and we say, how many people are going to come to this church? What's the congregation size? How many cars are we going to expect? Then we try to determine how many spaces should be put on site versus how many spaces might be used on the street. And we do this kind of discretionary review to determine what's appropriate for that particular use. In this particular case, we felt...
 Some amount of off-street parking should be provided so as not to completely use up all the on-street parking. This particular project is going to close two existing driveways that have been there when the PGE substation was there. So we're gaining some on-street parking. We're losing it with the parking space to the parking lot.
 If the parking lot went away, it would gain additional on-street public space. I won't chew on this much longer because this may be an issue for our regulatory process, not for this proceeding. But do you look at the context in a conditional use case? Yes. So the context that I see when I look at Google Earth is there's one to two cars per block face per,
 parked on the streets of this neighborhood. If this were northwest Portland, where we've issued 7,000 parking permits for 4,000 spaces, I could understand not relying on on-street spaces in the conditioning process. But in a context in which typically the parking load is nowhere near this, for future cases, I would hope to see us relying more on on-street parking. Mayor, can I just follow up on that? I just want to follow up on that point. Go ahead. I want to follow up as well.
 Because I don't know what time of the day or night that was taken. I need to kind of declare it's not an ex parte contact because I haven't discussed this particular case, but I have had dinner both at Bridge Meadows with Ms. Schubert and with Mary Margaret Weber-Wheeler, who was one of the people who gave me health parties to collect $5 bills in one of my elections. And I go to the Charles Jordan Community Center a lot as the parks commissioner
 There's a lot of parking on the street. I mean, it's very difficult to find parking on the street. Mayor, can I follow up as well? Please. Let's say that PVOD's requirement for this particular use was 24 parking spaces. Right. Well, we would certainly take a look at that, and that may mitigate against – that may weigh so heavily in our decision about changing the residential character that that could be –
 that could be a deal killer. And so presumably under those circumstances, they'd seek an adjustment. Well, that's why I'm worrying this, Bo, not only because I'm anti-parking lot, but because we've got testimony in the record that most of the residents of this facility will rely on bicycles and transit for their movement around the city. Yes, some of the staff may drive to it. Did you require bicycle parking, by the way?
 There is bicycle parking that is required in the code, and it is being provided through this proposal. Well, the other thing, Mayor, is if you didn't have that parking and we were somehow able to unlock the mystery of the alleyway, the building actually might change in scale dramatically.
 And height and some of the issues we've heard from the neighborhood. So this is not an incidental matter because they could potentially use the whole thing. But if this was just as of right residential development, how many parking spaces would we require on the property? I believe we'd require one per unit, one per house. One per house. A driveway per house as well.
 Yeah, because again, the reason that the critical issues here are does it significantly lessen the overall residential appearance and function? How does it change? How does it differ? The reliance of a great deal of the remaining portion of the site not occupied by a building is occupied by a parking lot. That's not typical. Okay.
 So that's different. So might I suggest a couple of amendments to the conditions of approval and then to move denial of the appeal. All right. So are we – any other questions before we take a motion? Because we need to take a motion if someone wants to make one. But Kathleen? Okay.
 Yes, I was wondering if I could make a couple of points of clarification on some of the things that were discussed here. I don't think you – I'm not sure you need to. I'm not sure if you need to. The clock is late. We're going to make a tentative decision today, I think. So I think that's where we're headed. Let me give Commissioner Fritz a chance to frame it. You'll tell us if we're out of our lane.
 So what I was going to suggest as part of the motion is Condition A on page 33 of the Hearings Office's decision says that the design should be as approved as indicated on Exhibits C1 to C5. We might add on to that unless changes to the parking are negotiated in the Good Neighbor Agreement.
 And then under E, which was the one I was gnawing on at the very beginning of this hearing, to change – I very much appreciate that both sides say that they're willing to work on a good neighbour agreement, and I hope that you will be able to get one. But just in case that doesn't happen, it should say in the fourth –
 lying down, must document that the New Meadows and Bridge Meadows representatives strived to meet in good faith with the neighborhood association for the purpose of reaching. So, um, okay.
 Commissioner Fritz proposes those changes. Are you making those proposals in the context of an overall motion? With those amendments, an overall motion to deny the appeal and uphold the hearings officer's decision with those two amendments. This would be a tentative decision. I'll second that. Second to that. Tentative decision with those additional amendments. Are there any further amendments to the motion before we take a vote on it?
 Council? And I just want to remind you that you want to make sure that it's clear on the record that the hearing is closed. And then with the tentative decision, we have to set a date and time certain to return. Right. And we'll do that subsequent to acting on the motion. But this is the conclusion of the hearing. We're going to take a vote on a tentative decision and set a date for findings. Actually, Mayor, can I just ask Kurt one more question? Sure. Could we still theoretically agree to allow no on-site parking? Sure.
 We would have to revise the findings to address the parking impacts that would not, without having a parking lot, that the surrounding on-street parking would be adequate to address. There are findings that it's not. All right. We're stuck with that. Okay. So roll call, please, on Commissioner Fritz's motion and those amendments that are included in it. Saltzman? Well, I appreciate the testimony of the neighborhood and also certainly of New Meadows and New Avenues for Youth,
 I'm very familiar with both organizations, know they are quality organizations. I am convinced there'll be good neighbors, and I think that, you know, there already seems to be a camaraderie between the neighbors. There is just a concern about whether New Meadows significantly alters the residential character of the neighborhood. I guess I reached the conclusion that it doesn't, and therefore I will support the recommendation of the hearings officer as amended by Commissioner Fritz. Aye. No, sir. Aye. Aye.
 Well, this is one of the most interesting decisions I've read from the hearings officer. Spectacular work by Kathleen Stokes and other staff. Greg Franks should be very much commended for that.
 laying out all of the issues ahead of time and making findings as to why they were met and major kudos to the neighborhood association because it's obviously you you've been through it too you know your stuff you laid out the issues very clearly and I I think I know that with the good hearts of both sides that you'll be able to maybe make some modifications in the good neighbor agreement it's very clear from the first
 designed to the current one, it's much more compatible to the neighbourhood and I would expect that you may be able to find even more and make the Portsmouth neighbourhood an even more wonderful place to be. And I think that the different examples of what's there right now are really evidence of why it's such a wonderful neighbourhood. And thank you, everybody, for your participation in this. Bye.
 This has been, I think, a terrific hearing, and I'm going to support the motion, but I'm going to express a couple of reservations. One is that, for me, it is significant that New Meadows has a relationship to Bridge Meadows, and I might have a different view if it was an entirely new program, different operations, with no connection to an existing use that has a good neighbor agreement that is functioning.
 Number two, I do think there is a concentration issue. I'm not sure we've triggered it, but I'm not sure where that line is. But I thought the appellant, who is not a lawyer, and made clear to us that still made one of the more –
 thoughtful arguments that we've had in one of these complex cases. And I do think that's an issue, and at some point there may be a concentration issue. I'm not sure we've reached it here, but I think we're getting to the outer limits. And finally, what matters, a factor that I think is significant for my decision-making
 is the fact that there were significant changes in the design from the original proposal to the current proposal. And as the architect and the team walked us through that, I think they were substantial changes that actually, in good faith, attempted to bring back a more residential character to the development. And I think that that and the other testimony weighs in favor of denying the appeal. Thank you.
 Anything else? It's a close call. I think the point has been made that people that invest in a residential neighborhood have a right to expect there to be one. The question here is significantly, and the hearings officer found that there is a difference, but it's not significant given particularly the design improvements in the project that were made under pressure from the neighborhood. So I appreciate the fact that the applicant heard those concerns and attempted to respond to them.
 And then it looks to me like the livability issues as well that are also addressed are going to be addressed by the good neighbor Agreement and the way this project is going to be operated So I think on balance the hearings officer did indeed get it right and I'll support this decision. I That's a tentative decision. We want to set a date for findings. I
 Yes, that is or will be October 12th at 11 a.m. time certain. Okay, so findings will come back to us beyond the calendar then. We'll address those then. Thank you all very much. One minute break. That means two minutes, and we will then take up the next item. Let's take item 1033, please.
 Amend City Code to revise process, investigation, and appeal provisions of complaints of police officer misconduct. Madam Auditor. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I am City Auditor Mary Hall-Cappietto. Constantine Sevier and I are here today with a proposal to amend City Code Chapters 3.20 and 3.21, which govern the police accountability system. Mr. Sevier is the Director of Independent Police Review in my office.
 Taken together, the changes we are proposing improve the overall quality and integrity of the oversight system and make it more efficient, effective, and equitable. They move the city closer to its desired outcomes by realigning responsibilities within the entities that investigate police officer misconduct allegations, streamlining the existing process to enable cases to move through it more efficiently, and, finally,
 and enabling community members who have filed complaints to appear before the Police Bureau's Internal Review Board. They are also responsive to terms included in the city's settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice. In May 2015, Director Sevier and I attended a meeting along with representatives of the Police Bureau in which justice officials made clear that the city's attempts to comply with accountability provisions in the agreement had fallen short of their expectations.
 They wanted the city to reduce its dismissal rate by investigating more complaints. They also preferred that investigators assigned to a case had the authority to provide an opinion on whether officers had violated Police Bureau policy. Both recommendations are included in these proposed changes.
 Other changes are related to how the Citizen Review Committee is organized to meet its wide-ranging responsibilities. Eleven community volunteers serve on the committee, which is an advisory body to my office and to the police commissioner. City Code expects much of them. They are required to conduct a minimum of four meetings per year.
 participate in various community meetings to hear concerns about police services, make policy recommendations to elected officials and city staff, advise on operations, hear appeals, raise awareness in the community about the oversight system, and participate in work groups to address short-term issues and needs.
 Committee members rightfully and repeatedly have expressed concerns about the workload placed on them. The committee's focus of late has been mostly consumed with hearing appeals of community members who disagree with how their cases were decided within the police bureau. Time spent preparing for an appeal and the hearing itself leaves few options for the volunteers to meet their other committee responsibilities.
 The city has also been unable to meet its obligation in the agreement to have appeals heard within 21 days. We are experiencing an increase in appeal requests, and the current backlog extends to next June. To balance time demands on volunteers while increasing the frequency of hearings, this proposal authorizes cases to be heard by three member panels instead of the full committee.
 Volunteers would be assigned to six or seven appeal dates in a year, freeing up time for participation in work groups and community outreach activities. The city is obligated to ensure a sound accountability system that will hold up under review. It also should provide authentic opportunities for public input on matters of policy.
 The current practice of combining appeal hearings with other items on the committee's monthly agenda ill serves the city's ability to deliver on both of these obligations. In addition to scheduling appeal hearings separate from other committee business, we propose reserving public comment for general meetings when the full committee is present.
 This will ensure that for appeals, the city can protect an officer's right to a fair and expedient process and keep the committee's focus on the appellant's immediate particular concerns. The point of the hearing is for committee members to assess whether an investigation was thorough and the findings were reasonable based on the evidence. The appeal becomes part of a record that may subsequently be reviewed during grievance or civil service proceedings later.
 It is reasonable to expect that a police chief or an arbitrator would question how certain comments affected an appeal, which could put a disciplinary decision in jeopardy. Public input in this context is misplaced. Audience members are not allowed access to the contents of a case file, so it's not uncommon for comments to be off-topic or emotionally charged.
 This presents a challenge for keeping order in the hearing and maintaining focus on the case at hand. It also seems to leave audience members frustrated when issues they want to discuss appear to be unwelcome. Their input is important, but this is not the appropriate venue to receive it. Public comment is best suited for general meetings when all committee members are present and robust discussions of ideas or concerns about police services and accountability can be welcomed.
 The full committee is better positioned to take in and respond to public comment and decide if it warrants further attention by a work group or referral to an elected official or city staff.
 From a management perspective, this proposal addresses some challenges and creates others. It streamlines and strengthens police accountability as required by the settlement agreement. It alleviates some of the workload from individual citizen review committee members and reduces the length of appeals, which benefits all participants. It reserves time for the committee to focus solely on appellants' concerns in one venue and matters of general public concern in another. Thank you.
 It also helps us predict, plan for, and control costs for security protection, which have increased in recent months. At the same time, this proposal shifts responsibilities and workload within the police bureau and my office, which has been adapting to rapid change and growth in recent years. It increases the number of night meetings city staff members must prepare for and attend each month,
 which for my staff at least shifts responsibilities and workload associated with their young children to their spouses we will need to monitor these changes and make adjustments as needed once we have some experience with this new process that said these changes reflect what i believe is the best approach to achieve many positive results given the constraints of time resources and political will and now i'm going to turn it over to director severe to walk you through the
 uh code provisions that we're proposing to amend uh good afternoon council members uh mr mayor my name is constantine severe director of the independent police review um so i'm going to walk you through the changes in chapter 321 and 320 140. um so just a bit of kind of a let's say a 50 000 foot view of why we're moving forward with these particular code changes right now
 Over the last year or so, IPR, other folks within the city have met with community members, have discussed the needed changes internally, have had two public forums, one on August 1st and the other on August 23rd. And
 In trying to summarize some of the statements that I've heard from community members and trying to incorporate that in the code changes, there are about four or five different values that I heard and kind of impacted me.
 The first is that community complaints are important, and they are a direct feedback mechanism to getting accountability. As we all know, IPR has a relatively high dismissal rate, and part of the dismissal rate is based on the standard that was set for IPR when city code was created around IPR in 2001. And that was a code based on looking at misconducts.
 What we're trying to move our accountability system to is a true accountability system. That's going to be reflected in some of the stuff that I talk about a little bit later about having a two-tiered track for allegations of officer misconduct, of having cases that are best situated with an officer supervisor being done as supervisory investigation, and more serious cases like use of force, bias-based policing, you know,
 significant inappropriate or abusive authority by officers being subject to full administrative investigations. The other value is that the accountability system has to be fair and reflective of the values of the community. And the CRC members and the committee as itself, I think, is a testament of our community's values and how proud we can be of how much the CRC has provided the city.
 The members put in an inordinate amount of time to prepare for each case. The case files have gotten bigger over the years that I've worked in the city. I've worked in the city eight years. And there's a recent case where the CRC members had to review several hundred pages of an investigation
 hours of video testimony before they could come in at 5.30 in the evening and spend about four or five hours on one case. So it's important that we cherish the CRC and respect the work that they put in. The other part is that our accountability system must be able to withstand outside scrutiny.
 whether that is the Department of Justice, whether that is an arbitrator when an officer is subject to discipline and it goes through the grievance process. There is a lot about Portland where we do things a little bit differently, and our oversight system is that as well. There's a lot of experimentation that's incorporated within our oversight system. When you look at it nationally, it's a hybrid model, includes
 Some auditing function includes some investigative and some monitoring functions. So in drafting the code changes and in working in the internal and mixed community and city work groups, some of the things that were incorporated were some best practices developed by the National Association of Civilian Oversight of Law Enforcement and the International Chiefs of Police.
 And also looking at comparable agencies, there are nowadays several cities around our size that have oversight mechanisms. So the city of Denver, the city of Austin, cities that have around 500,000 to 750,000 people, and Seattle as well. And taking a look at how they do it and see if there's approaches that they have that we can incorporate in our city. Okay.
 So how was this code change developed? Some community feedback. IPR should kind of articulate better what kind of cases it investigates. Feedback from the DOJ, the auditor mentioned some of it. All complaints investigated. Lower dismissal rate. The investigative agency, whether that is IPR or internal affairs, provide a recommended finding.
 The accountability focus group, which was a group composed of city staff and members of the community. There's a member from the citizen review committee, a member of the police review board, and a member from the Albina Ministerial Alliance as well as a peer officer member.
 Some of the concept that came up from the accountability focus group were providing a mechanism for quality of service and rudeness complaints, which we've called supervisory investigations, and also providing greater flexibility in the appeal review process. And there were three different concepts.
 ideas that we discussed. The accountability group decided to forward those three as basically a package to council for its determination. One was having an administrative law judge hear appeals. That is something that the city of Denver does, and it's very efficient. It's very quick. And
 It is also something that is open to the public in Denver and based on Colorado law. Having the CRC meet in panels, in three-person panels, for them to hear an appeal and review that. And the final option was a consolidated review board, which has been subject to a lot of discussion in the last several years.
 six to eight weeks. There was a lot of things that recommended the Consolidated Review Board as a way to go forward. It would combine, I believe, the best aspects of the Police Review Board with what the CRC does in the appeal context. The biggest negative to it, from what I've heard from the public, was the ability for members of the public to actually view what was going on, giving
 the requirements of Oregon public records law and the ability of members of the public to view disciplinary cases being adjudicated.
 So, a little further step back, one of the things about our accountability system, it is a work in progress. Over the last 15 years, there have been four significant code changes, and that doesn't even include things that occurred in the 80s and 90s with the creation of PIAC, which was the predecessor agency.
 of IPR and that heard appeals of misconduct cases completed by Internal Affairs. But 2001, IPR and CRC were created. In 2010, there was a significant code change that
 created the Police Review Board, allowed IPR for the first time to self-initiate investigations, authorized IPR to monitor officer-involved shootings and custody deaths. So IPR's ability to go to the scene of an officer-involved shooting and custody death started with that particular legislation. It recommended that the Police Bureau implement a discipline guide, and it worked.
 formalize in code IPR's ability to approve
 review and make a decision whether to approve all police bureau administrative investigations and findings. Following the 2010 code change, there was a stakeholder committee convened by council, which met for several months and provided the city with a significant amount of recommendations, several of which have been implemented. There are still some items from the stakeholder committee that have not been implemented by the city for a variety of reasons, and I'll touch on some of that a little bit later.
 The next big change is the Department of Justice's settlement agreement or the settlement agreement with the Department of Justice, which was approved by counsel in 2012.
 Following that, there was another code change in 2013, which implemented several provisions that within the settlement agreement that involved the citizen review committee and the police review board. The CRC was expanded to 11 members. The discipline guide was required. CRC members became rotating members of the police review board in force cases.
 In 2014, the settlement agreement was finally signed off on by Judge Simon and went into effect. The Police Bureau implemented a discipline guide, and in 2015, there were additional code changes which modified CRC's case file review process and appeal procedures. Thank you.
 So the Department of Justice settlement agreement that we're talking about is just Section 8, which is a relatively narrow part of the agreement, but obviously a very important one. And it covers the city. And within the city is the Police Bureau, IPR, and CRC, as well as the PRB.
 And one of the things that the settlement agreement talks about, and I think is kind of driven, whether you're part of the Department of Justice or people within the city, is to seek to retain and strengthen the citizen and civilian employee input mechanisms that existed prior to the agreement. Okay.
 Unlike in some settlement agreements or consent decrees where the Department of Justice wants something completely brand new, the Department of Justice and the city saw value in what existed prior to the existence of the settlement agreement. And what we've done over the last...
 five or so years since the Department of Justice has entered Portland, is try to build significant accountability mechanisms within our particular system. There are several provisions within Section 8 that are important, but the three critical ones at least for what we're doing tonight and going forward on these code changes are
 that all administrative investigations have to be completed within 180 days and that CRC appeals should be completed within 21 days. And the 21 days is from receipt of a notice that an appellant wants to file appeal with IPR. Paragraph 123 is that the city must come together and develop an action plan when there are delays in complying with the conditions of the agreement.
 In paragraph 128, IPR must have the ability to conduct meaningful independent investigations into officer misconduct. So prior to 2013, IPR in its then 12-year history had never completed an officer misconduct investigation.
 So that was something that the Department of Justice noted, and the City, to its credit, has taken a number of steps to allow IPR to do independent investigations. This Council has supported IPR in providing us with enough staff.
 having two and a half investigators in 2013 to having budgeted seven investigators. For the 2015-2016 budget year, we initiated, at least, and some of them are still ongoing, 17 administrative investigations.
 So, again, the continuing theme that you'll hear from me is that it is a work in progress and that we are ultimately working towards a goal of making sure that community members and Portland Police Bureau officers feel confident that there's an administrative investigation process that includes both civilians and bureau members that is fair and expeditious.
 So, some of the things that the code changes do not touch, and there are several, and some of them are issues that community members have brought up for a number of years that
 of pretty significant, particularly with IPR, one thing or several things that I hear often is there are several members of the community who want IPR to be able to investigate officer-involved shootings and custody deaths. That is something that we are not allowed to do per the collective bargaining agreement that the city has with the Portland Police Association.
 Again, with the being able to compel officer testimony, so the way it works right now is that if IPR wants to interview an officer, which we do with some frequency nowadays, we have a liaison with Internal Affairs and Internal Affairs works very well with us and they are a significant help and never impeded any of our investigations, but several community members have brought up over the years that they feel that IPR should be able to
 directly compel an officer to testify, and that is something that would need to be bargained between the city and the PPA. Some other issues that have been brought up by community members that
 we are not touching in this particular code change is the CRC standard review. The CRC's current standard review is the reasonable person standard. Several folks have brought up that they would prefer that if the CRC had a preponderance of the evidence standard, kind of the normal standard for a fact finder. The CRC, as envisioned in city code, works as an appeal body.
 And another issue that's involved with the standard review in particular is the city is obligated under the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement to reduce redundancies and any significant sources of delay.
 disciplinary type cases, changing the standard review from the current standard review to preponderance of the evidence would basically create two fact-finding bodies within one administrative investigation process. One of the attempts to try to deal with that, at least in our case,
 work in looking at our accountability system from when a community member files a complaint to an appeal was the consolidated model, which would have, again, like I said earlier, provide a lot of the strengths from both the PRB and the CRC.
 Increasing the size of the citizen review committee. I've heard different numbers. I've heard 15. I've heard some other numbers. From a logistics standpoint of currently IPR staffs, all CRC meetings, and the ability to attract community members to serve on the CRC, we just ran through our most recent recruitment. And in the last five years, it's the largest
 It was the least amount of community members who went through the process, who volunteered to want to serve on the Citizens Review Committee. And so being able to maintain a 15-member board, I would have significant doubts. I don't really have a real opinion about that, at least at this time, but that would be a significant logistics issue for the city moving forward if we increase the size.
 Removing the conference hearing, which is when the CRC hears an appeal and votes the challenge, a police bureau finding, and the chief receives that challenge from the CRC, and the chief and the CRC do not agree. There is a conference hearing that is held for the chief and the CRC to be able to discuss their differences and see if there's some sort of resolution that is possible.
 That is something that does add time to our system, generally at least 30 days. Taking that out would mean that those appeals, once they went from the CRC, particularly in the context of a challenge, they would go to counsel. They would be like the previous hearing, where counsel would make the ultimate decision.
 Ms. Simeon, I appreciate you going through the anticipated concerns that people might bring up. Given the late hour, it might be good to see what the public has to say and then have you explain why you didn't do what you did after that, if there's a way to do that. Indeed. I've already discussed the consolidated review board, so in the interest of time, we'll not go further into that.
 So 321.110, that is the intake section, and the purpose of that particular portion of the revised code is to provide alternate means for community members to file complaints about possible officer misconduct and that the police bureau would provide complaint forms within police facilities, which is a very important part of the review.
 It happens now, more or less, but I think codifying it and making sure that it's actually implemented, I think, would improve the access that community members have to the city's services. The investigative tracks...
 Basically, in a nutshell, that would create a formal administrative investigation process and a supervisory investigation process. One of the tensions in
 system, particularly in the context of Portland. On a capital basis, we – and you see this in other West Coast cities. There are more complaints here than, let's say, in Newark or a New York City per capita. And I'm not
 exactly sure why that is, but a part of it is there's less hurdles for people to file complaints in the City of Portland. We take all complaints. That has been a value that we've tried to incorporate. So we take all complaints and trying to make sure that we adequately address all the community members' issues has been a challenge over time. And
 Having a supervisory investigation track in particular that would allow a supervisor to be able to directly contact a community member and the involved member and have a disposition attached, I believe, would be something that would, one, allow us to address relatively minor concerns in a faster way than formal administrative investigations. The supervisory investigations is similar to our current service improvement opportunity program.
 which roughly takes 60 to 70 days as opposed to a formal administrative investigation where those generally take about 140 to 180 days. 321.110 would require better notification. So when there's a situation where there's a concern about officer behavior that may be subject to criminal liability,
 Or administrative investigation that the IPR director would be notified. And that requirement would fall upon the assistant chief of investigations, the captain of professional standards division, and the police commissioner's staff. The ability of IPR to request that the police bureau open deadly force investigations in cases where a bureau member used force capable of causing death or serious physical injury.
 And that IPR received from the Bureau any force-related after-action reports where it's believed that members' actions were out of policy. And these provisions are really in the interest of time.
 There's a lot of really good interaction between IPR and the Police Bureau on these types of cases. But in the interest of making sure that the city is able to address possible misconduct by officers in the most timely manner, it's important that IPR receive notification in as quick of a manner as possible.
 Recommended findings. This would be a change from the current process where the officer's commander does recommended findings. Okay.
 So it would be the investigative agency, whether that's Internal Affairs or IPR, we would be tasked with doing the recommended finding. And at IPR, the persons doing the findings would be one of the supervisors. At IPR, all the supervisors are attorneys with either significant qualifications.
 criminal law background or administrative law background. And the investigative agency doing the recommended findings, that's something that you see in a number of cities that are comparable to Portland, Seattle, Albuquerque, Atlanta. There's some other things that would need to happen to make this fully operational, but the first part of this is having it changed in code.
 In 321, the Citizen Review Committee appeals would allow the CRC to be able to meet in panels to hear appeals. Right now, the quorum for the CRC to meet is five. The quorum would be reduced to three. And public comment would be reserved for non-appeal CRC meetings.
 320-140. It would allow the complainant to be able to present, to be present and have a statement at board sessions, which does not occur now. And that is the end of my presentation. Okay. Thank you both very much. Let's take testimony, please.
 23 people signed up. The first three, please come on up. Dr. T. Allen Bethel, Dan Handelman, and Debbie Iona. And after them, I have Kimberly McCullough, Mark Kramer, and Khalil Edwards. Khalil Edwards, sorry. Thank you. And then Shannon Cogan would be in the next group. Good evening. Welcome. Good evening. Dr. T. Allen Bethel, President of Albano Ministerial Alliance, serving as co-chair of Albano Ministerial Alliance Coalition for Publicity.
 Justice of Police Reform, thank you for the opportunity to speak with you today and share some comments around the proposed changes for the CRC and IPR process as slated and asked us to do by the, who are we talking about? The DOJ, of all people. I know my time is ticking. Sorry. I'll stay with it as soon as I find the last piece of what I'm supposed to be doing.
 Would it be helpful if somebody else spoke while you find it? Yes. Dan, are you ready? Yeah, sure. All right. Let's do that, Dr. Bethel. We'll have Mr. Handelman go ahead, and then we'll return to you. Go ahead. Thank you very much, Mayor. My name is Dan Handelman. I'm with Portland Cop Watch. And Portland Cop Watch applauds the city's decision to keep police misconduct appeal hearings public. But the current proposal has too many flaws to let it move forward. We strenuously object to the proposal to silence community input during hearings.
 CRC is not only capable of separating facts from opinions, but the existing ordinance directs them to hear any evidence offered, saying they must consider evidence only from the investigation when deciding on the findings. The city attorney admitted that the police association has never filed a grievance based on public comments at a CRC hearing. The community has the same case summary paperwork as the appellant and the officer. Does the city plan to prohibit those parties from speaking at the appeals too? No.
 The way the ordinance is written, CRC would have to call a special meeting to take public input and might be prohibited from taking input at their regular meetings. Public comment helps CRC on community context, policy, training, and their own protocols. The last case at CRC benefited from comments. After it was pointed out they were using an old directive, they changed their recommendation on a taser use using the correct directive. Silencing the community will only lead to more disruptions rather than less.
 Meanwhile, breaking the 11-member panel into three-person panels will create a number of problems. In terms of diversity, with the current committee of seven women and four men, four persons of color, it's likely some panels will be all female and white. COP Watch suggests expanding CRC to 15 members and tapping into the 20-member Police Review Board civilian pool to round out seven-member panels, specifically with four CRC members and three PRB members with a quorum of five.
 If one of the three CRC members becomes ill, the appeal will have to be delayed, leading to appeals taking much longer than the proposed 21 days. If CRC sends a case back for more investigation, the same three members will have to be available for the supplemental hearing, or else others have to read the case file and listen to a recording from the first hearing. In the last two years, CRC has met 16 times to consider just eight appeals, in part because three cases were poorly investigated and two led to conference hearings.
 and the conference hearing provision to allow the chief to come back to CRC if he or she disagrees with their finding. I'm going to grant each of these panelists some additional time because each of their organizations has put a lot of time into these issues. So go ahead, Dan. I appreciate it, Mayor Hills. The conference hearing causes more unnecessary delays, and it should be removed. In disputed cases, it should go back to city council. And we have other members of the cop watcher to round out my testimony. But I just want to say this point that was made about the Police for You Board and the CRC being duplicative is,
 In our records, of the last 20 appeals that were heard since that code change was implemented, we could only find two where the case was heard both at the police review board and the CRC. So it's very rare that happens, and you can take steps we can discuss later about how to make it so that a case wouldn't end up going to both places.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Dr. Bethel, are you ready to proceed? Thank you. Yes. The Obama and Ministerial Alliance Coalition for Justice and Police Reform requests that the City Council modify the proposed changes to the IPR, CRC, and the Police Review Board or delay voting until amendments or other changes can be made.
 The settlement agreement with the Department of Justice speaks to the need of correcting the Byzantine accountability system currently in place. Let's not rush, but seek to install a truly more simpler accountability and review process. The coalition has some serious concerns about eliminating the community's voice at the Citizen Review Committee appeal hearings. To eliminate the community voice, we believe, flies in the face of community engagement and involvement.
 a goal we are all working towards and for greater transparency, rebuilding trust, and community engagement. The community voice should be welcomed and valued in the process. The coalition also has concerns about three-member panels for the CRC.
 Even though the full CRC is chosen carefully to represent some of the diversity our city has to offer, only using three of 11 members creates the likelihood that the smaller panel will not offer that diversity inclusive of age, race, gender, and lived experience.
 The AMC also is concerned that the proposal to change the oversight system is going forward while the Community Oversight Advisory Board is in recess. The settlement agreement authorizes that board to seek ways to improve community input and weigh in on accountability matters. COAB was working on its own proposal for the IPR-CRC system when they were placed on hiatus. We request that their input be reviewed and adopted in the
 and their changes were applicable. The coalition has had a long history of offering input to city council on changes we want to see to the system, including giving IPR the ability to compel officer testimony. These recommendations date back to our earliest incarnation after the death of Kendra James in 2003. We offered similar recommendations as a member of the 2010 Oversight Stakeholder Committee convened by the city.
 and our community demands issued after the death of Aaron Campbell and in our proposals to improve the DOJ settlement agreement. In this post-Ferguson America, it would be a mistake to take steps backwards on allowing community to be a part of community oversight and to reduce the diversity of the people examining alleged police misconduct.
 We hope you will modify or delay this proposal until it has been fully vetted and meets community expectations, moving us closer to the goal of justice, accountability, transparency, and community engagement. Thank you very much. Thank you. Ms. Iona? I'm Debbie Iona, representing the League of Women Voters of Portland. The League has a longstanding interest in the city's police oversight system, and we believe transparency and public participation are of utmost importance.
 We are very concerned about both the process used to develop the current proposal and some of its provisions. We urge you to appoint a task force charged with taking a more thoughtful and inclusive look at the complaint process and CRC's role in it. Counsel is being presented with a proposal without the analysis needed to truly understand the many factors that contribute to lengthy appeals.
 CRC's right to request additional investigation and the time it takes to schedule a conference hearing between the Chief and the CRC to discuss disagreements over findings are just two examples of why the 21-day timeline is unrealistic.
 The League is troubled by the proposed elimination of public comment at appeal hearings. As regular CRC meeting attendees, we have observed that in the vast majority of cases, public comment has been constructive and respectful. The city attorney cited a fear that the involved officer might file a grievance if the public continues to comment. This has never happened in CRC's 15-year history.
 Twenty minutes of public comment does not contribute to delays. Therefore, we see no reason to cut the community out of the process. Furthermore, Darrell Turner recently stated that the union has no problem with public input as long as it is delivered respectfully. The community deserves a thorough explanation of what is motivating the proposed changes and why they focus on excluding the public when public participation is not delaying the process.
 There are some positive features in the proposal, such as reducing the number of dismissed complaints, giving the agency conducting the complaint investigation the authority to draft findings, and allowing the complainant to attend the police review board hearing.
 a task force could explore options for supporting the complainant in light of the potential intimidating nature of a hearing room dominated by police bureau officials.
 Again, we urge you to step back and create a process where these issues can be thoughtfully discussed. And then finally, I just wondered since I think the number of people have had to leave because, you know, it's kind of late, if you would consider continuing in the hearing so they can have an opportunity to testify. Thank you. Good suggestion. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay, let's take the next three folks, please. Are Kimberly McCullough, Mark Kramer, and Shannon Kogan? Thank you.
 And they'll be followed by TJ Brown, Philip Koka, and Dr. W.G. Barnett. Welcome. Good evening. Mayor Hills and members of the commission, my name is Kimberly McCullough. I'm the legislative director at ACLU of Oregon.
 Although the proposed ordinance covers a number of things, we're just here to comment on two specific concerns that we have. The first you've already heard about, which is the proposal that public comment be taken out of case file reviews and appeal hearings. As we all know, the purpose of the CRC is to build public trust.
 and to provide a window for the public to problem solve issues of police accountability. And a very important aspect of that is the identification of policies that need to change. So, that public comment opportunity at the time that these specific issues are being discussed is a very good opportunity for that. It helps that process. And we think that taking that away would really contravene that purpose.
 You know, if the suggestion is that the public doesn't have enough information to comment, then, and I'm not saying that that's the case, but if that's the suggestion, then the public should be given more information, not taken away the opportunity to comment. If the concern is that people make irrelevant comments, well, the same thing could be said for city council hearings. And we all know...
 that despite the fact that it may be inconvenient to sometimes listen to irrelevant comments, it does play a very important role in our democracy. And then if the suggestion is that it may inappropriately influence the CRC members, I think they can simply be given proper instructions. Ms. McKellar, the difference is we're paid to listen to irrelevant comments. These are your members or not. That may be true. That may be true, but...
 But that certainly doesn't mean that it's not an important public forum where this information needs to be heard. Fair enough. The second concern that we have is about the reduction of the CRC to panels of three. ACLU of Oregon participated in 2010 in the Police Oversight Stakeholder Committee, which recommended increasing the size of the CRC from 9 to 11.
 11 members, and that change was recommended to increase the diversity of the CRC. And we're just concerned that reducing to three members would really potentially damage the diversity of those individual panels. We are not opposed to the idea of panels, but three-member panels just seem far too small. So those are our comments, and thank you for your time. Thank you. Welcome. Mary?
 Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Novick, I represent the National Lawyers Guild. We've been around the block on this issue. Personally, I've been part of the Mayor Katz Task Force in 2000 and the 2010 Police Stakeholder Committee. We do support the League's proposal for a stakeholder group or task force.
 to examine this issue more broadly. We are concerned with the lack of transparency, particularly the lack of informed input by COAB into this proposal. So this is a time of opportunity, and I urge you not to rush. We oppose the proposal in its current form.
 In particular, we oppose the elimination of public comment at the CRC meetings. We are frustrated by the failure of the proposal to incorporate what we have been asking for for a number of years, both in front of Mayor Katz and in 2010. So I just want to list those to you briefly because this should be part of the agenda of where we should go from here, which is a stakeholder process.
 The issue about the IPR having the power to compel officer independently, which is what they don't have now. The definition of evidence, whether we're going to use preponderance of the evidence or the reasonable person standard. The ability, and this is very important, for IPR to conduct review of deadly force, allegations independent investigations of deadly force, and deaths in custody. And that the system apply to all complaints. So this should be part of this process.
 We are concerned that if we use this limited window of opportunity to pass this proposal, we will foreclose meaningful reform because, as we know, these things are not considered every month or every year. We're also concerned with the notice today of the collective bargaining agreement, and we are very concerned because we've heard this over and over again in 2000 and 2010. We can't do this because of the CBA.
 So we are urging you as well to forestall approval of the CPA until these issues can be examined at length. And so necessary changes, for example, in compelling officer testimony, in allowing IPR to do deaths in custody investigations are incorporated into the new CBA. Thank you. And I have five pages of testimony. I would just ask you at your convenience to review that in detail. Please make sure we've got that and we'll make sure it's distributed. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good evening all. My name is Shannon Cogan and I am here as a representative of Sisters of the Road. Sisters participated in the stakeholder work group of 2010 to identify recommendations for increasing police accountability and gaining community trust. We come here today to reiterate our previous demands to restore public faith and to take the time to do that.
 Sisters' community is often harassed by the police for doing nothing more than existing as human beings in public spaces. Our community's rational fear and distrust of the very agency tasked with maintaining the human rights of all will not be lessened by removing public comment from disciplinary appeals or reducing the weight of citizen input in the oversight process. The mission of the Portland Police Bureau includes promoting individual responsibility,
 Individual officers are not exempt from the need to take responsibility for their actions. Public comment in meetings encourages each officer to be accountable and held to an outside scrutiny for their actions when interacting with the community they exist to serve.
 Reducing transparency does not fall within the community's demand, nor does it fall within the Justice Department's demands. Portland belongs to all of us and not just the businesses or the police union. All of us live here and deserve the right to be able to walk down the street in our communities and not be afraid of law enforcement. And we need to be assured that when we have a concern, that concern will be addressed in a meaningful, transparent way.
 That means that stakeholders who exist outside the relatively powerful structure of the police bureau are well represented in oversight meetings, and the smaller panels reduce the chance of that happening. Those most at risk need to have a strong presence when we are deciding how to hold our police accountable. That is equity.
 The recommendations, which have come out of stakeholder meetings, are a step in the right direction. Quickening the dreadfully long oversight process is a priority, but speeding up the process at the expense of community buy-in is not the goal of the Oversight Board either. We at Sisters ask, why take a step backwards now?
 The makeup of the Oversight Board should be weighted towards citizen involvement, and disciplinary appeals need to be open for public comment. Sowing down the process in the short term would help us best achieve our long-term goals. So let's take the time now. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Okay, let's take the next. Three are T.J. Browning, Philip Kakka, Mr. W.G. Barnett. And they will be followed by Barbara Ross, Chris O'Connor, and Julie Ramos.
 Okay, Ms. Browning, why don't you go ahead while they're getting settled. Thank you. Hello again. Same discussion, same topic. The four issues I need to talk about, the banning of public comments. I want you to recognize that there's no opposition, not from the police union and Commissioner Novick, not even from the CRC members who are not paid to sit there and listen to it. They don't oppose the public comment either. But thank you for your comment. Okay.
 The minor complaints going to a supervisory, that just really resonates with me as a disconnect from the Bureau and the citizens they serve. If any of you watched a person, a citizen, go through the process, file a complaint, and go to a hearing because of, this was the example the auditor used on the radio the other day, rude conduct,
 That might seem minor to the police bureau, and I understand their perspective, but that's part of the disconnect with the citizens they serve. When the citizens want, as does the police force, professional behavior, that flies in the face of the desires from both parties. I believe that if you take it out of the hearing from the citizens and the citizens recognize that their complaints are going to go to the police bureau and not to a citizen body,
 those complaints are going to diminish. Not the action, the complaints. And that's going to hurt not just the citizens, but the police bureau. The reasonable person versus the preponderance of evidence lowers the standards for a police officer. The police officer coming into that hearing is no longer viewed as a professional officer.
 We're not asking, is this something that a professional would do with training and experience? We're saying, is this behavior that any reasonable person would do? That's not the same thing. That's not fair to the police officer, nor is it fair to the citizen lodging the complaint. But the worst part of that, and I'm speaking from personal experience here,
 When you are sitting on the CRC and you are listening to the pain and concerns of the citizens, and you cannot vote your conscience, you can't even vote what you believe is the correct thing to do because your hands are tied by the reasonable person standard. People resign. I would like to see, in conclusion, it.
 expanded to a 15-person panel and panels of five so we can have diverse people hearing these complaints. I also think you won't have CRC members resigning if they actually get to volunteer and give up that precious time with children and family to actually do something they believe in and the ability to do something they believe in, and it will serve our officers better.
 The auditor and Constantine made a comment that this system must stand up to outside scrutiny. No, no, no, they are so wrong. This process must have the confidence of the public. Otherwise, it's not going to work. It's a big step backwards.
 Please take your time. Stop this now, and please be mindful of the input we're giving. Thank you very much. Welcome. Good evening. My name is Philip Tchotchke from Portland Cop Watch. Regarding fairness of the proposal, the officers in the process get representation from the union rep or attorney for free. Complaintants at the Portland Police Review Board have no knowledgeable advocates available. Appellants have process advisors who cannot advocate.
 We do appreciate that the complainants may now address the PRB, but they will be virtually alone in the room and mostly filled with police to explain how they think a police officer mistreated them. The appeals process advisor can look at the entire case file, but they can't share the contents with the appellants. Volunteers or paid attorneys are not allowed to look at the case file.
 Another issue of eight times officers have appeared on the CRC meetings. There was one time the committee proposed a sustained finding. Arguably, officer input may unduly sway CRC.
 If all non-disciplinary complaints are routed to the precinct supervisors, unless IPR has to sign off on the outcomes, it will lead to less consistency in how complaints are resolved. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening and welcome. My name is Mr. Barnett. I live in northeast Portland, and I'm with CopWatch.
 The comments I make will, many of them, compare the August 1st proposal with the current one that was just being reviewed this evening.
 The August 1 proposal would have allowed CRC to recommend findings based on a preponderance of evidence rather than a deferential reasonable personal standard. The current proposal keeps that old standard. The August 1 proposal contemplated CRC hearing appeals on deadly force cases.
 also since removed. The August 1st proposal indicated there would be a majority of civilians on the police review board. This proposal keeps a 3-2 or 4-3 majority of police personnel, depending on the type of case heard. Looking at the 2010 Oversight Stakeholders Report, there were 41 recommendations made.
 Only nine have been implemented, seven others partially implemented, and 25 not done at all. In 2000 and 2010, when making changes to the oversight system, the city convened public workgroups.
 to hash out the details. This process has been flawed in large part because no such dialogue has happened. Among other unresolved issues are giving IPR power to compel officer testimony and investigate deadly force, giving the auditor the ability to consult attorneys who are not also advising the Portland police, giving the CRC power to compel officer testimony and letting counsel hear.
 new evidence. There are other things, and I hear the bell is whistled, but one of the things that hasn't been signed is you have a Citizens Review Committee. They don't have access to an independent lawyer, nor do they have staff.
 So we urge the council to delay the vote. We'd be astonished if Judge Simon or the DOG did not find the city out of compliance because the CRC is unable to meet their unrealistic timeline of holding appeals. At the very least, increase the CRC and the panels and reinstate public testimony and provide better support to the CRC.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Let's hear some more folks, please. Barbara Ross, Chris O'Connor, and Julie Ramos, and they'll be followed by Christine Malone, Jim Young, and Kiosha Ford. Thank you.
 I'm Barbara Ross and I'm also from the League of Women Voters and I just want to emphasize the League's support for a couple of constructive suggestions that we think would improve the process. We fully support the idea of having a task force look at things more carefully and to consider some of the things that just haven't been resolved by this set of revisions. We would like to see the...
 The membership of the CRC increased to 15 so that you could have five member panels, so that if one member wasn't there, you could go ahead with the hearings. And also, it would increase the possibility for diversity. If you have three, if you just have three, then you could have two people with really similar points of view that would overshadow and not really be a balanced approach to the problem.
 The other suggestion for speeding up the process would be eliminating the conference meeting with the chief if the CRC disagrees with the process.
 Bureau's findings, the Bureau's conclusions. And I think that that's just an unnecessary step that is going to make it impossible to meet this 21-day. So in conclusion, I appreciate all the work that's gone into this. There has been some progress made. There's some good things in it. But again, the reasonable person standard of review hasn't been resolved yet.
 And so I just think that there are still issues that need to be addressed thoughtfully before you take this action. And I appreciate the hard work you put into it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good evening. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Chris O'Connor. I'm speaking as an individual. I'm an attorney who works for the Public Defender's Office. I'm not here representing any particular client or my law firm.
 I'm here to express my opposition to the removal of the public comment portion of key phases of the oversight process. I have to admit that I'm more cynical than some of the earlier articulate commenters about the whole oversight process. To me, it's sort of arguing about the paint job on a car with no engine. You know, some want it red, some want it blue, but the thing doesn't run.
 As someone who's for over a decade been appointed to represent dozens of city residents and citizens each month, all involved in encounters with law enforcement at some part of their legal process, I believe the current oversight process is ultimately rather meaningless in many cases, majority of complainants. While I can't speak for each member of the defense bar, I know the overwhelming majority of the defense attorneys would never advise a client to bother making a complaint.
 unless it was useful for some civil suit later as needing to use up some process. A complaint would be practically meaningless, actually, except for the abstract benefit of having your complaint heard in public. If there is going to be an inevitable outcome in favor of the officer that's a
 questioned or accused of misconduct, the public input is, in fact, the only important part given the inevitable outcome in which the officer will be exonerated. I'm also concerned about the auditor's rush for efficiency to meet the DOJ timeline. If you want efficiency, just skip to the end. It would only take a couple hours for them to say the officer is exonerated, the complaint has been satisfied, and a letter telling him to knock it off has been done.
 So this whole process, I'm concerned, is just a rush avoiding the real issues that other people have so much better articulated in terms of actual meaningful oversight, including compelled testimony and oversight onto the larger issues of use of force and death in custody. Good evening, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Kiyasha Ford. I'm actually going to read the statements from...
 Other CRC, fellow CRC member and vice chair, Julie Ramos, if that's okay. Council members, please consider if this solution really gets at the main issue, what is the main issue, and...
 Has there truly been an analysis of the problems in the system? Do we really know what causes the delay? Is this a stopgap measure that will be retrieved in another few months? If so, let's wait, slow down, and get all the players together and come up with a competent, thorough plan.
 This new proposal does not streamline the process at all, nor reduce time. While I agree with the idea of panels, but three is too small a number. Either add in some PRB community members or increase the size of the CRC and have five member panels. I believe public comment is critical and necessary. CRC is...
 A civilian body, and part of our responsibility is to hear the public. This is non-negotiable. One change from the original proposal that should be implemented is changing standards of review from reasonable decision to preponderance of the evidence. Lastly, this is a very complex issue. More time and broader group perspective would create a better – I'm sorry –
 A better overall system change. Vice Chair Julie Ramos. Thank you very much. Okay. The next three are Kristen Malone, Jim Young, and Keosha Ford. Okay. Go ahead, please. Thank you.
 Kristen, you want to go first? Go ahead. Yes. My name is Kristen Malone. I'm the current chair of the CRC. Earlier this evening, we had up to seven CRC members here to express their comments. I have the written comments of a couple more, and I hope that I can have a bit of extra time to add those to my testimony. Or submit them, too, because I think we're going to be continuing this hearing, so...
 There are two changes to the CRC's process that are contained in the proposed changes presented to you tonight. The first is changing the CRC's quorum for appeals from five to three. The goal of this change is to increase the number of appeals we can hear per month. To the extent that the CRC's frequency is actually the cause of the delay in the appeal process, I think you've heard some testimony to the effect that it might not actually be the linchpin here.
 I do support the change. In theory, this could permit up to three three-person hearings per month. But to better ensure that we have a quorum at those meetings, I would recommend increasing the CRC size, as you've heard also. Although a three-member quorum would be helpful, I would hope still in those meetings to be able to get larger groups to increase diversity.
 The second proposed change is the one I implore Council to reject. This change eliminates public comment from hearings where appeals are heard. As things stand now, we hear public comment twice, first before we vote, and then again after the appeal has concluded, and before everybody leaves. I believe both periods of comment are valuable, but at a minimum, the public must be afforded some chance to be heard at these meetings.
 As an example of valuable comments we hear during the appeal, citizens identify the failure of participants on the CRC to address relevant portions or issues in directives we review. They respond to facts already discussed by meeting participants, and they can provide input on non-substantive procedural questions that we face. For example, we received public comment when the Bureau did not send members to an appeal as to whether we should proceed without them or wait and reschedule to another date. Next.
 As for after the appeal concludes, it's important for the community and the CRC to discuss substantive and procedural issues raised in the appeal. Failing to permit this will limit the amount of feedback the CRC receives, which is part of our mission. It will damage the relationship of trust between the CRC and the community, and it will make CRC meetings more unruly, not less.
 If the auditor is concerned about the amount of time CRC members need to put in, having to have two meetings to hear issues raised in one appeal is overburdensome. While there are many changes that can and should be examined to improve our process, and I hope and trust that the city will examine and pursue these, I urge the committee to reject the elimination of public comment. Yeah, and if you could submit those other items, too, to Carla, we'll make sure everybody gets to see them. So thank you. Good evening.
 Good evening. James Young. I've been a member of the CRC or attending its meetings for almost six years. Like the Chair, I do support the auditor's proposal only as an initial interim step pending consideration of the issues that other speakers have raised, and which I hope to have time to briefly address, so I will, by written comment, except for the elimination of public comment. I will be suggesting an alternative that can help accomplish the goals proposed by the auditor,
 as well as preserving meaningful public comment. Aside from hearing appeals faster, it appears that the other goals of the audit can be reduced to saying that they're seeking a professional, fair, and biased hearing for both the appellant and the police officer, free from political or public pressure so that the decision is made solely in applying the facts to the applicable standard, and I hope we talk about eventually changing that standard.
 One of the things that have not been mentioned is that the police officers involved ignore the CRC. During my almost six years of either actively participating or observing as a citizen, I've seen a police officer present once. This is disrespectful. They are public servants. The city is their employer and the public. But there has to be a process so that it is fair to everyone. At a meeting in City Hall a few years ago with one of our workgroups,
 Gerald Turner was present. He was specifically asked, why don't police officers attend? His response, because of the verbal abuse or degrading comments that are made. The suggestions that I will have at the end will help address those. The presence of officers, I suggest, are important. Number one, out of respect for the appellant and the entire process, they are public servants. Number two, what they don't get to see is, regardless of their intent on the street,
 how an appellant might perceive their actions from the appellant's background. And it can be a learning experience where everybody wins. The suggested approach that I have is that public comment can be allowed by majority vote of the appellate panel after the appeals decision is made. This would allow, assuming that the hearing is conducted in an orderly manner, and that some hearings can last longer.
 four or five hours. And if it's 10 o'clock and people are tired, to be honest, public comment is not going to be digested well anyway. But the point is, it can be allowed immediately after the hearing while it's fresh in everyone's mind and not delayed to another hearing or a special meeting, rather, of the CRC. And I'm happy to, I've even got some specific language as a former DEA and city attorney that I'm happy to share with the city attorney staff. But please understand,
 This can only be an interim first step. The standard of review is simply not functional. Second, what I like to call the jurisdiction of the CRC, officer-involved shootings, in-custody deaths, the very issues that are most important to the community, there is no meaningful civilian police oversight. So please look at this and the auditor's suggestion as an initial first step to look at the broader picture. All right? Thank you.
 Good evening again. Kiasha Ford, the CRC member. So contrary to my fellow members, I am in opposition to, number one, the public comment aspect being removed in the proposal. It is very concerning that a citizens review oversight body would reduce public comment or eliminate it.
 We are, the public is who we are serving. We are serving a group of people that are saying they feel that they might be oppressed by police officers or they're having confrontations. And this is their only opportunity to be heard.
 So to allow IA to provide a detailed, in-depth investigation, to even have a captain explain an officer's rationale who has not shown up his or herself to explain that rationale, but then to deny someone who is passionate about what is going on to not speak on something they might have personally observed or encountered is a disservice, not only to ourselves but to the city.
 And yes, we are volunteering, but we volunteer with that time and understanding that we are taking it very seriously. And as a result of that seriousness, we would like to hear all sides. With regards to the three member panels,
 As a member of the CRC who believes in the importance of diversity and diverse ideas and different backgrounds, it would be very concerning to reduce an 11-member body down to three member panels. I do think that some members have more vocal opinions and are more direct and could influence someone else. There could be a two to one vote all the time. And that would be concerning. I might not be on that panel. Ms. Ramos might not be on the panel. Mr. Rivera might not be on the panel.
 And I would be very concerned about the lack of diversity in that scenario. In addition to the concerns that the auditor has addressed with time constraints and the delays and missing the 21-day mark, we have to really evaluate exactly what are those constraints.
 And I haven't heard enough discussion about it, so that raises concerns. In addition to being a member of the CRC and discussing proposed changes, impacting directly the CRC without input from the CRC is an additional concern of mine because we are the ones doing the work. We are the ones volunteering the time. Mr. Young is the one who had water thrown on him. He did not retreat and stop attending meetings. He continued to come because he believes in the work we are doing.
 So we are asking that you take the same seriousness that we take with our job and review this proposal with more input and do not rush to a decision. Lastly, I do not want the CRC to ever become a stamp of approval body. And with our current standard of review, sometimes I feel that is the juxtaposition that we are in.
 I don't always follow exactly the current standard of review because sometimes it is very unreasonable, the actions of some of our members that are city servants serving the public. Some of those actions are quite unreasonable sometimes.
 And I cannot with good conscience vote in favor of a captain's decision when it is clear that there has been inappropriate behavior. And I feel we are always pushed against that envelope and that rock between a hard place every time we have a hearing and we are reviewing the reasonable person standard. So I highly suggest they consider adding back to the proposal the preponderance of the evidence. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Okay, let's take the next folks, please Michael Luna left is that correct? Then we'll go with Julie Frank Marilyn Dreykus and David Davis Davis is here. The others any of the others still here a set sure sure come come put that in the record and mom Mr. Davis gets out
 Mr. Luna, who's also a CRC member, wrote, one of our roles as a CRC member is to be a representative of the community. If we are not allowed to hear public comment during our hearings, then I believe we would be failing in this role. The public that is attending the hearing have an opportunity to hear information from the case, and presently they can comment or ask questions regarding this information presented. These comments could bring a factual and logical perspective and therefore be valuable in the overall decision-making. Great. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Davis, you're on. Thank you.
 So one thing I wanted to say, Steve Novick over there is pointing out all this stuff about volunteers. Well, the truth is, is volunteers usually work harder than people that are paid and overpaid like you. So you should respect volunteer work instead of trying to degrade it. Okay? And this whole process of making these meetings secretive is...
 totally criminal, you know. You're trying to exclude the community, you know. There's people getting beaten, mistreated, all kinds of stuff on the streets all the time by police officers. And, you know, just like these...
 Members of the CRC said that they already have to dismiss cases where they'd like to take them, you know. And, you know, these secretive meetings is not the way to conduct business properly.
 And this discipline system is already secretive and behind closed doors. This is just an attempt to push it further behind closed doors, you know? And the IPR is understaffed. They have limited power. Maybe you need to increase the staff.
 maybe double it in size, and actually increase their power. And, you know, a recently published article in the Willamette Week reported that a former police officer, Portland police officer, Cody Burns,
 Byrne, who fatally shot Keaton Otis, is now a prosecutor. The Multnomah County District Attorney stand by their hiring decision to hire a murderous cop who executed a mentally ill man via police firing squad.
 Okay, so that just shows that the level of corruption in this county goes even further to the prosecutors and everything else. And this whole, the whole idea of police accountability is a joke anyways, and it's non-existent in this country and in this city. And that's obviously proof right there that you have the DA officer office hiring a murderous cop who shot...
 a mentally ill guy, unarmed, shot him 11... He fired 11 of the 32 shots, okay? Thank you. And James Chassie was beaten to death approximately 10 years ago by the Portland police. And that's one of the reasons that a lot of these police reform things have taken part in the DOJ settlement. And there's going to be a night of rage outside of the Justice Center, 8 p.m.,
 September 17th, Saturday, and we'll be marching in the streets to do something about this, you know? Thank you very much. Let's let the next person speak. Actually, you delayed mine for a few hours so I get to speak. We have some other folks that would like to speak, Mr. Davis. Sorry. And what about my broken camera? Your little buddy...
 Okay, Mr. Davis, thank you very much. Let's let this next person speak, okay? Mr. Davis, you're done. Mr. Davis, you're done. It's late and we have people that want to speak. Are we going to have to recess in order to let somebody else speak? All right, let's let somebody else speak. That's your little power play. No, it's just trying to...
 Okay, thank you. Okay, Mr. Davis, please. Okay, thank you. Let's let this person speak. Go ahead, please. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Marilyn Dreykus.
 I'm a private citizen. To my knowledge, the Portland Police Department has been under federal oversight to reform some of its practices to better serve our community in a just manner, one that engenders mutual respect and trust between the police and the community. An independent citizen review committee is an integral part of this equation.
 Otherwise, law enforcement is policing itself. That is not an open democratic approach to serving a community. We need each other. It benefits both the police and the community to work together in an open democratic manner of checks and balances. An expanded police review board operating behind closed doors and no independent citizen review committee with public hearings does not meet this criterion.
 and does not engender mutual trust. So I ask you to please consider all the comments that have been made here this evening in light of that. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Okay, others? I have Peter Parks, Mike Bluehair, and Jason Renard. Come on up. And the last person I showed signed up is Eric Terrell. Okay. I'm good. I'm right here. Go ahead. Oh, goodness. Thank you.
 Hi there, Mayor Harrells, Amanda, Steve. Let's put your name in the record before we start. Oh, Mike Blue here. I'm here speaking on behalf of Film the Police Portland. Public comment, free speech. That's the hallmark of a free and open society. You can't have a free society without freedom of expression. Okay, maybe people say things you don't like, but that's the point of the U.S. Constitution. Okay, the Oregon Constitution actually has rules
 more broadly defined freedom of expression and protections for the individual than the US Constitution. So these are things you shouldn't be treading upon. I mean, seriously, the point of the US Constitution really is to protect unpopular offensive speech because one day...
 What the government might find offensive is merely people trying to protect themselves, merely people trying to defend their individual rights to express themselves against government. And that's the point. So I just implore you to think about what hallmarks of a free and open society is, and one of them is public comment, public discourse. Also, the fact that this was delayed so long and –
 the CRC people didn't even get a chance to speak is an insult to them. They work really hard. I don't like where they're going. I believe that city government, the police union, Portland Police Bureau is pressuring them into feeling disheartened, and we shouldn't do that. We have a very unique process for police accountability. We need to cherish it. We need to foster it. And we need to make their jobs easier, and you can do that by giving them more people. Thank you. Thank you very much. Others?
 Anybody sign up who did not hear the name get called? Anyone else that didn't sign up, come on up. Get the last word, at least for tonight. Come on. Let this guy speak now, please. Come on, Mr. West. My name is Robert West. I'm with Columbia Police 911. And I came to speak about freedom of speech. Part of our government is people being able to speak and understand what's going on.
 and freedom of expression, something that the city doesn't really appreciate or tolerate, but that's the way it is. But what's bothered me is that you guys saved this for so long and so late that a lot of people had to leave. That just boggles my mind because you guys basically censored a whole bunch of people.
 A whole bunch of people discussing what's going on. I don't know if it's the bank accounts. I don't know if it's, you know, corporate money going to you guys or what. But somehow something got really messed up because, you know, two hours, two and a half hours late on an agenda item is ridiculous. It is thoughtless to the people. It is thoughtless to the CRC board.
 and should not be tolerated. Thank you very much. Okay. Folks, I want to get the chance of the auditor to come back up and answer some questions. Mr. Davis, you're done. I want to let the auditor come back up, okay? You'll have to ask them. Could you all please let the auditor come back up, please? Okay.
 dinner time too. Folks, could we let the auditor come back up? Seriously. Thank you. Start buying pizzas for people if you're going to make a big amount. So we have had a hearing that, as people have noted, got delayed quite a bit because a lot of things got put on the calendar today. So one of the things I want to suggest is that we continue this hearing. But for a number of reasons. One, I've heard some things in the testimony here that I find very persuasive, particularly CRC members themselves.
 themselves saying that they believe we should maintain the opportunity for public comment. We've obviously heard a lot of agreement about that. I like the suggestion for some kind of a citizen task force, perhaps including Portland Cop Watch, the League of Women Voters, Albina Ministerial Alliance, and others. So my reaction to what we've heard so far is that you've got some good ideas in your
 pretty strong agreement in the community about ways to improve this. So my question is, you know, do you feel that way? Do other council members feel that way? And what would you recommend as the next steps?
 If I might speak before the auditor, if you don't mind, because I am reminded of 2010 when there was a very similar hearing to this. And I remember it particularly because my father fell downstairs and died. And I was not able to go to his funeral because of the importance of this very issue. And I was needed to be the third vote to say that we should set up the task force and we should be looking at all the things that...
 And I know that you've put an enormous amount of work into this, the Citizens Review Board folks have also. The difference with the focus groups that you've had over the last several months was that they weren't open to the public to listening on the discussion, whereas the task force that we had in 2010 was.
 In that process, Commissioner Leonard worked with Auditor LaVon Griffin-Vallade to decide who should be on the stakeholder group. He and she both participated. And it didn't take all that long because we gave them... I think it was League of Women Voters, just to remind me. It wasn't a very long process because I think they met once a week for three weeks to come back with a proposal. And I'm wondering, even if the proposal comes back as exactly what you have,
 maybe it won't, if you would be willing to do that kind of a process of bringing stakeholders around a table and having meetings which people could observe but not comment on because of the work of the task force. These conversations have been going on for over a year, and I think that the proposal that I brought here today is addressing some very immediate needs. We had an executive work session. We discussed three options.
 You all suggested that we have the consolidated model, which we started to put together the pieces of that. We had a meeting with the Citizen Review Committee to explain that concept and how the pieces would have to come together. They could weigh in at the ground level of that concept. And that decision was dropped. And so I have brought this as a substitute as one of the other ideas that was discussed at that session today.
 If you would like to continue a broader conversation around these issues, I'm happy for you to do that. You are the policymakers. If we're going to have broad changes to the system, it will come from you. It will not come from me. I do not set policy. I do not have a vote on council. And so if you all would like to continue those conversations, which I understood that there is interest in continuing those conversations, that I think that those should go on. But I do think we have some immediate needs addressed.
 that we need to address and that's what these changes that we brought today do. And so, for example, the way that the cases would be handled to move those through the system more quickly, we do need to have the authority and code to do that for the, have the more serious cases stay with internal affairs and independent police review and the less serious cases be handled at the supervisory level. That all has to be put into code.
 to have the frequency of appeals heard. I mean, we could schedule 11 people to come three or four times in a month. I don't think that's going to work. I think the three-member panels address that immediate need to increase the frequency. We have a backlog today through June of next year.
 So taking time to do a larger thing probably would have to be done in parallel to the proposal that is in front of you today. I do appreciate that you went back and made some changes after the public forum that we had in North Portland. The problem is that we've heard yet again from everybody that they don't support that what you've put forward is a policy choice. So... And I hear you that we need to...
 manage the system differently.
 I mean, the very concern about the three member panel we did hear some people who thought that that might be sufficient. But then it was pointed out that with the current members of the CRC that there might be the possibility that there wouldn't be enough difference of opinion. And I know here we are, the three of us who were staying here at 7 o'clock at night. If we wanted to vote on this tonight, we would have to all three be unanimous. You can't have two people making a decision that the whole body is supposed to make.
 So I think your suggestion is wise to continue the hearing as to whether we continue it to have more comments on this proposal or whether you'd be willing to look at a rapid process. These are all things that we've been discussing for a very long time. Yes, they are. So that was why I was asking Mr. Tsevir to kind of speed up your initial presentation
 although there are definitely always new people coming and participating. There's a lot of folks here who've been at this for a very long time. I like your suggestions a lot, Commissioner. And, again, I heard a lot of agreement.
 not only that you've made some progress in the proposal that you've developed, but that there are a relatively short list of other issues that need to be properly aired with stakeholders and perhaps changed. I'm not persuaded that three-member panels are the right size. I've heard good suggestions here that increasing the size of the CRC and having five-member panels might be a compromise that more people would be willing to take.
 willing to accept. I don't know if that's getting it right or not, but I think we're close, given what we've heard, again, from, you know, from a fairly diverse group of folks that were able to speak tonight, not to mention the ones that weren't here, but to have this much agreement between the AMA, Copwatch, League of Women Voters, the CRC themselves, you know, and other folks that have paid a lot of attention to this issue. You know, I deeply respect the people that have come here today, and people like T.J. Browning have been talking to me about these issues for a very long time.
 So I think there's the opportunity here for a pretty high level of agreement about reforms and changes. So I'm optimistic about that, not simply thinking that a task force could make something out of a mess. This isn't a mess. Right. I would agree that it's three or four issues. But the one I want to add to your list is the issue of looking at the whole timeline and finding out where the other –
 The one I've questioned is why does the chief need to have two weeks to make his or her decision? That seems completely out of whack with the nine member body having to come together to make theirs.
 So I think you've encapsulated the things, a list of five or less of things that I would ask the stakeholders. Standard review is a little gnarlier, but those are all good issues to address. Steve, any comments or guidance? Well, my comment is bare. I don't share with your optimism. I don't think that there will ever be a proposal on this issue that has consensus support. I think there's too wide a variety of views and too much passion on the issue.
 Three judge panels, I have to say, to be honest, to me, that's what the courts of appeals in the United States judicial system have. That didn't strike me as inherently wrong. And it sounds like it seems to me it would be much easier to get three people to meet periodically than to get 11 or even five.
 I was interested in the fact that the current CRC members did not see a problem with having public comment at the appeals. And it's like with some point like a refresher on why we thought that was why the auditor thought it was important to delete that. I did have a question for Konstantin and the auditor, which is how many people applied to be on the CRC the last time there were openings? Around 18. How many? 18. And how many openings were there?
 That's helpful. Well, so it is late, and both the folks that are paid to be here and the folks that came here would like some clarity about where we go next. So I want to suggest we continue this hearing. And so the question is, when can we continue it to that we won't run into the problem that we ran into today? Because that would certainly be outrageous. So is there a date coming up where we could put this back on the council calendar and in the meantime perhaps look at the question of some kind of a task force?
 The next day we have all five commissioners in is September 29th, and that would be 3 p.m. We're not here. I'm wondering if Constantine or I are here. What's that? We're attending a conference at the National Association. You need to be here. So September 29th doesn't work. What about a week after that? Commissioner Saltzman and Novick are gone.
 Some of that week. That week? Yes. So what about the week of the 10th? I don't have any room on that next week. You mean we've got full council calendars both days? The 12th and the 13th, yes. Mm-hmm.
 Okay, let's see if we can get it. I'll pass it back as well in the meantime, set up the stakeholder group. You might want to have a stakeholder group in the meantime. So here's what we're going to do, folks. We're not going to pick that date tonight. We're going to continue this hearing indefinitely, but in the meantime, we're probably going to appoint a stakeholder group. So bear with us. We'll give that plenty of time for people to know when this gets continued to, but we won't try to figure that out right here this evening. Thank you all. We're going to conclude this hearing for now and adjourn.