Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the September – excuse me, we're going to start now, folks. Good morning. Welcome to the September 16th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the Portland City Council meeting. The purpose of this meeting is the early consideration of the public's business –
 So just some basic ground rules. If you're here to sign up, I'm sorry, if you're here to speak on a council calendar item, make sure you please sign up with our council clerk. We typically allow three minutes for individual testimony. And looking at the room, I don't think we'll have difficulty accommodating that this morning.
 If you're here to speak on a council calendar item, you need merely only give us your name. You don't have to give us your address. If you're a lobbyist representing an organization under city code, disclose that, please. We ask that everyone follow the rules of decorum here and give everyone a chance to speak. So if you agree with someone's testimony and want to indicate that, feel free to raise your hand or give them a thumbs up. And if you disagree, you can also...
 Indicate that with a hand gesture as long as it's a polite one, but we ask that people allow citizens to have their say here and that will apply to you too. And if you're disruptive, you'll be asked to leave, and if you don't leave after being asked to, you'll be excluded. Those are the rules. Welcome, and we'll begin with communications items number 948.
 Request of Michael O'Connor to address counsel regarding last Thursday on Alberta Street. Good morning. Welcome.
 So this is kind of a follow-up from the April 29th testimony in which I formally introduced Artists United as a community development organization that has a primary focus on community events and beautification projects. And we formed the organization for the purpose of taking over the management of Last Thursday on Alberta Street.
 I presented our executive summary and the outline for our stakeholder committee system, which is how we make decisions, which was endorsed by 56 organizations doing business within last Thursday's street closure.
 You know, the troubling part was the next day, the city of Portland made registration a requirement for vet participants without having the legal authority to do so. This resulted in May 28th, the police department telling many artists that what they were doing was illegal, they weren't allowed to be there, and from our perspective, many of these people are exercising freedom of speech.
 I was told by Chad Stover that the City of Portland would be giving itself an event permit. I looked for legal advice during that time period, and we did not quite feel that was appropriate for the situation. So I alerted city council and the city attorney. But it turned out that the City of Portland did not give themselves an event permit, which would have prevented us from getting an event permit.
 And moving forward, you know, there's a couple more documents in here. I did a community forum in which we sort of went through the dynamics of the conflict itself. I brought residents, businesses, and event participants together to talk about the issues. And so...
 I was able to explain that dynamic to the stakeholder community. But basically we have an approval process that is going to allow us to demonstrate what last Thursday's production plan has the approval of with the entire stakeholder community, which is the entire geographic area in last Thursday's impact area.
 So today I actually wanted to see if the city of Portland could make a pledge to cover the expenses of police officer overtime for last Thursday's 2016 season. If Artists United is able to acquire $50,000 in event sponsorships by April 29th, 2016 for last Thursday's 2016 season.
 Well, we appreciate you being here, and we'll continue our discussion, but probably not here in this room. But obviously the city has invested a great deal in last Thursday and plans, as far as I'm concerned, plans to continue to. And we're still very interested in having a nonprofit ultimately take over this operation and take over this event. So we wish you good Godspeed and good fortune in trying to organize people to participate.
 scale up to the point that a nonprofit can take over the operation from the city. Mr. Stover has other things that we'd like him to be doing. So continue, please, to talk with him and talk with our office, because ultimately that's our goal is to have a nonprofit
 take responsibility for this great community event. As you know, from this summer, it was hugely successful, large crowds, very successful event. We obviously had one really serious public safety incident occur early in the year, which we're very concerned about any time it happens, anywhere it happens. But overall, I'd say last Thursday was great this summer, and that's certainly what I heard out there on the streets the nights that I were out there.
 Yeah, you know, it's difficult for any organization to come in and manage this event if they do not first obtain approval from, you know, the business community, the residents, and, of course, the event participants themselves. And so getting everyone together to agree on a plan is really the very first step in any organization taking this on. Right. Yes, indeed. Well, thank you, and we look forward to working with you. Okay, 949.
 Request of David Keefe Davis to address counsel regarding felony conspiracy to interfere with civil rights. Come on up. So weren't you going to broadcast something on the screen? Do you have video? I'm sorry. No, it's just a slide that mentions the civil rights violations. It basically mentions the federal...
 federal law that you guys violated through, you know, doing the kettling incident that you did when you conspired to deny everyone civil rights and basically, you know, said that they were all a big criminal group because maybe a couple crimes might have been committed, like a bottle or something thrown at an officer up in front of Macy's. You basically...
 have now basically washed your hands of that incident and said that it basically, because I just saw the IPRC report where you guys basically exonerated yourself from, uh, you know, saying that you didn't violate civil rights and that it was a
 group of criminals basically that that's basically like saying that at one of these beer festivals if two patrons get into a fist fight that the whole group is a criminal group so i don't i don't see how you can uh lump a couple possible criminal activities of a few people and then wash your hands of denying people civil rights and uh just act like it's nothing basically you know
 and that all the protesters were criminals, basically, is how the IPRC report comes out, you know? And you guys blocked the entrance at...
 Cathedral Park in St. John's during the Greenpeace and other groups like Backbone and, you know, Rising Tide and all the other groups that were involved with the Greenpeace protest. You guys blocked the city park for about four hours or so until...
 me and a bunch of other citizens brought up the fact that the officers were involved in committing federal felonies and that they don't have to follow felonious orders by the mayor slash police chief or anyone else, you know. But also, I heard these Portland Business Alliance people say,
 are here today to present, you know, more proof on the lawlessness and all the other stuff involved with homeless people, supposedly, you know, as they price everyone out of the city and wage war and gentrification. You know, well, tomorrow...
 is the anniversary of James Chassie, you know? And I'd like to give a thumbs up to the Portland Business Alliance and all the other yuppie scum in this city that made the death possible of James Chassie by...
 you know, being little cop callers that call the police on every little thing. Thanks very much. Appreciate your time. You've used your time. Mr. Davis, you've used your time. You still have two cops. Mr. Davis, you know the rules. You've been here before. You still have two cops employed. Mr. Davis, you're being disruptive. Mr. Davis, you're done. Mr. Davis, you're done. Mr. Davis, you're done.
 Okay. Carla, next item, please. Item 950, request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding history repeats itself. Good morning. Good morning. Carla, is the video not working? We've got it up here. Good morning, council members. Morning. Welcome. My name is Craig Rogers. I live in southeast Portland. I envision a city that we aspire to where everyone is given the opportunity to be prosperous and happy.
 and I envision a city council that is transparent and accountable. I would like to thank Commissioner Steve Novick. As I drive around this city, I will come upon a place perhaps like 122nd and Lincoln. You've got the crosswalk with the flashing lights. As I've said before, you're in the business of saving lives. Over at New Seasons, right over by 33rd and Killingsworth, I don't know if they were always there, but now you've got the flashing lights at the crosswalk.
 I feel gratitude towards you when I spontaneously come across these things. Commissioner Amanda Fritz, I want to thank you for looking out for us that want to walk on the sunny side of the street. I remember when you were doing your detail in scale drawing of the waterfront park, that the buildings were going to be so tall that the people couldn't walk in the sunshine. I appreciate that attention to detail. Thank you.
 So history repeats itself. Mayor Charlie Hales, 20 years ago, I opened up the newspaper. You said you were going to cut down 75 Douglas fir trees in Pier Park. And when you were asked why, you said it's too dark in there. And yet that's why one of the most beautiful native flowers in Oregon, terillium, grows because of the shade. Now those trees are still there. I got involved. And now we have another situation with trees. Thank you.
 And I've visited both sites, and those people that are there are just like I was 20 years ago. And when you think of it, there were over a billion passenger pigeons at one time. Nobody worried about them being gone. But look where they're at now. And these trees, they clean the air, and we need them. So we need to start paying attention to why they're coming down. No pun intended, we need to stand up for them.
 Somebody recently told me that the best time to plant a tree is 35 years ago. And Robert McCullough wanted me to mention that Paul Scarlett has ignored an Oregon public document request on the permit at Southeast Martins for three months. I ask you for your help. Thank you. Thank you. Next one, please.
 Item 951, request of Jesse Burke, the Society Hotel, to address council regarding lawless behavior running rampant and spreading citywide. Morning.
 I first wanted to thank all of you because I know this is a really tough job that you have. And I wanted to thank Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz for letting me be at the table a couple weeks ago for the discussions that we had. And after that meeting, I started thinking backwards about what resources we needed to make the changes possible.
 I started thinking about, because this last weekend, one of our neighbors, Lewis Lee, across the street. So we have the Society Hotel Project on Northwest 3rd and Davis, and Lewis Lee is the accountant across the street. I'm sorry. Sir, Mr. Davis, if you're going to be here as media, you need to be back out of the way. You're blocking other people's view. Sir, you're being disruptive. I'm warning you that you're being disruptive. You will be asked to leave. I'm warning you.
 and you will be escorted out of the chamber. You've been here before. You know how it works. You don't get to exploit this. I'm sorry, ma'am. We're going to have to recess for five minutes. We're recessed for five minutes. Check with the city attorney because they say we can walk in this area. I don't care what he's saying. You can't block other people. Go have a seat. I'm not blocking anyone. There's plenty of room to walk in. Ask the city attorney, Charlie. Mr. Davis. What power was in that room?
 Mr. Davis, it's time for you to either sit down or leave. You're not a dictator, Charlie. I'm not going to leave. We're recessed for five minutes. We'll be back. Go to your room. Get out of here, bro. Go to your room. No, you guys are going to have to drag me out today. Democracy at work. I'm the child of hell. You're going to have to drag me out today. Remove these guys. Thank you.
 Council will return to order. Thank you for your patience. Mayor, before you resume, I'd like to thank Commander Krebs for the way you manage that situation and the respectful way that you treat everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mike. Welcome back. Thank you. It's...
 It's actually helpful because it's related to the police is what I'm talking about. Struggle over. So I just was following up. I'm Jessie Burke with the Society Hotel Project on Northwest 3rd and Davis. And myself and three partners, we were called by our neighbor, Louis Lee, on Saturday that he had seen someone climb up our fire escape and go in the top window and, you know, we should send someone over. It had been several hours and...
 And so our manager went over, and it was about nine and the other partners. And I was like, don't go in without the police. I know that you guys likely would. You definitely shouldn't do that. And so they did wait for the police, and I asked for an update, and they said that the police told them to wait outside and that they would go in and look. And knowing that I was coming to prepare this testimony and having had our meeting –
 and our talks about increasing foot patrol would be helpful to kind of be proactive about getting to know the communities that we're trying to help here, that I was thinking about how few police officers we have right now and how tired I think many of them are and working overtime and maybe not always treated with a great deal of respect.
 in Portland in particular, and I'm not related to any police officers. I have no vested interest in this except that I know that every job that exists is a hard job and is necessary to make the city function, be it business owners or, you know, social workers or politicians. And, and I was so grateful that they were like, I don't know you, but we'll go in first and we'll
 We'll risk our lives because that's our job. Our job is to risk our lives for you. And so I wanted to move the focus of my testimony to I do think that we should be proactive with whatever solutions we're trying to come up with in the city. But I think our first line was how can we proactively have the police getting to know these communities and finding the right resources for those people. But we don't have that.
 enough people, enough officers to do that. And Mark Wells is a neighbor of mine, and he gave me the numbers. He was like, you know, we're about 998 officers in all of Portland. We're about 500 short of what we would need to be at 2015 population numbers. So everybody's totally overworked. We don't have an in-state, in-city facility to train people anymore, so it would take, we have 50 slots at the state level.
 which means it would take 10 years for us to catch up with police officers. For 500 officers short, it will take us 10 years to catch up to 2015 population numbers, not taking into account attrition of officers retiring or leaving.
 Our officers don't have a long tenure here. Typically, it's looking at about seven years. And other cities in Oregon, they're wanting it to be a lifetime career. And so I think that my ask to you is, and I know there's a nationwide issue going on right now as well, and I think it's one of the only professions that we allow there to be –
 a blatant disrespect, I guess, all the time. And I understand every profession can strive to be better. Do we need you to wrap up? Yeah, yeah. We need your time. So my request or my question is, these are our human resources, and what is our plan to be more proactive in this situation and not just recruit these officers, but to make them want to stay and not overwork them?
 And I know you probably can't answer it. I just wanted to put that out. Thank you very much. Appreciate you coming in. Quick update, but we try not to have long conversations with these. But we have now added 11 more background checkers so we can add officers faster. So we are trying to increase the pace at which we hire. We have slots open for police officers. We are recruiting. So if you know people who want to be a police officer, get them into the system. I know. I tell you that every day. Thank you very much. Thanks. Thanks.
 Okay, 952. Request of Karen D. Bowler, Tube and Fortune, to address council regarding lawless behavior, running rampant, and spreading citywide. Morning. Greetings to the council. Thank you for this opportunity to speak with you today. My name is Karen Bowler. I own two businesses in Chinatown, Tube on 3rd between Burnside and Cooch, and Fortune on 3rd between...
 I'm sorry, Fortune on Cooch between 3rd and 4th. I'm in the neighborhood every day at all hours. I see a myriad of problems that plague the area. I want to clarify that I'm not at odds with the homeless. What I'm concerned with is twofold, the deplorable conditions these people live with every day and the burden placed upon business owners by allowing these conditions to persist.
 Portland has become a magnet for homelessness. With the most lax laws regarding public nuisance behavior and an underfunded police force, we are the destination for homeless travelers, not just on the West Coast, but in the entire country. We need a two-pronged solution to the problem. One, increase funding towards getting people off the streets in the short term, along with services geared towards getting them off the streets long term as well.
 Two, getting laws in place that deal with people who consistently disrupt business and cause public safety issues. Every day we deal with two particular individuals who have trespassed on our property for over a year. Clean and safe and the police have said there's little to nothing they can do. One of the people assaulted a delivery driver and was back living on Cooch later that day, just as he has for a year. He relieves himself in public every day on a tree in broad daylight.
 He pleasures himself in broad daylight in front of tourists and neighborhood workers. He threatens passersby. This man clearly needs help. He gets none. The fact of the matter is this guy isn't alone. Every block on our area has at least one person like this. Every day I see tourists tiptoeing around the problem, and it's time City Hall rose to the occasion and tackled this problem head on. As business owners, we are doing everything we can to keep the neighborhood safe.
 We call police and Clean and Safe to report problems. They come and do everything within their power to help. The problem persists. The current laws are not working. We're using every tool we have at our disposal, and the problem only continues to get worse. This isn't a problem unique to Portland, however. We can look for solutions from other cities around the world, including one not too far away in Salt Lake City. They've cut homelessness by over 70% in the last decade.
 I know budgetary concerns are first and foremost, but it has been proven that getting people off the street is cheaper than having them be homeless. To conclude, what we need is increased social services, including beds, to get people off the streets immediately. Laws in place to increase public safety and allow businesses to continue doing business.
 and more police on the street to proactively enforce public safety. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thanks very much. I just want to make one comment, Tom, and thank you for coming here, and I completely embrace your prescription, and I think you'll see the council prioritize housing in the next budget. I just want to make one comment. You said earlier that we're a magnet, and when Bud Clark was mayor,
 he had a 12-point plan and homelessness. And part of the plan, they addressed this question about whether if the city invested in services and housing for low-income people, we would, in effect, become a magnet, or the critics used to call it the welcome mat phenomenon. There was no evidence then that that was the case. And I just want you to know, the most vitriolic critics of public investment in services use the argument that it just creates a magnet effect.
 I'm not aware of good data that supports that thesis. If you have it, I'll read it. And if you have more insights, I'll meet with you to discuss it. But I think the idea of a magnet gets in the way of a prescription. And I just want you to know that the people that often say we're a magnet.
 don't have a lot of evidence to support it, and usually use it to undermine the argument that we should invest. And I fully support your call for more investment. So let's you and I discuss that further. Yeah, I think it's important to differentiate the need for beds and for people who really need and want help versus a need to curb nuisance behavior. And Commissioner Fritz, I saw, I was copying an email recently, where she very eloquently distinguished between behaviors –
 that are a violation of the law, and status, which is people that need our help. Yeah, and I don't want to catch all, you know, everyone living on the streets into one group. And I think it ties into what Jesse Burke was saying earlier about the need for foot patrols. I think having people on the ground to get to know the population and be able to identify people's needs is really critical to that. You're right on both fronts. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate you coming in. Thank you.
 Okay, let's move on to the consent calendar. I think we've had one item pulled to the regular calendar, namely 954. Any other requests to pull items to the regular calendar? Seeing none, let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Prince? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Time certain, 953. Okay.
 amend contract with Motivate International Inc, formerly Alta Bicycle Share Inc, to implement the bike share system not to exceed $2,175,000. Mr. Novick. Colleagues, two of the greatest threats we face as a city, as a country, as a species, are climate disruption and rising health care costs.
 Bicycles are effective weapons against both of those threats, because if you're riding a bike, you're getting yourself into better shape and you're less likely to have expensive health care problems. And if you're riding a bike, you're not using fossil fuels or emitting greenhouse gases.
 A large number of cities across the country and the world have adopted bike share as part of their bicycle infrastructure. And they have found that bike share does contribute to improving health and reducing carbon emissions. Both Denver and I believe that in D.C. have surveyed their bike share members and have found that 25 to 30 percent say that they're driving less, and 25 to 30 percent say that they have actually lost weight.
 Now, when I mention these other cities, it highlights the fact that Portland is actually late to the bike share party. Not only Denver and Washington, D.C. and Minneapolis have adopted bike share. So have cities like Indianapolis and Fargo and Fort Worth.
 But there are advantages sometimes to not being first. We had an experience with that recently in the Bureau of Transportation with replacing our street light bulbs with LED lights. We waited to do that after some others had already done it. The technology got better and less expensive. We're saving more money on our street lights because we waited until there were advances in technology and the price dropped. The same thing is happening with bike share.
 Under our old contract, we expected to have to spend over $4 million in order to launch a 750-bike system. Now, because of advantages to technology, we've got better, cheaper technology, and because we have a contract now with Motivate where they're taking on more of the financial responsibility, we're now proposing to launch a 600-bike system with just the $2 million that we've had sitting from a federal grant for the past several years.
 So, as the saying goes, good things come to they who wait. I want to take just a minute to talk about the kind of trips that we can expect to see on bike share. The other day I was on the bus and I overheard somebody saying to her friend, why didn't I see you on the bus yesterday? And her friend said, well, I had a doctor's appointment in the middle of the day, so I drove.
 I think that's an example of the kind of thing that will happen with bike share, where somebody who normally takes transit now might take their car if they think they're going to have to go to their doctor during the day and their doctor's office is not on transit. But if bike share is available and the doctor's office is within a reasonable bike ride, the same person might still take transit down as usual and then ride a bike instead of a car to the doctor's appointment.
 Most of the bike share trips that we will have will be from – by Portland residents. But some of them will be taken by tourists. Bike share has become a tourist amenity that travelers across the country have come to expect. And I am not always a big advocate of investing lots of money in tourism economic development. In fact, I think it was the only vote in the council against a multimillion-dollar tax subsidy to Hyatt for building the Convention Center hotels.
 But investing $2 million in federal money that we've had for several years in order to adopt a tourist amenity that many people have come to expect, I think, is a reasonable investment. And with that, I will shut up and turn the microphone over to Director Lea Treat. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you so much. My name is Lea Treat. I'm the Director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation and Director.
 You have the PowerPoint up? Carla's getting it. There you go. All right. Next slide. Thank you. Today we have an amendment before you to allow the city to launch the bike share system for the city of Portland in the summer of 2016. PBOT is partnering – I'm sorry. PBOT is presenting to the city council an amended contract with Portland's bike share operator, Motivate. It is the nation's leading bike share operator. Okay.
 The amendment includes a more detailed business plan and a new equipment supplier, Social Bicycles, otherwise known as SOBI.
 The area, the system is going to have, as Commissioner Novick said, 600 bikes, and our service area is going to cover the entire central city. This will include downtown, Old Town Chinatown, Inner Northwest, Goose Hollow, South Waterfront, West End, Pearl District, Central East Side, Rose Quarter, Lloyd District, and Inner North Portland. Okay.
 And I'm really excited today to talk about this new proposed bike share system because we are going to be launching a system that is incredibly innovative, is incredibly sustainable, and is affordable. The smart bike technology that we are using is going to make finding and reserving and parking a bike much easier and much more convenient.
 We are aiming to be the most sustainable bike share system in the world. Portland is utilizing Sobeys technology to reduce the system's operating costs and reduce the use of vans to move bikes to high-demand locations. And also, we'll be offering a very clear and intuitive pricing system that is going to be one of the most accessible price points to use of any bike share system in the United States. After I speak, Margie and Steve are going to get more into the details of the operations.
 So some of the benefits of bike share. Bike share is going to bring new people to biking, especially women, and this is going to help the city meet its climate actions goal. It's also going to strengthen our transit system by creating last-mile connections. And also, bike share is going to reduce congestion and help freight movement by reducing driving.
 Bike share is also a proven tool to increase biking and reduce driving. Currently operating in over 60 cities, many systems are growing. And I have seen it firsthand in Chicago and in DC with their incredibly successful systems. But bike share is not only a big city phenomenon. Denver bike sharing members reported reducing their driving by 37%. Bike share also supports Portland's very ambitious livability and climate action goals.
 The Portland Plan calls for 75% of Portlanders to use transit, to bike, or walk to work, and bike share will help us meet those goals. I'm now going to hand this off to Margie, and she's going to talk more about the business structure, and Steve is going to dive in after that on the details of the operations. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Margie Bradway. I am the Active Transportation and Safety Division Manager for PBOT, and I'm very happy to be here today to talk about bike share. I'm going to spend a little time walking through the steps of the contract that you approved and the contract that you're now amending. So I want to remind you that the city conducted a competitive request process, an RFP, back in 2012.
 Alta won that contract. Today we are amending that same contract that was approved by this council in December of 2012. So what has changed between the time that contract is before you and the contract that you have today? So just big picture, first of all, Alta's name changed to Motivate and was bought out by a different company, by Shareholdings, and I'll walk you through that.
 the other thing that's changed is actually the city leadership has changed we now have a new mayor and new commissioner and uh our leader leah treat who has a lot of experience in bike chair
 And also the technology, as Commissioner Novak pointed out, has changed. So all of those reasons, the parties have changed, the technology changed. We came together to look at how we needed to amend this contract and what were our priorities in that contract. So going in, and this is, again, big picture here, our priorities were no local money in for the term of the contract. Our priorities were a sustainable operating system.
 So one that we could use smart bikes and rebalance better. And we also had equity at the forefront of our priorities when we started to amend this contract. And I'm really pleased to say that Motivate has been an amazing partner. We brought those priorities to the Zoom, and the Motivate's Vice President of Business Development is here, Justin Gensberg, who will speak a little bit later. But I want to just...
 reiterate that they have been an excellent partner in these contract negotiations. They have top-of-the-line leadership. They had a new executive director come in, Jay Walder, who has run transit systems in New York, Hong Kong, and London. They staffed up and got more people working on issues that we care about in terms of production line and delivery. They have a strong financial backing, so
 Alta, change his name to Motivate, was bought out by Bike Share Holdings. That company is owned by Rex Adventures, which also owns real estate and sports equipment. So this company that we're working with now is quite different. But probably the most important to me and our team was that they were willing to work with us and
 and innovation. They were willing to try new technologies, willing to embrace our climate change goals in terms of rebalancing, understood our equity goals. And we believe that the contract that we're bringing to you to amend today reflects all of those priorities. And so to be clear, Motivate has agreed to operate the system for three years with no local money. Motivate has also
 taking a hit on the launch, they've agreed to eat $225,000 of the launch money going in, which we really appreciate.
 We will be using the match for the federal requirement to go into the planning and launch on our side. The federal grant that still sits in the MTIP at the metro level requires a 10.27% match. That match is paid for staff time on the planning and the launch and comes out of our budget using TDM funds, which was left over from Betsy Credits. If you want more information about that, I can...
 I can go into that. But I'm out full of acronyms. I know. Sorry. I'm trying to be quick and punchy. But I just want to kind of – and I know you'll have questions. So if you want me to dive deeper into that, I can. But I want to make sure Steve talks more about the operations. Okay.
 Lastly, I want to hit on our supplier, Sobe. So a little bit about Sobe. They are a leader in the bike share innovation. They were the first one to come up with the smart bikes. And Steve is going to go into the bikes, but we have faith in them. They are operating in several cities successfully. Probably the largest launch that they've had this past year is in Hamilton, California.
 Ontario, is it? Yes. Okay. And Steve's our bike share expert. And, again, they've been a great partner. We did a long due diligence investigation into their ability to deliver, and we were very pleased with the results of that due diligence. So, again, I think I've kind of hit on most of this just so to remind you.
 There's the $2 million federal grant that will go into buying the bikes. So the city of Portland will own the assets. We also received a $42,000 grant for a station at Union Station. That was a separate grant process, ODOT, that we're combining in, and I've already talked about the match. The user revenue, the prospective sponsorship money, will go into operating the system in the first three years. So what does that mean in terms of timeline?
 Do you have a question, Commissioner? Yeah, just on that previous slide. Go ahead. Yeah. There's still $133,000. The amount in the ordinance is $2,175,000. Yes. So with the feds, when we get a $2 million grant, that's how much they reimburse. They reimburse at essentially 90% of a project cost. So if you have a $2 million project, they'll reimburse you at $1.8 million. And so since we have a $2 million grant,
 the total project cost is roughly $2.2 million. We've spent a little bit of our existing match already, our local match on staff time for planning for the project. So the procurement amount is the total cost of the project, $2.2 million.
 minus the local match that we've already put toward that project. So that gets you to the 2.175 procurement authority. But is that additional $133,000 going to motivate, or is that? That would go toward our staff time to cover the project. The only way that it could actually go towards equipment within the procurement authority is if we had a private sponsor that came on and wanted to buy more equipment. But that would not go – money not going toward Motigate. That's going to covering our staff costs. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Okay, and so today we're bringing you or Presenting obviously the contract you will be voting on it next week if that vote is successful Of course, this is a proposal then we would launch our public participation plan Before you as a timeline and probably the most important thing on this timeline is the purchase order um we in order to make
 the launch date in July, which if you think about when is a good time to launch a bike share system, it would be the summer. We need to put that purchase order in in December. And so that's why we are here today before you to make sure that we have the timing right to place that purchase order. Once that purchase order
 goes in, then we will continue to do our public outreach and work on the details of the station planning. Motivate will hire local staff according to our equity guidelines that Steve's going to go into, and then we'll prepare for a launch.
 It's a big picture of our timeline. And I think at this point I'm going to hand it over to Steve to dive in a little bit more on the operations. Great. Thank you, Lydia and Margie. So my name is Steve Hoyt-McBeth. I'm the bike share project manager at the City of Portland. Before I begin my comments, I wanted to acknowledge three letters of support that you received from groups. Oregon Tradeswoman, Executive Director Connie Ashbrook submitted you a letter. Travel Portland submitted a letter as well as the Community Cycling Center. Thank you.
 So for me, this is a great honor to work on this project. I believe that bike share is something that's going to provide us a tangible solution to some of our city's pressing transportation and climate change problems, just as Commissioner Novick mentioned. And I've worked on bike share for several years, sometimes seemingly several long years. But I've spent most of my time at PBOT working with employers and commuters to engage them in shifting their trips from driving to transit, walking, and biking.
 And in Portland, we have one of the very best demand management programs in the country. We're nationally recognized. But I can tell you that shifting people's behavior, getting them to change, is very, very difficult work. We are literally physiologically evolved to resist change. The habit is actually how we get to have such a big brain is so that we do this. So it's tough work. So the University of Scranton just did a survey that found that 8% of people actually achieve their New Year's resolutions.
 8%. So if we had, I'm not sure how many people we have here, just do the math. So it's tough work to get people to change. So Commissioner Donovick mentioned that we're seeing people change their behavior. Leah mentioned that in Denver, we have 37% of people reducing their driving. I'm sorry, reducing their driving by 37%.
 So what is going on here? So why can people not change behavior that they say they want to change, like their resolutions, and yet with bike share, when they're actually, when they join bike share, they actually begin to shift in biking in very large numbers. So this is, I can see Commissioner Saltzman's eyes that this is not a very well-done graph, but this is from the Magneta Institute in the UC,
 UC California Berkeley, they did a research of Minneapolis bike share members and they asked them like how much are you biking before they join and how much afterwards. And essentially what this says is that after people joined bike share in Minneapolis, they almost doubled how much they biked frequently. Like almost, it went up to about three quarters of the people were biking more than once a week. I applaud this slide because it has at the center of it my favorite Ellsworth Kelly print
 Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. I will make a note of that in the future. And as Commissioner Novick also mentioned, the members in the Washington DC system reported losing weight. 30% of them reported losing weight, even though they weren't intending to lose. So what's the special sauce here with bike share? Why is bike share when we join a gym, that doesn't mean we're going to lose weight. When we buy vegetables, that doesn't mean we're going to eat them.
 So, why is it that when people join Bike Share, they actually begin biking in much larger numbers? I think that this slide, again from the Minette Institute, really hits at it. The reason people like Bike Share is not because it's good for the environment. It's not because the bikes look cool. They like it because it's convenient. What convenience says to us is that it works. That people can get from point A to point B conveniently and affordably in a really easy way.
 As Leah mentioned, there's over 60 cities with bike share right now. So bike share as it is right now is good. If we took just kind of bike share off the shelf and plopped it into Portland, we'd be doing okay. But we know that we can do better in Portland. And specifically, we can increase the number of people using bike share. We can lower the cost to the city through leveraging the technological advancements of social bikes, smart bike technology. And we can reduce the carbon footprint through system innovations. Okay.
 So I'm going to skip that slide. So let's talk first about pricing. Our pricing model is meant to attract even more people to bicycling, to strengthen the system's economies to make it more financially self-sufficient, while at the same time making it more accessible to more people. So our pricing model is grounded in research done by Professor Jennifer Dill at Portland State University, which found that 60% of Portlanders
 are interested in biking, but they're just sitting on the fence. We call them, that 60%, the interested but concerned. So they say they want to bike, but year after year, they don't bike. So it doesn't matter how transformative some tool is if you can't get people to try it. So...
 If you can excuse my parlance, we want to get the interested concerned, we want to get their butts off the fence and we want to get them into bike seats. And we think that creating a low-cost, single-use fare product is one of the strategies to achieve that. So in general, if we can just speak in general terms, BikeShare has two main fare products across the country. There's the annual pass, which is targeted at users. And then there's a day pass that anyone can buy but tends to be used almost every day.
 solely by tourists. So the day pass is usually around, in other cities, about $7 a day. The annual is around $75. So at $7 a day, that's a great deal for a tourist. If you're coming into the city and you just want to have a special experience in Portland, $7, that's really nothing. That's less than lunch.
 But that's a lousy deal for a resident or commuter who wants to get across town for a meeting or wants to go bike to meet a friend for dinner. So unless you really, really want to ride a bike, why would you spend $7 when you could spend $2.50 and get there very well on TriMet? Or you could spend that same $7 and probably take a cab or car to go. So when Portland launches, we will have one of the most affordable entry points of any bike share system in the country at $2.50 a month.
 on average for a 30 minute trip. And I'll get to that on average conditional in a moment here. So we're going to dramatically reduce the cost to casual users in order to get more residents to try Bike Share. And we know from the data that when people try Bike Share, that many of them then move on to become annual members because they just see the value proposition that's there.
 And policy-wise, we really want people to become annual members because we know from the data that once you become an annual member, you tend to bike like crazy. In Denver, about the average amount of trips that an annual member makes is about 60 bike trips a year. So for our climate goals and our transportation goals and our congestion goals, annual membership is really a great gateway for us to meeting some of those goals.
 So on the other side of this is the financial sustainability. Councilor gave us very clear direction dating all the way back to the original vote on the regional flexible funds in 2011 that said no local money would go towards operations. So annual members are great for our policy goals, but they're kind of tough on our financial system because there's, you know, the more you bike, the more wear and tear there is on the system, and there's more work for Motivate to make that work. So part of our pricing strategy is to try to align our usage with our revenue. Okay.
 So while we're dramatically reducing the cost for the new user, we are increasing a bit the cost to that annual member compared to other cities. And the reason that, but even though we're doing this, we're raising the annual membership some, we still think we're going to end up with a more accessible system. And you're kind of saying, how can you make it more expensive and more affordable at the same time? And the reason for that is, is that nearly every U.S. bike share system requires that person who wants to buy, excuse me,
 an annual membership to pay for that entire cost in one lump sum. So that's not the way we buy anything. That's not the way we budget. We buy our housing, we buy our phone, we buy our internet, all as a monthly cost. So we believe that since we budget that way anyway, that's how we should budget and pay for bike share. And so we believe in doing so we'll actually create a much more affordable fare product
 The city of Philadelphia, sorry, Temple University did a focus group with a low-income community, very large African-American community, about bike share when they were trying to figure out their pricing. And I asked them, like, how much do you think bike share should be per month after they talked about the thing? And they said, oh, about the price of a transit pass. So that's about $80. Okay.
 So we're going to be between $10 and $15 a month. So we still think, even by raising the price sum, that we actually come up with a really strong value proposition for residents.
 So let's talk a little bit about the technology, and specifically about Social Bicycle Smart Bike technology that both the commissioner and Leah talked about before. So with Smart Bikes, we think we can get more bikes through cost savings from product innovations, a better customer experience for our users, more flexibility for our operator, and a lower carbon footprint from the system. So Smart Bikes differ from what are called station-based systems, and in this slide are actually referred to as Smart Docks, in that Smart Bikes consolidate all of the technology that is
 with station-based systems that's on the dock and in the kiosk and puts everything on the bike. So the bike kind of becomes very, very powerful in terms of the customer interaction and data. So with smart bikes, you can check out a bike and lock it with or without a bike share, dock, or rack. And the bike also has active GPS, so we're going to have a wealth of trip data available
 on where Portlanders are riding, which is going to be a very powerful tool in us evaluating where we need to invest our resources. So with all this with smart bikes, Social Bicycles also provides branded racks and kiosks, which we will have 30 branded stations within the service area.
 So one of the great things that SmartBikes is going to do for us is help to mitigate one of the biggest problems that bike share operators find, which is parking during peak usage. So with a station-based system, you can only park a bike. So not the station we will have, but the station-based system that most other cities have. You can only park a bike at a bike share dock. So if you arrive at a bike share station like this one in Minneapolis in the top left, and it's full...
 you've got to go to another station to try to find a place to park that bike. So let's just assume for a moment that we had a station-based system, and you were biking to a meeting at Fox Tower. And you biked to Fox Tower, and you get there, and that station is full. So with a station-based system, what you'd have to do is you'd have to get on that bike share bike and go and find another station that had an open spot, and you could do that for your smartphone app, and you'd still have to go there, drop that bike up, and then park.
 walk back to Fox Tower. So that's not going to make for a very happy customer and it's also very expensive for the operator. To address this, what operators do is they spend about half of their operating budget on what's referred to as rebalancing. And if you look at this photo in the bottom right, you can see it happening in Washington DC. And what that means is they move bikes in vans or trucks to and from high demand locations.
 So this is where smart bike technology and Portland's long history of bike investments are a perfect match. Smart bikes allow the user to park at any bike rack because the lock is built right into the bike. And Portland has the best parking. We have the best bike parking in the nation. In our service area alone, we have over 3,000 public bike racks. So let's go back to that customer that's going to a meeting at Fox Tower. If they were with our smart bike system and they go there and that station happens to be full, they'll have over a dozen racks on the block.
 on public bike racks on the block face, which they'll be able to pay, which they'll be able to park that bike at. So that makes the system operate a lot better. It keeps our costs down, and it also reduces our reliance on vans. In addition to those 3,000 bike racks, we have 52 bike corrals within the service area. We have nearly 130 citywide.
 So Motivate and the city plan to use at least 30 of these corrals as auxiliary bike share stations where both public and private bikes can park. So to be clear, we're going to have 30 branded bike share stations, and then we're going to deputize an additional 30 of these bike corrals where customers – where kind of public bike share bikes and private bikes can intermix together.
 So by leveraging our previous investments in bike infrastructure, we were able to save around $240,000 on the cost of bike racks. And that savings of $240,000 that we've reinvested into bikes, so we're spending our money on bikes and not on metal, that's allowed us to grow the size of the system from 450 bikes to 600 bikes.
 So let's talk about what this means for – so smart bikes for Portlanders mean less hassle for parking a bike and lower cost for the city to operate. It also allows Portland to do what we do best, which is innovating with private partners to create cutting-edge, sustainable practices.
 And just as in the 1990s and early 2000s, the city partnered with architects, designers, and developers to become a national leader in green building, Motivate and the city plan to use Portland as an innovation lab for sustainable bike share practices. So you recall those vans in that other picture moving all around the city trying to balance these station-based systems? Through our planned program and smart bike innovations, Motivate will cut the number of rebalancing vehicles that it uses for our system from four to just one.
 So instead of relying on carbon to solve our logistics problems, we're looking to technology and the partnership with our customers to create a more efficient system. We're going to engage our customers with price incentives and fees to encourage people to bring bikes to high-demand locations. And you might recall earlier I said $2.50 for 30 minutes on average for that one-time use ticket.
 After six months, the contract also allows Motiv8 to explore dynamic pricing to help balance the system, similar to what the city is studying in terms of with metered parking.
 And during peak usage, this could result in the price of that ticket going up to a maximum of $5 for 30 minutes. But on average, that price will be $2.50. So if the price ever went up during a high peak usage, it would also, of course, have to come down during the other areas. And so Motivate has also implemented in Boston and New York City the use of bike trailers to move quickly and sustainably throughout the system.
 And lastly, I want to say on this rebalancing issue is that there's a rich set of data that we're going to get from Bike Share, because every one of these bikes has GPS right on it. And we're going to be reaching out to our research and technology partners to explore the development of predictive models. So as opposed to reacting to what's happening, we can actually plan for it. And Motivate actually is already doing this with researchers at Cornell. And I can't wait to get our local software engineers and scientists going on this.
 And so lastly and most importantly, BikeShare is not going to be successful unless it benefits a cross-section of our community. We're very proud, as Margie mentioned before, about our work with Motivate, the Coalition of Communities of Color, and Verity to create an ambitious equity agenda for the project. Motivate has committed to paying its employees a living wage and to partnering with local workforce employment training organizations such as Oregon Tradeswomen to ensure that at least 50% of its workforce is composed of women and Portlanders from underserved communities.
 And aside from providing one of the lowest price points in the nation for bike share, Motivate is committed to deeply discounting 500 memberships to community partners. And together we're also exploring a cash-only fare product to provide underbanked and unbanked Portlanders access to the system. And unbanked is someone who doesn't have a credit card or debit card or bank account. And so lastly, I'd say that our service area includes some of the region's lowest income census tracts. And so we are striving to site stations near affordable housing and service centers.
 So thank you very much for sticking with me for all that. I'm obviously very excited about this. I want to turn this over at this time to Justin Ginsberg, who's the Vice President of Business Development at Motivate, our partners. Thank you, Steve.
 As Steve said, I am the Vice President for Business Development at Motivate. I'm going to go through this, I think, pretty quickly since a lot of my points have been touched on, and I know your time is valuable. So just to provide a little more information about Motivate, Margie touched on who our backers are. It's the largest urban real estate developer organization.
 in America, the largest affordable housing developer in New York City and San Francisco, and Equinox, which is an operator of fitness clubs across the country. So with this backing, we really have the resources to ensure the stability, investment, and innovation to make our government partners happy and make our customers happy. Next slide. I'm sorry. Sorry. Okay.
 With the new leadership that we have at Motivate, we've really been able to turn things around over the last year and start to solve a lot of the issues that have constrained the bike share industry for the past couple years. We've grown by over 4,000 bikes just this past summer in Chicago, New York, and Columbus. We are expanding Washington, D.C., and Boston this fall, and we'll deliver an additional 11,000 bikes in New York and San Francisco over the next two years.
 We are ready to commit these resources and this energy into making Portland a similar success story in 2016.
 Motivate has a track record of operating systems with no public subsidy. New York City has operated for two years with no public funding, relying only on user revenue and sponsorship for a viable business model that is now delivering a high level of service and significant system expansion. We believe in this business model, and we are using it to expand the Bay Area by 6,300 bikes and to launch a new system in Jersey City next week.
 In Jersey City, we set a record for per-bike sponsorship contribution and believe that it shows the demand for bike share sponsorship in mid-sized cities like Portland. We're bringing to bear our sponsorship experience from these other cities to Portland, and we have already received significant interest from the business community for organizations that want to become part of Portland's urban fabric and make a positive community impact.
 As a company, we really believe in Portland. This will be preaching to the choir, so I'll go through this pretty quickly, but we're very excited about the tourism market. It seems like...
 A must-do for people traveling and visiting Portland is to get on a bike, and this is going to make that a lot easier for people. We also know that Portland has embraced multiple modes of transit. We think public transit, car sharing and bike sharing all work very well together. Bike sharing is a natural solution to the last mile, first mile challenge. And as Commissioner Novick talked about, we'll offer people the opportunity to avoid driving into work to run those errands during the day.
 The active lifestyle and the innovation that Portland has had in bicycle infrastructure is a real precondition to our success. In many cities, you know, Motivate's out there trying to convince people to get on a bike. I think in Portland, a lot of people already ride bikes, and now it's convincing people to ride bikes more or to use bike share specifically. So we really think we have a great environment and a great civic culture to make bike share a success. Okay.
 We are grateful to the City Council for considering this proposal and we look forward to working together and working with PBOT to make it a success. Questions? I have a few. Could Leah come back for a sec? We substitute you out. I have just a number of questions, short answer and probably anticipates, hopefully doesn't anticipate some of the testimony that may. First of all, to you Leah and to Steve.
 Thank you for the very collaborative way you've engaged the Council in this process and the creative proposal that you've come before us, working within the constraints that you were given. I think it's pretty extraordinary. Just some quick questions. One of the slides said that 150 percent of minimum wage, is that the state minimum wage or the federal minimum wage? The President That's the state minimum wage. Mr. So the higher, although it wasn't bumped, it's not going to be bumped up this year, it's still significantly higher than the federal, so thank you. Leah, to you,
 I was in D.C. recently and noticed how spectacularly successful bike share is. D.C. has subway, bus, has all kinds of amenities, plus the downtown sort of tourist area is very walkable. So I would have thought D.C. would have been challenging because there's already so much other infrastructure for alternative transportation. Why is it successful in D.C.?
 I believe that it is successful in D.C. because it is a last-mile connector for the robust transit system that exists there. While there is a great metro system, a great bus system, it doesn't go into all the neighborhoods, and you have to actually walk quite a bit to get to your stops. Also, D.C.'s great transit system is also plagued by a lot of delays, and bike share is an incredibly convenient and fast option to get around a very small geographic area. Okay.
 And ditto San Francisco and New York, where I visited recently. I mean, bike share is blowing up in those cities, and everybody seems to be on a bike going around. So the two criticisms that have been raised either in the media or in e-mails I've received, I want to give you a chance just to respond to them. The first is, is there any particular unique risk of theft to the product in the system that you're asking us to embrace?
 I'd be happy to take that. So when I first started working on bike share, I was a bike share skeptic, and one of the things I was concerned about was this theft issue. And so everyone was naturally, and it's really, and Justin could probably speak to this from his own experience, it's really become a non-issue. The bikes are unique. The parts of them are often unique, so there's just not a market for theft of them. And, you know, you can't really, you can't take them to a chop shop because the pieces just don't fit anything else. Right.
 And the locking system and the credit card backing that you need to use to use the system have all three worked together to have extremely low theft rates. Thank you. Leah, the second question I had has to do with sort of third year and beyond. How do you quantify the risk to taxpayers of having to cover any portion of the operating costs after three years? Sure.
 There will be no risk to taxpayers to cover the last two years of the system. We are required by the feds to operate for five years since we're using federal funds. We don't have...
 any experience in the nation of a system failing after three years. And in our research, the only comparable city we found was Boston. And after three years of their operations, they had to go back out and do another RFP for their system. And when they went back out after three years, they got even better terms with their contract for the last two. But again, we will not be putting any additional local money into the system. And should we be in the position of
 not being able or having to go back out, not getting favorable terms, we will be able to operate the system and rebalance to user revenue. And that is the worst case scenario. Just to elaborate on that, I mean, we are required to operate a bike share system for five years after taking the federal money. We are not required to operate a particular bike share system.
 We are not required to continue operating a 600-bike system at the end of the three years. So if we have to scale back the system in order to meet available revenues after three years, then we would do that. Yeah, I'm reminded that one of the first hearings I attended as a rookie commissioner, I was sitting next to Dan and we were getting a presentation on light rail. I think it was actually Orange Line. And it was a big vision, big aspiration. We were being asked to make a big commitment, but there was no plan to help pay for it.
 So I turned to Dan, who has a reputation of being the cheapskate on the council, and I said, how do we say yes to this? And he said, this is the way we do transportation planning. We line up the vision. We get all the pieces in place. We get in the queue for competitive federal funding, and we always get to the finish line. So there's risk in everything we do that's bold. This sounds like there's a very modest risk.
 Male Speaker 1 Yes, and Commissioner Fish, if I could just go back to Commissioner Novick's opening comments, which was, it's nice sometimes not to be first, and this time we're going to be 65th, is that we have a lot of data nationally to look at, and I think that Leah's comments kind of reflect our confidence based on the market in other cities. Male Speaker 2 Thank you. My last question, I know you're very enthusiastic about all this data that you're going to be generating, but some of the members of the public are going to be concerned about privacy.
 So how do we balance your desire for all this good data and the privacy rights of customers? Well, thank you very much for bringing that up, Commissioner Fish. We had a meeting with Jennifer Cooperman, our city treasurer, and one of her staff actually, we actually now at the city have a PII, personal identification system,
 for identifying information expert who makes sure that the city doesn't go afoul of Sharing people's private information So our contract with motivate is kind of based on the direction that we received from our expert And the data that we will actually give out and that data will be out publicly will be anonymized by this by kind of gender by you know your basic demographic information and the last I
 bit of that, any trip that you make will be kind of sliced off so we can't actually see, aha, that person's going to that person's house or whatever. So the data, the power of the data is in aggregate form. There's not a lot of power in that data at the individual level. But we're not going to be tracking people's...
 movements and then making that public, it's going to be aggregate data. It's aggregate data, yes. And just to be clear, Motivate will have that. Our operator needs to know where the bikes are. But there is, as part of the contract, kind of a firewall more or less between the city staff and Motivate so that it's coded by the time we see it. I had some questions. So I think you know I'm sort of the reigning skeptic about bike share. I think I was one that authored the language in 2011 that said no
 government operational subsidy. And it's not because I'm necessarily opposed to bike share. I just don't think it's a nice thing to have. It's not an essential thing to have with respect to our limited transportation dollars. I do want to say that I'm very impressed with the company you're working with now and the issues that I talked about when we met I want to talk about on the record. So as I mentioned in our meeting, one of my big concerns is somebody rents a bike
 cracks their head open, and they're going to sue the city. So tell me about what kind of protections we have in this contract to prevent the city from being sued under those situations. I knew you were going to ask that question. I know you did. We are prepared. So if you turn to Section 11 of the contract, and I think it's worth it,
 this point. I want to be clear that we're bringing the contract to you in of form, so this is not, we're still working with our attorneys. We have great attorneys, Lisa Gramp and Ben Walters have been our attorneys and been with us every step of this. So,
 You will see the insurance and indemnity, and there's lots of different types of liabilities that were covered. And I don't want to kind of distract you, but, you know, typical commercial property workers' comp. 11.6, indemnity from liability claims. The general indemnity language is there. Motivate, shall hold, harmless, defend, and indemnify the city of Portland and the state of Oregon, their officers, agents, and so on. I want to...
 Be honest, though, that we are still working with our attorneys on one word in the exception. So this is not totally – there's some exceptions, and Commissioner Novick raised this indemnity clause as well as you, that we don't feel like we're completely finished, and that's that be caused by negligence or willful conduct or,
 Lisa Gramp, our attorney, would prefer it to just say conduct. So we are literally down to one word in the contract that we're working on. She's not here today. But I want to – Is this going to be addressed in the intervening week? Yes. This is going to be addressed in the intervening week. We, of course, would not sign any contract that our attorneys aren't 100% behind on.
 And, of course, that is okay with you. But because you council members and Commissioner Novick and Salzman have really wanted us to have a strong indemnity clause, we are making this as strong as possible. And this issue was also raised in Uber, and so we're watching it very closely. Let's be clear to Dan's question. It doesn't prevent someone from suing us. No, absolutely not. An enterprise lawyer could very well put the city as a defendant just to see whether they get lucky.
 but right a blanket indemnity says that they'll cover our costs correct correct and so they will cover our cost if someone gets hurt they will cover our cost there are a few exceptions to the rule that mostly have to do with the acts of whether staff employees are involved so that's what we're talking about but the the general indemnification is there okay so um the other question i had was um why and maybe motivate wants to answer this question but
 Why is Motivate electing to do a three-year coverage versus a five-year coverage?
 Was that our decision? That was not an elected. That was a negotiated term. And the negotiated term was the big picture again. Motivate is willing to take all the risk in the first three years. That's millions of dollars. And so it was a matter of what we felt comfortable with in terms of where we would be on user revenue for those three years. And by the time that the stations
 We've launched. We start collecting user revenues, and the bikes are being used, and we have all of our annual members. We'll have a good idea of where we stand, and Justin can come up here and speak to this as well. But we felt like at three years we'd be on really solid footing, and at that time, as Leah said, that Boston, just like Boston, we can do three things after three years. We can extend the contract as is.
 we can negotiate better terms for the city, or three, we can end the contract at that time. On the third option, we have 180 days notice, and that would give us enough time, essentially six months, to do a new RFP, and we would do a new RFP for a new operator. And if that happens, that scenario happens, you're saying that after three years, only revenues from sponsorships and users will support bike share?
 Correct. Again, no operational. No local money. No general transportation dollars. Yes, and if any of those three things happen, we'd be before you again. So this is probably my final question. I'm asking on behalf of one of our budget committee members, Donald Wood. I think Commissioner Fish and I both got an email from him yesterday, and he was referring to the Oregonian article, which said, I think, the revenue or the cost per month of a bike is $200. Does that figure sound right? Do you want to talk to that, Justin? Yes.
 Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's the operating cost. So basically – I guess he was saying that seems like a lot of money and –
 Can that be covered through your sponsorships? Maybe speak to your Jersey City. That is actually all covered through user revenue and sponsorship. So the way the contract works is we've been very transparent with the PBOT team, showing our budget based on, you know, we operate Seattle, we operate San Francisco. We have a pretty good idea of what our cost structure will be here in Portland. And basically all the user revenue and all the sponsorship goes into an account, and we're allowed to take $200 per bike per month out of that account just to cover our costs.
 That's not our profit. If that money is actually not there, Motivate will invest its own equity to run the system according to the standards of the contract. So that $200 is just coming out of the pool of revenue generated by the system, not at all from the public sector or taxpayer dollars.
 And then my final question, I guess this is my final question. I was a little confused about sort of the corporate structure here. So Motivate is owned by... Yeah, I could talk to the corporate structure. Basically, Motivate is owned by a company called Bikeshare Holdings. It was a holding company set up to make the investment into Alta Bicycle's share last year. The investors in Bicycle Holdings are the principals of the related companies, which is the real estate development company based in New York, and Equinox, which is the fitness company as well. And so, like...
 you usually set up a separate entity to make the investment in an operating company. Male Speaker 1 Okay. Thank you very much. Questions? Female Speaker 1 I have three. And as folks may remember, I voted against using the federal money for this project in the first place because I thought there were other safety projects which were a higher priority. I then voted for the ELTA contract because it helped me to get the money
 implemented a decision that had been made by council. At that time, I asked PBOT to work on helmets and on instructions to users, particularly downtown, to make sure that they understand where they're allowed to cycle and where they're not allowed to cycle. So could you just...
 talk about those two things. Sure. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. So I'll do those in the order you said them. First with helmet. So as I mentioned before, we have one of the highest helmet usage rates in the country, and we want to manifest that with bike share as well. And luckily, we have a lot of best practices from other cities to go after. So we plan to motivate, provide partnerships through retail outlets.
 whether that would be a drugstore or also a bike rental shop, which have all expressed interest in doing this, to provide low-cost bike rental to people, to provide people helmets when they buy a membership, especially a free one if you're an equity member or buying a subsidized membership, and also doing a lot of promotion of helmets just throughout kind of our communication channels as well.
 And then per the direction of counsel, we actually have been tracking the industry that's trying to develop and actually providing helmet vending out there. I had probably 20 discussions with a company that was made up of MIT graduates called Helmet Hub that was poised to launch in Seattle. That company was never able to realize their vision yet.
 And more recently, we've had meetings with a new company called Cranium Technologies, which is a startup in the San Diego area that came up with a demo of their helmet vending machine and demoed it for Margie, myself, and some other staff. Both of those solutions, we feel are works in progress. And I think that we've learned as a city that when we try to sometimes make investments...
 in things that have yet to be tested in other markets. It doesn't always work out for us. And so we really want to make sure that when we provide a helmet solution, that's something that we can back up on. And the contract specifically speaks to motivate providing us a helmet vending option within 120 days of execution, and then the parties have a time to work out whether we find that's feasible or not.
 And then after that, if we cannot come up with an arrangement, then we're going to continue to look on the open market. And we're hoping by that time that Cranium Technologies, which is the only other one aside from Motivate that's providing any sort of helmets, has a solution that's actually been tested in Santa Monica and some other markets, and we'll be able to go look at them. They've right now been at least
 saying that they will do it at no cost to the city, but there's a lot of kind of contingencies that we're currently not very comfortable with. So the second question you had was about promoting kind of safety and people following the rules. So we plan to use the whole bike share...
 system and the bike itself as platforms through which we can communicate safety behavior. And so we're still – the Sobe bike has kind of a different configuration than the other bikes, the station-based systems in other cities. But we're looking at actually trying to actually integrate that into the architecture of the bike so that someone will actually see if you're a new user, will actually –
 There'll be some places that will actually kind of give you some very punchy, very, I mean, obviously we can't ride a treatise on the bike, but we can at least give some very clear direction on where and where not to ride. Previously when there were going to be docking stations, there was going to be an opportunity to have the big list of, you can't ride between Jefferson and the downtown area with the sidewalks. Yeah, I think that, excuse me, I'm sorry.
 So that's not going to happen. Well, I think that what we're going to just simply say is don't ride on the sidewalk as opposed to trying to kind of get into kind of the minutia of that issue. The issue will be follow traffic laws, don't ride on the sidewalk, you know, yield to pedestrians. So it will be something very simple and kind of more universal. Okay.
 so that that remains a significant concern for me and it i hope that peabod and the commissioner will look into for downtown putting some signage up because it's already a problem if we're enticing the concerned but the interested but concerned to ride we
 Downtown is a very difficult place to ride a bicycle safely. I know we have millions of dollars' worth of improvements planned, but this system is going to be going into place before those improvements. So, just after the Orange Line Max celebrations, I was waiting for 45 minutes for a Yellow Line Max, because they were all going the other way, and somebody who later told me that he was from East Portland
 was riding on in the max lane and of course his bike got stuck in the tracks and he fell off and was quite significantly injured so i'm very concerned that we're going to have even more of that kind of action and and i i'm not it's a bigger it's going to become more and more of a problem and so i think it's beyond bike share i think we need to really put some time and effort into and having some outcomes beyond the occasional sting on that particular challenge we're
 I would – may I just say on the issue of bike share safety that I think that this has been one issue. And I understand that your concern is broader than just the bike share user themselves, but I want to just make sure that the commissioners were clear that the safety record of bike share users is better than private bike users. The crash rate is much, much lower for bike share trips than it is for private bike trips. And part of that is because the bikes have –
 generator lights on the front and back. The posture of the bike is very upright. And if you've ever ridden a bike share bike, you're never going to break a land speed record on a bike share bike. It's built to last. It's not built for speed. Yeah, and actually I noticed in one of the photographs that you provided to my chief of staff, Tim Crail, that there's a visible number on the rear. That's correct. Do they call them mudflaps here? Or what do you call the cover at the back wheels? Mudguard? Mudflaps and fenders are both used, yes.
 Well, there's a clear number. So it actually provides us maybe with a pilot for there now being an identification mark on the bike so that somebody like me who gets almost run over by one will be able to call in and say, bike number 360 was on the sidewalk when it shouldn't have been. Right? Right.
 Correct. So I think that's a good thing. So my final question is about the location of the racks, the docking stations, or whatever they're now being termed. I understand you're going to have a public process to decide exactly where they are. Will that involve, because you're going to put them on the street, right, rather than on the sidewalks?
 The goal, I mean, I don't want to speak for Motivate, but my understanding is the goal of Motivate is the contract requires them to repay the city for any lost parking meter revenue. So their Motivate is, quote, unquote, motivated to avoid that situation, and their plan is not to take any –
 parking. So we'll probably, we'll see them in the furnishing zone where we have space on the sidewalk and on public and private plazas. So probably, I imagine we won't have a lot on the street, but we could have some in non-metered areas. And not in loading zones? Absolutely not, no. Thank you.
 Okay, just one more that I wanted to add that relates to two of the questions you asked is that we will be kicking off our central city infrastructure project in 2016. The timing on that infrastructure project could not be better with the timing of bike share. We're very excited about it. Those of you who participated in the policymakers ride heard a lot about it.
 And I think the infrastructure that goes into place as part of that project will nicely complement the launch of bike share, hopefully helping with the sidewalk problem. Just one more question. So the pay station is on the bike now?
 So you insert your credit card into that? I'm sorry if I didn't describe that accurately. So you can reserve a bike online, and you can check out a bike either with a member card, or if you reserve it online, you'll get an ID number, and you punch that into the pin pad that's on the back of the bike. There's not a credit card reader on the bike. We will have 11 kiosks where we expect to have high walk-up usage where someone could just slip in a credit card. They'll be very similar to our smart park meters. Okay.
 I was concerned there would be 600 bikes out there with potential for credit card skimmers. Yeah, thank you. The contract has specific provisions around the standards around that. Very good discussion. Any more questions for our resource team here? Thank you all. And, Steve, do you have any invited testimony, or are we going to open it up for public testimony? Yes. Thank you. I think we have an invitation or two. Who do we have next? It's Tom Kilbane from Urban Renaissance Group.
 Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Tom Kilbane, and I manage the Portland office for Urban Renaissance Group, a commercial real estate firm here in Portland. We have a portfolio of about 800,000 square feet of commercial office space, mostly downtown office buildings. I'm involved in the leasing activity at all of our properties, and I can testify to the increasing importance that bicycling has played in office location decisions.
 When I started out, it was very common for one of the first questions to be asked by a broker is, what's the parking ratio here, meaning how many parking spaces to, you know, the total square foot of the building. Today, car parking seldom comes up, if at all. One of the first questions that the tenant rep brokers now ask is, where's the bike parking? How much bike parking is there? How easy is it to get in and out?
 One of the reasons for this is that using a bike to get around town is really efficient. The amount of time saved by not having to get your car out of the parking garage, not having to circle the block looking for a parking space is real. It means you have more time to get stuff done, enjoy your lunch, whatever you need to do, and you get some exercise in the process. This happens in our office all the time. We'll have a meeting on the east side or in the Pearl or in Northwest. One of my colleagues will have to drive. I'll take my bike.
 100% of the time I'm there before they are with time to spare. The great thing about the Bike Share program is that people who don't use a bike to get to work, whether they drive a car, carpool, walk or take transit, will have the option of getting on a bike to run an errand, to go to an appointment or to go to a meeting during the day. All this to say that Bike Share will make locating it in downtown Portland even more desirable for companies focused on attracting and retaining talent.
 Bike Share will be one more reason that the suburban tenant down on Cruise Way or out in the Sunset Corridor or that company considering expanding in some other market will make the move to Portland. If we want to maintain our reputation as a world-class biking city, then we need a Bike Share program. Thank you. Thank you. I think this may be...
 the first time that a commercial realtor has come into this chamber or maybe any other city council chamber and spoken those words About what tenants are looking for in terms of parking that the world has changed. Absolutely. Yeah, this is great. Thank you Okay, that's it for invited testimony. Oh Okay, then let's go to the sign up sheet. Please carla We have seven people signed up the first three. Please. Come on up are rob sadowski ian stude and uh ted bueller
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, commissioners, for allowing us to share our excitement about bike share. It's an amazing, amazing transit program, and I suggest you think of it as a transit program. Thank you.
 I'm going to answer a couple of questions that were asked in a different way and share my own experiences. First of all, I've used BikeShare in many cities, including Munich, which has a system that's very similar to the social bike system where bikes are around and not in special lock systems. And it's really fabulous. It works really well. And I can answer any questions about what that was like. Think of it as car-to-go versus zip car.
 So the simplest way I like to look at it is you'll be able to find it in different places. You'll be able to pull out your smartphone. You'll have a map of where the locations are. It'll be really easy to find and make a grade.
 It's for everybody. It's not just for tourists. It's not just for people who live in Portland. We're going to see some really interesting new trips that are emerging from that. There are new jobs that are going to be emerging from this, and the commitment to high road standards that Motivate is signing on to is really important to look for job development. It also increases our emergency outlets. If anything happens and we need to get out of this city for any quick reasons, we're
 The bridges that will be up are going to be the one – this new bridge that we just built is going to be up, and BikeShare will help us get across it. Let me answer the why is it so high cost of $200 a month seems really, really high. Couldn't we just give everybody a bike?
 It's a lot of users, so a lot of users create a lot of damage, a lot of wear and tear. It's going to require a lot of maintenance. Again, it's very similar to transit, so it's not like you're buying a bike to be used that you're normally getting in a store. This is a very specialized bike that has to be able to handle that kind of capacity, so that's why the costs are high.
 I'm really excited about the unbanked opportunity, the ability to buy with cash, maybe at a Fred Meyer, a car that will give you access where you would not have to have a heavy credit card limit in order to get access. That's going to provide a lot of opportunities that other cities don't have, and I think we're going to be at the forefront, particularly around equity.
 Once this starts, it's going to grow. I think the concerns about what happens in year four and five are going to be less about where are we today, but how can we get to more neighborhoods, how can we do more, similar to bike corrals, where they started and people were like, oh, we don't want these on the street, and now all of a sudden we have businesses that are clamoring for them, that are actually paying for them themselves. You see in other cities like Arlington where companies are coming and putting in the bikes and the systems themselves.
 The BTA would be excited to offer assistance to ensure new riders know the laws through videos or through class services or being involved in providing staffing, similar to what the Orange Line is doing right now in key locations downtown, to be able to say, hey, here's how you use your bikes, here's where you go, and we'd love to be able to have a conversation about that.
 And finally, I just want to reiterate what Margie had just said, is that this is only going to be successful if we're able to continue to put protected bike lanes in the city, particularly downtown, in order to get these bikes safely through the area.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Ian. Good morning. I'm Ian Studi. I'm the chair of the Portland Bicycle Advisory Committee. I'm also the director of transportation and parking for Portland State University. I just want to take a minute to remind council that both of those organizations supported bike share back in 2011, and we remain – both organizations remain supportive of bike share and are very excited about the proposal that's come to you today. Thank you.
 I want to just add a little bit of color to the conversation today and talk a little bit about how I see bike share affecting our population downtown, in particular our population in Portland State. For those of you who don't know, we have now almost 3,000 residents on campus at PSU.
 Those residents are often coming to us without a car and they are coming to us because we are an urban university where they expect to be able to participate in a dense urban fabric of life that we have here in Portland. It is one of the key attracting factors for us as an institution.
 What we find is that those students are more and more clamoring for options when it comes to transportation. Bike Share represents, I think, a very exciting option for our students to get around and do all the things that they want to do, whether or not they're keeping up with their studies. Hopefully they are. But they really want to get out there in the community, and they really want to experience Portland as a part of their education. And in fact, they're required to as a part of their education. So we're very excited that Bike Share connects them better with this city.
 Those 3,000 students are coupled with the other 26,000 who are also attending our campus and most of which are not bringing a car to campus but some who are. What I've found in our years of serving our students about their travel behavior is that they are becoming increasingly multimodal. What I mean by multimodal is not necessarily they're taking multiple modes per trip but
 but they are wanting to make choices on an incremental level about do they want to ride transit today? Do they want to use car to go when they leave campus that day? Do they want to use a bike? And the idea of a bicycle system that allows them to make that choice on a very daily incremental level is very exciting to them. And I think as a population, you'll find that they're going to be very excited to adopt bike share and become regular users. So thank you very much. Thank you.
 Morning, Ted. Morning, Mayor and Council. My name is Ted Buehler. I'm co-chair of the group Bike Loud PDX, and we're very excited about bike share, and I assure you there's more than just myself who are affiliated with this group that's excited about it. But, you know, a lot of them have more restrictive day jobs and things like that, so I'm the only one here today. No children, no elderly folks, but we'll bring them to you in the evenings when you're out in the field.
 This is the Portland Bicycle Master Plan for 2030, which you folks graciously passed in February 2010, and it has aspirational goals of bringing 25% mode share of bicycles to the city by the year 2030. And if you guys have looked at numbers, you'll see that over the last five years, bicycle mode share has been flat while car mode share has gone up, which results in a lot more congestion on the freeways and highways than we had five years ago. Bike share...
 It has a nice little two-page spread in here, and when we get bike share implemented, we'll be one more step towards the blueprint for getting many more people in Portland able to ride bicycles than there are now. I've tried out bike share in New York City and Minneapolis. Both times it was a fabulous experience. I was able to ride around on surface streets at faster speeds than I'd ever traveled before.
 except on a bicycle in previous times, but especially in Manhattan, it was great. You can cruise around Manhattan faster than anybody else on the road, and you can look up, you see a whole 360-degree view, you see the sights, you smell the smells, and you can stop and stop at a shop just like that if you want to.
 I think lots of people that visit Portland will want bike share, and they'll be excited about it. And as a matter of fact, I have a lot of friends that come to Portland, and lots of them want to ride bikes. Sometimes I have loaner bikes at my house, and I can send them downtown on it. Sometimes I don't, and they just don't have quite as exciting of an experience as my guests that come here. And I have bikes outfitted for them. Okay.
 We do have a couple of concerns, which we want you to address about seven months from now or nine months from now when you revisit this after you pass it today, we hope. One is, you know, you all have staffers, right? And you all go out to lunch, too. How often do you think somebody in your office might want to use a bike share bike to go out for lunch? You know, maybe once a day, something like that?
 maybe several people in your office each day. So 600 bikes isn't really a whole lot to go around, and I rather suspect that if the PBOT staffers would have shown the charts as to how many bikes other systems have, as Portland has, 600 isn't a whole lot.
 Still, it's a terrific start and one way that we can get the system to expand fairly quickly like by the summer of 2017 is to get some sponsors. Whenever I see multimillionaires around town, I always tell them, hey, I think you would be a great sponsor for Bike Share, but unfortunately that's never happened. I think you guys might have more of an opportunity and I understand you're already doing that,
 Those of you that have seen Bike Share in other cities, you can tell your friends, hey, we're looking for a sponsor. You can get in early. Thank you, folks. Thank you. We might have overlooked some multi-billionaires. If you have a list, I'd appreciate it. Okay, next please. The last three who signed up are Craig Rogers, Charles Johnson, and Joe Walsh. Come on up. Craig Rogers, Southeast Portland. Hey, I'm glad I hung around for this incredible conversation, collaboration, and
 to hear the questions asked by you, council, and the hard work that PBOT's put into this. It's kind of like they've left no stone unturned. Nonetheless, these things always need to be revisited because, you know, there might be kinks down the road, but incredible amount of work on their part and excellent questions asked. So I think it's obvious to me that they've made it a point to get the best product for the cheapest price. And...
 myself, a thought I had about it is when I go to get my hair cut, I get the old man discount.
 because my hair used to be at me. That's the way he said it. I said, hey, yeah, one time I jumped up out of the chair. So, okay, I'm an older guy. I like hard copy. I like to have the paper in my hand. How does the map work? Is there a screen on the bike, or is it possible to have me? I'm the hard copy guy. Would that be available for the area that you're allowed to ride the bike in?
 I seem to be saying yes. Good question. Good, good, great. So I'm really happy about this. When I went to Amsterdam, rented a bike, just went all over the place. I came across this little triangle pub that was right on the edge of the canal. And I thought, boy, I want to come back here. So I did the next day and on the trolley. And I went to the next place and I went to
 I wasn't driving, right? So then I could have, I discovered this beer, Le Chouf. It was a Belgian beer. It was really, really good. Sunshiney day in Amsterdam. They don't have much sunshine. So then I went in for a second beer. And Ralph's running up and down, and...
 I says, what are you doing? He says, I'm looking for the right glass. I said, it doesn't matter. This gentleman down there that was obviously really enjoying his beer, he says, oh, yes, it does. The glass does matter. And later on, I found out that that was Rick Steves. So because of the bicycle, I had a richer experience. And that's what, you know, for tourists in your town, and yet nonetheless, they're going to be new. So you've got to take that into consideration because there's a lot of
 places in this city that you've got to know what you're doing when you're on a bike, as Amanda said, downtown. So, hey, I'm for this 100%. I hope you all vote for it. Thank you. Thanks very much. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We have almost the same concerns as Commissioner Fritz. Because I'm disabled, I spend a lot of time downtown
 with people riding bikes on the sidewalks. And although I'm not in a wheelchair yet, I watch wheelchair people get out of the way of the bikes. So I would ask that this company use some of this money to either enforce the laws on the books. I mean, there is an ordinance. You cannot ride a bike on the sidewalk downtown. And right now the police are enforcing that. If you give this to a corporation, what happens to that enforcement?
 do the police continue enforcing that or do we have a corporation that is going to be community friendly and say let's put aside some money out of this grant to make sure people do not ride on the bike on the sidewalks including the security people i'm more trouble with security people riding their bikes than i do with normal citizens so
 We have that. We also have the question of are we going to increase the number of bikes? I think I heard the number 600. Somebody mentioned that. Okay. I don't believe that number. I just don't believe it. So I hope that when you sign this contract and you pass this ordinance that you have a trap door, kind of like what you suggested, Commissioner, some kind of out.
 A trapdoor is, this sucks, let's get out. That's what a trapdoor is in a contract. So I hope that you looked at that. If you go into this and give them full authority to do this without any answer or accountability, then once again, we're going to be mad at you.
 So that's our objections. The program itself sounds really interesting. And if they did it in New York, I grew up in New York, so I know New York. If they did it in New York, that's kind of a good endorsement because it is a very complex city and people are really squished during lunch hour. So that's our objections. But overall...
 I think I agree with everybody here. It sounds like a good program. And right now it's Wild West. You get down to Madison in a second. It's the Wild West. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, anyone else? That's all who signed up.
 So this will be passing the second reading next week, but opportunity for some comments from council members now. I just want to commend you, Commissioner Novick, and the Bureau for working on this patiently, getting us to a good place. It seems like we're sort of passing the Goldilocks test here. Not too fast, not too slow, about right, not too many, not too few, and so on. I was just reflecting a little bit on this issue because, again,
 As we all do, I hear from both sides on the issue, on the fringes about it, if you will. I mean, I hear from people who are saying, well, we're way behind in Portland, and that's terrible. Well, actually, we're behind or we're ahead or we're somewhere in this virtuous competition because we started it.
 i mean portland was one of the early adopters of light rail we had the first city climate action plan and we built the first modern streetcar and we weren't a slouch on bikes either and that has set off a virtuous competition among cities to be green livable and give people transportation choices what a problem to have that cities are trying to compete
 by doing the right thing. And in fact, I still keep it on my bike when Minneapolis one year won the Best Bike City Award. The mayor, R.T. Ryback, was here, and he gave me a snarky sticker, which still is on my bike because there's a street in Minneapolis called Portland Avenue that says, Portland is just a street in Minneapolis. Right.
 Still on my bike. So I love it that we're in this virtuous competition. That's a great problem to have. So to those who are wringing their hands that we're not a leader, yes, we are, and others are running in our same direction, and that's good.
 I also, of course, hear the hand-wringing on the other side, because every time we've given people more transportation choices in this city, there have been critics. When the first light rail line was built, the then Republican candidate for governor said that when it was completed, it should be locked up and they should throw away the key because no one would ride the thing. She turned out to be incorrect about that, and she also turned out not to be governor. And then when the streetcar was proposed, there were actually people at TriMet who called it the donkey trolley,
 But a very enlightened local newspaper called the Oregonian published an editorial that I still have in Lucite that said, build downtown rail because it would give people more transportation choices. And they and no one else or a few other people even saw the development benefits at that point. They just said this would be another nice transportation choice for people in Portland to have, and they were right. And then with bikes, you know, there's always been that hand-wringing that, well, that's not a serious transportation choice. No one will use it.
 I rode my bike over the Telecom Crossing on Monday morning for the first day of commuting, and there were already a thousand people who'd used that new choice that day, and it's probably up by today. So every time we've given people more choices, as the choices have proliferated, people have used them, and I really believe that that's what's going to happen. So thanks for all your good work on this project. Other
 Other comments? MR. We're going to vote next week, and one of the casualties of our system is we have these big gatherings and then you don't show up the next week when we say nice things about what you repeat some of your best lines and cast our votes. I intend to support this innovative proposal, and I appreciate very much the presentation, the transparency, the way you've engaged the Council.
 And I'm excited to see this in place in Portland. And, frankly, the big deciding point for me is family trips to other cities where this has been a huge success. And I think this is one area of policy where seeing something function at a very high level in cities like New York, Washington, and San Francisco really is an eye-opening experience. And thank you.
 It may be why one of our mutual friends, Charlie, keeps asking me to go on these fact-finding trips to other cities because they are very valuable when you're on the ground. And this is working in other cities. It's hugely successful, and I'm looking forward to Portland joining. We will become what, the 66th, Steve? Steve said the 65th, and I want to remind people that although under the old rules that means we wouldn't make the tournament, under the new rules we're in the tournament, we just have to play a play-in game.
 I also want to give Rob the award today for the best quote because I think sometimes the simplest metaphor or analogy is what captures the thing. When he said it's think car to go, not zip car, that was very helpful to me. So anyway, thanks for your good work. I look forward to supporting this next week.
 If not, thank you all for good work. Mayor, I actually do have something to say, which is how much I appreciate everybody who has worked on this. Chris Warner and Smoor Ender and my staff, Leah and Margie and Gabe Graff and a lot of other people in PBOP, and I especially want to thank Steve Hoyt-McBeth.
 who has been the keeper of the flame on bike share, who has survived numerous fits and starts and lots of frustration, and has maintained his commitment and enthusiasm. And I'm very glad that all of you got to see and hear his enthusiasm as well as the wealth of information he has here today. So thank you, Steve. Well done. Thank you. This will be back on the council calendar for second reading next week. Okay, let's move to the regular agenda. Item 961 is a proclamation.
 Proclaim September 19, 2015 to be Distraction-Free Driving Awareness Day in Portland. Commissioner Novick. Mayor, we're bringing this proclamation today to elevate the conversation about distracted driving. Portland is a Vision Zero city, and we committed to eliminating serious and fatal traffic collisions. As part of that effort, we want to take this opportunity to proclaim September 19 as Distraction-Free Driving Awareness Day.
 This agenda item, I'd like to invite up Rick Roach, who is the Statewide Director of External Affairs for AT&T, who can speak to the work they are doing to elevate the conversation about distracted driving. AT&T has been engaged in a national campaign to eliminate distracted driving through public service announcements and engaging local, state, and the federal government on this issue. We as a city share their interest in making sure cellular technology is used appropriately and not while operating a motor vehicle. We encourage everyone to take the opportunity.
 It can wait pledged and not text while driving. And I will turn it over to Rich for some remarks. Thank you very much for this opportunity. My name is Rich Roach with AT&T, Director of External Affairs. And thank you for your efforts to raise the awareness of the hazards of distracted driving and for proclaiming September 19th awareness day.
 Each year, more than 2,000 people are involved in accidents due to texting when driving. AT&T is working hard to raise the awareness about the dangers of texting and driving and encouraging people to make a personal commitment to never text and drive. It's part of our It Can Wait campaign because there's not a text message, a social media post, or Internet search that can't wait. We appreciate all of your efforts in making this proclamation. You're providing leadership on a very important issue to our community.
 i encourage you all to visit the our it can wait dot com website it can wait all one word and take the pledge not to text and drive and if you're an att subscriber please consider downloading the drive mode app that helps you avoid the temptation responding to the text that comes in when you're driving that little ding and you keep on looking over at your phone
 This is a motion-sensitive app, so once your car starts moving, that dinging stops, and the person who's sending you a message does get an indication that you're driving, and you will get back to them. I encourage you to do that also. Could you tell us again where we find that on the App Store? Just go to an App Store and put in Drive Mode, and it's the AT&T app. It's a great app. And it's free? Yes. Free is good.
 That's great. I hadn't heard about that either. Yeah, a lot of people have it. And I think it's something that really helps. Can I make just a modest, humble suggestion? Yes. As an AT&T customer, you guys are very good at sending me text messages to remind me to pay my bill. And
 and other kinds of communications, I think you should make a big deal about this because I, for one, was not aware that there was such an app, and I think that's exactly the kind of tool that would be helpful in reminding people that they can't drive and use their phone. No, I think that's a great idea, and I'll carry it back. Thank you very much.
 And please remember, probably the strongest message each of us can make to our family members, to our friends, and anybody out there is not to text and drive ourselves. If we set that model, people won't. As much as I nag my daughters who are in college about not texting and driving, all that goes away as soon as they see me texting and driving. I think we can set, be a role model for our families, for our friends by not texting.
 thank you for this opportunity and thank you for all your work in this area thank you thanks very much for being here steve you have a proclamation to read we do whereas the city of portland holds the health and safety of its citizens as a paramount priority and whereas portland is a vision zero city and whereas traffic collisions are preventable and there are actions we can all take to reduce and eliminate traffic fatalities and collisions
 And whereas distracted driving occurs when drivers engage in activities that divert their attention off the road. And whereas the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration reports that each day more than nine people are killed and over 1,153 people are injured in crashes that involve a distracted driver.
 And whereas 60% of Oregonians use a smartphone, and whereas 70% of Americans admit to using their smartphone while driving to text, check email, access social media, and use their photo and video tools. And whereas the Oregon legislature has taken significant steps over the past five years to prohibit and discourage
 the use of handheld devices while driving such as passing house bill 2377 in 2009 has spelled 3186 2011 and senate bill 9 in 2013 now therefore i charlie hales mayor of the city of portland oregon the city of roses do hereby proclaim september 19 2015 to be distraction free driving awareness day in portland and encourage all residents to observe the importance of this day
 Thank you very much. I was reminded one other part. Thank you very much to your staff because we do have a PSA about no texting with driving, if it would be okay. Oh, yes, please. We'd love to see it. Carlo will help you. Sorry about that. Put that running. No, that's fine. This is the AT&T Pebble Beach PSA. I feel so fortunate to be out on the tour. The only downside is being away from my friends and family. So I don't know what I'd do without my phone. I used to stay connected.
 I use it to remind me of what really matters most. That's why sometimes I don't use it at all. Excellent. Thank you. Just a reminder, the app is a wonderful application. Another application that is even simpler is your glove box. You're turning your phone on. Thank you. Thank you very much. That's excellent. Where did I find that app? Great. Thank you, Commissioner. That was a great presentation. Okay, let's move to 962. Okay.
 I now appoint Jeff Buckrock to the Planning and Sustainability Commission for a term to expire January 14, 2017. Pleased to welcome Jeff here today. Many of you know him already. He's a longtime Portland resident, land use attorney, also a well-known advocate for affordable housing. He and I have known each other in a couple of capacities for longer than either of us will admit today.
 He served nine years on the Board of Commissioners for the Housing Authority of Portland, now home forward, including three years as chair, former board member of REACH. In fact, he was the chair or he was on the board when I was on the board a long time ago.
 currently serves on central city concerns real estate committee and he practices law he has experience with a wide variety of land use and development real estate issues and we think he will make an excellent addition to the Planning and Sustainability Commission the toughest volunteer job in the city Catherine our vice chair is here as well and she can attest to the hours put in so he knows what he's in for but he's still here and we appreciate it wonderful
 I wanted to see if anyone had any questions for Jeff. You know, Mayor, when I first heard about the application, my initial reaction was pretty negative because I served with Jeff on the Home Forward Board, now Home Forward, then Housing Authority of Portland, and I was thinking about the qualities I would use to describe him at this hearing, and they are as follows. He was often a contrarian. He was very independent-minded. He frequently disagreed with staff.
 he was usually the smartest guy on the panel and always the best prepared and very rarely he was cranky and the more i thought about it i thought he is the perfect person to appoint to this board because what what we want is someone to filter all the information that comes to us and to be and to always be independent in their thinking and i know jeff to be fearless and as you noted charlie
 He was and continues to be a fearless advocate for low-income families and affordable housing, and he's a person of very strong values and principles. And what I love about Jeff is that it's because of his strong principles that he is often someone asking the questions that no one else is willing to ask in Portland Polite. And that's what I think makes him an invaluable board member, so I applaud this nomination. Thank you.
 Jeff, welcome. Mayor House, thank you, commissioners. And I'm going to not respond to anything Nick said, even the negative comments. Thank you, Nick. I appreciate that. And I did serve on the Housing Authority with Nick. I would say he might have been my second favorite commissioner, of course, after Gretchen, who I served with for three years. And that was a delightful experience as well. Mayor Hales, thank you for this opportunity. As you said, I served nine years on the Housing Authority.
 I hope I added a modest amount of value to that enterprise, and I hope I can do the same in the planning commission. So thank you again for the opportunity to serve. Thank you. Thank you very much. Any other questions? If not, I'd like to hear a motion for the options report. So moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call. I didn't have a sign-up sheet for this. I don't. Oh, sorry. You don't normally take testimony on those, so I blew right past it. Anyone want to speak other than Jeff in his own defense? Okay. Roll call, please. Seltzman?
 Well, thank you, Jeff, for agreeing to do this. As the mayor said, this is a very demanding assignment, and we appreciate the quality of the work the Planning and Sustainability Commission does for us and are confident you can maintain those high standards. Please devote aye. Novick. Thank you very much for your willingness to do this. Aye. Ritz. Thank you. Aye. Fish. I'm just thrilled. Jeff was MVP on the Home Forward Board.
 and he is a really wonderful example of an engaged citizen, and I think we're lucky that he's willing to throw his lot with this very challenging assignment. Bye. Heels.
 I love ocean sailing, and when you do that, you have a crew, and you sign up for watches. And sometimes you get a good watch, and sometimes you don't. Sometimes the wind's blowing the right way. Sometimes the sun's shining. Sometimes not. But you don't know, of course, when you sign up for watches the next day what the weather's going to be like at 2 o'clock in the morning. Right.
 Jeff knows what he's in for in signing up for this watch because the city of Portland is growing and we're under great stress because of that growth and that stress will continue. And we have a chance with the revision and readoption of our comprehensive plan to get it right for the next 50 years at a time of great change. So you were signing up for the storm watch, and I appreciate you doing that with your eyes open and appreciate your service very much. Bye. Thanks, Jeff.
 Okay, let's move on to 963. Approve amended application under the multi-unit limited tax exemption program for Hazelwood Plaza, located at 222 Northeast 102nd Avenue. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. This is a multi-application, the 10-year tax exemption for building affordable housing. The developer originally planned to do 100% of the units at 60% of median family income.
 Due to changing market conditions, they are requesting to do 40 percent of the units at 60 percent median income, which still well exceeds our requirement of at least 20 percent of the units be affordable at 60 percent. So I would urge approval. Mayor?
 Mayor, can I just move to suspend the rules quickly? Sure. We have an assistant chief here on something that he's going to spend all morning. He has been here a long time. I'm trying to figure out, frankly, why he's here. The person that pulled the matter left council. Oh, okay. That's why you're still here. I'm sorry, Assistant Chief. Because he has other things to do. Yes. Can we take care of that out of order? I'm sorry. Yeah, I had not.
 consciousness had not dawned for me on that. So let's do suspend the rules and return to 954. I'm sorry, Mike. Let's take that out, please.
 9 5 4 revise ordinance for amendments to intergovernmental agreements with TriMet and 14 participant agencies to correct term date from September 30, 2015 to September 28, 2015. Okay. I think the person that requested this is no longer here. Is there anyone else wants to speak on this item? If not take a roll call vote. Mr. Walsh want to speak? Oh, sorry. Come on up.
 You missed me. You didn't. You're not the one that pulled it, but come on up. You know, according to the charter, and you can ask the city attorney, you're supposed to have me right after you vote on consent agenda. Look at the charter, Charlie. Mr. Walsh, this says... And I am disabled. You made me wait two hours. Excuse me. Excuse me. This says pulled irregular by Stephen Entwistle. You are not Stephen Entwistle. So please proceed. We'll give you a chance to testify now.
 On what? On the item that we pulled, 954. The reason Steve got me on the agenda is that I am disabled, and I was having some problems. I asked him to go to the clerk and pull it. Now, I don't know why his name is on it. It should be my name. This item should never be on consent agenda. We object automatically to you making an emergency decision
 We always object to that. This is somebody made a mistake. And if you look at it, if I remember correctly, the contract ran September 28th. And you guys' paperwork ran September 30th. So we sat around and said, why are they making a big deal about this? And then the question came up, well...
 Maybe they've been using this contract illegally because the date's screwed up, and now they want to fix it. So they put it on the consent agenda, which goes right underneath the table. No discussion. No nothing. You guys screwed up, or your staff screwed up. Why don't you just tell the people we made a mistake, we have to correct it. Now, you mentioned TriMet. TriMet just raised...
 The rates for senior citizens, 25%. Isn't that amazing? 25%. Now, Patty and I can afford that. You guys can afford that. But I'm telling you right now, when you raise the rates 25%, you should not deal with this, guys. This is a bad need, though. 25%. Commissioner Fish, what is that? Do they think people are out there celebrating and going to dinner every night?
 No, everybody is struggling. Twenty-five percent is an insult. And you guys associating with TriMet is an insult to your constituents. Thank you. Go ahead. Thank you, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And as regards to the contracted services for whatever it is we want to say that armed uniformed officers do while they're around TriMet, I don't know.
 I've had the experience of being caught without my honors and card and my fare, and it's gone differently. And my main thing is solutionary thinking about some of the issues Mr. Walsh raised. I know people who have had experiences with poor law enforcement from TriMet contracted officers and are then told that even though they're inside the city of Portland on downtown city sidewalks,
 IPR doesn't apply because it's some out-of-county deputy on a contract with TriMet. So I hope that when your staff does a better job on this upcoming contract, I'll be able to rally some voices so that you'll know that there needs to be some sort of ombudsman or quality control service to make sure that the –
 this money is getting quality policing and that there's a due process procedure for people who feel that they've had a really negative encounter, whether it's race-based or whatever. So I hope that in the future on that contract, you'll look towards quality control and citizen engagement. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else?
 Anyone have any questions for Assistant Chief Kretz? Mayor, the accompanying impact statement says it was a Scribner's error. I move the ordinance. Okay. Roll call, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you.
 Okay. Let's move on to return to 963. Thank you. 963, approve amended application under the multi-unit limited tax exemption program for Hazelwood Plaza located at 222 Northeast 102nd Avenue. We already have the presentation. I gave the overview. If anybody has any questions. Okay. Anyone have any questions for Commissioner Saltzman or for staff? Yeah, I have some questions. Okay. And staff can come forward. Come on up, please.
 I appreciate the memo from Dory and the detailed information. So one of the concerns that I have here is about precedent. We awarded a public benefit based on an application that promised to meet 100% affordability, and that application was competitively scored. And now the applicant is asking to scale it back from 100% to 40% affordable units, which
 So to what extent are we setting a precedent? That's my first question, and I'll come back to some others. Well, actually, there have been other applications who have set this precedent prior to this, not necessarily in the competitive process. And I need to state my name, so I'm Dori VanBakkel, Program Coordinator with the multi-program.
 In fact, we have had a couple of other projects also come back and need to be reevaluated for this particular project. As far as it being part of the competitive cycle, it wouldn't have knocked any other applications out of being qualified or eligible based on what was received at that point. We did still review the application.
 even though the rules have changed for the guidelines of the program have changed since then, as if it still would need to meet those competitive criteria. So it did still exceed the criteria that were there. Let me just offer an analogy. In our procurement process, we're always on guard for people that low bid and then come in and through change orders and change circumstances, it becomes more expensive.
 Let's assume here that the applicant was operating in good faith, but the applicant chose to put an application for it where 100% of the units were affordable. And now the applicant says, because it changed circumstances, they want to back off 60% of that commitment. Separate and apart from how it might have fared in the competitive process back in time –
 Why should we allow someone to be relieved of an obligation they willingly took on to receive a public benefit? In this particular situation, in looking at the reasons for them coming forward to need to adjust the affordability approved, that they had their lender engaged.
 in their amended application and frankly had determined that the project itself wouldn't be able to move forward with any affordability had we not re-looked at it as a whole new application with a lower amount. During the timeline it took for this project to get up
 They didn't have financing secured sufficiently at the point in time when we asked for applications. It's so early in the project development. And they went through a design review process, which came out fairly lengthy in the end. And then when their financing was starting to come together, enough had changed in the market rents and other dynamics with the project itself as a result of the design review that that was the reality that we came up with. If this particular project...
 came before the Bureau now, today, under our new revolving, our approach that we no longer have a competitive process. We have a, I guess, first come, first serve if you meet certain criteria. Andrea, would this qualify? Yes.
 It would. It exceeds the minimum affordability threshold criteria. You know, I think that they had other public benefits that they would have been committing to bring to the table around minority contracting. I did just want to reiterate, I think, the point that Dory was making around the change from the –
 open process, the competitive process, and the timing of that, and how that really didn't work for the development cycle around the financing. So we were asking projects to make a certain set of assumptions that then they couldn't follow through on because they were coming in so prematurely without financing, without design review, and that's one of the major reasons why we felt uncomfortable.
 that the program needed to move away from that very structured, twice-a-year competitive open enrollment. I guess the other question that I have is if the developer is being asked to be relieved from a substantial obligation that they voluntarily put before us in their application, which is 60 percent of the units no longer affordable –
 Do we have the right to, for example, extend the affordability covenant to get some other public benefit to replace the one we're losing? You know, we're in the process of having that conversation currently with the city attorney based on comments and feedback that we heard from city council when we were discussing their proposed program changes. For example, I mean, our plan is a 10-year covenant.
 If someone comes back and says change circumstances, we would have an interest, it seems to me, in having a longer period for the covenant to apply. And was that considered in this set of negotiations? No, it was not. We are really not actually at the point of clarity with the city attorney around whether statute enables us to go beyond 10 years for any project. And Andrea, you...
 Let me just make sure I understand ultimately what the options the developer has here are. If the council turned this request down, what would the developer then do, simply opt out altogether and go to market rate? That's most likely, yes. So we have a bit of a Hobbsian choice here, you're suggesting, that if we vote no, we may lose even the 20% affordability that's our minimum threshold for a project like this.
 If we vote yes, we get the higher amount, which is 40%, and you're persuaded that this is a unique set of circumstances cured in part by the new rules so it no longer requires this to be a competitive process. Is that correct? Yes. Are you finished? Do I understand correctly from what you said that the project has been through design review now? Yes.
 that is our understanding yes and that that resulted in some of the design changes that are mentioned in the memorandum correct and some of those sound to me like they might involve cost increases but that's understandable so okay i'm not displeased to hear what the changes they made they sound good but i think we ought to do that with our eyes open for yesterday's discussion so it is the is the only change in terms of the benefits they're providing the city that the
 the drop to 40% affordability, or are there other parts of the agreement they're modifying? That was the only change. They're actually still going to build to green building standards and a number of other things that were required as part of the approval when they first applied. So the one – you know, if the Bureau recommends that we support this and if the Commissioner in Charge recommends, I'm going to support it. But I –
 I do want to make sure you have a robust toolkit going forward so that if
 a developer seeks a modification after you've granted a public benefit, you have the right to capture some more value at the back end through extending the 10-year covenant or whatever you deem appropriate. Because I think we have to always be looking at this sort of balancing. In this instance, we're still well above the 20% floor of affordable housing that we require. And you've indicated that
 this would be an eligible project under the new rules and still would have competed favorably under the old rules so those are the unique circumstances which will allow me to support your request thanks any other questions then does anyone want to speak on this item we have mr lightning signed up thank you both come on off lightning good morning my name is lightning i represent lightning watchdog pdx basically
 the concerns that commissioner fish brought up on starting out at the 100 and then going through the design process and you've made some major changes to the overall unit mix from the two bedrooms down to more ones and also going to the two buildings uh the only concern i have on here is that obviously you're still within the 20 percent guidelines
 the affordable housing at the 60% MFI. So, again, looking from the public good, I think it appears to me that maybe there was kind of a time delay to the developers over this project for whatever reason that was, what the reason really is. And one of the concerns I noticed here is that some of the neighbors kind of made statements that they don't want this kind of to be the poor apartments or the
 are developed for the poor and have more of a mixed type tenant base in there. So, again, you're meeting all those requirements. And, again, I guess it's like, yes, I agree with this being approved, but also having a good understanding also with the developers that with the approval, if you don't remain in compliance, then what's going to happen? And to have that very clear up front,
 on where that will go from here. So if you do opt out in three years of this, exactly what are going to be the penalties for doing that? Because, again, you're staying within that 20%, so I don't have an issue. You should absolutely be part of the MOLT program. And that was my main concern, is just what would happen if they don't remain in compliance after the fact and
 and to make that very clear up front because it seems to me from the 100 percent down to the 40 percent it wasn't really made that clear up front and i think that needs to change and be looked at very close thank you thank you thank you commissioners uh charles johnson and i i just think it's important that we have local context for 102nd
 You know, we're talking about two blocks north of a great max stop, except there's a big hole in the max stop right now because it's under repair, Burnside and 102nd. And when we have a drop, I didn't even do the math to know exactly how many units we're losing here, but I hope that you will find a way to empower yourselves to wrangle these people back to the table and tell you what their vision is, how they're going to make up, I mean, not contractually, but just morally, the...
 make up for this loss of affordable housing. We thought we were going to get it. It's planned. We know that people would have liked to live there. They won't be able to live there now because of these units being at market rate instead of available for subsidy. So when there's a glitch in a developer's plan, I hope that you have not even an official accounting, but just that you write down in your daytime or somewhere,
 not Hazelwood Properties, but the name of the real people who were caught off guard. Some financial extenuity came up. But they shouldn't just be asking for a break. They should be telling the city how they're going to continue to be part of a solution and what they've learned from this experience so that we don't have this crap again. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else? If not, then let's take a roll call vote, please. Saltzman? I appreciate the discussion, and I do hearken back to yesterday's work session we had on the cost of affordable housing
 And, you know, note that one of the issues that came up was how design commission review can increase the cost. And I think this is an example of that. And I think that's something we need to be more cognizant of and find some solutions for. Hi. Novic. Hi. Fish. I have some qualms about this approach, but I have great confidence in the PHB team. And we're still getting a public benefit above our minimum price.
 But I also – this for me triggers another conversation, which is how we address developer applicants who in midstream at some point breach our agreement and what remedies we have, including can we go back to day one and recover the property taxes as if the exemption should never have been granted. So I hope we develop a more robust set of tools so that the Bureau can both – I think
 discourage that kind of behavior, and also in an instance like this, negotiate other compensatory public benefit. Aye. Hales. Aye. Thank you. Okay, item 964.
 Authorize contract with the lowest responsive bidder for the construction of the Southeast Powell Recon Sewer and Green Streets Project E08659 for $3,730,000. Second reading. Roll call, please. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 965. Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Aye.
 Come on up, please. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Sherry Matias from the auditor's office. I'm Mike Zeller. I'm a sidewalk inspector with the sidewalks department at maintenance. This ordinance is for sidewalk repair on property that is required by the city. Any remonstrances have been removed or pulled from this assessment and are not in this ordinance.
 Okay, any questions for staff? Anyone want to speak on this item? No one signed up. Okay, and then I believe this just passes to second meeting, right? Do we have to, we don't have to overrule the remonstrances, it just passes to second meeting? Is that correct? And so it does, and we are recessed until 2 p.m. Thank you all. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the September 16th meeting of the Sportwood City Council. Would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here.
 Here, welcome everyone. We have a single item on the council calendar this afternoon, and I'll have Carla read it in a moment. I just want to welcome you all here. Just basic ground rules for those of you that may not be frequent visitors here. If you're here to testify on this item, you just need only give...
 Carla, your name, and she'll put you on the list. And likewise, when you testify, we typically allow three minutes for individual testimony. It doesn't look like there's so many people here that that will be a problem. Again, need only give us your name, no need for addresses and such, unless you're a registered lobbyist, in which case you need to disclose who you are here on behalf of.
 we maintain the rules of decorum in this room so if you agree with someone and feel compelled that you want to show it feel free to give them a wave of the hand or thumbs up and likewise if you disagree with someone and want to show it polite hand gesture to the negative is fine but we don't make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens points of view in this room so that the council gets to hear all of them that's about all there is to it so Carla would you please read the item
 Item 966, adopt regulations for marijuana license procedures and requirements. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor Hales, and welcome everybody. Last year, Oregonians and over 70% of Portlanders voted to legalize recreational marijuana. So it's now the city's turn to put a framework in place to regulate and license the sale and distribution of marijuana within our city limits.
 And of course, we have previously been strong supporters of medical marijuana and that those dispensaries have been operating for some time. I'm very pleased to now be in charge of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, which is in the capable staff who have been managing this project. So I want to start by thanking Claire Adamsick and Tom Bizzot on my staff and also Teresa Marchetti, Victor Salinas, Amy Archer, and Amalia Alicante-Mars and pretty much the rest of the entire Bureau who have been working on this for several months. And thank you for all of your good work.
 The Office of Neighborhood Involvement staff are in a good position to balance industry interests and small business opportunities with livability concerns that go hand in hand with regulating advice like liquor and now marijuana. And so I'm going to invite the staff to come up to the table, please. We're going to hear from our staff for about 30 minutes. Colleagues, I'd ask you to hold your questions until the end because it's a fairly extensive conversation.
 presentation, and I believe you'll get many of your questions answered. At the end, I have a few minor amendments to propose, and copies of those are available with the council clerk as well as have been distributed to you. Then we'll have a while for time for council questions. We'll have an invited panel, and then we'll open it up for testimony and come back with more discussion at the end. Teresa, welcome. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 Good afternoon, Councilmembers. I'm Theresa Marchetti. I'm the Livability Programs Manager for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, overseeing the marijuana policy program, or the development of the marijuana policy program. Thank you for the opportunity to present the proposed framework for the regulatory licensing and requirement for recreational marijuana businesses and medical dispensaries within the City of Portland.
 As you know, this council approved the development of the marijuana policy program within the Livability Center of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement in November of 2014.
 For those of you who have not been following it as closely, I'd like to provide a little bit of legislative background. So in 2014, the legislature passed Senate Bill 1531, which legalized the sale of medical marijuana from marijuana dispensaries. At that point, recreational marijuana and the use of it was still illegal.
 In November of 2014, Measure 91 was passed by the voters, which legalized the personal use and growing of marijuana and also provided a framework for regulating the sale and distribution of marijuana that was largely modeled after the Liquor Control Act. In 2015 legislative session, House Bill 3400 was passed. This effectively modified Measure 91 and Senate Bill 1531 in a couple of ways that are important for our conversation today.
 First of all, it requires a land use compatibility statement from the local government before a state issues a recreational license. It also allows local governments the option of opting out of housing one or more of the license types. It allows local governments to regulate the business operations, often called the time, place, and manner, of retailers, wholesalers, producers, processors, and also medical dispensaries.
 It also allows local governments to entertain the idea of a 3% tax on recreational marijuana with a referral to the voters. And finally, it allows local governments to create a 1,000-foot buffer between recreational retail locations in order to address and reduce the possibility of saturation. In addition to that, the legislature also passed Senate Bill 460.
 We're in an arena right now where actually the recreational system will not be up and running until January of 2016. So the legislature passed sort of a stopgap that would allow the sale of limited recreational marijuana from existing medical dispensaries beginning on October 1st of 2015, which is coming very quickly.
 That will be tax-free until December 31st of 2015. Then through 2016, it will be taxed at 25% sunsetting December 31st of 2016. I'd also like, just for your information and for context for our discussion, to reference the federal landscape of marijuana. It currently is still illegal federally.
 But there was a set of guidelines that was released from the district attorney that is lovingly referred to as the Cole Memo that outlined several priorities for prosecution, for federal prosecution. And those also provided some guidance for jurisdictions that were looking to legalize marijuana within the states. I think you said district attorney. I think you meant attorney general. Thank you, sir. Attorney. Yes. Thank you.
 So some of those include preventing revenue from the sale of marijuana from going to criminal enterprises, preventing diversion of marijuana from states that have legalized to states that have not legalized or just across state lines in general, preventing the authorized marijuana activity in states to be being used as a pretext to cover other illegal activity, preventing violence in the cultivation of marijuana, and also preventing youth access.
 So to give you an idea about what the landscape of marijuana looks like in Portland specifically, we currently have 132 medical dispensaries that are registered with the state. 120 are operating. We do know that there are current compliance issues with some of those locations. Some of them are not adhering to some of the state regulations yet.
 We also know that Portland houses about 40% of the retail alcohol market, so we assume that marijuana will be located here in similar numbers.
 We also are in a landscape where local jurisdictions can opt out of licensing. And we've had, as of drafting this, there were about 25 local jurisdictions that have prohibited licensing within their boundaries, so primarily southern Oregon. And it's unclear what jurisdictions within the metro area will be efforting that. Teresa, can you just give us a quick flavor of what some of those current compliance issues are, just categories, or do you do that later?
 I can now. Just a thumbnail sketch. Sure. Currently within the OHA's parameters there, there is a 1,000-foot buffer between dispensaries. Some dispensaries are not in compliance with that. Some dispensaries are operating without being registered at all, so completely unlicensed. So the framework that we are proposing today goes to address a number of different elements, and
 We think that Portland has a clear interest in regulating the marijuana industry as it integrates into our commercial corridors. First of all, to encourage the responsible integration of the industry, but also at the same time addressing those environmental impacts that could potentially...
 have adverse effects on livability or public safety. We're also concerned about the security of the industry itself. And as well, we think that this is an excellent opportunity to really establish what the community expectations are going to be around this issue. There's a wide variety of opinions, and the Office of Neighborhood Involvement is in a unique position to be able to mediate those.
 In addition, we have also provided some recourse for Portland communities to address the unlicensed locations. Currently, the Oregon Health Authority and the Oregon Liquor Control Commission have no statutory authority to address anything but their licensees or registrants.
 So really what we want to do here is create a roadmap for success. We know, this is what you're seeing, this graphic, this bell curve of behavior is a well-established concept within the social sciences.
 There's always going to be about 10% of actors that act outside the law within the gray areas, within the loopholes, and that's going to require some level of enforcement. There's also the 10% of good actors that, regardless of the rules, are going to go above and beyond to meet the community expectations and to run safe and livable businesses. Okay.
 It's that 80% in between that can be motivated by rules and community standards, as long as they understand what those are. And we hope that this is the beginning of that discussion. So to illuminate more on what the nuts and bolts are of the regulation that we are proposing, I'd like to introduce Victor Salinas. He's our Marijuana Policy Program Coordinator. Good afternoon. And again, my name is Victor Salinas, for the record.
 And I am the Marijuana Policy Program Coordinator for the City of Portland. I'd like to take the opportunity to share the proposed marijuana regulatory license requirements, which would be for medical dispensaries, those who sell marijuana and marijuana items, the Oregon Medical Marijuana Act, patient cardholders and caregivers over 21.
 This also includes licensing of marijuana retailers who sell marijuana and marijuana items to general public over 21 years.
 In addition, we'll be offering licenses for marijuana processors who are focused on the production of marijuana items, including edibles and concentrates. And as well as marijuana wholesalers who transfer marijuana from producers and processors to the retailers. And, of course, licensing marijuana producers who are in charge of growing or cultivating marijuana products.
 It is worth noting that the city is not regulating growers and producers currently under the medical marijuana system, since that is out of our scope of authority and covered under federal law or on patient protection with HIPAA.
 I'd like to move on to discuss a little bit of the proposed minimum standards to process a license application. This is an initial evaluation criteria that also serves as the criteria for the land use compatibility statement that will be –
 processing as part of the state license and will be part of the concurrent process running with the city's proposed license. So this initial criteria includes ensuring that proposed businesses are within a fixed location, so no mobile or satellite locations would be allowed.
 In addition, based on language from House Bill 3400, businesses would not be able to site within less than 1,000 feet from schools. Victor, this, without getting too technical, how do you calculate 1,000 feet? That would be as the crow flies. Thank you.
 Just to note, Council and those watching, everything that's in blue is in state law. So those are things that are mandatory that we are not allowed to change. Other parts of our proposal that are not in blue are things that we can discuss as to whether we want to do it or not. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. The next component of the minimum standards would be that marijuana business retailers are
 be at least 1,000 feet from another marijuana business retailer, and that was through the authority granted to the city by our home rule and through language in House Bill 3400, as well as a minimum distancing of 1,000 feet between medical dispensaries, and that is per Senate Bill 1530. In addition to that, we also have another component, which...
 includes language on zoning, and that ensures that businesses do not zone within residential zoning RF through RH, and that is per state statute prohibiting licenses to zone in areas that are exclusively zoned for residential use. And again, just to clarify, this would be the criteria that we also use to go through the evaluation process for the land use compatibility statement.
 In terms of the proposed application procedure for marijuana regulatory licenses, all applicants must submit City of Portland forms developed by the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. They need to present a business license where applicable a change of use permit, proof of an alarm permit, a lease showing authorization for use of the property owner, and the application fee.
 for those applying for a producer or processor license they will need to show all appropriate permits are being obtained or have been obtained and in order to proactively address safety concerns and nuisance activity
 we are including a component that we have identified as a marijuana control plan to address security. And this would be for retailers and for medical dispensaries. The plan would include language on how the businesses plan to address security measures, minor access or restricting minor access, how they plan to address trash in the surrounding areas of the area,
 and around the business, and another safety component commonly known as SEPTED or the crime prevention through environmental design to minimize any safety concerns or to address safety concerns and minimize nuisance activity. Victor, does the requirement that the applicant submit a lease?
 showing authorization, is that for the specific use of a marijuana dispensary, or can it be just for any commercial use? That would be for the specific use of a marijuana dispensary or a marijuana business retail or retail business.
 I'd like to follow with some of the proposed notification process that we've identified through our public involvement process to help mitigate community concerns and serve as a bridge between the industry and community as we integrate this new industry into the Portland business community.
 That component includes that all applicants, as we go through the application process, the director shall provide a notice of application before a final decision is made to the Police Bureau, the Bureau of Fire and Rescue, the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services, and the Bureau of Development Services. Next slide, please. Thank you.
 For medical dispensaries and for marijuana retailers, we've also included the component to help address and mitigate community and industry relationship. That property owners and property occupants within 300 feet of the proposed license premise be notified by mail.
 And the other component that is incorporated is that district coalition offices and neighborhood associations in which the marijuana regulatory licensee is located or proposed to be located, that they will be receiving a notice in the mail notifying them about the name of the property, contact information, as well as how they can obtain the marijuana control plan that addresses the issue.
 safety and livability concerns. Commissioner Fritz, on the question of notice to coalition offices and neighborhood associations, is there any reason why we don't expand that to include a business association if it falls within one of the 50 districts? Actually, Commissioner, I was just about to add
 Add my piece of this and say that we are going to be directing the district coalition to be notifying the business association. Of course, there isn't necessarily going to be one in all areas, but where there is the administrative direction to the district coalition will be to make sure that the business association will be noticed. Of course, adjacent businesses will get the written notice. Thank you both.
 And lastly, the other form of notification will be a posting of a public notice where the marijuana regulatory license is located or proposed to be located.
 So once we go through the process, the evaluation process for the licenses, upon presentation of a state approval and payment of the licensing fee, then the City of Portland would issue the license if all components are met satisfactorily to establish a location within the Portland city limits.
 At this time, I'd like to move on to share on our public involvement process, and I'd like to take the opportunity to thank all the representatives from identity and culturally specific groups, as well as the industry that participated and helped shape the policy that we are proposing before you today.
 We did this through engagement through a town hall series that involved three town halls in southwest Portland, in east Portland, and in north Portland to ensure that we were reaching the broader community. We had approximately 100 participants throughout the three town halls and addressed many concerns that we'll be sharing with you shortly.
 As part of the involvement process, we also convened a community stakeholder work group that met over a period of 11 weeks, and we had approximately five meetings. No, I'm sorry. We did have five meetings, and we addressed a series of concerns both from the industry side and the community side addressing livability and safety concerns.
 We also did targeted outreach to approximately 635 contacts to inform of the development of these policies and how we were advancing in the process. And we did this through social media, through Nextdoor, through Facebook, through Twitter, as well as phone calls, emails, and in-person communications. Okay.
 And we feel that the regulatory system that we're presenting before you today is reflective of the collaborative effort through this public involvement process and the input that we received. In terms of some of the feedback that we heard, the main themes were to avoid preferential treatment for existing medical dispensaries opting into soft start sales through regulations by October 1st, 2015.
 Another point raised was to work with the state to ensure that the soft start does not encourage the illegal market, ensuring that the marijuana control plan does not unreasonably affect business operations, address social environments, including smoking lounges and events responsible for consumption, which is something that we plan to do as part of our next steps as we reconvene the stakeholder workgroup.
 and that we use an equity lens to create opportunity for small growers, emerging business owners, and communities of color to access the market, as well as women-owned businesses. In addition, we plan to address another point raised continuously, which was to address education about marijuana addiction and prevention awareness, and to address...
 components that would ensure that we limit saturation of adult businesses, like bars, marijuana retailers, and lottery establishments in the city. We also heard concerns to support legal businesses and go after the bad actors, because as we know from other enforcement programs that we have, that the program is only as good as its enforcement. And, of course, reminding our community members here that
 The reason why this program has been asked to, we were asked to house it in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement is because of the fact that our programs are people-centered and we focus on a collaborative enforcement process. We were also asked to address funding for the Marijuana Policy Program, which, just to clarify and further iterate, that this is a cost recovery-based program, not a fee or not a revenue-creating program.
 And we were also asked to address police enforcement and their response to complaints. So in terms of the licensing requirements for the proposed marijuana regulatory license, all licensees will need to display their city license. They need to ensure that no consumption takes place on the premises. Victor, or Commissioner, I just was curious about the no consumption on premises issue.
 You go to a liquor – you go to a bar, order a drink, you can consume on premises. You go to a cigar bar, buy a regulated product, and consume it on the premises. The no consumption on premises, the rationale for that in this context is? Teresa can chip in, but I believe it's because the state law that was passed by the voters says no consumption in public. And so a business is a public place. Public accommodation. Yeah. Okay.
 And we are, as Victor mentioned, we did hear during the town halls and through our outreach that there is some interest in looking at, could there be places to do that? It's a bigger question than we wanted to tackle under this program right now. One significant difference is if you go into a bar and someone else drinks, you don't consume alcohol. A slight difference in the secondary impact of someone else's conduct. Anyway, our current...
 you believe the current law does not allow for on-premises consumption because of the no use in a public place. Thank you for the clarification. So another component that we include is ensuring that businesses have a security system with surveillance, and the City of Portland is also addressing delivery services. So no delivery service unless specifically provided by state law under the Oregon Medical Marijuana Act.
 by caregivers. For all marijuana retailers and medical dispensaries, they must have someone designated at the entrance to check IDs. The hours of operation must be no earlier than 7 a.m. and no later than 9 p.m. and must not set up a mobile or satellite location. So this would include you know, farmer's market stands, other stands, mobile carts.
 and so on. So they must be within the fixed location for which the license was authorized or granted. In terms of the licensee requirements for the proposed marijuana regulatory license, all marijuana producer and wholesaler licensees may not be open to the general public. And we did hear a concern in terms of potentially as they expand their license,
 the social environments to allow for tours or media entering these businesses, that would not be considered under what is defined as general public. So they also must install a filtration system for the building ventilation to address odor impacts to the community and surrounding areas.
 And all marijuana processor licensees must not be open to the general public and must adhere to state and local food regulations for food preparation. So I'll turn it over to Teresa to speak on the application process. Thank you, Victor.
 So as we envision it currently and through process mapping and talking with both OHA, which is the Oregon Health Authority, and the OLCC, the Oregon Liquor Control Commission, we have developed what we think will be the process for applying for a city license and how it – and we've sort of detailed how it will interact with the state's process as well.
 On this slide, this is the application process for recreational marijuana businesses. Sorry, but you probably don't want to use the infinity symbol for a regulatory process. Or the licensing process. Is a start and an end. Is a start and an end. There is an end.
 I carried away graphically there, Teresa. Maybe I did. Maybe I did. There is – so to start applying for the city license, there will be – the applicant will submit their forms, and the minimum standards will be assessed by the city of Portland. At that same time, we envision that the application for a state license, that process can run concurrently.
 the state will request a land use compatibility statement from the city of Portland, which will cross over those minimum standards. Essentially, it's the same criteria that we would use to provide them with a LUX and approval or denial. And if OLCC ultimately approves that application, then the city would issue that license. The application process for a medical dispensary is slightly more complicated in that medical dispensaries currently exist. So...
 Under the existing medical dispensaries, which we intend to begin licensing pending approval by city council as of October 1st, follow the blue trajectory on this graphic. So basically they would apply for a city license, the city of Portland would verify that they actually have a valid registration with the Oregon Health Authority and that they are in good standing there, then would assess the minimum standards at that point.
 ensuring that we catch any of those compliance issues, of which I talked about a little bit before, and then the city license would be issued. After...
 After that period in which we are licensing the existing medical dispensaries, medical dispensaries that open after October 1st of 2015 would follow a slightly different trajectory in that they'd be applying for a city license. Those minimum standards would be assessed, that 1,000 foot from each other from a school. Then we would be verifying. That feedback loop would happen with the Oregon Health Authority where we'd be verifying a valid registration, and then the city license would be issued.
 I wanted to talk a little bit about the enforcement mechanism for this program as outlined in the proposed requirements and regulations. They may be subject up to $5,000 in penalties for administrative violations. That could be either for operating without a valid city license or operating in violation of a requirement of this chapter. We do have...
 and ask for code enforcement staff that we will be further detailing in the fall bump, but it is requested as part of this presentation. That would allow for two two-person teams to address compliance issues, basically north and south of Burnside. Teresa, is the penalty component of this, is it a –
 Is it a ladder where the first time it's something and then it cumulatively at some point gets to $5,000? Yes, absolutely. And we intend to reconvene the community work group to look at the regulations and define what will be essentially a Class D violation that would come with a much smaller potential penalty than, for instance, operating without a license, which we would elevate to a higher level.
 level. Is the general philosophy, though, sort of first violation is corrective? Yes. Multiple violations becomes a pattern, and therefore you use the hammer? Absolutely. That's sort of the trajectory that all our livability programs follow. So it starts small, usually with a warning, with education. We envision that happening with first and second violations, and then after that, assessing civil penalties as the behavior becomes more prolific and consistent. Okay.
 What do you need two-person teams for? Why not one-person team? Or one person, I guess. We want to ensure that there is a partnership there that it's really for safety purposes so that if our staff is approaching these businesses, particularly the ones that are operating without a license, that they're doing so in partnership with another member of staff.
 Wouldn't you use police as a backup in that situation? To get into that, into the amendments. Yes, we will. And some reluctance from the police. So that's part of the reason why we're proposing that the staffing be an only for the majority of the inspections and enforcement. Okay.
 And does OLCC use two-person teams? Yes, typically, at least with liquor. They're still currently hiring their enforcement staff for their marijuana program. And typically, I mean, this...
 This program is based on administrative requirements and administrative violations, and so I think that the reluctance on the part of the police bureau to designate resources for the enforcement of an administrative program is sort of similar to, for instance, the enforcement of our noise control program, which is also heavily administrative. Obviously, we would have some partnership with them, or at least we would hope to have partnership with them if it crossed over into the arena of criminal activity. Commissioner Fritz-Siffel.
 All else fails, you can lobby Dan and say that the fire bureau proposed two-person teams. That would be a bad idea. Four-person teams. And just to be absolutely clear, no criminal citations or enforcement will be conducted by this office, although we will have partnership with police if there are situations that arise that need their expertise.
 District Attorney Rod Underhill has also confirmed that his office will address violations related to minor access and public consumption, also outside of the purview of this particular program, at least in terms of enforcement. We will be engaging with the community on elements of education to that extent in a more informal capacity. Is he seeking funding from us or the county or some other source?
 I'm not sure. I'll have to get back to you on that. We haven't had that. I haven't had that discussion with him. I was actually just at the Girl Scout lunch, and he and I had an ongoing conversation about this. The question had arisen, if police were to cite somebody for use in public, would the district attorney prosecute? And the answer is absolutely yes. Presumably, he will seek some funding source to cover that overhead. Well, presumably, when they prosecute, there was fines and such involved that we may or may not get. Mm-hmm.
 so moving on to the fee structure um again this council had asked when they uh when they approved the development of the marijuana policy program that it be developed in such a way that was cost recovery
 and the fees reflect that. It's obviously difficult to project the number of applications, but we've been in conversations with Denver, Colorado, and with Washington, and specifically Seattle, Washington, on the distribution of their licensing and what they've seen. Denver, Colorado had over 900 licenses locate within their boundaries within the first year. Washington has a statewide cap that actually was actually recently...
 increased, but for their 334 static locations statewide, they received 7,000 applications within the 30 days that they allotted for it. There's a lot of interest just right over our northern border, so we expect a lot of interest here in Portland as well, who is welcoming to the industry.
 So this assumes, obviously, medical dispensaries, we do have some information that there's about 130, 132 that are operating. We assume the same amount for marijuana retailers. Obviously, there's a natural cap that's provided by the 1,000-foot buffer that we've proposed. Marijuana processors, producers, wholesalers, we've tried to roughly ballpark that number based on what we've seen in other jurisdictions. But in truth, we're not completely sure how many to expect. Okay.
 So the cost of administering the marijuana program includes the three positions approved by council previously, the livability programs manager, our marijuana policy program coordinator, Victor, and also our marijuana policy program coordinator.
 assistant who we hope to be hiring very quickly here. It also has an additional ask, again, for four policy code enforcement officers and then a OSS2 support specialist. This includes basically all program costs, materials, rent, all of that. So the intent is it would be revenue neutral, cost recovery, and that we will come in the full bump to ask for position authority. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Commissioner.
 So in terms of next steps, this is actually one component of this, one small-ish component of the overall marijuana policy program. As all livability programs, we look at what the regulatory framework is, what our needs are within our communities, and we try to respond to those through education as well as further work.
 policy, which especially in this arena, we will be needing that. So we intend to move forward with an educational program with our partners in other jurisdictions, with the county, and also with our schools in particular, to address youth access, youth education. We will also be involved in and
 and ready to disseminate information related to DUII. We're also going to be embarking on an education program for the industry to make sure that they understand what the procedures are for application. We hope to partner with both the Oregon Health Authority and the Oregon Liquor Control Commission on that so that we're removing barriers as much as possible. Thank you.
 We also will have the local tax option at 3% discussion that will need to happen, that council will need to have in the next coming months. Just to be clear on that issue, we're not deciding that today. The choices will be we enact a 3% tax, we send a 3% tax to the voters, we try for our 10% tax that we passed before the ballot measure passed, or we don't tax at all.
 Those will be the four choices, but that's not on the table today because we're not allowed to do any of those right now. Thank you, Commissioner.
 And we will also be convening the community work group. They've done excellent work, and we're hoping that all members return to the table to begin this discussion around responsible social environments. We heard from a number of members that are concerned, where do I go if I want to consume responsibly but I don't want to be around my children? Valid points and something that I think garners greater discussion. Currently, the state licensing entity is not involved.
 is not intending to license any on-site consumption. Commissioner Fish, which is what you are referring to when a bar is licensed for the sale of on-site consumption of alcohol. Okay.
 We're also in communications with individuals who want to do events strictly related to marijuana. There have been a number who have been extremely proactive, come in to speak to us about the do's and don'ts, best practices, those kinds of things. There's a number who have not. So we'll begin those discussions about how to ensure that those events happen in a responsible way. And also, you know, this is obviously the first go-around for this proposal.
 It was the first go-around for the state as well within their legislative session, and I imagine that there's going to be some more work to be done in the legislature in the coming one and proceeding ones after that. Commissioner, would you like to speak to the amendments? Yes.
 Yes. Colleagues, I handed out some amendments. This has been a continuing work in progress, and I don't anticipate that what we adopt today, hopefully, or next week would be the final version. But yesterday we realized there were a couple of Scrivener's errors and a memo dated 9-15 that we handed out yesterday, and that's a Scrivener's error on Section 14 in Exhibit A, Section B,
 130.020.M is a duplicate definition and is deleted, which then reorders the other letters in that section.
 And then in Section 14B-130-080-C2, instead of just saying Multnomah County, we need to say licensee must adhere to applicable state and local regulations. There are more than Multnomah County regulations. So that's my first amendment move. Do you want to move them as a package or individually? I'd recommend as a package. Okay. We can take it apart if we have to. That's the first one. The second one is in a memo dated today.
 And the auditor very helpfully brought to our attention that the changes that we adopted on appeals to the code hearings officer changed the amount of money and the regulations for appeals of the director's decisions on marijuana license approvals.
 And so we are proposing to change 14B-130-120 to add review by the director and appeals to the code hearings officer.
 and then adding to 14B130.070F, that the director shall give the applicant written notice of the denial in accordance with the minimum requirements of Chapter 3.130 of Portland City Code. I apologize to everybody listening. I know this is all administrative gobble-de-goop. It really is administrative gobble-de-goop. The intent is to make sure that we're not charging an excessive amount for an administrative appeal. And so the net result is a good thing for the community. Thank you.
 And then we're also adding that same section to 14B130-100B1. I'm required to say all this to get it into the record. I apologize. Then in Section 14B130-110B, the director, again, is in accordance with the minimum requirements of Chapter 3-130 of Portland City Code. That's also added to 110C. And then...
 This kind of explains it better. In Section 14B-130-120, we had review by the director and appeals to the code hearings officer. Any determination issued pursuant to Sections 14B-130-130
 070-100 or 110, believed to be made in error, may be reviewed by the director if requested by the recipient. The request must be submitted in writing within 15 days of the determination and must include all evidence that supports the request. The director's determination shall be served by regular mail. The director's determination may be then appealed to the code hearings officer as provided by Chapter 2210 of the city code. And that then changes the numbering on that.
 And then for the fee schedule, instead of the code hearing appeals fee of $1,750, the administrative review fee is $250. And then there's also a minor change to the Section 090 to instead of
 actually, this one is a little different. This one is about police assistance, which is what Commissioner Saltzman was asking about. So let me take a breath. That was the previous ones on the administrative fee. Then for police bureau protocol, we wanted to make sure in partnership with the police that it's clear what the police are and are not going to do in helping us with inspections.
 So Section 14B130.090.D.3 will now say, Police Assistance, in issuing an inspection warrant on an unoccupied property, including inspection warrants pursuant to 14B130.090, the judge may authorize any peace officer as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes to enter the described property to ensure the safety of the director or the representative of the Bureau in completing the inspection. Okay.
 So that removes language that allowed the police to remove any personal obstacle and insist in inspecting the property in any way necessary. So it's more in conformance with what the actual police do in other situations where there's suspected criminal activity. And finally, the last amendment corrects the fee schedule to have the administrative review fee be $250 instead of $1,750.
 So is there a second to those amendments? And then we can adopt these if that's the council's decision and then conduct the hearing and take testimony. And if folks disagree with any of these amendments as well as what's ever in the package as a whole, you can let us know. And there are paper copies for anybody who felt inspired by that whole recitation of Gobbledygook to want to actually read it. Yeah.
 And, Mayor, just to be clear, by adopting them, we put them on the table for public comment. Correct. And Captain Kruger is here from the Police Bureau. I think this ameliorates the Police Bureau's concern, but we can get confirmation about that. Or if there are any questions about the Police Bureau's role, he can answer them. But are there questions before we vote on accepting the amendments for public testimony? Roll call, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Okay.
 Okay. Anything else from Victor, you, and Teresa before we go forward? Feedback or questions? Just wanted to know if Council has further questions for the staff.
 Great PowerPoint. Yeah, I don't have any further questions. Do you want to have further questions before we move on? We do have an invited panel, and then we can get to public testimony. Thank you, Tim. Thank you very much. Folks should also know that online we have the proposed code, again, with the things that are in state law in blue so that it's really clear. And I want to thank the person who made that suggestion at the last town hall. I think that's really helped me understand where things are. Okay. And your invited panel is?
 here you know who they are good afternoon welcome thank you who'd like to start good afternoon mayor um commissioners thank you my name is laquita lanford and i have i was a part of the community stockholder work group
 And I'm very thankful to have been a part of those conversations as a community member and feeling included in the conversation. I had spoke out before to a couple people that encouraged me to continue to want to do the work that I'm doing with organizing with people of color in the community to have those discussions about inclusiveness and in the business. That was the concern for me, safety and inclusion.
 business practices and how those were going to be looking for people of color. And this is a new opportunity for our city and people that have been marginalized and that have not been included in the past but have been criminalized for these activities.
 for marijuana. So taking a new approach with what we have in our city as REC is to, for me, it was just doing more of the outreach and just learning more and being able to connect and be an advocate for the community of color and rallying folks around to have some know-your-rights sort of trainings. And I got some pretty good.
 pretty good responses and, like, a lot of concerns. So there's still work to do in that area. But as far as the community works, Stock Group, it was very positive, and I learned a lot, and I was able to...
 Yeah, just be a part of that conversation and being at city and different events throughout Portland. So I'm still looking forward to, you know, connecting with the folks in the group and with the city and making sure that the community is connected, not just saying going to a website, but just giving them the information step-by-step for those who are wanting to be involved. So I thank you guys for the opportunity today to be here to speak on that.
 Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for the opportunity to testify. My name is Amy Margolis. I'm an attorney with Emerge Law Group. We focus primarily on the cannabis industry. I'm also the director of the Oregon Cannabis Association. I was part of this group from an industry perspective and from a sort of boots-on-the-ground legal perspective. We represent many, many people in this industry. I'm a lawyer.
 I want to thank Mr. Salinas for allowing us to participate. I participated in a lot of these, and this was the first one where it wasn't just law enforcement, industry, legislators. It really reached out to the community in a kind of special and unique way. So I'm very appreciative of that, and I think people felt very included in that process. Thank you.
 There were a number of good pieces of this legislation. There were a number of pieces of this legislation that promote this industry, that keep communities safe, that focus on public safety. And I'm very proud of the work we did on those pieces. I do have a primary concern. And I...
 I need to explain, I think, what is happening right now for you to understand the impact a small portion of this legislation would have. And I think you're going to hear from other members of the community who are here about this issue. So the rules divide licensing into two groups for dispensaries, medical and recreational. Okay.
 Currently, medical dispensaries, and you saw from your PowerPoint, need to be 1,000 feet from each other. And they will, come October 1, start selling adult-use flour. They will be applying for medical licenses under the Portland licensing regime. So they will hold those licenses. Many of those medically licensed dispensaries intend to get recreational licenses. Okay.
 They have been operating. They have been up and running. They are compliant. They are, we heard the phrase, bad actors. These are the good actors who are participating and in good standing now. What has happened, and Victor reminded me that I objected to this during the meetings too, what this legislation does in creating a thousand feet of
 from each other within the medical program and within the recreational program, but not allowing a period of opt-in, not allowing those medical dispensaries to have first crack at the recreational Portland licenses. What you are doing is creating a situation, and it's a confusing issue, and I'm happy to talk it through, but what you are doing is creating a situation where existing medical dispensaries that
 that have existing medical Portland licenses will not be allowed or able to become recreational dispensaries because a brand new recreational dispensary may get the city of Portland license first. Because of the proximity? Because of the, and I'm going to call it a false proximity designation. I just made that up right now, but I think it's appropriate. And that's because the
 The statute doesn't have that requirement, and the OLs, I participate in the Licensing, Compliance, and Regulatory Committee for OLCC, and they are not imposing that. So this is unique to City of Portland. Other jurisdictions are doing other things. I'm also on the Clackamas Task Force. However, I have yet to see something that will pit medical dispensaries –
 who are creating business plans. So a number of these dispensaries are expanding their square footage and putting additional registers in. They are actively seeking investment to expand to accommodate early recreational sales and then to hear, come...
 October, when recreational dispensaries are licensed, that these medical dispensaries, who have created whole business models around transitioning, will not be able to transition to recreational is, I think, an unintended and an unfortunate consequence. So you believe this is unintentional? I do not. So we spoke about this. I apologize, Commissioner. I think that...
 The city of Portland did not intend to create internal industry competition and to push out existing good actors. That's what I think is unintentional. You know the problem we're trying to solve. I do. Yeah. And so there are a number of suggestions and ways to solve that problem without directly and negatively impacting existing and operating medical dispensaries.
 You want the good players to stay. You want the people with internal and institutional knowledge to continue to participate in this program. Commissioner, because she represents an industry, can we extend the talk a minute? Yeah, no, I want to keep going. This is a useful discussion. I think there's others who want to address this issue, and it was discussed at the task force. Fair enough. But, again, because of her unique –
 in this, could we take an extra minute just to hear her proposal for what the fixes could be, just so we have those in front of us? That would be useful. So how would you recommend we solve the problem of too many licensees in a small area? We've experienced that before with liquor licensees. We know what it looks like, and it's not pretty. So what would you recommend? Sure.
 So, Mayor, Commissioners, thank you. By the way, you don't have to call us Mayor and Commissioners. They do that in Salem, and it gets in the way of all the testimony. You can dispense with that, and we don't even need your address. It's a good thing I don't wear my suit jacket either. So the easiest solution, if you're trying to – and I don't speak for – and the other industry members maybe have an alternative solution. But I think if the goal is to address –
 there being too much saturation, and I understand that is the goal, then the easiest way to solve that is just to have all locations, medical and recreational, need to be from 1,000 feet from each other. That would solve this problem completely. So if all licensed dispensaries, medical or recreational, were required to be 1,000 feet from each other, you would not have this issue. Clear enough. Thank you.
 Sounds elegant. Who's next? We will ponder that while we listen to Linda. We'll also listen to Linda.
 um good yeah good afternoon mayor hales and city council members first time um thank you for allowing me to testify um my name is linda netto coven and i am a community member of the marijuana work group and i'm representing only myself in speaking here today i also would like to take the opportunity to acknowledge the excellent work of oni staff this is an incredible maze of information that they have helped to lead us through and
 Members of the group have also helped each other in terms of understanding what's going on. It's really been a great learning experience, as others have said. But I think it's, in a sense, priceless for what we're trying to accomplish here in Portland with these new regulations.
 I'm in support of the proposal before you, and I'd like to take my time to just emphasize what I think are the necessary, some of the few of the necessary next steps. In addition to the education and outreach efforts that were just mentioned, there's also the information form and the marijuana control plan, all of which I think could benefit from review by stakeholders. Thank you.
 I'm glad you caught the omission of business districts. I was also going to mention that. And I think, again, training for neighborhood coalition staffs, opportunities for neighborhood associations to begin to help to understand the implications of these new regulations would be really helpful in just terms of answering questions and being able to be resources for the community at large.
 I'm hoping the crime prevention staff isn't spread so thinly that they can't occasionally step up on this one as well. I think one of my big concerns is the land rush, in a sense, that we're facing and having enough resources to be able to answer all the questions, handle the applications, deal with community. I guess the key effort is...
 effort here will be to manage community expectations, both in terms of how long licensing processing will have to take and how long education and other sorts of things will take to unfold. I think it's important that the information form in the marijuana control plan, we can see how many things there are to make sure are included, that we include the right, the relevant information, and we don't develop things that are onerous for new applicants to be able to understand and navigate.
 Second, I was planning to chime in on the issue of saturation. I, of course, have no solution to offer, but I know there is fear out in the community that adding the marijuana dispensing system
 establishments along with places that already have what might be called too many bars and perhaps in some cases adult entertainment venues, is going to in a sense preclude the opportunity for those neighborhoods to become walkable because their business districts will lose some of that valuable real estate that could be devoted to the goods and services that people need for daily life. So I'm hoping that there are some good ways to deal with this issue of how many and located where.
 Third and finally, and you may think I'm contradicting myself here, I think the city really needs to explore the development of regulated private premises for consumption of marijuana. By coincidence, the luncheon speaker yesterday at the TREC Transportation Summit said,
 was Eric Kleinenberg, the author of Going Solo, who talks about the dramatic shift in our population and the numbers of people that are now living alone in our society. And a piece of that, obviously, it's very important in terms of future transportation, land use, other kind of planning decisions we make. But the fact that so many people live alone means that many people then choose their connectivity by being outside in...
 private spaces, public spaces, third spaces, that's their way to come together and connect with people. They're not doing it in their homes alone necessarily. So again, the idea of the social enterprise that's involved with consuming marijuana is something that we really need to address. It was on the list, but I just want to emphasize the importance of that conversation going forward. Again, I don't have answers, but I think it's really important to be considered. So I'll stop at this point. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Great. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Dr. Jennifer Vines. I'm a health officer with the Multnomah County Health Department. I'm a family physician by training, and I'm also board certified in preventive medicine and public health. Thank you for the opportunity to provide support for the City of Portland ordinance that facilitates the introduction of retail marijuana businesses. We at the county have been carefully tracking changes to state law related to both recreational and medical marijuana businesses.
 And we know that this is new territory for elected officials and other government agencies. So like you, we are quickly learning and adjusting to this changing landscape.
 I'd like to just identify for you the four areas of concern to public health that we're tracking most closely. The first is that highly potent marijuana, either smoked or consumed, can easily lead to overdose. And we know that since retail sales began in 2014, Colorado's Rocky Mountain Poison and Drug Center has received over 70% more calls related to marijuana exposure than it did in 2013. We know that youth are particularly at risk for accidental poisonings when marijuana products are not stored safely or out of reach.
 The second is that marijuana slows reaction times and doubles the risk of traffic accidents. When drivers are under the influence of both marijuana and alcohol, impairment is compounded. The third issue is that marijuana use by pregnant and breastfeeding mothers is of great concern. So avoiding any chemical exposures like marijuana is really a priority for healthy fetus and infant development.
 And finally, fourth and related to our concern for pregnant and breastfeeding mothers is around youth access, and this has to do with the developing brain. So we know that, well, our understanding of the effects of marijuana on the developing brain are still evolving, but we're taking the precautionary principle here, and we're assuming that those effects are unlikely to be good. We do have strong evidence that marijuana users who start at a young age have an increased risk for becoming dependent.
 So keeping all of that in mind, as we look at the proposed ordinance to address time, place, and manner of operation of marijuana businesses, we expect the ordinance to be helpful in addressing these concerns. Based on what we know from a large body of alcohol and retail outlet research, limiting the density of marijuana retail outlets is prudent. Studies have consistently shown that high alcohol retailer density is associated with increases in alcohol misuse, unintentional injuries, and crime.
 The density limit not only improves neighborhood livability, but it may also discourage impulsive purchases and the negative consequences that result, such as overdose and auto crashes. The limitation on hours of sales also should help limit the consequences of impulsive purchases on fatal auto accidents, which occur most often on weekend nights.
 Finally, ordinance requirements to assure age verification upon business entry and at retail sale is a fundamental part of limiting youth access and of setting the norm that marijuana use is an adult activity. The county is also actively engaged with the Oregon Health Authority and Oregon Liquor Control Commission in public policy development around other common sense rules about potency, packaging, testing, and pesticide use. We urge you to also monitor and provide input on these issues that are outside of the city's authority.
 So in closing, we'd like to thank the City of Portland for its diligence in developing this ordinance. We appreciate your efforts to hold town hall meetings and gather community input. The ordinance presented today not only incorporates community feedback, but also maintains structure around time, place, and manner that supports our vision in public health. Thank you. Thank you. Further questions for anyone on this panel? Thank you all very much. Do you have other invited testimony, Commissioner, or is it time to turn to the sign-up sheet? Okay. Carla, let's please turn to the sign-up sheet.
 I have 13 people signed up. The first three, please, coming up are Joe Petrie, Anthony Johnson, and Donald Morse. And they'll be followed by Philip Chen, Mike Rochland, and Samuel Groves. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Joe Petrie. I'm the author of Venus the Pot. When the Dispensary Act came through last time, one of my friends lost his life. Somebody moved in within a thousand feet.
 And he worked at that spot for two years and made it a business. The man is here today. And somehow we got beat to the punch. It had to be nanosecond for him to get the license after we've worked there for two years. We couldn't figure out how he could have done it. Well, now we have. They have a program.
 that get their applications in before anybody else's. They've got a supercomputer system, super money, backing these out-of-town people who want to make rules that benefit them, that put people that have been here working for 10 and 12 years out of business. This man right here has been here for six years. He runs the human collective. He sells cannabis to patients cheaper than anybody.
 he works at such a profit margin that i don't know how he makes money and he he's going to lose his business even before you guys get to the next step this is already rigged they have it rigged and her applications their applications right here and they've already tried this program their applications will get in before anybody else's they've already tried it during the dispensary act and they're going to do it this time big time i suggest that you
 that you're not grandfathering these people in that have paid their dues here on the state, but at the same time make it equal for everybody to get their application in and make sure that they're residents of the state. Make sure that they're not from Colorado or from some other state coming here to make laws that benefit indoor growers when we grow the best cannabis in the world and it's grown outdoors.
 You're going to create a big, big friction here between the medical people, the outdoor growers. We're going to bury these people. But we're not going to take them fixing the game. We're not going to take it. And that's what they've done. They got away with it at the Dispensary Act. They're not going to get away with it this time. I'm begging you now, you need to really take a close look at who you're dealing with.
 I went to Lewis and Clark to a talk like this,
 And I was first on the list. I was surprised. I got put to the rear because they didn't want me to come and be able to speak to you like I'm speaking to you today. But just like it happened to my friend at Leroy at Hallelujah Farms. And by the way, these people that moved in within 1,000 square feet, they were out of business in 90 days because, one, they didn't know how to grow pot. Two, they didn't know how to run a dispensary. Three, they hadn't done their marketing. They didn't have their following. They didn't have their business.
 These people have businesses, customers that have been set up for a long, long time. Thank you. You made that very clear. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you for listening to me here. My name is Donald Morse. I'm the director of the Oregon Cannabis Business Council. We're a trade organization for the industry. And I also own the Human Collective Dispensary here in Portland. I...
 Ms. Margolis laid out the problems here with this plan as we read it. Someone can go across the street from any dispensary in town and rent a location, not make any improvements to it, and then file the application, and if they're just nanoseconds ahead of us, they get it.
 and the dispensary that's been a part of the community, built up as a business, employs any number of people, et cetera, will be forced out of business. Now, you may say, well, they can remain a...
 medical facility. Well, the OLCC and the OHA are on record, both publicly and privately, as saying that within two years they expect that the two systems will merge. Market forces are going to make this happen.
 The dispensary owners in my organization, all of them plan to go retail. And the reason is they know that if they don't, it spells the end of their business within a couple of years. So really what you're doing is you're setting up a dynamic that can punish the people who paved the way for the industry in this state, right?
 And I think that is gross injustice.
 Thank you. So how will medical patients get their medication if everybody goes to retail? Medical patients, for instance in mine, medical patients can come in and buy in a retail establishment. There's nothing stopping them from doing that. However, there is the tax. In this coming short session, we are going to be pushing a bill that will ban
 basically state that medical patients with a card cannot be taxed regardless of what type of facility they go into. So that'll take care of that problem. We expect that to pass because we have a tremendous amount of support for it.
 Secondly, in my dispensary, even after I become retail, the OLCC is allowing us to give uniform discounts. So I could discount 15% off of the price of any product that's listed at retail for anyone with a card, and that's exactly what we anticipate doing. So we built our businesses on the medical patients. We have no rules.
 wish to turn our back on them. We're going to protect them every step of the way. But this is going to become a one-channel industry within a few years. And basically, like I said, these dynamics will punish the people who have helped to set the industry up as it is now, and it's just not fair. I'm very glad to hear that you're looking out for the patients. Thank you. Definitely.
 Yes, my name is Anthony Johnson. I was co-author and chief petitioner of Measure 91. I am the executive director and registered lobbyist with New Approach Oregon, the PAC responsible for Measure 91, and the Vote Yes on 91 campaign. Today I'd like to first briefly just touch upon the fact that we do need to have social use measures.
 lounges or places for people to use cannabis in this city. Under state law, marijuana needs to be out of public view and cannot be used in a public place. But that doesn't discount private clubs and private establishments similar to cigar bars, for instance.
 Most pressing to the rules and regulations before us today, as Don and Amy and others have touched upon, is the 1,000-foot barrier. In Measure 91, when we wrote the measure, we did not have any 1,000-foot barrier in the measure.
 Over 56% of Oregonians, 70% of Portlanders voted for that measure without the 1,000-foot barrier. And we were aware of the 1,000-foot barrier that exists for medical marijuana dispensaries, and there are plenty of good actors that have been good partners, good neighbors, serving patients admirably within the medical marijuana community. But also that 1,000-foot barrier also...
 cut out people who could also be good neighbors and do good work. And just because you get your application in one second earlier or a minute earlier than somebody else doesn't necessarily mean you're going to be the better representative for the industry. And so we would argue that marijuana should be treated like bars, breweries, and wineries. And we follow in the footsteps of our microbrewer and local winery industries and not have a 1,000-foot barrier, and the saturation issue will increase.
 I wasn't going to say weed itself out, but the saturation issue will correct itself in that the cream will rise to the top and those actors will survive and the bad actors will fade away. If we operated our microbrewery industry like we did, like we're proposing to do with marijuana, you could imagine a time where the McMinnon brothers or Deschutes or somebody would be –
 They're not allowed to enter the industry because somebody got their application in one second before them. So I would argue and we would argue to not have that 1,000-foot barrier, allow the competition, and allow the cream to rise to the top, and that's a better policy for Portland and the rest of the state. Well, let me be clear about this from my standpoint. I think this is probably pretty shared among us. My interest in any kind of a 1,000-foot or any other competition
 approach is not at all founded on a desire to create a system that people could game or a system in which we're trying to pick winners and losers among business people. But what it comes from is unhappy experience in this city with what is known as Lottery Row on Hayden Island with a very close proximity of a state.
 that are both licensed liquor dispensers and lottery dispensers, both ironically licensed by state government. It's created a very odious situation for the people that live near that. And having been once burned, we're now a little shy. And so we're looking for ways to make sure we don't replicate that problem there or in other neighborhoods. So that's why I asked Ms. Marteles, you know,
 understand the problem we're trying to solve. The problem we're not trying to solve is figure out who we like better and make sure they succeed. Not at all. That's not what's going on here. But we do have a responsibility for neighborhood livability, and we've seen it eroded in that instance by the proliferation of state-licensed restricted substance distributors and state-licensed gambling operations too close together and causing all kinds of side effects that the
 that's hurt the livability of the neighborhood. So understand that's the problem we're trying to solve. I think I speak for the whole council in articulating that. So this discussion is very helpful because maybe we don't have it right yet, but understand where we're trying to go. May I offer one more solution then? Sure.
 just to allow, say, a two-day period when you begin accepting licenses in which to allow existing businesses to make their decision and submit their application. After that, it's
 open field for whoever wants to enter as long as they're outside our buffer zone or whatever. And that way you get to limit the number and you get to protect the industry that's brought us this far. Okay, that's great. Good. Thank you. And if I could just chime in, I do think
 I guess, grandfathering in, if you will, existing medical marijuana dispensaries is a better policy than allowing the existing medical marijuana dispensaries to be blocked out of the upcoming adult use system. But I still think a better policy is to make sure we bring in qualified people. And I think that a more comprehensive approach that maybe looks at the
 different neighborhoods in the city. Some neighborhoods may be okay with the larger proliferation of marijuana dispensaries while others may not. It may not be as suitable for those locations, but just to think that people existing today are necessarily better than people who would come into the market isn't exactly the case. I do think it's a better policy than allowing somebody to swoop in and take their 1,000-foot barrier, but I think that a more comprehensive approach would be a better approach and that we have time to
 to consider these issues as the state's not going to be accepting applications until January 4th and that a decision like this that does have a big impact upon who gets to participate in this industry as well as who really is still targeted by the drug war, the war on marijuana, because they're not able to participate in this industry I think is an important issue for us to consider.
 Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. The next three are Philip Chen, Mike Rocklin, and Samuel Gross, and they'll be followed by Lindsey Reinhardt, Sarah Duff, and William Frederick Mario. Welcome. Who would like to be first? Mr. Chen, go ahead. I'd like to echo some of the points that Anthony – Just give us your name again for the record. Philip Chen, owner of Puddle Town Organics. It's a medical marijuana dispensary.
 I want to start by saying that the compassion for patients is how this industry and this state was built. That being said, we face a saturation in Portland specifically. And I know for, in my case, and I speak for many of my colleagues here who are also dispensary owners, that if recreational shops open in between us, then some of us are just 1,000 feet away from each other already.
 If a shop opens up in between me and my nearest neighbor, now we have three shops within 1,000 feet of each other, and it just makes the neighborhood unlivable. So we already have the operating experience. We've already invested. And I think that with increased competition, you'll see more places go out of business, and that would lead to more vacancies. Right.
 and would affect the macroeconomics of Portland severely when people have to give up their lease. So the people that are already in place, I think, should have at least a first shot at receiving recreational licenses. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Hi. I'm Mike Brocklin, and I'm a patient advocate.
 public health nurse, and I'm interested in what you've done. I think I've attended a lot of legislative events down in Salem initially and OLCC meetings and have seen this state really perform well, and I think the city's doing a commendable job with outreach to the communities, probably better than any other city in the state that I'm aware of. So I think that's goodness. And after following what I heard from Amy Morgones in terms of the
 The idea that we might be headed into like the other words that we use are like land grab. I've seen that already this last year. It's been driving real estate prices crazy. So there's a natural tendency. People hear that this is a green rush, like a gold rush, and they're wanting to get some money. So I think that's what's driving some of this. The newness of it and the concerns I have have to do with the medical patients that have already been established.
 The dispensary owners that have done very credible work and been involved in this whole process as we've gone along lend to the experience of being able to be fair and good players in this industry. So the other point I'd like to make is that this 1,000-foot rule –
 I hadn't heard that explanation before, and that's really good to understand. And I think that, you know, we're at a point now to set something great and maybe amend it later would be a good idea. The idea on allowing medical dispensaries that exist now that have a business license, I think, is really good and important for the community. Because as I also heard and have experienced, neighbors, communities concerned, when a sign pops up, a posting,
 That's a lot of fear for the neighbors. I've been involved in community groups, and that certainly is a concern. So I look forward to a fair and transparent process as this appears to be. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Samuel Gross. I'm an attorney here in Portland. I also serve on the OLCC's Licensing and Enforcement Rules Advisory Committee.
 A lot of the sentiments that I feel have already been echoed today by some of my colleagues here, Amy Margolis, Anthony Johnson. One of the things that I want to point out, and I don't want to repeat some of the points that have already been made today, but what the industry seems to be asking for is that they get first crack at obtaining a retail license for adult use marijuana. Okay.
 This sets up an interesting problem for them because currently under the proposed OLCC regulations, a particular physical location could only be issued an OLCC license or a license under the OHA, and that those two licenses cannot coexist in the same space.
 So therefore, if a business wanted to apply for the recreational side, as soon as that license was issued, they would have to then give up their OHA license. For medical, you mean? For medical, correct. And so therefore, they would have to choose immediately upon that application. So this could set up some interesting issues because they would give up the OHA license, and then that would free up a space on the map potentially for,
 for another medical dispensary to move in next door to them. So the other thing I want to look at this 1,000-foot rule is we're worried about oversaturation, and we're treating the city as a homogenous fabric, which we know it's not. We have some areas that are higher density in population and other areas that are not.
 if you look at southwest portland in the pearl district in the core here we have a higher density of population and therefore it might make sense to allow more dispensaries to exist
 or more retail outlets to exist in that space. When you take into account the exclusion zones for schools that are already in place, you only have room for a handful, a discrete number of businesses to operate in the downtown core here, which may actually need to support more dispensaries. And then you can look at other areas of the city which aren't as densely populated that a 1,000-foot exclusion may be even too – allow businesses to pack in too closely.
 So I think that Measure 91 said the city may regulate in a reasonable time, place, manner, and that treating the city as homogenous with 1,000 foot among all businesses just may not be reasonable in this case. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Thank you all very much. Questions? Thanks. Next three are Lindsey Reinhardt, Sarah Duff, and William Frederick Mario.
 and they'll be followed by Jeff Sugarman, Mike McGrath, and Beau Whitney. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hi. Thank you. My name is Lindsay Reinhart. I'm here today to talk about a couple of things that I found in the ordinance.
 On page 1, number 8, there is concern about the saturation. I wanted to refer you to the Colorado and Sacramento land use studies that show that areas that have cannabis dispensaries are higher in security and safer for the environment as we are required to have extreme security measures in place.
 I work at One Draw Two Dispensary in Portland. We have had officers come into our facility and ask us for our security footage because there was crimes that were committed right by us, and we weren't able to help them with those cases. Can I ask, I appreciate your testimony. You're going to get your full time, but I would welcome...
 your view on what's the downside of a rule that just says 1,000 feet between dispensaries, regardless of whether they're medical or recreational. I'd just be interested in your view as to why that would be bad.
 Well, it's detrimental to some of the facilities. The one that I work at, we're a medical facility, and then right next door we also have a glass store where we would like to serve recreational cannabis. We share a wall with that. The owners own the entire building. So we have a medical facility on one side. We'd like to have a recreational on the other where we can go ahead and utilize both licenses in one location. But they're two separate locations because they're two separate addresses. They are very much within a foot of each other. Okay.
 Alternatively, if we did adopt the narrower view of the 1,000-foot rule, you'd have to go find another space four blocks away or four and a half blocks away. Correct. And they already own the one that's adequate to serve both populations. So asking them to have an additional expense when they already have the necessary space and security is a little bit difficult.
 outlandish, in my opinion. Again, the mayor is going to give you all your time, but let me just ask you something. Do you feel that – is there an equity argument here? I mean, did your owner take actions anticipating that the laws would be a certain way? They have. Or did they take their chances? No. We have design plans, and they want to knock out a wall and see if they could have a dual license, which doesn't –
 exist yet. And so now it's, I came here to find out if they should knock out a wall or not, you know, should it be, should there be a dual license or should they have a recreational and a medical side-by-side? Is that even going to be allowed? You know, because that buffer zone is
 We absolutely have other dispensaries that are almost exactly 1,000 feet away from us on the plus side of the law. So they are over 1,000 feet. And we do weed each other out. We've watched that dispensary that's 1,000 feet from us fail twice now. And it's because there's good actors and there's bad actors. That's helpful. Thank you. Thank you.
 So the other one thing I wanted to address on there is that there's already a lot of cannabis processors and producers active in Portland that aren't going to be able to wait for an OLCC license in order to obtain their Portland license. And I felt that the language on page nine was a little bit directionless on that. It just kind of seemed like a big loop. On page six.
 There is the order in which it's received to the director of the application. We'd like to know if that is processed or if it's payment received, and if it's going to be an online process because, again, with the Internet concerns about people hitting enter before they're able. Okay.
 On page 9, letter B, it says that they can be registered or licensed. Registering a business with the state of Oregon is very easy. It doesn't cost very much money, and you can do it online. Licensing is an entirely different issue. It takes us months to get licenses from OHA. So making that language be more clear, saying that they have to be licensed, would be appreciated. Okay.
 On page number 11, number 2, it says that there's no on-site consumption allowed. The state law says that if you're a patient in an enclosed locked room, that you are allowed to use your medicine on-site at the facility. It is not to be shared. It is not to be blatant. It is to be able to safely and properly use your medication. I would ask that you please...
 go with the state law there. I have multiple sclerosis. I'm off 22 pills. I don't care to take any, and I would like my medicine to be acceptable to use at work, please. So a real-world example of how that works? Sure, absolutely. I sit in a very cold room all day processing paperwork, and I have muscle spasms. So if I close that door and I lock it, there's no windows, I'm not in public view, and I can use my medical cannabis, and then my muscle spasms stop. That's very helpful. Thank you. Thank you.
 So we really do need to have that. And then as far as consumption goes on site, as far as the lounges go, you have three lounges that I know of operating in the city of Portland. Those are safe havens for people, people that have PTSD, people that have chronic pain, people who are going through cancer. People are able to go network at those lounges and meet other people that can help them through those experiences. And it's absolutely essential.
 incredibly necessary to our community to be able to support one another. So when you guys do go ahead and do lounges, I would ask that you please consider those very carefully because they're very important to those that use them.
 lounges and events um the events we had a really interesting trouble with the high times cup so we need to be able to have a place where we can where we can hold cups and be able to have people medicate properly or recreate properly and still be able to leave safely in an orderly fashion without the olc state stepping in saying you can't do that so we need to be able to have a place that we can hold our events at
 And the last thing I had was on breastfeeding and pregnant mothers. There are several studies from Jamaica that say that cannabis is safe for nursing when pregnant women, and I'd also urge you to look at those. Thanks very much for your help. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Sarah Duff. I've been a cannabis activist for 13 years in Missouri, but in Portland for the last 10 years, and I live in Portland. I'm here to talk about just my view of trying to have a low cost of barrier to enter the industry, and it does seem like with the license fees that they are relatively high compared to many other industries' license fees.
 The medical cannabis dispensaries, it looks like you all are proposing $1,750 for your license fee. And the state fee, I believe, will end up being $4,500 by the end of it. But when the voters voted, they voted for a $1,250 fee for recreational licenses. And at the time, we already knew that it was $4,000 for a state fee for the medical dispensary and dispensaries.
 So now, under the proposed rules, if we have to have licenses for the city and the state, it looks like it would end up being $62.50 for the city and state fee for medical dispensaries and $7,500 for recreational use.
 retail licenses. So if you wanted to do both of those, that looks like about $10,500 per year, and that seems like a lot of money. It also looks like there would be double enforcement, enforcement on the state level as well as on the city level. It doesn't really seem like we need to have double enforcement. I think just one is enough.
 I also wanted to reiterate something that Lindsay was saying, that we do need to have lounges and events and the ability to use marijuana and drugs.
 Let's see, one way that we should be arguing that marijuana is similar to alcohol, we all like using it together. It's a very communal drug, if you want to call it a drug. It's a non-toxic herbal remedy to a lot of people. I think that we need a champion on this issue. We don't have that on the state level. If we should have that anywhere, it should be Portland. So I'm going to be pushing for allowing that on the state level, and hopefully we'll be able to craft better
 better regulations here in Portland since we do have the most support. Also, in other industries like the furniture industry, they like to have various furniture stores in the same area. And I think that marijuana could be very similar to that. This may be one issue where marijuana and alcohol are not exactly the same.
 It may be possible that lottery and alcohol may not exist the best way. If you have multiple competition right across the street from each other, that may be a little bit different than marijuana. I'll cite for an example, there's, let's see, basically 39th and Hawthorne, or Cesar Chavez. So you have, let's see, there's two different smoke shops directly across from each other, and then there's one just a half block away. So there's three within one block.
 and they don't seem to be arguing with each other. It is nice to have those options as a consumer myself and I do think that there is so much variance between quality between dispensaries or retail outlets that we can support having multiple competition across the street from each other. May I just ask you as an activist, are there cities where you think concentration has been proven to be successful? Sure.
 I don't know if we've had a chance to see that as much yet. But in Colorado, I would say that might be a good one to look at, since I know that there are so few licenses in Washington, it's kind of hard to look at them and learn from them. So it's possible that we may have to take the lead in order to see what happens. Thank you. Welcome. We'll be with the Babylon to deal with. My name is William Holtz, and I'd like to thank you guys for letting me speak, Mayor, city commissioners. Thank you.
 I am a member of Narcotics Anonymous. I'm also a recovering crystal meth addict, and cannabis has been instrumental in me being able to get off of that and no longer be a menace to the community. I also represent Strictly Solutions Clean and Sober Motorcycle Club, and I'm no longer a member of the Gypsy Jokers. So I do have an insight of a little bit as to how organized crime does affect local businesses as well as...
 uh, returning from after they had the little thing they call the occupation out in the street over there, which I believe did kind of turn into a riot. So this is my first time coming into a city hall on the inside to speak rather than on the outside out there. Um, I think that, um, I was very blessed, uh, in my neighborhood. I live at, uh, two one one four Northeast Everett street. And I was very, very fortunate to be able to walk over to a dispensary and, uh,
 state my position and let them know that cannabis was also something that I wanted to stop using in order to be functional in my complete in my recovery they're instrumental in Allowing me to come in there in a very very out of it disposition very very improper member of society, which I do consider myself to be getting closer to today and and
 Having a right there's nothing recreational to me about Marijuana or cannabis whatever you want to call it. You have to be able to interpret the law I'm understand the political science the article articles confederation of faction. I It's the Wild West out here a little bit. I understand due to federal law marijuana is illegal
 growing marijuana, consuming marijuana, distributing marijuana, it's all illegal. Some of us have given more of our personal interests away. The sheriff and local law enforcement that do protect the business owners that are trying to function under the guidelines of state law, they have to be able to represent each other properly in order to create safety. I've tried growing marijuana at home in my father's house.
 We did an experiment with one plant. We tried moving it in view and out of view, and it does everything from being an attractive nuisance to teenagers coming in order to try to steal the plants to other things. I think it would be best to model after the existing dispensaries that are in place that have a relationship with the sheriff and how they're already operating. The recreational part I don't know much about, but the medical part I believe should stay in place.
 They have their own private security and relationship that does work. And it's closer and it works better with problematic patients such as myself that they can move on and get to where they need to be. That's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Next are Jeff Sugarman, Mike McGrath, and Bo Whitney. And the last person who signed up is Sam Chapman. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Go ahead, Jeff. Jeff.
 Mayor Hales, members of the City Council, my name is Jeff Sugarman. I submitted written testimony, and I'm here today on behalf of one of my clients, Groundworks Industries.
 I'm not going to repeat a lot of what I said today. I, too, am very concerned about the 1,000-foot rule. I think we've always known that one of the most challenging issues we would face following the passage of Measure 91 is the intersection of the recreational market and the medical marijuana market. I think all of us want to make sure that medical patients can continue to get their medicine untaxed. And I agree with Mr. Morris's comments before that. I think the legislature is soon to act on that issue.
 I do want to point out that in Colorado, medical facilities were given the right to opt into the recreational system first, and it seemed to work very well there. I think most of the cities in Colorado really appreciated the opportunity for those medical facilities to opt.
 to make their choice first and then allow other recreational facilities in to fill in the blanks, so to speak. In Oregon, the legislature has adopted some regulations around time, place, and manner. OLCC is going to give a lot more, but unlike the citing of liquor stores and places that offer video lottery, the legislature has given the city the opportunity to make some policy choices on its own.
 My fear is that if the way the current law is or the current ordinance is written is that you will virtually double the number of outlets in Portland if you adopt the 1,000-foot from each other but not from each other.
 from like facilities, but not from all other facilities. I have proposed some language that I think will help. I think it's similar to what Ms. Margolis proposed, and I think it makes sense in those areas where there's concern about oversaturation. We think that these shops will continue to operate safely. They've done a great job since the passage of House Bill 3460 under the licensing and regulations that they faced. But we...
 But we do understand that there are concerns within the city about doubling the number of stores. So this change, which says no marijuana regulatory license shall be issued to a facility that is within 1,000 feet of an OHA medical marijuana dispensary licensee or another OLCC marijuana retail licensee would accomplish the problem that we're dealing with here.
 And with that, I think that in summary, we believe that this would lead to a much more orderly process, a thoughtful affair, and a workable process for a city licensure of both medical and recreational facilities. Thank you very much. And what's your thought of the alternative suggestion of merely allowing the medical to apply a day or two earlier?
 I think that's a workable solution, too. I think the idea is that we want to give those folks a chance, those folks who have been participating, who've gone through the state process, who've set up their security systems, who've invested in businesses and employees and leases, give them the opportunity to move into this new market and still leave room for others to come in. So I would be okay with that option as well. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Thank you.
 my name is beau whitney i'm representing greenpoint oregon an oregon-based corporation and left coast connection a portland-based medical dispensary i've submitted i've submitted written testimony and i just wanted to highlight a couple of items that's included in that testimony we're in favor of many of the principles associated with public safety and non-proliferation to individuals under the age of 21 however
 There's a few aspects of the findings and the proposed ordinances that we're not necessarily in favor of. In Section 1 of the published materials for this meeting, it said that there's a claim that saturation increases the likelihood that those under the age of 21 will have access. And we're very, you know, we appreciate that concern. However, there...
 is a substantial body of research that has demonstrated that usage of marijuana by those under the age of 21
 actually decreases in states and communities where medical marijuana dispensaries are legal. So just wanted to point that out as, you know, for educational purposes. Comments on Chapter 14B.130. An overall comment is I'm not sure why marijuana testing facilities are not included in this ordinance.
 and on Section 14 or 14B, Section 8, Subsection 2, restricting the hours of operation. Essentially, the goals that you stated in your materials is to protect and preserve public health, safety, and general welfare. But this is a retail outlet. There's no direct evidence that would support the policy that restricting hours are necessary to support your goals.
 Otherwise, there would be a restriction on cigarettes that are sold because there's a pretty well-documented body of evidence that supports cigarettes or public health and safety issue. And then in terms of the fees, there are some concerns that the fees are substantial enough that it would impact small businesses and minority businesses. Right.
 that don't necessarily have access to this level of money. So, you know, in general, the overall goal we support, there's some aspects that could be looked into to be touched up a little bit. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. My name is Mike McGrath. I own a small company called Bridgetown Distribution. I'm a wholesaler. I work within the medical marijuana program. Generally speaking, here's who supports
 the idea of the two-day waiting period or the opportunity for medical dispensaries to put in their application first. An opportunity I would hope to have the same opportunity for already operating in the medical marijuana. Furthermore, thinking of what could happen if that's not addressed, it would not be good for the city of Portland.
 It would create a circus, I think. And we would want to avoid that at all costs. Myself, I'm not originally from here. And...
 The opportunities that I've gained out here in Portland are unmatched in any other area of the country I've lived in. I've been around. I was a pedicab driver. It was fun, but it was just another opportunity that I was allowed. And here there's so many small businesses and entrepreneurs that have the ability to, well, you know, make it.
 and how it's written can definitely compound that. So that's pretty much all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. We have one more signed up, and then if there's anyone else that wants to speak or didn't sign up, this would be the time. So come on up. Last are Sam Chapman, and we have Rainy Day Woman 12 and Rainy Day Woman 35. Thank you.
 welcome hi thank you mayor hills commissioners my name is sam chapman for the record uh i run a new economy consulting which is a firm based here in portland that works with municipalities across the state in crafting regulations around the marijuana industry as well as we have clients that also need to navigate those regulations
 So, again, I don't want to take too much time. I'd like to echo the thoughts of many other people behind me regarding the 1,000-foot buffer issue that we've been dealing with here. I do think that it would automatically double the amount of dispensaries that we would have in the city. I've been to a couple of the work groups, which, by the way, I'd like to thank Victor and Teresa both for hosting those. They were very informative, and they were very responsive to concerns of both community members and marijuana industry members alike. So, yeah.
 Thank you. And I think when I initially had asked about why we were not including 1,000-foot buffers between medical and recreational, the response I got was, we don't have the authority.
 And so I looked into that. I went and met with legislative council last week in Salem to check and see whether or not the city of Portland may have the authority to do that. And maybe the confusion was there...
 you have the time, place, and manner of authority in two different places, one for medical and one for recreational, but they're not necessarily in the same place, right, in different bills. And so I think maybe the confusion there was, well, if we don't explicitly have authority to write a regulation that deals with both medical and recreational regulations,
 then we're not sure if we want to go down that route. And so I wanted to share with you, when I met with legislative council, they said you absolutely do have the authority, and if we could avoid having them write an opinion on it, they would like us to do that. So the second part, well, I guess the second part to that same issue was I noticed that it was stated in the presentation that
 The city didn't want to be preferential to existing facilities. And I was curious as to why that was, outside of maybe business reasons, if there's a specific reason why you didn't want to be preferential to existing facilities. That was reflecting the feedback we heard from the community at the town halls. Okay. Very good. Let me turn that around if I could. Sure.
 Because it seems to me it raises a legal question of just us declaring that one group of licensees is privileged over another. So you're the lawyer. Not an attorney. Excuse me. Not an attorney. That is a compliment. Thank you. You're the advocate. Thank you. And we'll have to ask our esteemed counsel. Okay.
 I mean, what are the analogies, examples of where we just declare that, you know, one class of licensees gets privilege over another just because we say so? Sure. No, and that's a great question. And, again, not an attorney, so I can't give legal advice on that. But I do think that, you know, one of those classes of licensees exists and one does not.
 right now. And I think that's a major distinction. No one holds any recreational licenses. They just don't exist. And so we're talking about existing businesses that, again, as has been previously stated, these are good actors. They've been licensed, right? I mean, these are people that have constituents, that have patients. And one thing that hasn't been mentioned tonight that I would very much like to put before you to consider is that, as it's been said, many of these medical dispensaries are going to want to transition to recreational, right? They're going to bring their patients with them.
 a lot of their patients are not going to pay $400 to renew their card. That's tax money for the city of Portland if you were to implement your 3% tax or whichever route you go. And so that is one additional reason as to why you may want to consider giving preferential treatment to medical dispensaries. And if even not to think of it as preferential treatment, but rather preferential,
 avoiding additional saturation, which I really hear is the larger goal here. And I think you can very easily accomplish that through the suggestions that have been stated here tonight in making sure that any marijuana retailer, whether medical or recreational, is not allowed to exist within 1,000 feet of each other. Two other quick notes. One, on-site consumption. I just want to clarify that...
 having helped write House Bill 3460 in that law that legalized medical marijuana dispensaries, patients are allowed to consume on premise in the locked closed room if they are an employee.
 not just any patient. And that was just one clarification that I wanted to add to the record. And the last thing I wanted to speak on was lounges. And I wanted to share with you an article, and I'd be happy to actually submit it in testimony. I haven't done so. From the Registered Guard in Eugene that was published probably about a year ago. I'm a University of Oregon alumni and I'm very aware of a park that is just adjacent to the college where all the freshmen, for whatever reason, go to smoke marijuana.
 And they don't know that there's security lined around the border, right? Like these guys have no idea they're walking into a bear trap. And sometimes it's a little comical. There's parents at home whose freshmen just went off to the UFO who are cringing right now. Right, exactly. No, no, no, but here's the thing, right? They're on the phone, but...
 that. No, no, no, no. And they're going to love this because this is a proposal that they had put forth in the Registered Guard, which was basically you know, it was a mother who was very upset about, you know, my children don't, I don't feel safe sending my children to play in this park because there's a bunch of freshmen getting stoned out of their minds and I don't feel like that's a safe environment. And so, um,
 Basically, the next logical step from that was we need a place where they can go, where they're not going to adversely affect the communities, to where they can legally do what they're now allowed to do in a private, safe environment that's not in public. And so the more that we are able to continue to have the conversations about lounges and public safety, I think we're going to be able to address neighborhood concerns simultaneously. Thank you. Thanks very much. You're welcome.
 Hi, my name is Scott Grenfell. I have a dispensary in southeast Portland. I'm also a member of the Oregon Cannabis Business Council. I just would like the opportunity to keep growing our business, I guess, and not be, you know, we've been there for four years. We went through the thing a couple, you know, last year with 3460. We have a lot of money invested. We have employees. And I just want to make sure that we are able to keep doing what we want to do.
 and not be phased out like Mr. Morris was saying. And so he's to consider all opportunities to allow the existing dispensaries to stay in business in the next few years and keep our employees employed and stay in Portland and do what we're doing and keep working. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Rhonda Shaheen and I'm a licensed math teacher here in Oregon. I'm also a dispensary owner and part of the Oregon Cannabis Business Council. I just would like to reiterate a lot of what was said today. I think Amy Margolis' suggestion is a great idea. I also think Don Morris' suggestion is also a great idea.
 oversaturation is an issue. You could take a look at Sandy. It's called the Green Mile. You've got a dispensary at 24th and Sandy, 28th and Sandy, 32nd and Sandy, 36th and Sandy. It goes right down the line. So every four blocks, there's a dispensary. And if you don't do the 1,000 feet from
 any marijuana facility, then you're going to have a dispensary at every two blocks down that street. And again, going back to dispensaries that have already been established for years, we are one year in operation. I'm not as long as Don and Scott with our dispensaries, but I gave up my job and my life savings to do this business. I think that I serve the community well. I've been to the Kearns Neighborhood Association. I volunteered. My staff has volunteered for the association recently.
 So I think that we do our part to pave the way for this industry, and I think it's important for us to continue to do so. I also think that given that Colorado had an advanced start for current medical dispensaries, it's not far-fetched to follow a state that has done well with what they're doing. Thank you. Thank you very much. Anyone else wants to speak? So I know we want to bring our staff back up because I think several of us have questions and follow-up concerns. Yes.
 So maybe let me put this back in play here about the 1,000-foot perimeter. So make sure I understand. I'm not sure if I was fully grounded in the state law and rules, and that is –
 under the current law about medical dispensaries and under what we think will be law and rule about recreational facilities, people will not be able to obtain a state license for both on the same site. Is that right?
 That is correct. There's no plan to co-locate. The legislative intent was pretty clear in terms of keeping both systems completely separate and siloed. That's why medical dispensaries are regulated by the Oregon Health Authority, and the recreational system will be regulated by the Oregon Liquor Control Commission. We heard from people today that we're hoping that they might be able to operate a combined facility, but
 but that sounds like that hope is not likely to be supported by the state, right? No. But in the instance that Ms. Reinhart mentioned where there's two separate entrances, a wall between, that would be a – Two separate supply lines, two separate business entities that are basically just divided by a wall, yes, that could potentially be allowed. One of the limitations is with OCC, there will be a seat-to-sale tracking system, and that does not exist with the Oregon Health Authority system.
 Okay. And so what do you think of this idea that Ms. Margulis proposed and actually that Mr. Sugarman also proposed in a slightly different form of having the city pay attention to all dispensaries with the 1,000-foot buffer rather than segregating them into these two types? Okay.
 So, there are a number of concerns that we have. We did evaluate this idea early on. And first of all, House Bill 3400 gives local governments explicit authority to establish a 1,000-foot buffer between recreational licenses. It does not speak at all to any kind of crossover. Further, the OLCC has stated publicly that as far as they're concerned in their rulemaking process right now, which is not complete,
 They do not acknowledge the existence of any medical dispensaries. So even if we were to submit a luck statement that said, no, the city does not approve this license because of an existing medical dispensary within 1,000 feet, the likelihood that the state would be able to follow that is very small. We would be on really tenuous legal footing. At least that was the advice of our city attorneys.
 through this process. So that was partially the issue. The other part was that because the state has established them within these two very specific systems, the idea that the medical dispensaries would
 somehow just sort of flip over into recreational is sort of a misnomer. They're going to have to go through the same licensing requirements that are still being developed by the OLCC as any other new business. And part of the public involvement process or part of the feedback that we received was about removing those barriers from
 from individuals who are looking to get into the recreational business. And so, I mean, this is a completely different field that essentially people are looking at. Can you back up again and just –
 From my understanding, and this may be a little PTSD on my part about Lottery Row, but if you told me that we have one state agency that's refusing to acknowledge the existence of another, that makes me angry, so I'll try to calm down. But just because one state agency is refusing to acknowledge the existence of another doesn't mean we shouldn't. So...
 Help me out on that, because that does sound like Lottery Row to me, where we have the OLCC and the Lottery Commission both gleefully issuing licenses with no regard for proximity and effect.
 And here we were, and here we are still in that spot with that problem, and that's what this council is trying to avoid in dealing with this issue. So walk us through that and walk us through these options because we all don't want to go there. Right. So I think that the primary concern related to saturation is one that has – what drove our advocacy in the state legislature around this issue –
 The idea that we might end up with another lottery row because of the OHA and OLCC's communication probably is not the case. I mean, the worst-case scenario that we have here is potentially a medical dispensary or a retail establishment, which are serving two different client bases.
 Within a thousand feet our concern is that if we that we may lose that partnership that we have with the state with the with The land-use compatibility statement, which is unique within this within the marijuana laws When measure 91 was passed it still had the language related to saturation and not within the public necessity or convenience that is housed in the liquor act and has been very problematic for us and
 and has not been able to be interpreted by the state because they can't establish what a definition for saturation is for an urban environment, for a rural environment, for a coastal environment. And they haven't tried. So it was very mindfully removed from Measure 91 within House Bill 3400 and replaced with the opportunity for the city to place this buffer between recreational establishments.
 If we then go to the state through this partnership, through this established partnership, and say that we can't approve a luck statement because they're within 1,000 foot of a medical dispensary that is not recognized by the state per the intent of the legislature, then we stand to lose that partnership and that ability to maintain even that 1,000-foot buffer. Can I follow up on Charlie's point? Yeah, please.
 I'm a little confused about this, and it seems to me there's three potential options, and I don't know legally where this falls. There's the option that the legislation affirmatively says we can do something. That's the easiest, but that doesn't quite apply here. There's the option of the legislation specifically prohibiting us from doing something, which this council is very familiar with. The legislature is never shy about being very prescriptive on that front. You know, we're preempted, or thou shalt not.
 Then there's something in the middle, and that's the exercise of our police power, where we have broad latitude. And I just don't understand. As I listen to this discussion, I'm not quite clear where it falls. I think your analysis is very thoughtful. I mean, I get that you're showing us there are all these connected pieces, and our lawyers are encouraged to be conservative in their advice. But I think we're in this gray where –
 The law doesn't maybe affirmatively say we can extend to this point. It doesn't say we can't, and then we're used to interpreting our police power pretty broadly to suit what we believe is the public purpose. So for me, it's first and foremost a policy question of what do we think is the right buffer and for what reason, and then it's a legal analysis to see if we can sustain it.
 I'm going to start with the policy because I, frankly, am currently more persuaded by the Sugarman argument about a 1,000-foot, regardless of who licenses the entity. I also think administratively, in some ways, it might be easier for us to enforce that. And I think the public probably does have a concern validly about concentration camps.
 generally. But legally, we're not sure whether we're on sound footing. So that's why we're looking at our attorney. Well, she may look back for a while. But I want to echo your comments, Commissioner Fish. Again, having had this experience with the state on liquor and lottery regulation and other issues as well, sort of restating your point, getting a little clearer in my own mind here. Sure.
 our job is to try to make this city livable. We should start with policy and start with policy that we think that makes sense and that either is explicitly allowed under state law or that we think is allowed under our own home rule charter. State law doesn't explicitly prohibit it. That's why we have a home rule charter. And as you know, I'm a little bit of a table pounder on that subject. So,
 you know, my favorite provision in our charter is the one that I have taped on the back of the little emblem on my desk that says the mayor shall exercise a careful supervision over the general affairs of the city. That seems like a fairly broad grant of authority. Now, it's not absolute. So we need to figure this out on our terms. And I, too, am interested in talking further about
 this perimeter issue because we all have at least in mind a result that we want. And I think the result that we want is not doing injury to the folks that already are licensed as medical dispensaries. Those that are operating legally and properly ought to have a reasonable shot at the business, whatever the business may be. Sounds like the state's going to make them choose. You're standing on two logs. You're going to have to get on one.
 because the state's not going to let you be both an OHA licensee and an OLCC licensee. So you're going to have to pick which business you want to be in because those are the terms the state has dictated to you. We can't change that. But what we can say is, based on our experience overall with –
 with liquor and other regulated industries, what do we think is reasonable in terms of a separation? And like you, Nick, I'm leaning more towards this idea of a general 1,000-foot buffer rather than pretending that the other type of licensee doesn't exist and hoping for the best.
 So let me just ask the question in a different way. Looking at the chart where obviously the state and the city are in collaboration and both have a part in licensing these facilities, if the council were to decide that we want to have 1,000 feet between any kind of marijuana retail or dispensary, is that something that you and Oney could make that work?
 Yes, we could, definitely from a policy standpoint. My concern, again, rests with the collaboration between us and the Argon Liquor Control Commission and OHA as well. If we're going to tell OHA, for instance, if all of the medical dispensaries switch over to retail and therefore open up the landscape for additional medical dispensaries, which could happen –
 if medical dispensaries were to come in and try to cite. Again, it's that communication piece with the Oregon Health Authority and the OLCC and whether or not they're going to recognize each other because
 We will then be in a circumstance where the city of Portland will say no, and one of those state agencies will say yes, and we'll need to then address that. So I think we could make it work. We're just concerned about what the potential is for being in some pretty significant conflict with both state agencies about what's a licensed location and what's not.
 Yeah, but again, I'd rather us try to get it right from the beginning. And I share that. Back our way into right later. Okay. So let me ask you also about the alternative suggestion of allowing the current facilities to get a foot in the door a day or two or a week or two earlier. What's your opinion about that? Again, I think the –
 The argument that a medical dispensary is the same as a retail outlet, just it's false. There is no retail recreational locations right now, so there's none that are in good standing or in good compliance. I think the request was to allow the current medicals to apply for a retail. Right.
 And basically switch. Right. Based on the idea that the ones that are currently a medical dispenser under OHA are in good compliance and in good standing and have been following all of the existing rules. But the truth is that those rules don't exist and nobody's been following those rules at this point. So it's almost the same sort of argument that a bar would come in to us and say, we've been selling a regulated substance for X amount of years in good standing and we want...
 you know, a day or two ahead of time in order to be able to get into this business as well. I think this hearing has had some of the best metaphors in a long time, because it's easier to follow when you put it that way. So it's your advice that if we want to do something in response to the testimony that we heard, that it would be better to go with the 1,000 foot between them all rather than the foot in the door earlier? From an equity lens, I think that that's the more appropriate way to go. Following up on that point, because you're –
 We've asked you to do a very important job, and part of that is to manage a set of complicated relationships, and those relationships have been strained, at least with one of those agencies, from time to time. So is it your view that you would benefit? Carla's just gotten some directions. She's not going anywhere. Do you think that with the adequate amount of time
 you can take a run at working out those relationship issues? I think that the relationship with the entity that you are referring to has definitely improved. Under Rob Patrick? Yes, absolutely. And especially as marijuana has rolled through, they were integral in getting these set of, especially the land use compatibility statement in particular. You know, Rob Patrick is a very responsible,
 responsible guy. He's also held elected office. I mean, the proposal that we're kicking around here, we're struggling with, is not a pretext for doing something else. It's not a Trojan horse. We're not debating this because we want to use this to
 harm some economic enterprise or to express our values around something. We're debating this in the context of all reasonable time, place, manner, police power discussions. And my guess is that Rob Patrick, of all people, would understand the context of that discussion. He may want uniformity in the different jurisdictions. It may present headaches for him to have different jurisdictions have completely different sets of rules. Right.
 But that's why he gets the big bucks. I mean, he can work that out. We are sovereign, as the mayor has pointed out.
 Although I do think the mayor's interpretation of the charter is a bit extreme. It's my story. I'm sticking to it. I think it's, you know, anyway. Anyway, so there may be other questions, but let me try to capture at least what I think may be a sense of the council at this point. I think a number of us are interested in amending this to have a 1,000-foot perimeter regardless of type.
 We will make that work then. So we might be interested in having that language. You've had some suggestions for that language today. That suggestion may be right word for word. It also might need some effort by staff. I'm working my way around to an obvious point, which is we don't have to adopt this today, even though it has an emergency clause on it, right? So there's time enough, again, measure twice, cut once, time enough to –
 take the discussion that we've had here at the meeting today and some excellent testimony and develop some amendments beyond the ones that Commissioner Fritz has already brought forward, I'd like you to do that unless, Amanda, you think there's some reason for haste here. I don't think you do it.
 No, I would propose that we bring back a completely amended version next Wednesday and hopefully have a very short hearing on it. Okay, so I'm going to close the public hearing on the matter overall, but ask you to bring back that amendment for council consideration. So before you do that, though, to the sponsor, and I don't remember a hearing where more people have gotten up and said such laudatory things about a process.
 it might have something to do with commissioner fritz being in charge of the person does and dan and i've been put on notice that we have to have the two new slides in the powerpoint that actually lay out community consultation so it'll be in our future powerpoint but um a superb hearing and a superb discussion with the professionals as well i just have a question i there are some other issues that came up in this hearing and i just want to make sure from commissioner fritz's point of view
 that some of these other issues like lounges, consumption on site,
 the young woman who said that she closes her door to be able to consume lawfully. Are there any of those issues that we need to take up as part of this package, or can they be deferred? We can't take them up as part of this package. There's all kinds of additional discussions that need to have. I appreciate your alluding of the process. I'm very proud of my ONI staff, and actually for everybody who's participated in this whole discussion. It's been tremendous, and I heard the same kinds of thoughtful discussion at the community meeting. Thank you.
 I will say at the community meeting, we did have neighbors coming in with concerns, which we didn't get today. But as far as the lounges, that gets into the whole issues that we banned indoor smoking in the state some time ago, employees, safety, etc.
 ventilation and those kinds of things. So it's certainly a longer discussion. Okay, so to those who came and put it on the table, I mean, we're deferring on a number of those issues that people raised.
 just as you advised us, that we'll at some later date be taking up the taxation issue. Correct. And we listed those in the presentation. I do have one more question. Testing facilities was another one, right? Yes, I wanted to ask why are we not regulating testing facilities? That is beyond the scope of our authority under House Bill 3400. Thank you. Quick answer to that one. That one, that's easy to suppose. Okay, other questions or requests for staff?
 Is that the only change that anybody on council wants? Right. The perimeter issue is the one area we want to revise further. Is that right? So then that sounds like an opportunity to continue this item for a week, give you the chance to prepare with the city attorney's help for
 further amendment that captures this issue. And although I consider the basic hearing closed here, I do want to certainly leave the record open and let people have a chance to make sure they think we got it right when it comes to the language of that provision, because that's the heart of the matter that we've heard from the community on here today. So don't need to re-argue the whole issue. And I don't think there are a lot of people here that necessarily want to do that, but I would like to hear feedback from people as to
 did we get that issue right or not? Since it won't be a time certain next week, we
 We will, of course, it'll be out on the council agenda when it's published on Friday what the amendments are. And we will take testimony next week only on the amendment. If you're fine with the amendment, you don't have to come and say that you're fine with the amendment. If there's a problem, like different wording, that's what we would need to hear from you about. So I'll open the hearing in order for people to let us know if they think that we haven't gotten it right, that the amendment needs further work. But if you say, yes, you captured it.
 the sense of this discussion thank you council then you don't have to do that in person yeah and that's this is actually kind of a rare moment mayor because we actually have a complete record on the question of the amendment even though we're going to be putting an amendment forward so we could technically craft an amendment now as a placeholder but i think it's better better practice to do the wordsmithing over the next week
 good well i want to thank you commissioner fred's and the only staff and also some citizen volunteers who've worked hard on this thank you very much uh and excellent testimony from the community today i think i learned a lot i think we all did and and we're working our way into you know a new a new aspect of life in portland that we're trying to get right so we appreciate your help in that effort to try to get it right thank you so much for the discussion thank you thank you all right this item's continued till next week and we are adjourned
 And there was only one weed-related joke. I know. That's shocking. Shocking. I wrote down the time in case it didn't work. Thank you. Thanks very much. That'll work for you? Okay, good.