We're not actually formally in session, but in a moment we're going to have Janet Storm and Jane Brayton come up and answer any questions we may have. I don't think anybody will have questions, but this is a proclamation related to a very important annual institution here at the City of Portland, which is the city's charitable campaign.
 And so before we begin today's council session, I'd like to read that proclamation and then have Janet and Jane come up and either fill in any additional blanks or answer any questions that anybody may have. Whereas the city's charitable campaign was established in 1989 by then Commissioner Mike Lindberg as an opportunity for employees to give money to charities through a payroll deduction,
 and whereas the city's charitable campaign represents an easy and important avenue for city employees to support the charities in their community that matter the most to them, and whereas 15 charities will participate in this year's campaign, most of which are umbrella organizations representing multiple charities with more than 600 charitable organizations represented in the campaign.
 And whereas these groups help make positive changes in areas including but not limited to the environment, education, health care, social justice, housing, arts and culture, child abuse, equity, human rights issues.
 and whereas last year city employees donated more than $281,000 through this campaign, and whereas city employee donations have totaled more than $2.7 million over the last 10 years.
 Whereas the commitment to charitable giving is demonstrated by city employees year after year, now therefore I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim September 13th through October 6th to be citywide charitable campaign in Portland, Oregon, and encourage city employees to participate in the city's charitable giving.
 campaign. So Janet and Jane, I don't know if you wanted to come up and say a few more words about this campaign. And I have this fabulous proclamation as well for you. Good morning.
 Good morning. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. We're happy to be back to actually thank you for the support for this year's charitable campaign. We were able to also present some information to the city's bureau directors about the campaign and remind them that our campaign has a couple of distinguishing features. First of all, it's choice. It is not an organization that really limits employees in the choice. So the 600 charitable organizations...
 All of the people who applied to be part of our campaign were recommended for approval by a committee that we work with. And it is also voluntary. So we encourage people to participate. But even if they have other charities that they want to give to, then this is just a reminder this time of year that city employees are giving and that this is something they like to participate in.
 I know at yesterday's work session, Commissioner Udailey was reminding all of us of some of the extra work that people have done for those communities that are affected by the Eagle Creek fire. We also wanted to point out that we have Megan Humphreys here from EarthShare and one of her colleagues.
 One of the charities that participates in that umbrella is Friends of the Columbia Gorge, and we also have Oregon Food Bank that is actively working to support that area, and they're also one of our charities. So, again, even though the charitable campaign has been around for a while, it's contemporary in how people choose to be giving to the crises that we see in our communities today. So we very much thank you for your support.
 Thank you so much. And I just want to say how appreciative I am, not only of your efforts, but also of city employees citywide who are willing to make this kind of a commitment. I think it speaks highly about the kind of people who work for the city of Portland. So thank you for that. I have this fabulous document for you. I don't know where you put these, but congratulations. Yeah, thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you very much. Yeah, thanks a lot. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 I think Nick will be right down. Is that right, Carla? He's doing about 10 minutes. Very good. All right. Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, September 13th a.m. session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Seltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Wheeler. Here. And it's my understanding Commissioner Fish will be joining us very shortly.
 I'm going to condense our 10 paragraphs down to a couple of sentences. Please, everybody, respect other people's testimony. Please do not interrupt other people's testimony. Please do not interrupt the deliberations of the council. If you do so, you will be asked to leave. If you do not leave when you're asked to do so, you're subject to arrest. Nobody wants that to happen, so let's all just be respectful of what people have to say, whether we agree with them or not. If you agree, a thumbs-up is good. If you disagree, a thumbs-down.
 is sufficient. Assume that there will be people here who you do not agree with. We're a big city. We have diverse points of view. That's part of the fun of coming to a city council is to hear viewpoints different than our own. If you're a lobbyist and you're testifying, you must let us know that you're a lobbyist per council rules. If you're here representing an organization, that's also helpful as well.
 So there are two opportunities for people to address the council. The first is called communications. People sign up in advance with the council clerk's office, and they can come in and for three minutes talk about whatever they want, from a weighty issue to the weather. It's three minutes. You can use it however you'd like to use it.
 There are also the first readings of reports and resolutions and ordinances. Those are also opportunities for people to testify. And if one of those captures your fancy and you'd like to testify, please sign up with the council clerk.
 for the purpose of testifying. Ordinarily, we try to give people three minutes, but if we're compressed for time, sometimes we have to cut that down to two minutes. So I encourage people to think about two minutes of testimony, and then if you're lucky and get three, well, you can go a little slower. So with that, we'll start with communications. Carla, please call the first individual up.
 Item 1001, request of Boo Rigney to address council regarding issues with bad behavior of people on the streets. Mr. Mayor, Boo couldn't be here today. She asked if I would take her. I'll allow it. Come on up. Could you state your name? And everybody needs to state your name for the record. We don't need your address or anything like that. Good morning, sir. Good morning. I'm Paul Fishman. I live in southeast Portland, Sunnyside neighborhood. Good morning.
 I'm also involved with Hawthorne Neighbors, which is a coalition of merchants and residents in the area. I've talked to you before several years ago about some of these issues, and I have two other folks here from the organization today. It's nice to see all of you. We appreciate the work you do. I just want you to know that. What we're talking about today is not about homelessness, houselessness, et cetera. It's about behavior.
 We don't care who it is, what their situation is. It's about behavior. And this is not simply a set of police issues. These are issues that are across all bureaus, in our view, citywide, and need to be dealt with that way. We've been working with the Police Bureau, and we very, very much appreciate and support their efforts to date with their limited staff and budget.
 I want to take just a brief amount of time here, and I want to talk about what I call the three illities of Portland. We pride ourselves in Portland. Many of us have sore shoulders from patting ourselves on the back about the wonderful things that we do here. In my neighborhood, it's a very, very highly rated walkability score. So walkability. Walkability.
 The reality is that that metric does not take into account how people feel about walking in their neighborhood and whether or not they choose to walk in their neighborhood. And what we're seeing in our neighborhoods around Hawthorne, and I know in other parts of the city, is that many people are uncomfortable or even afraid to walk in their own neighborhood.
 I've talked to people, elderly people, who instead of walking to the new seasons on Hawthorne, they get in their car and they drive to the one on Division because they don't feel safe walking down Hawthorne. So walkability score is meaningless if people don't want to walk. Livability. We pride ourselves on livability. We have livable neighborhoods. Well, you're going to hear from a couple of people today about
 Their view as families, as parents with children, what it's like living in the neighborhood, and the kinds of fears and things that they see, the crime, needles on the street, people who bother their children, etc. Sustainability, again, this kind of stuff leads to a non-sustainable situation. Okay.
 where you have people who move into a neighborhood because of the livability and walkability, but then realize they don't want to stay there because it's not a sustainable situation. So we need to think about these things and how to deal with them. We've been working with the mayor's staff and Nick, Commissioner Fish, one of your people, and basically we've lost the battle for our neighborhood this summer.
 We're going to continue to organize. We're going to work through the winter, hopefully with all of you, and try to have a better summer next year in the neighborhood. Please bring us into the conversation.
 Don't leave us out of the conversation. That's what we're asking. Thanks very much. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Mr. Fishman, I remember a couple of, two or three years ago, you and your neighbors were here with the very same issue and the solution was to have a walking beat in Hawthorne. Is that still going on or not? The walking, thank you for asking that question, Commissioner. The walking patrol worked very, very well. It was a unit of originally 10 officers,
 who were recruited from the Bureau based on a set of criteria, and they were put out on the street walking a beat every day. They got to know everybody. They got to know the kids on the corner. They got to know the merchants. They got to know the people who live in the neighborhood. Everybody knew everybody on a first-name basis, and the problems really, really resolved over the course of two years.
 And then that program was cut because it was not sustainable from the police bureau's point of view. We would love to have that walking patrol back because it worked. And now things are worse on Hawthorne and in that neighborhood than they were before the walking patrol. So, yeah, thanks. Thanks.
 And if I could just add two bits, and I appreciate your working particularly with Bart Nelson on my staff. Yes. As recently as yesterday, he was in contact with the police bureau about increasing the patrol presence from 10 to 4 in that particular location near the parking lot. Yeah.
 And I'm not mentioning the name of the business because it's not their fault. They just happen to have a parking lot in that location that's an obvious gathering point. We did just increase funding for six new police patrols. Hawthorne is on that list.
 I want you to also be aware that the city council significantly increased funding for things like litter collection, needle collection, graffiti abatement, in addition to the new patrols. And it is a clearly and publicly stated goal of mine to move back to the full community policing model, which over a period of many, many years the city has retrenched from.
 So I agree with you that both reduces opportunistic crime, it helps keep the peace, and it also helps reconnect our police bureau with the community they serve. So we are eager to work with you, and I want you to know we are keenly aware of the problems on Hawthorne.
 and we take them very seriously. Yeah. Mr. Mayor, thank you for that. Thank you, sir. We are also working closely with Serafie Allen in your office. Yes. Yeah. I should have mentioned Serafie. Yeah, that's fine. Shame on me for doing that. And really one of the main things, as I said, is communication, two-way communication. I was trying to work on that on police community engagement and outreach when I was working on the, you know, with the COAB whole thing.
 that's the key. We try to reach out as often as we can. It's difficult for the police bureau and others to take the time to reach back. We need to somehow figure out how to do that better. Yes, sir. Thank you for your testimony. Next item, please, Carla.
 Item 1002, request of Howard A. Newman to address council regarding issues with bad behavior of people on the streets. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Howard Newman.
 Mr. Wheeler and Commissioners, I come before you on behalf of the Hawthorne neighbors, at least two entities on Hawthorne Boulevard, my family, and really countless businesses and other persons, including certain homeless who have seen their neighborhood afflicted by an unchecked threat to our health, safety, and livelihood. Excuse me.
 I refer specifically to rampant illegal and unsafe behavior in southeast Portland by certain bad actors. First, I want to be clear. I refract the issues that we are confronting through the very same lens that my six-year-old does, behavior. Socioeconomic status is not part of the calculus in addressing criminal conduct.
 For example, it matters not if I were to bark directly at two young children that they should, quote, go kill themselves simply for using a sidewalk, something my children experienced. Indeed, it would be my conduct that matters, not my background or even whether I have a possessory interest in a house. The same is true for everyone. I am not anti-homeless. I am anti-criminal.
 The focus is not on the person but the behavior, and there are plenty of behaviors that you should consider. Sunnyside Elementary janitor's duties include daily needle collection, ignoring open container violations, individuals smoke crack, and couples have sex all in plain view.
 Local area daycares modify parts of field trips to ensure safety, and residents seek immediate medical attention after getting a bite from a transient's dog. The effects are tangible. Employees have left businesses for fear of their safety. Hawthorne patrons have stated aloud whether they're going to return. And the reason we moved from Irvington was so that my wife could walk to work, something now relegated only to certain daylight hours.
 You, Mr. Fish, can appreciate the following. When my wife feels safer on A Street in Capitol Hill in D.C., more than 35th on Sunnyside, that speaks volumes.
 This Council must do more than declare its courage and resolve in addressing these issues. I can represent that a nascent electoral coalition is budding, nourished along the spectrum of nuisances to outrages and the perceived lack of concrete and permanent steps undertaken by our leaders. An expansion in homeless and transit programs combined with a more robust police presence must occur to promote health and safety.
 I highlight community policing cannot occur without more police. Citizen walking patrols are not sustainable. Business associations paying private parties for an abdicated core government function is not tolerable. Though I concede I may be ignorant, I offer some potential solutions in writing that I ask be placed into the record. I have copies for the commission. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Next item, please, Carla.
 Item 1003, request of Neil Banerjee to address council regarding issues with bad behavior of people on the streets. Hello, good morning. Good morning. Hi, my name is Neil Banerjee, and I live in the Hawthorne neighborhood with my wife and two boys, four years old and ten months old. I'm also representing the Hawthorne neighbors, and this is a follow-up to a presence a month ago.
 We live around the block from 36th and Hawthorne. We moved to the neighborhood about four years ago, and I've seen a rapid decline in safety for our family and livability. Today I'm going to spend my three minutes to give you a pulse of our neighborhood and how citizens are mobilizing to try to solve these issues. But we need your help. The topics I'd like to cover today are related to family safety, livability, and the confusion around how to deal with these issues in the city.
 A few days ago, I had to take a mandatory training at work. It was related to hostile work environments. It got me thinking about how we should be applying the same principles to our kids' neighborhood activities and environments. With the proximity to Sunnyside School, preschools surrounding the area, and the Belmont Library, we have one of the densest packed, kids-friendly areas. My family was recently victimized by a person that attacked our home and tried to attack contractors working on our home.
 These are not one-off incidents. Violent behavior and sexual harassment are reported on Nextdoor, a popular social media platform, on a weekly basis. A noble attempt at citizen walking patrol was started, but they are not enough. A week after they started, a pool of blood the size of a doorway mat
 was found dried up on the hood of a car in front of Sunnyside School after a resident was attacked by hoodlums that were at Sunnyside Park after the park was closed. With the growing encampment across from Ben and Jerry's, families fear walking nearby. People blocking the sidewalk by Fred Meyers force people to walk or wheelchair into the street in an already dangerous and deadly road.
 What types of PTSD will kids have who are sexually harassed on the street or see violent behavior in their living areas? Families, including my own, don't feel safe.
 The safety issue also dovetails into a livability issue. In the same area, we have seen an increase in open-air drug markets and sales. Stabbings are now taking place when drug deals go south. Southeast Upland had to fence their entire area down due to alcohol abuse, drug use, and disturbing violent behavior. Needles can be found discarded in playgrounds and areas where children play. Feces and urine are left on sidewalks and areas that children play.
 We can do better than just letting this happen in our city. Citizens are gathering and trying to clean up the street in fear of losing businesses from Hawthorne, but it's not enough. I'll close by describing the confusion between law enforcement, the DA's office, and the mayor's office. Our police are trying to do their best job, but I keep hearing from them that they're not able to enforce the sort of city...
 violations that are caused on the street or misdemeanors, smaller crimes, and then the DA is not prosecuting those. What happens there is then we have a decrease in the number of recordings of these things. There's no way to track if we're actually making an impact or not. The last time we were here, we were told that a walking patrol would be initiated, and you addressed that just recently.
 but it seems like only reactive police activity is occurring. I know a solution is hard and it takes time, and you mentioned that before. But I request that the city publishes the plans and timelines for execution for their solution for improving the safety and livability in our neighborhood. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Let me just make a couple of comments because I'm seeing a consistent theme here, and you've taken the time to come here and present this information. And it is important, and I do think it's important that people know the city is not just sitting on its hands. So I'd like to share with you some of the things we have done.
 while I acknowledge it is not enough, because I've seen with my own eyes the problems that you mentioned do still exist. But first of all, let me tick off a couple of things.
 The presentation that the three of you provided made clear that you understand there is a humanitarian crisis and that we do need a compassionate response for people who are vulnerable, who do need support, people who live with mental health issues. There are many people, as you well know, who have been impacted by the economy and other circumstances. This council has stepped up like none other over the last year
 five years the general fund support for shelter, for housing, for addiction services, for mental health services through a home for everyone has gone up 165%. Over the last year, 74% alone for our general fund contributions. So we are now in the home for everyone to the tune of about $27.5 million.
 Commissioner Saltzman, as Transportation Commissioner, has spearheaded an effort that really came from our conversations with the Lentz community, but it impacts the broader community as well, to get rid of and properly dispose of derelict RVs, which has become a problem not so much in the Hawthorne neighborhood, but in many surrounding areas.
 As I mentioned, we have significantly increased the foot patrols, and it's one of my core values that we will return to a full community policing model, and I think that will actually...
 go a long way towards addressing some of these issues. As you acknowledged, under Commissioner Fritz's leadership in the last budget, we significantly increased the number of park rangers. So that addresses some of the issues in the parks. And we just heard from some folks in Laurelhurst Park, not too far away, that that has had a significant positive impact on these livability issues, whether it's the trash, the needles, the garbage,
 graffiti abatement. We added $2.5 million to our most recent budget specifically for the purpose of addressing that. We've convened government partners that heretofore had never
 communicated ODOT PBOT TRYMET the police bureau the sheriff's office Union Pacific Railroads lots of different city bureaus all the bureaus that own real estate and we've started combining our efforts and trying to work on this together uh
 as an effort because we find if we don't collaborate, it really is almost impossible to make any progress. And last but not least, and here's my ask for you, I have made it very clear to the Portland Police Bureau that they will enforce existing codes, and that includes structures in parks and right-of-ways, things like that,
 And I sent that directive to the police bureau, I believe, over six months ago. And I understand that historically those codes have been inconsistently applied, if at all. I have...
 directed the police bureau to enforce those codes. So if every police officer tells you that the mayor's office is not allowing you to enforce codes, please get that officer's badge number so that I can reiterate my very clear opinions with regard to the enforcement of city codes. I expect the police bureau to enforce city codes. And I've said so through written directives previously and that's been well reported in the press.
 But I do hear what you're saying, and I want you to know that I do feel and understand the frustration of the Hawthorne community, and I share it, and we will continue to work together to address those issues. May I add one comment? Commissioner Fish, I'm really appreciative that you and your colleagues took the time to come in today. I'm very appreciative. Thank you. If I could add a comment, and I apologize for being a little late this morning. I had a doctor's appointment.
 I walk to work now, and I actually don't use a car very often. And so I see more things that you see as a pedestrian that, you know, when you're driving a car, sort of whiz by. And so I appreciate many of the concerns that have been raised by all three people who have come here to testify. You know, we have a chance under this mayor in the next couple of budget cycles, particularly if the economy continues to expand.
 Knock wood. The economy is doing well, and that will be made clear through the fall bump, but hopefully through the regular budget. We have a chance to make good on a commitment the mayor made to really bolster community policing. And the essence of community policing, going back a long time, is that personal relationship with an officer and then the community members not only knowing the officer's name but being part of the team.
 And, you know, having an officer walk a beat is a very powerful thing. And we've been, you know, last year we had a huge crisis of staffing, and we made some changes in terms of money for recruitment and retention. But anyway, I think we all are committed to a vision of community policing that has more officers out of their cars, on the street, interacting with people. And it just has many, many benefits. And, frankly, most people want to know the name of their police.
 their officer, the beat officer. It's a hugely important relationship, upstream stuff and downstream stuff. So the second thing I just want to mention is in the most recent point in time, none of us here are tolerant of behavior that crosses the line into illegal behavior, wherever it happens, and the mayor has been very clear about enforcing the law.
 But I will say one thing we have learned in Portland, and it's the same up and down the coast, is there has been a huge growth in what we call chronic homelessness. And the data that you know, because it was published, is people that are battling addiction or mental health crises or both, the dual diagnosis. And we can talk a lot about how we got here, and the truth is a lot of systems had to fail for that to happen.
 There's a lot of people that have to account for that at the federal, state, local level. But they're on our streets. And putting aside people whose behavior crosses a line, almost 70% self-report having one of those barriers. And what we've learned is the most successful way to get those people into a better place is to give them an apartment with intensive services. And it's very interesting. It also saves the taxpayers a lot of money because when someone becomes –
 stable, and when they reclaim their dignity, and they're on the path to whatever, sobriety, or tackling their addiction, or you name it, or they get the support they need, amazing things happen. And we're, as a suite of actions this council's going to take in October, we're going to set a very bold goal for investing in permanent supportive housing. It's the missing piece, and it will provide for the most compelling people that we see on the street that really should never be on the street, a place to go
 And I believe that's an important next chapter in how we're going to tackle this. And we'll need your support.
 to make that happen. So thank you. And Commissioner Fish, I just, Jennifer brought down the release from August 4th that announces the community policing pilots and the Hawthorne Business District is in fact one of those six areas along with Springwater Corridor, Laurelhurst, Old Town, Chinatown, North Park Blocks, and Ankeny Alley. So the Hawthorne Business District will have its foot patrol.
 Thank you. Thank you all. Can I make just one quick question? If it's very, very quick. Very brief. Yeah.
 In terms of, you know, criteria for success, what I'd love to see is a timeline for when you expect things to go to happen. And obviously I work in a business where my customers ask me for roadmaps all the time. We usually don't hit our date all the time. But it helps to understand when changes are going to occur. And then the second thing is to have consistent metrics published on the changes that are actually happening so we can know are these programs really helping our city or not. Fair enough. Okay.
 Thank you. Yeah, thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Next item, please. Item 1004, request of injured and pissed off to address council regarding reverse Polish logic. Good morning. My name's injured and pissed off. And the last time I was here was July 19th of this year. Mr. Mayor, you weren't here at the time, but I've
 brought to the attention that there's two publications of the city council meetings. And I found out from the Magnoma County Board clerk that the county doesn't advertise in newspapers because it cost them $480-some-odd, she said. And, of course, the city's paying twice that.
 for these two publications and those are only the ones that I'm knowing about. That's every week they're paying $1,000 roughly for two publications that could be done online. I don't know the excuse for that. And I found out the reason why my first two meetings weren't published with my correct name, injured and pissed off, the full name,
 4-26-17 and 6-7-17. Even the announcer wouldn't pronounce my name because I went to the county clerk after talking to the city attorney here in the board meeting room, and he told me that the city attorney was deleting my name. Well, I went to the city clerk again,
 And she said, oh, no, it's the seven attorneys upstairs. Well, I went upstairs to see them, and none of them would talk to me. And the receptionist, she said, well, she felt uncomfortable saying my name with women and children being present. And I said, well, just how uncomfortable do you suppose I have felt, my service animal, being attacked seven times in the last...
 Dog attack. I broke my left hip and two fractures to my spinal cord, and that's the reason why I can't walk very well. And she wouldn't say anything, and of course now they're pronouncing and printing my name. I'm still wondering why the city's paying $1,000 a week to have the publications. Maybe you'd like to address that, Ben, you...
 answered some of these other people with their comments and concerns. Yes, sir. I'd be delighted to. Not everybody has access to the Internet, and we feel it's very important to get the word out through multiple channels. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thanks for coming in. Next item, please. Item 1005, request of Larry Swick to address council regarding health and safety matter in the Goose Hollow neighborhood. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. My name is Larry Swick.
 And I live in the Kings Hill Historic District of Goose Hollow. There is a serious long-term construction project going on on the 2100 block of Southwest Yem Hill. There's a copy of some of the impacts of it attached to my printed testimony here. And I also dropped off a copy of that for each of you last week as well. I live in a four-story 1908 historic building.
 And there have been serious long-term noise and health problems and property damages to at least two different units in our building during the past seven months related to ongoing construction. The recent weeks, it's been centered 20 feet below our residence. Here are some lessons learned and some suggestions respectfully offered for the City Council and the Mayor to consider.
 Construction companies allowed to operate in Portland but not headquartered in Portland should be required to meet stricter permit standards. They have less interest in a community they do not live in. Construction permits should have a requirement that any staff of any contractor or subcontractor who lies about the hours they are permitted to operate should receive a $500 fine per occurrence. Thank you.
 The city should hire more Portland Police Bureau officers dedicated to noise issues. There's only one. That's not enough for a growing city the size of Portland. Rank and file police officers should receive annual training and briefings on noise issues. Rightly, they focus on serious crime. However, they know almost nothing or very little about noise issues currently. The city staff should respond promptly to constituents.
 I left messages on August 30th and 31st for the Mayor's office, still waiting for a response. When people do not receive a prompt response or some kind of response, it's very slow. They lose faith in local government. The Mayor should implement a Meet the Mayor Forum, where for one hour weekly the Mayor meets with Portland residents. Cities should provide free online access to permits for major new construction in Portland.
 instead of charging $20 and making them come to the Portland downtown building for the city. The city should ensure people within two blocks of a major new construction project to be notified in writing of the project. We had no notice in writing whatsoever. We do get notice of design changes for signs a block and a half away.
 And lastly, the city should weigh major new construction projects closely prior to approving them, especially if they're in extremely densely packed urban neighborhoods such as Kings Hill, especially in today's increasingly work-at-home environment. Growth will and needs to occur, and we need new housing opportunities.
 but at what cost to Portland residents and the integrity of existing historical buildings. So these are for your consideration as the five policymakers for the city. Thank you very much. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony.
 All right. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Mayor and colleagues, I want to call out one item, which is the grant agreement with Cash Oregon. And some people may be wondering why we are providing financial education counseling and tax preparation for low-income residents of our community.
 The answer is we are woefully underutilizing, as a percentage of eligible members of our community, the so-called earned income tax credit. And through this investment, we're actually allowing people to qualify for an entitlement, a federal benefit, which then helps them –
 in a pretty significant way. So this is one of a number of programs where the city invests in helping make sure that struggling families get entitlement, get benefits to which they're entitled. And when they do, we all win. So I'm very proud that the council invests in good organizations like Cash Oregon. Hi. Hi.
 Wheeler. Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. Item 1006, please. Adopt the Transportation System Development Charge Update 2017 Rate Study, establish an updated rate schedule, and amend code effective January 1, 2018. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. With Portland growing by leaps and bounds, improvements in our transportation system become inevitable.
 key in providing travel options to accommodate that growth while continuing the challenging work of meeting our Vision Zero goals. System Development Charges, or SDCs, are an important resource in this effort, as that growth helps pay for the improvements needed in our transportation system. Consistent with Oregon State law, Portland has strong SDC programs in all of our infrastructure bureaus,
 That includes parks, water, environmental services, and transportation. It is important that we take the time to review the effectiveness and rationality of the Transportation SDC program. And over the past two years, transportation staff have been doing exactly that and are now before us with an updated methodology and project list for our consideration. Staff and our consultant will share a presentation with us
 And it is a little bit dense, but I feel it is appropriate as it is such an important program. And interested members of the public should understand all the thinking and analysis that went into the proposal. Following that, we'll open it for testimony and, of course, answer any questions that council has. One quick amendment I'd like to place on the table now, and I think you all have copies of that, relates to universities and colleges.
 and specifically is in response to how the changes in the program are impacting Portland State University. The amendment will replace the square footage calculation currently in the proposal to a student count basis, a student count calculation. The amendment reads, replace table 4-3 as shown in page 37 in exhibit A,
 As well as the proposed TSDC rate schedule included as Exhibit B with the attached. Second. Okay. Moved and seconded. Thank you. Staff have prepared the language, and as I said, you have it all in front of you. And finally, I am out next week in observance of Rosh Hashanah, so I would ask that this item come back for its second reading and vote on September 27th.
 With that, I'll turn it over to staff and our consultant, our director, Leah Treat. Great. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, Mayor Wheeler, and the rest of the City Council. We do have a comprehensive presentation for you today, and I am joined by Kendra Breland and Deb Gilardi. Kendra is from Fair and Piers, and she is the lead planner on the update, and Deb from the Gilardi Rothstein Group, and she is our technical specialist.
 So what I'm going to do is provide an overview of the program, including how SDC charges are instrumental in helping us achieve our strategic planning goals. Kendra and Deb are going to discuss the TSDC project list, the primary changes to our methodology, the proposed rates, and how we compare to other cities. I am then going to close the presentation and open it up for questions from you all.
 And finally, we do have Pia Welch, Mary Helen Kincaid, Laura Becker, and Elliot Aquai-Scott to testify on the topic as well. So I'll start with a quick overview of what SDCs are. SDCs are one-time fees that are paid by new development. The fees cover a portion of capital costs for building public facilities such as streets that will serve the needs of future residents and other users.
 In assessing TSDCs, local governments have a number of goals. Continue the public policy that new development should pay a portion of the cost of facilities that it requires. Assure that public facilities are constructed within a reasonable time frame so that the system continues to provide mobility for everyone. And provide developers and builders predictability regarding the type, timing, and amount of required fees.
 And unlike the SDCs for the Water Bureau and BES, PBOT's SDCs are done on a prospective basis. In other words, we collect in advance of building those projects that enhance capacity.
 And it's also important context to note that funding coming from House Bill 2017, Build Portland, and Fixing Our Streets will largely be used to maintain existing assets. SDCs are not eligible for those uses. They can only be used to expand capacity as required by law. Could I ask you a question? So the SDCs in this case, you're collecting those resources. They're not necessarily for use.
 projects immediately adjacent to those developments. It's going into a fund for citywide development strategies. Is that correct? That's correct. Okay. I just wanted to make that clear. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you.
 So when I came to PBOT four years ago, I led the Bureau through a development of a strategic plan, Portland Progress. It's now in its second iteration, and Portland Progress guides our efforts to fulfill our mission of ensuring that Portlanders can get where they need to go safely, easily, and sustainably.
 TSDCs are a very important piece of achieving goals outlined in Portland Progress. As we'll describe later in the presentation, the project list includes a number of projects that align with the strategic initiatives at the heart of our strategic work plan.
 In 1997, the council created the first multimodal TSDC, allocating total project costs among four modes, motorized vehicles, transit, bicycles, and pedestrians. In 2007, the council updated the TSDC and gave priority to pedestrian and bicycle modes because of their important contributions to overall mobility in the community. At that time, the rate was set to recover about 40% of the transportation demand created by growth.
 The current program is based on a 10-year list of TSDC eligible transportation improvements. The TSDC revenue has helped fund the construction of improvements to support residents, freight, businesses, commuters, and students all over the city. The 2007 program did its job in guiding how the TSDC program should be managed through 2017. As we look towards 2018, it's important that we update the program to ensure it meets Portland's goals over the next decade.
 Today we are presenting our proposed update for the 2018 through 2028 program. The program update has grown out of recently adopted out of the Transportation System Plan, the TSP. The TSP process developed the overall project list that was based on Portland's core values regarding mobility, equity, safety, sustainability, and shared prosperity. These same values also deeply informed the TSDC project list.
 Our city's strong commitment to public engagement sets Portland apart. In line with this tradition, the TSDC project list we are presenting is the result of robust public involvement. First, this list is informed by the overall community involvement that we conducted as part of the update of the TSP. We conducted numerous meetings and listening sessions with neighborhoods, businesses, and community organizations, as well as our city modal committees.
 We visited many of these groups several times to ensure they knew they had a real voice in our update. And to boost more participation from communities that do not traditionally participate in civic processes, we hosted an online open house over a two-month period, inviting people to review the project list, provide feedback, and learn more about how SDCs will affect their communities.
 We used Facebook ads to encourage Portlanders to participate in the open house. And as a result, more than 33,000 people used the ad to click through the information about the TSDC update. The online open house received more than 240 comments, more than any other update we've done.
 Finally, we also engaged our Bureau and Budget Advisory Committee as an important sounding board for the TSDC update process. Throughout 2016 and 2017, we presented to the BVAC with project updates and solicited their input on our proposed changes. With feedback from all of these different sources, we feel the project list reflects many of the diverse needs and opinions of Portlanders.
 And now, if our technology is working, we want to show you a short video that exemplifies the tools we use to develop the project list. ...and happening all over Portland. Have you ever wondered how all those new buildings impact our transportation system? All new developments pay Transportation System Development Charges, or TSDCs. These are one-time fees paid by developers when they build something new.
 The fee covers part of the cost of building our transportation system. Things like roads, sidewalks, bike lanes and public transit infrastructure. TSDCs are only one piece of the bigger puzzle that helps fund the resources that all Portlanders use. In addition to TSDCs, developers pay fees to help build parks, sewer and water infrastructure. The fees are based on how many trips the new development will create.
 For example, a single family home will have much less impact than a large grocery store. So the fee is substantially less for a home. The greater the impact a new development will have on our transportation system, the higher its rate. So new developments pay fees to improve our transportation. But where do those fees go? They pay for specific projects that are on the TSDC project list. The list is updated every few years with input from the public.
 Each project on the list is expected to be built using a combination of TSDC funds plus other funding from grants or other sources. Recent projects that were built using TSDC fees include new sidewalks on 136th Avenue, parts of the MAX system, improvements to Northeast Cully Boulevard that enhanced pedestrian and bike safety.
 TSDCs are just one tool that helps pay to build Portland's transportation system, along with federal and state grants, gas tax revenues, local taxes you pay, and other sources. The city is currently updating the way it assesses TSDCs and the rate at which developers are charged. It is also updating the list of projects that TSDC revenues can fund.
 We want a list of projects that Portlanders actually want, that benefit all parts of the city, and meet the needs of our diverse communities. And we want a list of projects that have grants or other financial support, so it's more likely that these projects actually get built. The Portland City Council will make final decisions on the updates, and is expected to finalize and implement the amendments by mid-2017.
 It is our hope that the updated TSDC program will make it easier to build Portland's transportation system to benefit all residents.
 Could you not have done the cartoons? There's so much development happening all over Portland. Sorry, I didn't hear you. Well, that last cartoon is showing where the council is. My hair's not curly for a start. Commissioner Fritz? Commissioner Saltzman looks very female. Commissioner Fritz, may I just say that I actually was heartened by that
 It was a significant upgrade in terms of me. The last time I saw my caricature in any official capacity, it was actually a picture of the deputy director of PBOT superimposed on my picture. I have one question for our honored panel. You know, from time to time, government gets a bad rap and we're accused of talking to ourselves or using language which is not accessible. Right.
 And we all know what TSDC means, and we get it. I just wonder, is there another way to talk about systems development charges that might actually resonate more with the public? Do other cities call it something else that's more user-friendly? And we may be just mayor to think about that because it – Christine Leone is not a file. Impact fees. Impact fees. Developer impact fees? Mm-hmm.
 Well, I'm off. Motion? I would encourage us, you know, Mike, how can I have an ongoing, lively discussion about the best way to talk about green infrastructure?
 You know, and are there other ways of saying green infrastructure that don't quite sound as wonky? Yeah. And I'm all for moving towards something like developer impact fees or impact fees. I just think they're more accessible than TSDCs. Yeah, they certainly are. And it's taking nothing away from an outstanding presentation from you today. Yeah. Thank you for that feedback. I agree. I also just want to acknowledge and appreciate the Bureau for,
 for understanding that if things are put into cartoon form, I'm much more likely to understand your point. You don't know how much it caught our attention. Could I just ask a question? I know that what I've got in my packet is the June 9th version of Exhibit A, and I understand you've been working with Parks to make some amendments since then. How are those incorporated into what we're going to run today? I believe the amendments have been fully incorporated. Okay.
 for the trails and for the definition of a park and those kinds of things yes thank you correct so yes and i'll and yes thank you all right um you have to come up to the microphone otherwise we can't get to caption
 So it will be in the rules that are going to be formalized, but they're not part of the council package. And then I'm glad I highlighted that because this does give you permission to then change the rules in the administrative rules from now on. And presumably the council at that point would get a notification that the commissioner in charge is changing the rules? Yes.
 We'll take direction from our commissioner on how we take the rules to council or adopt them through our typical standard input. Yeah, I'm fine if you do it that way. I just would like to know that they have changed. You're famous now. Could you state your name for the record? I'm Christine Leon. I'm with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I'm the group manager for the Development Permitting and Transit Group. Thank you. I just want to make sure the fan mail goes to the right place. Just the cartoon. Okay. Okay.
 So to continue the presentation, the TSDC, or impact fee update, will allow us to spend money more quickly on projects that matter to the public and keep our transportation system evolving with the changing needs of our cities. Thus, we're asking you to adopt the rate study, which includes a project list, an updated methodology and rate schedule, and the associated code amendments. Thanks.
 The remainder of the presentation will go over the important details about the update, including the program's project list, the underlying data, and how the rates are assessed. Many of these updates respond to an insightful program analysis that was conducted by PSU in 2015.
 Finally, we have representatives from our Bicycle Advisory Committee, Freight Advisory Committee, and the Bureau and Budget Advisory Committee for testimony. We'll also be joined by a representative of the Development Review Advisory Committee. And with that, I'm going to turn it over to Kendra Breeland, and she's going to discuss the project list.
 Okay. Thank you, Leah. So Oregon System Development Act requires that SDCs be based on a methodology that demonstrates consideration of an adopted capital improvement plan, or CIP. This TSDC project list kind of serves as a CIP required under Oregon state law.
 The project list is the foundation for the TSDC program, since TSDC funds can only be used to pay for projects that are on that project list. We are required to update the SDC program every 10 years to ensure that the program is current in terms of scope, schedule, and cost of identified projects, but also to ensure that the program is adequately reflecting the impacts of new development.
 While other SDC programs, such as parks, do update their project lists more frequently, we think that 10 years really strikes the right balance between the time that it takes projects, transportation projects, to get through the design and construction phases.
 So right off the bat, the main observation of the program is that it includes a substantial increase in the number of overall projects. The 2007 program included 43 projects, while the 2017 program includes 169 projects throughout the city. Thank you.
 Some of the high-profile projects that are on the list include the Central East Side access and circulation improvements, the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2, the Northeast Cully Boulevard improvements Phase 2, the Brentwood and Darlington Safe Routes to School, the Outer Division Corridor Safety Improvements, and the Southwest Vermont Street Ped and Bike Improvements. In the following slide, I'll give some overview of how the project list was created, including some of the considerations that went into it.
 The projects on the TSDC project list come from a combination of the TSP and other citywide plans.
 The TSP was built around a center strategy, which focuses investments within the city's identified centers. This strategy recognizes that growth makes the most sense in parts of the city that offer high levels of transit service, walkability, and options for biking and getting around. As Leah mentioned in her remarks, we're a mature urban environment, and so we need to give people choices in how they move efficiently throughout the city.
 Central tenet of the TSP was providing more equitable transportation system that helps serve traditionally underserved communities. The TSDC project list embraces this core value of the TSP.
 The TSP also has a strong focus on topics like Vision Zero and structuring its investments to move towards a future that has fewer serious injuries and fewer deaths on the overall transportation system. The TSDC project list has a strong emphasis on projects that improve safety and efficiency of the system.
 This slide really summarizes the overall process for creating the TSDC project list. Projects on the list are just a subset of the projects being built and constructed within Portland today. There are many projects on the TSP and that are being built that are not funded by TSDCs. We built the TSDC project list from an initial universe of 366 projects throughout the region with an estimated capital value of $5.6 billion.
 These projects were then evaluated for their eligibility to be included in the TSDC program. And on the slide, we kind of show those filters that we went through. First of all, is the project planned to be constructed in the next 10 years since this is a 10-year program? Could I ask you a clarifying question? So you said the universe of projects comes from around the region, so it's not just the city of Portland. Correct.
 Correct. Some of the projects are regional in nature. For example, trail projects, I think all of them are located within Portland's jurisdictional boundaries. Okay, so this is a city process. There's no overlap with J-PAC or Metro? Correct. Okay, great. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 So, again, going through these filters, first, is it going to fit within our 10-year construction window? Secondly, does it add kind of person trip capacity? Is it benefiting development in Portland? Because that is a requirement of TSDCs, that they serve future growth. And then thirdly, does the project do more than simply fill potholes or maintain the system, as those sorts of expenditures are not actually eligible under state law for TSDC funds?
 Once we kind of go through these filters, we landed on 169 projects that could be included for inclusion in the program. These projects have a capital value of $4.5 billion. It's important to note, however, that each of the projects that are in the program are going to be funded through a commission.
 combination of sources, not just TSDCs, but also grants, state funds, and other sources of funding. The TSDC is just one tool that helps to pay for construction of Portland's transportation system. Once other sources are factored in, the 169 projects were eligible for a total of $589 million in TSDCs over the next 10 years. Thank you.
 So this slide really shows kind of how the TSDC project list is allocated across the city. Following on the equity discussion, there's a sizable portion of projects that are being directed towards East Portland. Some of the example projects include the I-84 path extension to Gateway Green, the 122nd Avenue corridor improvements, the Division Midway Connected Centers project, the Outer Stark Safety and Access Transit project, and the Outer Hasley project.
 Halsley, excuse me, ped and bike improvements. This slide now shows kind of how the TSDC project list is distributed by mode.
 As you can see, there's a strong mix of projects that serve all modes. Improving conditions for walking, biking, and transit were also balanced against needs to improve conditions for automobiles and freight. PBOT received substantial input on earlier versions of the project list from residents as well as the business and freight communities. We took those input and added additional projects onto the project list in response to those comments.
 Could I ask you another clarifying question? And I believe you stated this right up front. This is for new...
 infrastructure. In other words, we can't spend it on filling potholes. Is that correct? That is correct. Okay, thank you. On that note, Mayor, I've never seen a request for operations and maintenance for new transportation facilities and I would very much encourage you. We do have a city policy that says all new facilities should get operations and maintenance. So this is not doing that. It's how we got into the mess we're currently in and let's correct that in the future. Thank you.
 So now we're going to change gears a little bit here and talk about another topic, which is the TSDC methodology. The updated methodology is based on an improvement fee-only structure as provided under Oregon state law. In these slides, we'll talk about some of the fundamental data, methods, and assumptions that underline the rate methodology. Simply put, an improvement fee structure constitutes a cost per new unit. The new unit that we're using here is specifically person trips.
 and more specifically, the number of person trips that are generated during the PM peak hour. So...
 First of all, why person trips? While Portland's Transportation System Development Charge Program has always been multimodal, this update is the first time that the program will be derived from actual person trip data. Last December, we came to Council and Council provided PBOT staff with direction to shift to a person trip model for the TSDC calculations.
 Moving from vehicular trip data to actual person trip data provides a much more complete picture of how Portland's transportation system is used.
 The images on this slide provide a simple illustration. Cars don't make trips, people do. And how the people travel really matters. So as you can see on the picture on the left and in the center, you can kind of see this is people driving in single occupant vehicles. And so in that middle picture, you can just see that the cars have been stripped away, so you can see the people making the trip. By contrast, if we look at the image on the right where people are traveling by bus, you can see that they're using a lot less space.
 and so their impacts on the system is much, much less. Our end goal has been to help Portland to improve its TSDC program to better reflect how people travel and structure the program to provide a more robust and multimodal project list.
 The program also shifts in measuring trip-making from the daily to the p.m. peak hour. This shift reflects a desire to measure the impacts during the time when the transportation system is most taxed. So just thinking about a trip, a trip made during the middle of the night probably doesn't have as much impact on the system as one made at 5 p.m. And the other piece here is as we move to person trip data, the data is much more robust and available for the p.m. peak hour.
 In the next few slides, Deb will talk more specifically about how the rates were developed.
 Thank you, Kendra. And I apologize. As you can see from the chart on the screen, it gets really dense here. We're no longer talking about cartoons. We've got very complex formula system here that's the current methodology. And part of that complexity was because it was designed to determine costs and SDC eligibility by mode. And when I talk about mode, as Kendra said, it's cars, walking, bikes, et cetera.
 The new methodology does simplify things the way the SDCs are calculated while maintaining the essential elements needed to comply with Oregon statutes. Under the new approach, the capacity costs from the TSDC project list are spread over the growth in trips over the 10-year period to determine a system-wide rate, multimodal. This is for all modes together.
 This rate then serves as the basis for development of TSDCs by land use type.
 As was described in the video, different land uses have different impacts on the system. A single-family home generates fewer trips than a grocery store. And so the TSC methodology takes this into account and determines rates specific for each land use based on its estimated impact. We'll talk more about the rate schedule later in the process.
 One of the requirements of Oregon law is that the methodology demonstrate consideration of capacity costs needed to serve the demand of future system users specifically. These are development impact fees. The previous slide described how we calculate the new capacity costs per person trip. It's then important to compare that to the existing system value per trip
 to ensure that new development is not being asked to pay for a higher level of service than the city is currently providing. To determine the existing system value, we relied on information from PBOT's Asset and Status and Conditions Report, which includes a comprehensive inventory of the system, things like sidewalks, pavement, bikes, et cetera. The total existing system value was estimated to be $9.8 billion.
 To determine the existing system value per trip, we divide that value by the forecast or by the current number of person trips during the peak hour, which from the metro travel demand model is estimated to be 500, 1,300. The result is a base level of service of about 19,500 per trip.
 Additional investment by the city up to this level is needed to maintain the current level of service and equitably fund additional system capacity for new development. As I described previously, the TSDC rate is determined by dividing the new capacity cost from the TSDC project list by the growth in PM peak hour person trips over the same period.
 As Kendra discussed, the updated TSDC project list includes approximately $589 million in capacity-increasing costs over the next 10 years. To estimate the growth in trips, we used the 2012 Metro model to estimate total person trips generated by jobs and housing and then performed a detailed allocation of growth for the city out to the year 2035.
 This forecast was adopted by the City Council as the official forecast for use in the travel demand model. Since the SDCs are based on a 10-year period, this forecast is then scaled back to a 10-year period through 2027, and
 which estimated growth would produce 70,630 additional p.m. peak hour trips. So that's the denominator of the equation. We divide the costs by this growth in person trips, and the result is a rate of $8,347.
 It's important then to compare that rate back to the existing system value per trip of $19,500, and you see that's significantly lower, which basically means the capacity costs included in the project list may be fully attributable to servicing the needs of future growth within the planning period. Thank you.
 Based on the rate shown in the previous slide, the $8,000 rate, this slide shows the calculated TSTCs for three different types of land uses, a single-family home, a medical office building, and a grocery store. Again, as we discuss, different land uses have different impacts on the system, and we measure that by person trips.
 We have data that tells us that a typical single-family dwelling unit generates just over 1.2 person trips during the p.m. peak hour, which results in a fee of $10,280. Similarly, industry data shows that a 15,000-square-foot medical office generates about 58 p.m. peak hour person trips, resulting in a fee of about $933,000.
 Person trip survey data, either national or Portland-specific, are available for selected development types only. Where survey data is not available, we use other industry data on vehicle trip rates and convert those to person trips. It is the intent of PBOT to eventually compile a full data set of person trip counts for all land use types that are included in the TSDC schedule.
 Can you go back to that slide for a second? Are you going to, at some point, show us the before and after? I will show you. These numbers are more meaningful if there's a comparison. This represents an increase, a decrease, whatever. I will talk a little bit about that later in the presentation for a couple land uses later.
 But I'd be particularly interested in these three, the medical office building of a million dollars. I don't have any context for that. That's a big number. Is that more or less or roughly the same? Well, the current, I can tell you for the typical household, that the current fee is about $2,800.
 And we have that data, so if you want, we can let Deb get through her presentation, and then I can ask Christine Leon to come up and go over some examples for you. Yeah, I think it's helpful because my experience in these hearings on impact fees is that there are often winners and losers. And then people come forward and say, I think we're overpaying or we're not paying enough. And then the other thing is –
 often compare how other jurisdictions treat it. You know, I have been surprised from time to time when people howl about impact fees that we learned that they would pay more, you know, if they lived in a place like Tiger and Lake Oswego and the like. So how this changes the status quo versus going forward and then some sense of how we match up with some of our suburban cities, our neighbors. I will definitely talk about that. Just to have context on this.
 Thank you. Okay. So while funding 100% of the eligible project costs would allow all 169 projects on the list to be funded, as Leah mentioned, the TSDC program has always relied on leveraging state, local, and grant funds to support portions of the projects.
 Feedback from, as part of this process, from residential and commercial stakeholders agreed that funding at a 50% level balances the impacts on development and the transportation system. As you can see, a funding level of 50% would raise approximately $294 million over the next 10 years and would reduce the rate to 4,174 per person trip.
 This slide then just shows those same three land use types with the 50% funded level, and you can see that the fee for a typical single-family dwelling unit would be reduced from over $10,000 to $5,140. Okay, I'll turn it back to Kendra to talk more about the SDC schedule. Great, and in this section, we're going to talk about the overall rate schedule. Okay.
 So the rate schedule is really where the rubber hits the road from the perspective of what a developer pays. It's the chart that specifies rates for land use categories. As described earlier, the fees are based on the number of trips generated by unique land uses, as estimated earlier by actual person trip data where available or derived from ITE person trip data, the next best source.
 The proposed rate schedule includes 27 land use categories. These are similar to the current program, although 14 categories were either eliminated or consolidated, and some new categories were added based on stakeholder feedback. So we wanted to highlight a few of the biggest changes. First, for the residential categories, we created two single-family rates, one for households larger than 1,200 square feet and another for smaller homes. Okay.
 There has been substantial interest in recognizing that not all single-family homes have the same impact. It is reasonable to assume that smaller homes tend to have fewer occupants and could be reasonably expected to have a lesser overall impact on the transportation system.
 While not enough data yet exists for us to definitively set more varied rates by square footage, we believe that the city can start moving in this direction. Recommended actions in this update are to set a fee for smaller homes similar to multifamily homes.
 The program will also continue to exempt affordable housing permanently, as well as accessory dwelling units through mid-2018. Moreover, we think there is merit to the City beginning to collect new person trip data from a variety of housing types, such that more varied rates can be set in future updates.
 So I'd just like to compliment you on doing that, which, of course, is similar to what we've done in parks. And just a heads up, you have to think about what happens with a renovation that then changes, whether it's over or under 1,200 square feet. I'm sure it looks like you've already thought of that. Yes. How are you currently proposing to deal with that? And I wanted to see, did staff want to speak specifically to the code? Oh, I'm sorry. I'll wait for Lisa. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 Okay, and relative to the update also thought a bit about non-residential rates. This update consolidates shopping and retail rates in recognition of the changing nature of many retail centers and the needs of small businesses. Under the existing TSDC rate schedule, there are several land uses which can create complexity when tenants change. Under the proposed rate schedule, categories have
 been combined or eliminated and for increased cost predictability to businesses applying for tenant improvements. One final major new element to this update is the person trip adjustment.
 As was discussed at the December meeting, in moving to a mode-neutral, person-trip-based TSDC program, it is important to recognize how development within the central city and other designated centers have less of an impact on the overall transportation system. The way we approached this is by evaluating the space efficiency of walking, biking, and other modes. Okay.
 In a mature urban environment, expanding roadways is often not feasible. Thus, it is important to figure out how we can help more people move within the same amount of space. The factors on the screen show the difference in space usage by mode. Carpools use less space than drive-alone trips. Bikes use 88% less space. And transit trip, on average, uses a staggering 97% less space. Okay.
 Based on the space efficiency calculations on the prior slide and the mode shares estimated for centers relative to the rest of the city, using a combination of data from the Oregon Household Activity Survey and the Metro Model, the update recommends TSDC reductions of 33% for eligible uses within the downtown and 8% for centers and areas proximate to light rail stations.
 These fee adjustments will incentivize the right development in the right areas of the city, reinforcing the goals of Portland Progress and the TSP. The city doesn't take lightly these fee adjustments as they recognize that they reduce the amount of TSDCs that can be generated over time.
 These adjustments are offered to the types of development that are most likely to benefit from nearby transit service and the more walkable, bikeable nature of these areas. Multifamily, commercial, and light industrial areas that are paired with mixed use and built to within 0.75 of maximum floor area ratio.
 This structure is consistent with the city's comprehensive plan goals to focus growth in the central city, other centers, and areas nearby light rail stations, and to shift away from drive-alone trips to more environmentally sustainable modes. I'm now going to transition back to Deb, who can give some perspectives on how these proposed rate updates affect Portland's position in the region from the perspective of affordability.
 So, yeah, this chart here shows you both the current TSDC for a single-family home and the proposed. And you can see that the current, which is at the very low end of the chart, is about $2,800. In the last TSDC update, the rates were capped at this level in order to generate a fee that was then near the middle of the range of comparison of other communities.
 Since that time, staff research has shown that the TSDCs in other areas have increased, while the city's rates have remained unchanged, and that results in the current fee being at the lower end. The proposed fee, as you can see, moves slightly more towards center. Can I ask you a question on that? Go back to that slide. I know that the argument we often hear is that you have to look at all the costs in the basket, and obviously –
 the cost of dirt in Portland tends to be more expensive than in other places, and you add other costs, regulatory costs, charges, fees, and the like. And so I guess I understand conceptually that that's one way of measuring apples to apples. But when you see a chart like this, and we are somewhere like below a third of what Beaverton is charging for impact fees, these are the identical fees? Yes.
 Correct. So there's no – they're not adding some other component of it that we don't? Yeah, that's correct. And in the next slide, we'll look at the full – all the systems together. And what is the short version of why Beaverton is charging close to $18,000 – why there's such a gap between what we charge and Beaverton? Well, I don't know Beaverton's situation, but –
 You know, there's obviously in that part of the metro area a lot of infrastructure needs. And, you know, your project list is based on just prioritized projects within the 10-year period. Other communities will look at both a longer view and not sort of cap projects.
 the project list, they will look at the full, potentially, list from the TSP, for example. So part of it depends on the mix of projects and the funding level. Also, what we're recommending here is a 50% funding level. The current funding level, I believe, was based on 40%. So in part, that's why yours are lower relative to others. Yeah, it's just interesting. We get these charts at budget time, and, you know, there's a –
 There's a narrative that some people have about how just irrationally high our fees and charges are. Now, you know, we can always do better. There's always customer service issues. There's always value issues. There's always – but, you know, like I'm reminded when we do our annual utility report –
 and people seem to be shocked that you pay more for water in a number of suburban areas. Now, the public doesn't quite look at it that way. I mean, it still comes down to what's the cost, what's the affordability component within the place that you live, and I get that. But I do think the regional data is important because it raises an extra question, and that's an interesting question why we are a third of what Beaverton charges.
 Thank you. And this is apples to apples. This is just transportation city to city. Okay, thank you. And the next slide is also apples to apples, but now we're building on the other infrastructure systems for which you charge SDCs and that the other communities were including those on top. So you can see in this chart that Portland is more towards the center in the current, and that's because the other bureaus have increased their SDCs significantly.
 in recent years, and the total SDC cost for a typical single-family home currently is about $25,000, assuming it's not in the central city. So with the increase that's proposed for the TSDC,
 You would move up one position but still remain in the middle. Commissioner Fritz, does this reflect the increase in parks SDCs that the council adopted but deferred? Yes. No, we didn't. It's currently what we're collecting. We deferred it for a little while. But then we put it into place. So this includes the increase that the council agreed to. I believe so. Yes.
 It does. So Gresham is listed three times in three different bars. Beaverton is listed twice. Are these truly comparators? Yes. So Gresham has different geographically-based charges because, for example, Pleasant Valley and Springwater are different.
 kind of new developing areas as opposed to the more mature infrastructure that's in the city proper. And so they charge in that basis. And the same with Beaverton, that they have a separate charge for South Cooper Mountain because of the significant infrastructure needs specific to that area. Interesting. Thank you. Mm-hmm.
 So expanding a bit now to include other types of development fees, as was mentioned, the cost of development goes beyond just the SDCs. So this slide...
 excludes the new inclusionary housing fees, shows that the current total fee burden for a new four-story apartment valued at $4.2 million would be approximately $750,000 with the new TSDC in place. In this case, the TSDC would account for $125,000 of that total, up about 19% from the current TSDC program.
 And we have one more example that shows, in this case, a six-story apartment with retail on the ground floor valued at $6.3 million would be assessed total fees. Again, this is SDCs plus other development fees excluding the inclusionary housing fee.
 The total fees are about $1 million. Of this amount, TSDCs would account for approximately $160,000, up 26% from the current TSDC program. Now, it should be noted that, as Kendra pointed out, there's a number of adjustments and discounts as part of the new program, and if this building were located in the central city, it would qualify for a 33% reduction in the TSDCs.
 What do you mean by inclusionary housing fee? I'm going to have to defer that to staff. As far as I'm aware, there's no fee to be in the inclusionary housing program. I'm actually going to defer that discussion to staff. So one of the things that we did was just looked at if someone didn't do inclusionary housing, if they elected to pay the fee instead, the impact of that. So we just stripped it out of the entire analysis. Okay.
 Great. Okay. I just want to make sure I'm not missing something in terms of your new methodology. So let's take the example of a six-story apartment building. Is there a difference in the fee that you would calculate based on whether or not there was on-site parking? So parking is not a final destination. So what we assess is the use, so the retail portion or the –
 residential portion or the mixed use, but not parking itself. It's interesting. I'm just trying to – and help me understand that. So a six-story apartment building built, say, under the transit-oriented development program that's across the street from the MAX has an express bus and the city's best trail. No parking. No parking.
 And it actually markets to people who say, here's a new way of living. You can get a small apartment, walk to work, take public transit. Up the street is the same building with twice the amount of parking that's required, you know, with a lot of parking. And it goes free because they want people to be able to park their cars in. And it just happens, you know, we know that, what, 70% of people in apartment buildings own a car.
 So in effect, it has – that building is encouraging people to make it as convenient as possible with their cars. I'm just curious. Why wouldn't we treat the two differently?
 So what we would assess is on the number of residential units. And the shift that we've made in this new methodology is to count the person trips they make regardless of mode. So if you get in your vehicle, that is one trip by one person. If you walk down the street, that's one trip by one person.
 So the mode is not what we are assessing now. It is the use and the number of p.m. peak hour person trips that are being made. There is an example, if we want to get into the details, of the Emory apartment. I think I understand your methodology. I'm struggling with it a little bit. I get it. And since we are talking about impact, help me understand that the person that –
 leaves their apartment and walks down the sidewalk and they weigh about 100 pounds and they do that trip a lot and over a lifetime have no impact on the sidewalk versus the person that parks their Hummer in their apartment building and drives a lot and over time does have an impact on the street. Is there a difference that we care about in terms of calculating STCs?
 So the person that walks down the sidewalk needs that infrastructure as well. And so our capital projects that we want to build out to accommodate growth include projects to put in more protected bike lanes, to build sidewalk infrastructure, to accommodate transit systems and make our transit system more accessible and walkable.
 There are some road projects, but they mainly deal with freight capacity. And that is the essence of what we're trying to build, is for people to make trips on the system. The discounts that Kendra talked about in the centers and the central city are based on, I think, what you are really getting to, Commissioner Fishh.
 The impact that a person makes on the system...
 I'm sorry. The Director is here. It's different based on the mode that they take. Yeah. So if I could just add, I think it goes back to what the Mayor pointed out right when we opened up is we don't charge SDCs for adjacent capacity. We charge it for overall capacity in the city. That's what we're trying to do. Yeah. And I'm going to be clear. My questions are designed to understand the approach and how you've chosen this approach.
 I'm absorbing it. I'm not ready to show my hand. One last question. We had a conversation a few weeks ago about so-called smart cities, another term I hope we abolish and replace with something else. Yes.
 And the gist of it is it's a way – it's an artful marketing ploy, in my opinion, for putting in the infrastructure for autonomous vehicles. And I think we've – my own personal view is we've gone – we've jumped through a lot of hoops without actually asking some threshold questions. That said –
 Are we budgeting any SDC money under this program for any of the improvements that are required to support smart cities and the new grids? Yes, we are. Because those smart city projects will definitely enhance capacity. Okay.
 One of the things that we are using the current SDC program for is to look at putting in sensors to do some of the pedestrian counts out on 122nd Avenue and Hawthorne and I think Division Corridors. So, yeah, the essence of, you know, intelligent transportation system, the ITS process.
 projects that our traffic signals folks have started maybe 25 years ago, those are smart city projects. Again, it's rebranded into something new, but those are really capacity enhancing for the system. Well, let me just be clear because the council made a very emphatic statement that we weren't going to spend public money ahead of deciding what we were going to do with respect to smart cities. I draw, from what you just said, I draw a sharp distinction between
 investments in things that advance Vision Zero, advancements in things that do safety. And the line that I think we have to be more mindful of is what appears to be building out a grid for a system that we have not yet determined whether we're going to, A, support or invest in. And you used 122nd as an example, and I'm glad you did because, frankly, my fear on Smart City –
 One component of it is that we are going to sort of willy-nilly authorize investments in the central part of our town on the theory that this is where autonomous vehicles are more likely to be used. And it's going to work against our equity goals of, frankly, making the common-sense safety improvements in the rest of the city they've been crying for.
 legitimately demanding. And so, Mayor, we had this conversation at council, and we had actually an understanding that we would first do the assessment and the study and then come back and talk about it. So it would be my expectation that we're not using SDCs in this plan to drive smart cities until the council has authorized a smart city policy unless I'm misstating council policy. Thank you.
 Thank you for that feedback, Commissioner, and we look forward to future conversations about that. It's really helpful guidance and feedback for us. To your earlier question, Commissioner Fish, about a comparison of current charge and the proposed charge, we will submit that in follow-up information to you and the rest of the council so you can have an idea on a case-by-case basis what kind of changes we're looking at. Good, thank you. Yes, you're welcome. Thank you.
 So if I can wrap up, over the next few months we're going to complete the last few elements relative to the update. That would be the administrative rules, updating the overlay areas to align with the new program. And we really are hopeful today that the Council is going to direct us to complete these steps to have a full program ready to commence on January 1, 2018.
 I also would like to point out the letters of support that are included in your packet. It includes support from the Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission, the Transportation Justice Alliance with leadership organizations, including the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 757, APANO, Community Cycling Center, Opal Environmental Justice, Oregon, and NAYA.
 Portland Streetcar, the Development Review Advisory Committee, Go Lloyd, coalitions and neighborhood associations, including Sullivan's Gulch and Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods, the Street Trust, the Portland Pedestrian Advisory Committee, the Portland Freight Committee, the Portland Bicycle Advisory Committee, the Portland Commission on Disability, and Union Pacific Railroad.
 And so with that, I would like to call up our invited testimony. We have Laura Becker, Pia Welch, Elliot Aquai-Scott, and Mary Helen Kincaid. And when they are finished, we'll still be here and available for questions that you may have of us. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Do we have any public testimony? Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize. I apologize. We love invited testimony. Come on up. Commissioner Saltzman, did you...
 Want to make the introductions or just let them introduce themselves? They can introduce themselves. Very good. Carla, we love the graphic. 1851. But you knew that. Do you want to go ahead and start us off? Thank you. Sure. I'm Mary Helen Kincaid. I'm the chair of the Development Review Advisory Committee and am here speaking on behalf of DRAC. Thank you.
 A lot's been said. I want to commend the PBOT staff that came to several DRAC meetings and went over a lot of the statistics, responded to many questions. In fact, some of those slides, I think, were a result of DRAC asking for the overview of impacts of fees. I also want to point out that this was historically, for those people that have been around DRAC for a long time, a lot of the time.
 This was a wonderful collaborative effort on behalf of the members of DRAC. It wasn't a we versus they. It was informed people in a room coming to a collaborative recognition of the needs of the city and transportation infrastructure. Not to say there wasn't lively discussion, but they did come to support this proposal as you saw today. In recognition of that,
 The overarching message that Drac wanted me to bring was we need to look at SDC fees in a holistic way. We need to see how those fees and regulations combined affect development, and not in an every three months, sometimes every two years.
 I don't know who can convene that. I think you've heard me say before I'm not a big fan of silo government, but all the different infrastructure bureaus are under different commissioners, different directors, but I think there needs to be some sort of –
 We've got three under two, so that's progress. Okay, we'll pick on Commissioner Saltzman because he's – but I think someone needs to convene so that we look at all fees and regulations so that they aren't popping up every seven months, maybe every two years, what that impact is. And in a letter that DRAC sent in May and then again in our July letter to council, that was one of the first things we mentioned –
 look at the overall overarching impact that development fees and charges have on development because quite frankly and just recently I don't know why it didn't come to my awareness but
 but in watching like the Home for Everyone work session video and all those kinds of things. I don't know how you keep track of all the fees and the overall impact. So I would think it would be informative to council members as well as the public, what's this really costing us? Not that Home for Everyone has any impact on development, but the water charges, the sewer charges,
 do you remember what the BES fees were increased? I mean, those kinds of things I think would be informative, and they would also help bring the development community more in line with neighborhoods and people that are being impacted by those fees. So DRAC...
 I think on the basis of yet a third plea to have some sort of commission, if it's a Gator study, if it's whatever, of how all the fees that the city charges impacts development. Because the bottom line in everybody's mind, every time you add a dollar to a development, it adds a dollar to the cost of that housing. Okay.
 And that's just plain and common sense. I mean, that's just business. Mary Helen, can I just ask you something? Is there any reason why at the beginning of our budget process when we start our hearings that we couldn't ask the independent budget office?
 to just prepare a one-pager showing, as you say, holistically, all the proposed increases of SDCs, because they're all baked into all the budgets and they're all part of the thing, and do that as a single document so the public would have that and we could look at it holistically? Sure. Give me a magic wand and I'll wave it and so be it. I think the mayor is probably –
 My guess is the mayor's persuaded that's a good idea. Yeah, I think it would be a perfect informative tool to use in how we plan because we talk about affordable housing, low-cost housing, all those things, yet you don't, talking with PCRI and Proud Ground and Home Forward, you know, they have all different kinds of fees that are waived that they have to pay, those kinds of things. People want to.
 go to permit fees, well, that's only like 7% of the cost. All the rest is in other places. And six years on DRAC, I still don't have a down pat. But I think that's an excellent idea because I don't believe that they're making outlandish claims to what needs to be paid for, but I think you need an overarching look at what those costs.
 processes are. And like Commissioner Fish pointed out, do you spend money on autonomous vehicles? Do you spend money on sidewalks? Do you spend money on pedestrian ways? I live in a neighborhood that doesn't have sidewalks. We don't have a bus. I mean, we're
 And it's fine, but how do you evaluate what program is going to get the most bang for the buck? And I think that DRAC is adamant about trying to get that overarching look. It will help the development community and it will help the city. I think because you got the letters, I'm not going to go over it, but...
 I just wanted to point out that I thought it was remarkable that came together and supported a fee increase. I don't know how often you see that. And it points to the fact that they want to do better, and they want to see an overall approach to all fees and regulations. We do have a subcommittee that's been meeting, but it's been kind of the
 Mayor Wheeler had the group that looked at that, and I think that could be the continuum. It could be a phase two of that group and include DRAC in that conversation. Agreed. I think that's a good template, and it's reminiscent of the work that Commissioner Udaly and I did on the permitting. We did do a gator session where we brought together different bureaus, and that's where we reached that conclusion that it's really only 6% of the total development cost. I'm not saying that 6% isn't important, but...
 but it's not the economic driver. And we'd heard a narrative that it was the economic driver. And so if nothing else, we came out of the Gator session realizing, okay, there's areas in terms of process and accountability where we can strengthen our cross-barrel collaboration, but we also realized that the prevailing narrative was, in fact, a false narrative, and now we have the facts to back it. So I agree with you.
 and Commissioner Fish's notion that when we come into the budget process, it would be helpful to have all of this information on one page, much in the way that the Transportation Bureau put it all on one page for this particular presentation. So I agree with that. Have a report back to the DRAC next week. They'll like that. Is DRAC referring to the –
 percentage of cost relative to the overall budget of a given project or the potential, I guess, disincentive to build at all? I think it's to the cost. I don't think it's a disincentive approach. Okay.
 I'm going to speak outside of my draft cap now. I don't think that price increase will be a disincentive. I think they'll build. It'll just be more expensive at probably the cost of more affordable homes. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Pia Welch. I'm the chair of the Portland Freight Committee and also a PBAC member.
 The Portland Freight Committee put together a work group, and we primarily concentrated on the project list. And we were very pleased. We reviewed the transportation system plan project list and the newly adopted regional over-dimensional truck study project list that came out of that study. And we would like to acknowledge and thank the
 the PBOT staff for the inclusion of our recommendations, which includes the Columbia Boulevard Georgia Middle School pedestrian overpass replacement, the Columbia Boulevard railroad undercresting improvement, and then North Portland Columbia Slough bridge replacement. In reviewing the project list, we believe that the project list –
 is a little more robust and balanced allocation of funding between all the modes. So, again, we would like to thank everyone for their work on this project. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Saltzman, and members of council, my name is Elliot Aquai-Scott. I'm the vice chair of the Portland Bicycle Advisory Committee. The Bicycle Advisory Committee is a modal committee appointed by council and charged with advising the city on all matters relating to bicycling.
 The BAC had an opportunity to review the proposed TSDC changes in May this year with the presentation by PBOT staff. I'm here today to speak on behalf of the BAC in support of the TSDC update, including the updated methodology, the project list, and the rate schedule.
 The proposed new TSDC methodology for assessing charges to new development on a per-person trip rather than per-vehicle trip basis reflects Portland's multimodal transportation network and growing use of active transportation. The BAC supports a multimodal approach to transportation policy that includes bicycle trips and acknowledges the contribution that bicycling makes to the city's transportation infrastructure.
 The BAC also endorses the TSDC project list, which was developed through a robust process, drawing from the city's previous transportation planning efforts, public outreach, and strong considerations for equity and safety. TSDC list projects provide new transportation capacity that supports demand generated by new development. Since 2000, more new commute trips in the city have been supported by bicycling than by any other mode of transportation based on U.S. Census data.
 The BAC finds that the updated Transportation Systems Development Charge Program aligns with the City's Comprehensive Plan and Transportation System Plan goals of prioritizing a multimodal transportation system. And finally, the BAC supports the adjustment of TSTC rates from 40% to 50% of the eligible list to better align with rates assessed by other jurisdictions in the Portland Metro region.
 generating approximately $300 million over the next 10 years to help the city build out a multimodal infrastructure, especially in areas like East Portland, where existing infrastructure is struggling to support increased demand and where increasing user safety continues to be a pressing concern.
 I'd just like to add, as a personal reflection, I think the process for developing the TSCC project list and the considerations that the PBOT staff and consultants showed to equity and safety and considerations building list were some of the strongest of any city project that I've seen. Thank you. Very good. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you all. I'm Laura Becker, outgoing co-chair of PBOT's Budget and Bureau Advisory Committee. It's been an honor, and I appreciate the opportunity to represent this thoughtful and diverse group of volunteers who help PBOT better understand the people they serve and their concerns. During the committee's most recent term, we did discuss a variety of topics related to the TSDC program and update, including the shift to a person-trip methodology, the proposed project list, and increased rates.
 This update will secure a fair share from developers for transportation improvements needed to accommodate Portland's growth over the next 10 years. We support the 169 projects recommended for funding. The project team presented evaluation criteria to ensure general geographic proportionality, meet the city's multimodal transportation goals, and continue to provide and improve access to jobs, housing, and daily needs in underserved communities.
 The TSDC update project list draws from the adopted TSP and other recently adopted plans, including Vision Zero, as well as plans that are in the process of adoption. The increased eligibility of more projects results in a more forward-looking project list that moves the dial on equity across the city.
 The current TSDC rates simply do not and will not generate enough revenue, and it is our neighbors who are already under pressure that are burdened from the delay of needed projects. We hope the council will approve the proposed rate, which will raise up to $229 million or $300 million towards completing capacity and growth-oriented transit projects where they are and will be needed over the next 10 years. Thank you for considering our committee's recommendations. Thank you. Thank you.
 That completes the invited testimony. Very good. Carla, is there a public testimony? Yes, I have about eight people left here. Very good. Three minutes each. When Carla calls your name, please state your name for the record. The first three are Jason Franklin, Terry Doblinsky-Milton, and Amy Wren. Terry, would you like to go first, please? Sure. Thank you, sir.
 I am Terry Dublinski-Milton, and most of my comments will be speaking on behalf of Southeast Uplift, where I'm co-chair. I would like to thank everybody who's spoken so far. Southeast Uplift did not have time with PBOT's request to comment on this whole thing, as we usually take a couple of months to debate. But I can speak on certain things that we have voted on. Southeast Uplift...
 We have consistently voted in favor of multimodal projects, and so using the new methodology is in line with all our previous votes. It seems to make sense. I would personally defer to PBOT's recommendations when it comes to the transportation impact fees. As we all know, we need more money for transportation. Okay.
 Now, similarly, we didn't take a stand on the entire project list, but through a community-driven process I call Southeast Uplift in Motion, we have endorsed multiple projects in the past that can be looked at as priority one projects that have been funded, and then a next tier, which we request get funded next. I would like to highlight two of them, which have had board approval.
 The Reway Overpass, which you will see on your map, is a red line over by the railroad tracks by McLaughlin. It fills a 1.7-mile gap between the Bybee bike lanes and the double elevator Lafayette Overpass. Terry, could you sit back for the mic a little because it's popping? Thank you. Thanks.
 And it's endorsed as the highest priority for Smile, Reed, Eastmoreland, and Brooklyn. The Southeast Uplift endorsed allocation of transportation impact fees, I'm going to use that term, for design and outreach, not build, because we know this is going to be expensive. And we want to see a ramped option so we know the costs. Since this is connecting Westmoreland to Reed College, we all know what's going to happen in the middle of the night with the college students if there's elevators.
 And not only that, the Lafayette overpass was down for three months last winter because of water damage. And then it was also closed during the heat because of the greenhouse effect. It was too hot to go in the elevators. And so if we want a good connection, it needs to be ramped. And for the next minute or so, I'd like to talk about the 60s bikeway.
 This has the long route which has been circled. It has been endorsed as the highest priority of all six neighborhoods along the route, North Mount, South Tabor, Mount Scotterletta, Brentwood-Darlington, and Foster-Powell.
 You can look at it as three parts. The northern section from Davis to the 60th MAC station in Halsey was just endorsed unanimously, which I testified for last week on the Growing Transit Communities Project. This is one of the highest densities of R1 we have in southeast uplift, and the R1 zoning would be facilitated by this project.
 South of Division is a Safe Routes to Schools project for all the southern neighborhoods to access Mount Tabor Park, the New South Entrance, and the Harrison-Lincoln Greenway, which is getting a safety modernization as part of the gas tax.
 Then the middle section connecting Lincoln to Davis will assess Stark, Burnside, and access to Mount Tabor Park for areas that don't currently have access. A couple more seconds. Burnside right now is the largest pro tem parking left on the east side, which has those three lanes that appear and disappear depending on the commute times. And this project will do an engineering assessment of that. Plus one personal plug.
 Amy has a good project that I think should be added. Thank you. Well done. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor and commissioners, Jason Franklin, Director of Campus Planning and Design, Portland State University. Thanks for listening to our testimony. Portland State University has submitted a letter, which I believe you all have, a fact sheet going over kind of our analysis of the new rate study and rate sheet.
 And first I want to say thanks to Commissioner Saltzman for the amendment to the rate study. So we're speaking in favor of that this morning. We know how hard it is for staff to come up with a defensible rate study, and we certainly appreciate the need for TSDCs. We're supportive of it. We're supportive of the amendments and the changes to the rate study.
 However, the rate study as previously published actually more than tripled the rates on university buildings. And so we think this was just simply kind of wasn't enough time for staff to go through and do the analysis on all the different types of buildings and uses in the project.
 And so we've been talking to staff about that for the last couple of months, and we're happy that they've come forward with an amendment which we fully support and we think provides a modest increase to the university, which is more in line with all the other increases that you see in the TSDC rate list. So we support the amendment, and again, thanks for all the hard work of staff and working with us and Commissioner Saltzman for supporting the amendment. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you for your testimony. Good morning. Hi. Thank you. My name is Amy Wren, and I'm here to request an addition to the list of projects. So it's already pretty big. I'm here to request another one. So the project that I am proposing is on Southeast Mill between Southeast 80th and Southeast 82nd. So it's a two-block stretch of road. You all have photos of the stretch of road.
 It is the safe routes to school for Bridger K-8 school. It currently does not have sidewalks, and it currently floods any time there's rain. It is also the neighborhood greenway that continues past Lincoln. So once you pass Tabor, it is the greenway to East Portland. Okay.
 It is very important that this project is put on this list at this time because this stretch of road, Southeast Mill, is being planned to have the sewer replaced down the middle of the road. So this road, in the next couple years, will be completely torn up and the sewer line will be replaced.
 There's no plans currently to change the street, so no plans to add drainage, no plans to add sidewalks at this time. So the TSD, the funds if they were added on could kind of connect these two projects. The goal also is to get funding for Safe Routes to School. They have acknowledged that this stretch is an issue as you can see from the photos and
 Additionally, the neighbors who live on this street are currently working towards possibly creating a LID. So the people who live on the street at this time are discussing, like, we might be willing to put money into this fund to help pay for it.
 However, without the funding from the TSD fees, it's just not affordable for the people on the street to do it. So I'm here to ask that we add this to the list. I currently don't live on the street. I also currently don't have children that go to this school, but I do use the neighborhood greenway. And the reason I got involved with this is because every single day I see kids struggling through that street, through that stretch of street. There's a lot of kids who get off.
 TriMet on 82nd, we take the 72nd bus, they get off at 82nd, they cross 82nd, because that's one of the only places where there's a streetlight currently to get to Bridger. So they cross 82nd, and they are met with that road. You have photos. I think they speak for themselves. So I'm just here to ask that we add this project to the list. Thank you, Amy. Commissioner Fruits? Thank you for your testimony, and thank you for the photographs. They really do tell thousands of words. Thank you for your altruism, too. I mean, I'm sure the improvements for you as somebody passing through
 are less than those people actually going there. So we'll ask staff at the end whether we could do that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Next three, please, Carla. Jim Brown, Eli Spivak, and Alan Kessler. And there are two more after that, Carla. Is that correct? Correct. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. My name is Jim Brown. I'm an attorney representing...
 Western Container Corporation and Treeco Real Estate LLC in support of the city's proposed amendments to the TSDC code to adopt the 2017 rate study to establish an updated rate schedule and amend the code. We respectfully remind the council that in its recent August 30th meeting, they adopted the North Subtle Road LID. And PBOT, in the 23rd meeting,
 recommended a $500,000 contribution from the TSDC funds towards the North Sutter Road LID development. We therefore request that the Council include the North Sutter Road LID on the list of projects eligible for the TSDC funding and that they provide the recommended PBOT contribution. I've also attached to my written comments that,
 Letters of support from Supreme Pearl Light Company and Oil Re-Refining Company, who are also property owners in the North Sutter Road LID district. We appreciate the city's contribution towards the North Sutter Road LID, which places heavy burdens on the local nine property owners that will be funding that.
 And so we thank you for your efforts to provide additional city funding and for the city staff's help in the development of the LID. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Eli Spivak, and I actually came prepared to speak on behalf of the Planning Commission, on which I serve, but I'm happy to speak in person. I'm very overlapped with them. As noted by presentation previously, the Planning Commission offered a letter of support for this program, which I agree with. The letter also had a couple caveats and suggestions, and one of them I'll...
 paraphrase a read from the letter, was that the Planning Commission fully supports PBOT's decision to focus on person trips rather than VMT and recommends that the fee structure for homes and apartments have several tiers using data relating home size to average household size. This would more accurately scale residential SDCs to demand on our transportation system by the number of residents living in them, since people use our transportation system, not homes.
 and will be closer to the way retail and office STCs are handled. We urge PBOT to refine the methodology this round. So that was from the Planning Commission letter. So I dug into this a little bit deeper, and would like to share with the council that for, as they outlined, residential subset of their fees,
 For apartments or attached housing, they're proposing a lump sum flat fee across all types. So there would be the same transportation impact fee whether it's a 300 square foot apartment or a three story penthouse suite apartment or a three story townhome. Those would be 3,000 square feet or larger.
 We know from data that PARCS has reviewed and it's easily available at your fingertips with the American Housing Survey, that on average, smaller homes, like a 400-square-foot apartment, have fewer people living in them than larger homes. And it's not a direct line correlation, but there's clearly a great statistic database showing a correlation between household size and number of people.
 Unfortunately, the consultants they've hired have not brought that into the equation, and there may be some discrepancy between the type of data they traditionally use and that information. But if you imagine a situation where a small grocery store, imagine the groceries are charged just based on a lump sum for every grocery store, you'd think that the small grocers would be pretty upset, and that's kind of what's happening here.
 Eli, can I just ask you a question? Sure. It won't go against your time. I'm having a flashback to, I think, Mark Evelyn coming before us a few years ago, and he was talking about what he thought was the inequity of charging SDCs based on the door. And I think the precise argument was we want to create an incentive for those smaller units that are more efficient, and why should we charge the same for, as you say, the 300-square-foot versus the –
 1,500-foot penthouse. And that was a very live discussion in the past. And so just so I'm clear, and I'm reading your testimony, the proposal that's before us now would take us back to just treating the doors the same, regardless of the square footage? I think actually that's the status quo with transportation right now is that it's –
 per door rather than square footage. Maybe it was parks that we... Parks has addressed this issue, and in some ways water has addressed it also because homes either have a 5-8, 3-quarter, or 1-inch meter. So in parks we did make some adjustments. Correct. We just got a very helpful letter from the Curley Neighbourhood Association of Neighbours that actually shows that parks, in comparison with the...
 It's in the packet we just got handed. Because my understanding is when we did the parks, you brought an amendment which actually lowered the charge for the micro units. Yeah, we had five different categories where Peabody has been proposing. Is this the flavor of what you're getting at the end? This is the flavor, yes. And I propose four categories in the middle. I think that I'd be happy with anything, but the idea is that there should be some...
 logical relationship and consumers of small homes should not be subsidizing those of large homes who on average have more people in them. So there's an equity standpoint and also a policy perspective is that price is a driver. If you're paying the same system development charge whether you're building a 500 square foot unit or a
 5,000 square foot unit, then that gives you yet another incentive to build larger homes, larger apartments, and that runs counter to some policy objectives the city of Portland has. So my hope is that whether the data gets resolved or not, that council can submit an amendment to...
 just spread out the fee and avoid the issue that Fritz raised earlier, Commissioner Fritz, about the $1,200 threshold. If you do an addition from 1,100 square feet and add a 100 square foot bump out, you're going to double your SEC from doing that under this current proposal. Spreading it out helps address that question.
 Very good. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Alan Kessler. I'm here, at least for the first bit, for the Portland Bus Lane Project. We sent you a letter. It lists ten specific projects that we would like you to take a look at, we would like you to prioritize funding on. Specifically, when you prioritize funding on those projects, we would like you to please make sure that PBOT is directed that –
 Those funds must include transit priority. All of those spots we found in particular we believe will particularly benefit specific bus lines. We've listed those out. We've bolded the bus lines that have been called out by the GTC and ETC in the letter specifically.
 I didn't hand you a copy of the letter enough, if you're all looking for it. There's some confused looks. I'm sorry. I emailed it. I'll send another round, but it's in testimony. But anyway, if you'll look at our letter, there's a list of ten projects that are enumerated. They show you the first corral and the project number, the name, and then they'll show you which bus lines those will benefit. And we think that it would be a shame to spend those funds without benefiting a bus –
 service, but these are great opportunities where we can spend the funds and increase transit, increase the priority of transit. So these comments are – the next comments are my own. I wanted to repeat something that was said by staff when one of the commissioners had stepped out, which is that buses are 95 percent more efficient than single family – single occupancy vehicles at moving people through our neighborhoods. PBOT has told you that they want to start counting people trips, not car trips.
 The logical conclusion of that is we should not add a single bit of additional auto capacity. More importantly, when we're doing revision to our street, when we're restriping, when we're doing any sort of improvement to our streets, we should be looking for opportunities to take unnecessary vehicle lane, vehicle capacity away and reallocate it to the more efficient modes, specifically to transit because that's the most efficient mode. Okay.
 I asked the clerk to distribute a copy of a recent plan. Okay. So this is...
 This is the restriping on main, or these are the improvements that are planned for main. These just came out today. PBOT gave me a donut the other day on BetterNATO. They came out, they tabled, they stopped and talked to people who were riding by. So I actually stood and I talked to one of the project managers from PBOT on BetterNATO for a while about this specific project. This was actually a couple of months ago. Okay.
 When we talked about it, one of the things that came up is that the bus lane is, you'll see it's on the right side of the paper. It's on the east side of the intersection. It used to be on the west side of the intersection. That's more efficient because the bus doesn't get stuck between these right-turning vehicles, between people who are trying to cross the street when the light turns green. So if you were ever to stand and watch buses at that intersection, they take a long time to make that turn. And you'll see three or four backed up at times. Okay.
 This is an example of an opportunity missed. The dark shading in here is where we're going to be adding concrete, so it's a permanent solution. But had we moved the bus stop across the street here, we could have increased transit priority. Additionally, had we chosen to eliminate right turns here, we could have increased transit priority. The reason the gentleman told me that we're not eliminating right turns is because there's a lot of demand for right turns.
 Well, I point out the irony. We were standing on Better NATO, which used to be a freeway. What was the demand for car travel on Better NATO on the waterfront park during that time? It was zero because we'd eliminated it. People found other ways. I'm sorry. We need to tell PBOT with every single project, increase person capacity. Don't increase vehicle capacity. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you, all three of you. Next two, please. Our Paul, I believe the last name is Grove, and Laura Young.
 Paul, why don't you start, please?
 Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, for the record, my name is Paul Grove with the Portland Metro HBA. Appreciate the opportunity to testify today. I submitted a letter. It may have been a little late for your package, so there should be something forthcoming if you don't already have it. I'll try not to repeat what I said in the letter. But I wanted to speak in support of the proposal today.
 As an association, we've long recognized the importance of SDCs in addressing the impacts to the system around new development. And this proposal is in keeping with that. One of the things that struck us as an association was, you know, in this lengthy process, the degree of outreach and input.
 that PBOT sought from all stakeholders. I think it was a very robust discussion that was had, whether it was industry development, DRAC, Planning and Sustainability Commission, and other community and neighborhood groups. And I think it really served as a model in terms of the type of feedback and input for folks to have their concerns raised, addressed, and then ultimately or potentially realized in the proposal. So I think kudos to...
 PBOT and PBOT staff throughout the process. As I noted, the association is supportive of this, and I think as Mary Helen noted in DRAC, it's not often that we come forward in support of certain proposals. I think...
 In my testimony, I listed a series of points, and they range from geographic equity to the balancing out affordability concerns in terms of using 50 percent of the maximum defensible rate. But one of the things I wanted to really touch upon was the accountability aspect. I think that the process that PBOT undertook and having that move forward will ensure a degree of accountability with this program that we're encouraged by moving forward.
 You know whether it's it's refinements to the program whether we're looking at improvements I think it's something that can set the standard for the proposals that they have and if we want to See potential changes moving forward and I know folks want to examine certain items That we can again bring that diverse group of citizens and stakeholders together to hash out
 those policy objectives and move forward on that. So I'll be mindful of folks' time. Again, I have written remarks, and thank you for the opportunity. Mayor, can I just pose a question? Commissioner Fish. Paul, you represent the industry that builds things, so I'm curious of your...
 your perspective on a question that came up in the prior panel. So the city has all these policies that are trying to encourage smaller, greener footprint. We're going to get denser, so we've got to go smaller and greener. What do you say to the critics of a system that treats SDCs the same for a 300-square-foot, very efficient unit, and a 2,000-square-foot penthouse?
 Well, I think, Commissioner Fish, members of council, I think, you know, I am cognizant and I've had a lot of discussions with my friends from Cully about this issue. And I think
 At least where the proposal stands right now, there's a degree of comfort for our members in terms of we have a carve-out for 1,200 square feet or less, in particular around ADUs, cottage-style development is one of the things that we discussed amongst our Portland members. I would defer to PBOT in the sense of, you know, we're looking at the trips, we're looking at the impacts to the system, and I think their testimony noted that more data was needed, and I think we would subscribe to that. Thank you.
 very good good morning good morning thank you my name is laura young i'm the chair of the coley association of neighbors and i have some letter of recommendation and comments i had attached an example to the back of the letter it's not actually part of the letter just so you know uh dear mayor and commissioners the coley association of neighbors would like to offer comments on the transportation system development plan charge update as a background the coley neighborhood was annexed into the city in 1985.
 Consequently, we share similar with East Portland, a lack of adequate transportation infrastructure, such as sidewalks, safe bike routes, paved streets, and connectivity.
 We are therefore pleased that a number of projects important to our neighborhood are proposed to be eligible for the Transportation System Development Charge funding. At the same time, we are aware that the transportation improvements, while needed and desirable, make our neighborhood more attractive to developers, investors, and homebuyers, driving up prices and exacerbating displacement that we're already experiencing.
 Due to these pressures, we adopted an inclusive COLE policy as a community, which proposes a variety of strategies, including encouraging moderately priced individual homeownership as a wealth-building, prosperity-enhancing strategy, encouraging renters to become homeowners, to build wealth, and to stabilize families, and encouraging alternative designs for infill, such as accessory dwelling units, small house cottage clusters, and other strategies to promote more affordable market-rate infill housing.
 All these strategies could be served by a slightly amended rate schedule for TSDCs. The proposed rate schedule offers three rates for residential development, single-family, single-family less than 1,200 square feet, and multifamily. The rate for the small house is half the rate for a larger house and a bit more than the rate for an apartment. We appreciate the proposal seems to acknowledge the need to incentivize smaller housing units. As it stands, however, the proposal does not accomplish that.
 At most, the only housing that will be built smaller than 1,200 square feet is an accessory dwelling unit, an ADU, so there is no incentive to build smaller market rate housing. Meanwhile, the apartment rate means that a 4,000 square foot penthouse or luxury three-story townhouse will actually pay a little less than an ADU. And on the back side of your letter, there's an example of the proposed residential transportation rates and then the parks rate system as well as we're using as an example as a better model.
 The rate schedule for parks SDC has adopted in 2014 offers a good example. It lists five residential rates for different sized units regardless of whether they are single or multifamily. This rate structure creates a clear incentive for developers to build smaller and therefore more affordable housing. We understand and support the new methodology using person trips to calculate TSDC rates.
 The Parks Bureau used data from 2011 showing large dwelling units having more people in them on average. Now 2015 data is also available through the American Community Survey. It is intuitively obvious that more people result in more trips. I'm going to stop there. I have three seconds. I just want to comment. Can I have 30 more seconds? When we talk about the transportation system development charges and how they apply to Cully, it really is an equity issue.
 We have single mother households, 297% of the city average. African American, 239% of the city average. Latino, 236% of the city average. Family households in poverty, 236% of the city average.
 And we also have a higher than average rate of homeownership, which means we have a large number of low-income homeowners. And having these projects, such as the 47th Avenue LID, the 57th and Killingsworth LID that's proposed by the Habitat Project, and the 75th and Roseland that didn't make the list that I would like to take a plug for you to take another look at, all these projects create opportunities for small businesses.
 infill projects to reduce the burden on individual homeowners and to get some of this infrastructure improvement completed in a way that doesn't unreasonably burden our community. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning My name is lightning. I represent lightning super watchdog X in my opinion If you want more homes to be built, we don't keep tacking on more fees to the developers I would like to see the fees held up
 at a certain cap, at a certain rate, and held for at least the next three years. I think market conditions right now, especially on developing more multifamily, it's beginning to cool off, and we need to offer something to the developers to keep the current pace moving forward. Every time you tack on more fees, it's going to kick up the prices of housing. Every time you tack on more fees, it's going to kick up the rents for the tenants.
 Why not cap it, carry it out for three years, don't add more on the developers? They've done a great job in the last few years. Let them continue that pace and understand we still need more units. We still need more homes developed. And the thing about it, the reality is, is that when you look at certain studies, we might have a surplus of smaller units as far as multifamily.
 We need larger units built right now. We need to have more developed for family-sized units. And, you know, the numbers make more sense to build the smaller units in these developments. We need to make more sense to build larger family-sized units to develop more homes. We are restricting the developers moving forward. We are adding more fees to them when they've done an outstanding job in the last three years.
 They have added a tremendous amount of inventory. Don't penalize them for that. Continue the movement to go forward. Continue supporting the development community. And understand, look at the market conditions right now. It's beginning to cool off. We need to understand to keep them developing more properties, quit adding more fees to these developers. And in my opinion...
 We've got to stop doing that, plain and simple. We have to stop penalizing the current developers out in the marketplace. Don't add more on the fees. Put a cap on it. And I don't approve what's going to be passed today. And you're all going to pass it, of course, because there's more fees, more fees to the city. I absolutely disagree with this. This proposal actually reduces fees.
 It actually does not. When you look at the charts from Beaverton. It does on some. Okay, since you brought that up, I will go back against you. If you look at Beaverton opposed to Portland, and then you look at the increases on a single-family home, it actually went up. So for you to say it's actually going down is incorrect. That's an actual incorrect statement.
 Okay, that is incorrect. So my point being, if you want to keep adding more fees to the developers, it's going to stop them from wanting to develop more properties. We're already seeing that right now. And if you add more fees, it's going to increase the rents. It's not going to make housing affordable. And why do you add more fees if you want more development at this time when we have a housing shortage, when we have a shortage for housing currently out there? Why do you keep adding more fees? Yes.
 It doesn't make sense. Do you really have to at this time? That's my question. Do you really have to when the market is cooling off? So that's my position. Thank you. Don't add more fees to the developers. They've done a great job. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thanks, all three of you, for your testimony. We appreciate it. So Commissioner Saltzman has an amendment on the table that was seconded by Commissioner Fritz.
 Is there any further discussion on that amendment? We're going to move this to second, but we can take the vote on the amendment and move that as well. Okay. What I'd like to reserve, I have questions which I'd like to ask Pibot before the second reading. I may have some more amendments after that. Very good. Come on up.
 I don't want to ask it now. Oh, not coming back in two weeks. Yes, coming back in two weeks. Very good. I will certainly be in touch, responding to some of the testimony that we heard. I'm sure you do have comments on that. So we could pass the amendment to second reading, leaving that open, if that would be your preference. Yes, please.
 Very good. And Commissioner Saltzman is good with that. So the proposed are in the seconder. So with that, this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. Mayor, we're going to vote on it. You just said we're going to vote on the amendment. Oh, you want to vote on the amendment. Let's vote on the amendment, Mayor. Very good. Call the roll. Thank you. Could we just hear the amendment since it's been a while? So the – here it is, Dan, if you want to reread it. Oh, okay. Or just a brief description. Okay.
 Well, it's for colleges and universities. Oh, great. Okay. It replaces square foot calculation with a student calculation. Great. Okay. Thanks. Very good. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Thank you, everybody, for your testimony, and thanks for all the staff work. I think we're getting towards a really good conclusion. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. This is Commissioner Fish. So it's going to come back in two weeks, and...
 And like Commissioner Fritz, there's some, I thought it was a superb presentation, but there's some follow-up questions I'll have. And what we'll do is we'll start with e-mails just outlining the questions and then follow up with any briefings that are necessary. But there's a couple areas around smart cities and around this issue of whether we ought to have a further schedule depending on the square footage behind the door. And I'm just interested in learning more about that. But thank you very much.
 So just a couple quick things based on the testimony. So I think on the autonomous vehicles, we don't have anything explicitly in our project list that is related to AV construction. So that's one thing we will provide more input in writing. Okay.
 Amy's testimony talked about one of the projects that you just voted on with consent today, which is adding her request to the 70s bikeway. So that is already fully incorporated in our SDC project list. So thank you, Amy. That was, I think, two weeks ago on the consent agenda. Which one was that? It was the 70s bikeway. Okay. And then Jim's request about the North Subtle Road, that is a project on our SDC list. So that is good.
 And then on the transit priority request, we can certainly put forward an amendment that I think would address their concerns if you want to do that. But I think inherently in our projects, we prioritize transit. So it's a question as to whether or not you want to do another amendment or if you just want us to make sure that we include those in those 10 projects that they asked about. And then we will provide in writing some more analysis about the single-family home.
 Well, that's incredibly responsive. Thank you. That addresses two of my specific concerns raised in testimony, and the other is about why you chose two categories of single family rather than five. Thank you. Very good. Colleagues, anything else? Good. This is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. It moves to second reading as amended to September 27th. Very good. Next item, please. Item 1007, Appeal of Erica Seder,
 DLR Group, an appeal of Peter Miger, Peter Miger Architect PC, against the Historic Landmarks Commission's decision of approval with conditions for historic resource review of exterior alterations and rehabilitation of the Portland building in the central city at 1120 Southwest 5th Avenue, LU 17153413HRMAD.
 Colleagues, just as a reminder, this is an issue where we've already taken extensive testimony. We've already taken a provisional vote.
 I would move that the council grant the appeal of Appellant 1, Erica Seder, deny the appeal of Appellant 2, Peter Meiser, uphold the decision of the Landmarks Commission, but remove Condition G and adopt the findings. Is there a second? Second. Second. Mayor? Commissioner Fish. I was absent for the hearing, and I have not had an opportunity to review the complete record, so I will not be participating in the vote. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, anything else? Please call the roll.
 Saltzman aye Udaly aye Fritz aye Wheeler aye the motion is upheld thank you next item please
 Item 1012, authorize a contract with CenturyLink Communications LLC for public safety telecommunications related equipment, services, and maintenance for a five-year contractual total not to exceed $10 million. Colleagues, to provide efficient 911 service to the residents of Portland, we must maintain and upgrade equipment systems.
 to stay up to date with current technology. This extends to the master contract to purchase and maintain the appropriate equipment. It also provides funding for upgrades and replacement of the current 911 system.
 A full upgrade to the 911 system is scheduled for November 7, 2017, which is funded out of the state of Oregon OEM 911 funds. The upgrade brings the technology level to current industry standards and operating systems, which is critical in a public safety environment. This will allow a transition to the next generation 911 network, NG911, that is slated to occur nationally within the next 10 years.
 From the Bureau of Emergency Communication, we have Interim Director Lisa St. Helen's here to answer any questions or concerns that you may have. Director? Thank you. As you just said, there's not a lot else to this that I can add. I've brought along with me Maureen Kinzelgrubbs.
 who can answer technical questions regarding the contract itself and regarding the phone system that we currently utilize. And I also brought along Gary Bevins with our financial department. So I will turn it over to Maureen. If you have technical questions, she can help you. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? Just one second. My understanding is that this will allow texts to 911. Is that correct, or is that another one?
 We actually currently have text in Night Owner right now. This will enable, with the upgraded system, this will enable us to have integrated texting with our CAD system. It's not something that we are implementing straight away with the upgrade that's coming in November. Okay.
 That's going to happen statewide at a later date. Okay. And does this transition involve the complexity of replacing the entire computer-aided dispatch system that we've done in the last few years? The actual computer-aided dispatch system? It does not. This simply replaces the phone system. Thank you. Any further questions, colleagues? Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye.
 You daily? Aye. Fritz? Thank you for your patience and your great work supporting the people of Portland and down of Multnomah County. Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, and thank you for your patience. Next item, please, Carla. Thank you.
 Item 1013, amend marijuana regulatory license procedure and requirements, and requirements business regulations. Colleagues, this is a second reading, but Commissioner Udaly would like to introduce three amendments. Commissioner Udaly. Yes, thank you, Mayor. You had raised a concern last week about one of the amendments pertaining to established businesses' rights
 being exempted from the 1,000-foot rule if a new school is opened. So the concern was that our language was more restrictive than the state, so this amendment just serves to align our language with the state language. Amendment number one, change subsection 14B-2.
 1.130.040E, number 4B, from the ownership of the business changes by 50% or more requiring a new application to a new application is required. Amendment 2, add the language and received final inspection approval to the end of subsection 14B.130.050A.6.
 And Amendment No. 3 had the language, if ownership of the licensed entity changes by 51% or more, a new application is required to the end of subsection 14B.
 1-3-0-0-5-0-A-9. I'll second for the purpose of discussion. Thank you. And Commissioner Udaly moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds all three of the amendments. Yes. For discussion purposes. Is there any public testimony? May I discuss? Yeah, please. So I'm a bit confused because Amendment 1 says that if a new application is required, then they would not be grandfathered in. Is that correct? Am I reading this properly? Yes.
 Okay. Brandon, please come up to answer Commissioner's questions. Hello. For the record, I'm Brandon Goldner, Program Coordinator for the City of Portland's Cannabis Program. Yes, Commissioner Fritz, you're correct. So the discussion from last week was about that requirement if the ownership changed by a certain percentage, you would no longer be eligible for the grandfathering. Yes.
 Some of the discussion last week was a concern that that language was maybe too specific or restrictive, and there was a suggestion that perhaps changing that to simply say if a new application is required, that you would not be eligible for that grandfathering, so that if our requirements for needing a new application were to change, that this rule would kind of change along with it.
 Again, that's the same way the state is approaching this issue, and so that's why we changed the language and clarified when you do need a new application. Well, that makes sense to me, but it doesn't make sense because Amendment 3 then goes back to saying if it changes by 51% or more, a new application is required. That is correct. Which doesn't get past our direction that if it...
 just changing from, you know, the example that was given was an 80% to one owner, 20% that they shift when the 80% wants to retire. Under this Amendment 3, they would have to apply again, and then they wouldn't get grandfathered. Yeah, that is true. So that doesn't respond to the concern that we have.
 And I apologize. My understanding of the discussion last week was that there was a suggestion that to simply say, if a new application is required, that that would be added to the language for the retailers, and then we could define when is it that you would need a new application. If we want to make changes to that, I'm certainly open. So I apologize if I didn't reflect the intent of the discussion last week. Okay.
 Commissioner Udili, can I make a suggestion? Yes. So first of all, I am especially grateful for the work that you and your bureau and your team have done to bring this forward. And I thought the hearing last week was very interesting. And this question about tracking state law while also making it clear that we're not the final decider and then figuring out change of ownership, I thought that was spot on.
 Because we're now talking about very specific fix, which I think for which there's support, would you consider just passing what's before us on a second reading and just taking a week to get council support on the amendments and just bringing it forward as a separate package? Sure.
 I suppose I have to say I do share Commissioner Fritz's confusion about why the 51% language is still in here when the goal was to simply align our language with the state language and not unnecessarily trigger a reapplication process. Yeah, and to be clear, the intent with this was to say rather than calling out
 that if your ownership changes by 51% or more, that that would be tied directly to the part about the grandfathering, to simply make it a little more broad and say, if you do require a new application, you wouldn't be eligible, and then to define it elsewhere. And so, again, I apologize if that didn't reflect the intent of the discussion. Well, I'd be happy to have some conversation about it. I think Commissioner Fisher's suggestion is good, although I think we could just continue it for another week.
 Amendment 2 is what we were asking for, and thanks for that. And that's the main thing in this application, right? I mean, it's the most important thing, is that similar to retail owners not having to wait for final inspection, that certain of the processors would not have to wait for it either. But they would get it after being complied with the following year. And just to be clear, as it stands now at the state level,
 If your ownership does change by 51% or more, you will not be eligible at the state level to get this grandfathering either. So just, again, to make that point clear. If we did continue this a week and Commissioner Udaly brought these amendments and we slapped on an emergency clause, it would actually kick in quicker than if we passed it today and brought it back as amendments. So while we would lose Commissioner Saltzman, I think we do have the support to move this.
 That's a good suggestion. Sure. And I apologize for the confusion. I just, this was handed to me this morning, and I thought we had clarity on it. Very good. So let's, I think that's a good resolution, Commissioner Fish. And let's go ahead then and continue this to next week. We have room on the agenda for next week. I'm seeing a head nod yes. So that item, yes.
 Item number 1013, to amend the marijuana regulatory license procedure, is continued next week. Next item, please. Item 1014, authorize the Washington Park parking lot stormwater line intergovernmental agreement with Metro. Commissioner Fritz.
 Could it possibly get any more in the weeds of things that we, the council, take great responsibility for and make sure we do correctly? I think we can summarise this. It's essentially an administrative action that formalises a long-standing memorandum of understanding and agreement between parks and metro. Staff are here to answer any questions. Any questions, colleagues?
 This one, I do agree, Commissioner Fritz. I think it wins the In the Weeds Award for today. There's no detail too important for this city council. So we've gone from amending the regulatory license agreements for marijuana to now we're in the weeds, Mayor? I think this is a pattern here. Oh, no. There's got to be a pattern. Oh, no. Here we go. I think there's a dollar in the fine jar. Somebody save us. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Of course not. All right. Any further comments or questions?
 Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Well, thank you to my very dedicated and patient staff for sitting here, and I'm sure you enjoyed the previous things as much as I did. Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Thank you. The ordinance is adopted. Thanks, Commissioner Fritz, and thank you to your staff, too. I'll second what she said. Next item, please.
 Item 1015, amend price agreement with CMTS LLC for on-call temporary engineering and technical support staffing services by $4 million for a total not to exceed $5,500,000. Colleagues, anything further on this issue? Please call the roll. Thank you.
 Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. I want to thank Sarah Culp, who's with us today, for what I thought was a superb presentation. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Next item, please.
 Item 1016, authorize a competitive solicitation and price agreements for construction management, inspection, and project support personnel for an amount not to exceed $25 million over five years. Colleagues, anything further on this item? Please call the roll, Carla. Saltzman. Aye. Daly. Aye. Fritz.
 Commissioner Fish, it's not so long ago that the $25 million contract going forward would have had both chambers backed and no trust from the community. And I really applaud the way that you've brought back that trust. Thank you. Aye. Fish. Thank you very much. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted and we are adjourned until 2 p.m. Thank you. Are we ready? Yes.
 Can I? Very good. Folks, this is the afternoon session, September 13th, 2017. I'd like to start by welcoming the young people who are here today from Prescott Elementary and Park Rose. And your teachers, we're delighted to have you here with us. And I know that you're part of our first item, but I just wanted to give you that acknowledgement first, that we're so happy that you could be here and be part of this important presentation. Carla, please call the roll. Thank you.
 Saltzman? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Here. Please call the first item. Item 1017, accept the 2017 Arts Oversight Committee report on the Arts Education and Access Fund. Commissioner Fish? Thank you very much, Mayor. It's my great honor to welcome two leaders forward to the table, Craig Gibbons, the Arts Oversight Committee Chair, and Nancy Helmsworth. Thank you.
 and they, I believe, are going to kick off the presentation and the performance. Craig, welcome, and thank you for your service. Well, thank you. Hello, all. We are glad to see you here for this presentation, and I'm going to turn it over to Marna Stalkop from RAC, and she's going to introduce our performers today.
 Thank you so much. It's a delight to be here. At the Regional Arts and Culture Council, we put students first in all of our work in arts education. So we're doing that today in this presentation in that we're presenting to you what we like to call a story from the field. And you're going to hear it directly from students rather than through our lens. So we'd like to welcome the Prescott students up for a performance for you and their teacher, Carolyn Langston. All right. Thank you.
 My name is Carolyn Langston and I am the music specialist at Prescott Elementary School. Excuse me, I'm awfully sorry, but could you speak into the microphone, otherwise the captionist can't hear. My name is Carolyn Langston and I am the music teacher at Prescott Elementary School in the Parkrose School District. Our very supportive principal is here with us today as well, Mr. Sam Maranto. I joined Parkrose in 2013 when the arts tax was implemented citywide.
 We went from having one elementary music specialist in the entire district to having one in every building. With the return of music in our schools, the change in Park Row students is truly remarkable. Our students sing with joy, dance with gusto, and play instruments with finesse. They vibrate with enthusiasm, they resonate with excitement, and they turn sound into the most beautiful music.
 The effect reaches far beyond the children's musical prowess. Our academic scores are higher, attendance has improved, and our school is more connected to our community. Park Road students love what we have to offer, and our pre-K to 12 music programs are growing exponentially.
 Just like many other districts in the Portland metro area, we are so grateful that the residents of Portland value the arts and pay an additional tax each year to ensure all elementary students get a well-rounded education. Thank you for your continued support of our children. The impact we are making will last a lifetime. Thank you. Thank you.
 If people find a way, I do believe. Seek peace if people find peace. Seek peace if people find a way. If people find a way, I do believe. Stand together and people will find a way. Stand together and people will find a way.
 People find a way I do People find a way People find a way People find a way People find a way I do People find a way People find a way People find a way I do
 We have one more surprise offering for you today. I'd like to ask Henry. Henry Bolch has a gift of his own artwork for the mayor and also copies for each of the commissioners. His brother, Walter, is here to help him. Henry was a fifth grader last year at Richmond Elementary Japanese Immersion Program. So for your offices. Thank you. Thank you for supporting us.
 Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, young man. Thank you very much. So great. Thank you very much, kids. Excellent. Well done. Can we give them another round of applause, ma'am? As you're on your way out, I just... She's busy.
 I just want to thank you children for the gift, for the card on the package too, because I know that you sold those as a fundraiser and I bought a packet, so I really appreciate it. Thank you. Well, that's the show. John, try to top that. That's a hard act to follow. Okay, well.
 Thank you for having us here. By way of introduction, I'd like to start with just a brief review of the arts tax and what it is before we get into what our committee has been studying this year. The voters approved the tax in 2012. The purpose was to fund one teacher per 500 K-5 students in the Portland area.
 The remainder of the money that was collected was to go to RAC for distribution to cultural organizations. And the administrative costs to the city were not to exceed 5% over five years. That's the tax in a nutshell. As part of that, the forecasted revenues were about $12.5 million a year. And the...
 $12.5 million forecast was based on a demographic group of adults and on a compliance rate of about 85% to 89%.
 Well, the arts tax was passed and the initial action was that the demographic group that was affected was reduced pursuant to law and to some other actions. So fewer people were scheduled to pay the tax. The second thing that happened was that the compliance rate was about 10 to 15 percent less than the anticipated compliance rate. As a result, the revenue from the tax is about $10 million a year.
 And the costs, because the revenues are not what they were anticipated to be, the 5% has been exceeded and the costs are at 7.7%. That's the story in a nutshell. We're going to go through some slides and talk about some of this. And our job on the committee is to see that the arts tax is being used the way it was anticipated to be used.
 And I need to introduce some committee members who are here with us. Could you all stand up, please, and introduce yourselves? I'm Allison Chambers. Neil? Neil Pott. Yes. I'm Madeline Hunt. Madeline Hunt. Those are four of our members. Thank you. So, has the Arts Tax been doing what it was supposed to do? Oh, wait, we have some gold star winners here. These are people who have helped the committee out in our work. Commissioner Fish, of course.
 Jamie Dunphy and Amira Streeter from his office. And from RAC, we have Jeff Hawthorne and Marna Stahlkopp. From Portland Public Schools, Christian Bryan, Kristen Bryson, and of course, our former chair, Stan Penkin, have all helped the committee out this year.
 That's me. That's you, Nancy. I'm going to speak to this slide. This slide, as you can see, says the school districts are maintaining their obligation to fulfill one full-time equivalent arts teacher for every 500 K-5 students. As you can see in this slide, the numbers continue to improve every year since the arts tax was implemented. In the base year, there were 997 students per teacher, and in the most current year,
 2016-17, it was 381 students per teacher. The AEAF funding supported 62 teachers across Multnomah County. That's two-thirds of the 92 teachers reported by all the districts.
 In your report, and you have the full report, you will find specific numbers for each school district. The numbers are broken down for each elementary school, but also for each middle and high school. Our committee metrics team looks over the arts staffing ratios and tracks the progress from year to year. Please know that the fifth graders, the first fifth graders benefiting from the arts tax are now entering high school.
 This year, we began to look deeper at the continuity of the arts programming. We're hoping that you will review this report, but also that school districts revisit the information as to where they are and where they want to be growing in the opportunity that the AEAF provides. Any questions so far? Yes, just a general question, Mr. Chair. Sure.
 In discharging your responsibility under the arts tax and in working with the various school districts that are receiving funding, are you getting the level of cooperation in terms of responsiveness and data that you require to do your job? Yes, we are getting the response and the data that we need based on what we have asked for. Okay, thank you. So that's the schools.
 Let's talk a little bit about the revenue division and the revenue that the tax is generating and how it's generating it. This is a chart that shows – well, let me back up. The arts tax is talked about in terms of tax year. So just like your income taxes, for your tax year, 2012, you pay it in 2013 –
 So this chart shows that for tax year 2012, by August of 2013, slightly less than $8 million had been paid. The next column is the tax year 2013, and this chart shows that by August 31st of 2014, slightly over $8 million has been paid. The point of this chart is to show you that initially –
 the tax is generating more revenue each year. And the issue here is voluntary compliance. More people are paying the tax sooner. That's the point of this chart, and it gets to what the revenue division is doing. This is a chart that shows, as of June 30th of this year, how much money was collected in tax for each tax year. And you can see that...
 The high year is 2014, tax year 2014, and slightly over $10 million. 2015 and 2016 are less because there has been less time to collect the tax. The tax has kind of a long tail because everybody doesn't pay it on time. Does this make sense? Okay.
 So now we talk about the regional arts and culture and their responsibility to distribute the money that they receive from the tax. And this is a chart that shows how many grants have been awarded annually. And the trend line is up. RAC pulled back a little bit this year, and I believe that they were a little overaggressive last year in the number of grants awarded.
 because the revenues weren't what were anticipated. So they've sort of tapered off, and they want to hold the number of grants steady for a while as the tax stabilizes. So that's what RAC is doing. Okay. Now, the big issue this year that we have dealt with is the 5% expenditure cap, and you all have dealt with it too. Okay.
 It's been clear that the trend is that the cap is going to be exceeded. And last year, I believe you had a resolution that said to the Revenue Division to come back to you with a solution for that issue. This chart shows the administrative costs as a percent of gross revenue, and the average has been about 7.8% a year.
 Mr. Gibbons, just would you remind us, under the ballot measure, is the administrative cap calculated based on a five-year average? Yes, it is on a five-year average. That's what the orange line is. So that's 7.7%? Yes. You will be receiving from the Revenue Division a proposal to deal with this.
 And the committee has considered that proposal, and we have a recommendation for you at the end of this, at the end of our presentation, on the revenue division's proposal. But to be clear, since you earlier had a slide in which you said because of some changes the council made and because we're at 73% compliance, we're below what was originally contemplated in terms of what we were going to collect.
 If we were closer to the $12 million that was originally contemplated, would we be below the 5%? You'd be smack on the 5%. Yes. So the original model was based on assuming you collect $12 million. Yes. And that was not locked in stone, but that was the goal. And so just by way of preview, we either have to lower our administrative costs somehow or we have to find some way to supplement it from some source. Yes. Yes.
 Let's look at it a little further in this next slide. We've looked at this issue in depth in the committee. The fact is that the citizens voted for a tax to support the arts. They also voted for a 5% cap. And what's turned out is that those two things for this particular type of tax are mutually exclusive. It's kind of either one or the other. If this little cycle shows what happens...
 If we reduce spending on enforcement and collection of the tax, then one assumes fewer taxpayers will pay. And if fewer taxpayers pay, then less tax will be collected. And if there's less tax collected, then the amount available under the 5% cap is even lower. So really, from my point of view, there are two mutually exclusive provisions in the tax.
 in the ballot measure. And it has to do with voluntary payment of the tax. So that's the situation with the tax. Does this make sense? I'm not sure I buy it, but it makes sense. I mean, your logic, I'm not sure I buy where you're going with this. Yeah, I want to second that. I'm not going to agree to that statement, but I hear what you're saying. Okay, understood.
 We're going to switch over to our Arts Tax Committee and what we will be doing this year. So I'm going to go ahead and read the slide. The Arts Tax Committee membership is almost 100% new. All the original committee members' terms have expired. So this flow chart illustrates the workings of the Arts Tax in our major agenda for the year, which is to get everyone on the committee up to speed in their understanding of the mechanics and the flow of the AEAF monies.
 The specifics can be a little tricky as a new citizen member. Our committee terms are two to three years. So the continuity and longevity of this committee and the continuity and the longevity of this committee, we're trying to build a system and some simple documents to facilitate the onboarding of new members. The committee is in its second or third generation, depending on how you're counting.
 and there is still work to do now, and we expect the work to continue to evolve. We're preparing our new members to be ready to take over and lead the next generation. So here are our recommendations for the year's work. You will be receiving from the Revenue Division in a couple of weeks an analysis of the 5% cap and several recommendations on how to deal with it.
 We support the Revenue Division's recommendation as presented in... as you will be presented with in the memo. I've worked in public entities for 30 years, and it is an extremely difficult thing to say to say that the voters voted for this 5% cap, and it needs to be examined and maybe modified. It's tough to say. But on the other hand...
 The way I see it, it's kind of one or the other, and I've expressed that to you. So I understand. Our second recommendation? Second recommendation. The committee recommends that the council establish an expectation that each school district will produce a state-of-the-arts report documenting the impact of the arts tax funds. The purpose of this request is, number one, to provide a fuller picture of how the arts tax benefits schools. Some of the effects are...
 Pardon me, this confuses me. Some of the effects are direct and measurable, and that is already reported, but many of the benefits are indirect or tangential. We hope to learn more about what these are. We do not know how the seed will grow.
 Number two, a state of the arts report is a reflective activity that might aid each district in their internal tracking of arts and related growth in their schools. This task stimulates self-monitoring of the AEAF use and more. And number three, the state of the arts will generate a narrative which will be information that we can all access and share to celebrate as examples of the AEAF's success.
 Positive PR is needed on all levels, from the individual school to the district to the city to the county. And that's our presentation. Are we going to hear from Thomas afterwards? That is not planned. As I understand, it's an agenda item for a couple of weeks away. I mean, it...
 I think because you've salted the discussion. Definitely. When we're – I think because you've salted the discussion, Mayor, what I would suggest is – Preview. Let's take a few questions, you know, because the committee has done Yeoman's work doing –
 mind-numbingly difficult stuff in terms of tracking the dollars. They have no control as a body about the administrative expense that they are reporting to us, and we're going to have some options presented. So do you want to hear from Thomas, or do you want to first pose questions to the committee about their report? Sure.
 Commissioner Fritz? I just have a question about, we know that Park Rose, David Douglas and Portland are all completely within the city. How are the districts where some of the children are in the city and some not, like Centennial, they get a
 proportion, right? Because they're in the city. Do we know whether they are providing more arts teachers for the school district areas within Portland than there are outside, or are they matching it so that it's across their entire district? No.
 No, they are using the proceeds within City of Portland schools. Yes. So if in Centennial your child happens to go to one that's in the City of Portland, you would be likely to have more arts and music teachers than one that is in Gresham, for example? Yes. Thank you. Mr. Gibbons, how do you and the committee monitor schools?
 the school districts to ensure that these dollars create new value and are not, in effect, being used to backfill existing positions? We have worked on that issue for four years, and we have a base year of 2012 that we work from,
 and we compare students, the teachers today, with the teachers that were in effect in that base year before the tax went into effect. And that's how we compare it. So we're comparing they do not backfill against that base year. That's as much as we know.
 And the improvement is distinct from 900 students per teacher all the way down to 381. So it's a clear, clear difference. It's not a nuanced difference by any means. And your recommendation about an annual state-of-the-arts report, which I think is a very good recommendation, what form would that report take in an ideal world? This is the art world. Okay.
 I personally think it should take the form that the district, that matches the district, but the objective is to give you all and the citizens evidence to show that the tax is working as it is meant to be, as it's, that it's effective. Um, I don't know that we can prescribe the nature of the report.
 But we as a committee could think about that and talk about it and see if we'd like to set out some standards for the report. I want to say one other thing. I think that one thing of being on the metrics committee, I realize that we look at this data that's generated from maybe the personnel office. I'm not sure exactly which office, but I think of it as in the bowels of the school. And one other thing...
 as I think that if we could get the district to even review their own data. Districts are, it must be like sitting in a box with knives coming in. They are pushed and pulled so many different directions in regulations. So just to hopefully get them to look at their own data and then really think about how it plays out in their district. So I would hope, obviously we will talk about it, but it would involve looking at some real numbers, reporting,
 and also some narratives that describe what those things are in each school. You know, I would strongly encourage you to put the data and the narratives as part of your template.
 The stories that we keep hearing about the impact of the arts tax on kids, particularly the Right Brain Initiative generates a lot of very good data and great stories. And I think the more the public hears about how this is enriching kids' lives and also, frankly, improving achievement in other areas because of what we know about arts education, I think that's very compelling. And I think the districts should be encouraged to share some of those stories.
 If I could just follow on from that. I know there's others wanting to speak too. My question earlier about centennial, some of the schools have arts teachers and others don't. That district ought to be able to look, if everything else is equal in that district, which I assume it is because that's what they're trying to do, the outcome should be better on standardised tests in the schools with music instruction compared with those who don't. And that would be the ultimate...
 validation of our tax and also maybe encourage school districts to prioritize arts funding within their own budgets. I want to say one thing. Marno hosted a wonderful get-together, get-together, sorry, is not the right word, kind of conference of arts and education with some national people yesterday. And he was reviewing a lot of statistics about the benefits of arts education. And the one thing he said, public officials are very...
 in tune with is that it really improves, the first thing it improves is attendance. So that might be an easier metric to begin with. Could I give sort of a weird contrarian view since this is an arts tax and so I feel like I can be a little artistic with my narrative here. I think the public overwhelmingly understands the value
 of arts education. When I think about this, I don't think that there's a hard argument to be made to convince people that arts education is important. That's just my personal bias, and I could be totally wrong. You're not wrong. And I'd be happy to hear contrarian views. So really the question for me is,
 that I think people are asking isn't, does arts education work? I think they're going to be focused on a whole completely different set of narratives. Does my kid have access to it? Do underprivileged kids have access to it? Do kids of color have access to it? Do kids who speak English as a second language have access to it?
 And that's why this 5% thing is really important to me, because it's a bellwether on how we're spending the dollars. And if you're spending it on overhead, that means you're not spending it on access and equity issues around an arts education. And so that's why I heard what you were saying, and as Commissioner Saltzman said, your logic is unimpeachable,
 But I want to hear a little more and dig a little deeper. Mayor? Sure, Commissioner Fish. There's a missing piece of this. Yeah. And we should ask the experts. But my understanding is we're hitting the amount on the one. We're still falling short on the other and the fee. Okay.
 This tax was contemplated to raise funds for two buckets. One was arts education. The rest was grant making. We are fulfilling, and the first dollars go to arts education. We're meeting that requirement. We're falling short on the grants. And because it's a tax and not a property tax measure, and it's a tax that has to be collected, we're spending a lot of money administering this that you wouldn't on a property tax measure. So that becomes the question. Okay.
 How the money is spent is an open debate, but the dollars for the arts education piece is being met, as I understand it. And the question is, we said to the voters we'd do both. We would do arts education first, and the remaining dollars would go to grant programs, which are also very popular. We are hitting those dollars, so the question is, are they getting out to the right people and making a difference? The grant money is the part that is first.
 short, and that's what in part complicates the cap. So, Commissioner, could you help me out here and just be more specific? It's falling short because in the context of the ballot measure, we promised more going towards grants, or in what way are we falling short? I didn't draft the ballot measure, but my understanding is when it was crafted in the last few months of the Adams administration, and the council referred it, it was someone sat down and said, okay, here's the formula. We expect to generate X. Okay.
 We'd like to keep administrative costs at a certain level, and if we generate X, then we can stay below a 5% cap. Council came in and, based on some legal advice, tweaked the arts tax. We did some things to make it fairer.
 and address some legal concerns that were raised, that took some people out of the pool. So that brought the amount down. And despite heroic efforts by Thomas, we're now at 73 percent compliance, not 100 percent compliance. So what Thomas is going to, when he comes back in a few weeks and we have this broader discussion, the question is there's a cost of administering it and a cost of collecting it.
 And even if you fall short, there's still a challenge, he's going to argue, to staying below an administrative cap under that system. Council is going to have three or four options, and my guess is that people are going to have very strong feelings about those options. That's not today's program, but we're going to get a preview of it. But that's essentially why. It was designed as if it was going to generate X dollars, and so the administrative cap could stay below 5% because it was assumed it would cost a certain amount to administer it.
 The additional money we're spending trying to collect it is helping to blow the cap. But because it's a tax and not a levy, for example, Dan Salzman doesn't spend half of every day chasing property tax filers. I mean, his is baked into the property tax. The property taxes are paid. Dan gets his allocation.
 The children's budget. Excuse me. No, no, wait a second. So the insultsman's property tax. I follow you, Commissioner. I follow you. I only draw that distinction because they were two different kinds of programs funded differently.
 So Dan doesn't get up in the morning looking at the spreadsheet from OMF every day about property tax collection. This is a tax that requires everybody to participate, and we're at 73%. So we're either going to downsize the administration with consequences –
 We're either going to raise the cap, and if we raise the cap, one of the options that we presented to you, I suppose, is to use a couple hundred thousand general fund dollars to do it to see whether you can boost the success rate above 73%. But there are three or four choices, and ultimately the council has to decide. And we've had this question staring at us for the last three years. Each report has said there's this problem. We now have to structurally fix it, and Thomas is going to come back in a few weeks –
 Am I right on that, Thomas? Actually, it was a few weeks ago I provided a – excuse me. I'm Thomas Lattam. I'm the Revenue Division Director. On August 25th, I sent your office a memorandum laying out some options. So if you have that information, I'll resend it to make sure you – Yeah, and I think we're going to have a robust discussion. I have a feeling where some of my colleagues are leading. That's not today's hearing because these wonderful volunteers have absolutely nothing to do with the question of the overhead.
 And I think the question I would put to Thomas is we're up to 73 percent now of the folks who have to pay the tax. But that's up from a low of what? We began in the low 60s. If I could offer some comments in context, I think it might be helpful. So the proposition to voters in 2012 was simply this, that for every dollar that you pay the city in this tax, 95 cents will go to the arts organizations and to school districts to hire teachers. Right.
 That's a measure of efficiency. That's a good measure, but a better measure is a measure of effectiveness. So the dynamic that Craig was talking about is that with a 5% cost cap, what we've said in a nutshell is we're willing to spend $1 to collect $20 for the arts, but we are not willing to spend $2 to collect the next $20 for the arts because that exceeds the cost cap.
 If we were approaching this from a private sector, purely business perspective, we would say that's a pretty good deal to spend $2 to collect the next $20 to maximize the revenue going to the Regional Arts and Culture Council. So the 5% cost cap is actually constraining us from maximizing the revenue. So, again, it's a measure of effectiveness, correction, efficiency, but not effectiveness. And if I could hold on that for a second. Again, I'm going to use the Dan Salzman example.
 If someone doesn't pay their property taxes, Dan doesn't get a knock on the door saying, you have to pony up some children's levy money to supplement the county and city efforts to collect property taxes. It is handled differently. And so I want to urge the council not to prejudge this issue today because I know we're going to have strong feelings, and I think it's a very important debate. But the question of collecting a tax –
 to me, is broader than just what was in a measure. And if there are extraordinary barriers that we're facing, I think the council at least deserves to hear what the range of options are because we are collecting a tax that has a public benefit. And I think it's, in some instances...
 unfair to just assume that that is exclusively the burden of the arts tax since we are talking about collecting a tax and the city ultimately is the administrator of this program.
 A few more remarks, if I may. No income tax is 100% collected. The IRS, for example, tremendous powers to garnish wages, seize assets. They're reporting a voluntary compliance, an all-in compliance rate after voluntary compliance of 85% to 86%. And that's the IRS. So we're never going to get to 100%.
 A property tax, usually you're looking at a compliance rate of 80, correction, 98 to 99 percent, because ultimately you've got to lean on the property to secure the interests of government. So it's extremely efficient to collect a property tax compared to an income tax.
 The ARCH tax has approximately one FTE for every 100,000 accounts administered. So closer to best practice would be one FTE to 7,500 to 10,000 accounts, just to give you a sense of kind of how far out of standard best practice you might see in terms of maximizing the revenue.
 There are a number of things that we're bringing online right now that should increase the compliance rate to, we think, 80% or more, so getting much closer in line with what we have seen from the IRS. That's the IRS data exchange, so we're receiving taxpayer information directly from the IRS directly.
 And when we fully engage and are able to fully utilize that information, it will really help us to figure out who we haven't heard from and to collect more of the tax. You've also authorized three years of funding for us to modernize and update our databases, which will again be a sea change in terms of how we can use that data and how we can collect for the arts tax as well as other taxes like the business license tax, the transient lodging tax, and others.
 And then finally, we continue to use the collection agency as authorized by this body last year for accounts that are seriously past due that owe $100 or more, that have received a final demand letter, have received fair notice, have been given multiple opportunities to rectify the account. And so we're taking all those measures and we are seeing results. If we had strictly adhered to the cost cap in 2016, right,
 We would have terminated all collection activity in April of that calendar year. In other words, we would have taken all the checks that we had received, voluntary compliance. We would have put them in the bank. We would have had about $8.2 million. We had $8.2 million in revenue at that point, and we had hit the 5% cost cap. We had spent $425,000 at that point. So if we adhered to the cost cap, we would have been done at that point.
 But that's not good business sense. So we continued to spend money to collect more money. And so from May to December of 2016, we spent an additional $524,000 to collect $2.5 million more. So the cost of collection on that second part of the year was 20%.
 way above 5 percent, but still a pretty good deal because that's $2.5 million that RAC would not have had had we adhered to the cap. So that's the dynamic that we're faced with around the cost cap. And so the fix that we're recommending in brief is that we believe that had taxpayers been given a different choice in 2012 –
 Had they been given the choice of maximizing dollars available to RAC and holding noncompliant taxpayers accountable, as opposed to just stop after you've spent 5% and whoever didn't pay gets off the hook, they would have chosen the first option. It's the option that makes most business sense, and certainly it's the option that RAC understands best because it hits their bottom line in a very big way. And I think that's why the AOC is recommending that we do this, make this change. Thank you.
 I'm going to take us in a different direction. Well, I guess, you know, I understand logically everything you're saying, but I guess I also understand that it seems to me if we're serious that we want to increase our administrative rate, in other words, decrease the amount of money that goes to RAC and the schools, which is really what we're saying in a way. When voters think 95% of the money is going to go to our supporting programs and we're telling them it's really not 95% anymore,
 I mean, that sort of begs the question, maybe we should go back to the voters with the proper numbers or ask the question the way you want to have it asked. And I know nobody wants to go there because nobody wants to dare ask the voters to reconsider the arts tax because everybody's afraid they'll can it, and they may. But, you know, in the same sense of candor and being straight with people, it seems like that's really the question you're asking. Should we go back to the voters with a revised ballot measure?
 that more truly reflects the conditions as we understand them today. I mean, that's, to me, the most straightforward, straight-shooting approach to it. I realize nobody in this room wants to do that because we're all scared. But, you know, I welcome your thoughts. Well, I certainly wouldn't recommend that. I think it's important to recognize that even at 7.7%, which is where we stand now, by any measure that you find out there about the efficiency and effectiveness of, say, nonprofits that you can give money to, like the United Way for Disaster Relief,
 That's considered an excellent benchmark. I think 5 percent was too aggressive out of the gate. I'll be very candid. I think 5 percent polled very well in 2012 as a number to shoot for, but it was never realistic. And so I think that's all come home to roost now. And I think the average taxpayer, again, and this may go right back into your point, Commissioner, but it makes no sense for us to stop collecting at 5 percent and effectively –
 walk away from $2.5 million at the expense of $500,000 to collect. So I have a comment to that, but Commissioner Daly. I'm really going to take this in a different direction, so I'd rather you just make your comment. So, look, it's a vague memory in the waning days of the Adams administration when this came to council. I do think the children's levy was kind of a model that people looked at. In fact, many of the same people were involved in crafting this.
 And again, it's just, I don't want to beat a dead horse here, but the children's levy doesn't spend the bulk of its, the staff doesn't spend the bulk of its time doing collections.
 They administer it. They set criteria. They evaluate requests. They monitor how dollars are spent. In other words, it's an accountability piece. Right. I would actually go so far as to say, as it turns out, it's easier to give money away than to collect it. Yeah. This has turned into something else. The way this was structured, the administrative overhead is really about funding Thomas' collection agency and collecting.
 So I actually, my initial reaction is that as long as we figure out over time to keep faith with the 5% cap, which just means that 5%, no more than 5% of the dollars we collect goes to some non, 95 cents on the dollar goes out to either students or arts organizations and 5% goes to everything else. I'd actually make a different argument, which is,
 I don't think it's broken. I don't think we have to go back to the voters. I think the city should step up with the general fund and supplement the difference. And my understanding is that would be a couple hundred thousand dollars now and again. But I think we should think about it as an investment in boosting the success of the arts tax, not criticizing an obvious structural flaw in setting a cap that wasn't related to a meaningful indicator.
 because it's no one's fault that we're spending extra money to collect the money. And as you pointed out, it is completely counterproductive not to collect the money because then everyone loses, the kids and the grantees, and the voters are expected to have a certain amount.
 So I'm going to at least ask that as among the various options we consider, referring it back to the voters, cannibalizing the program, doing various other things, thinking about a general fund, because there's nothing in what we refer to the voters that says we can't cover a city function of collecting dollars to actually benefit a program called the arts tax. And that's one of the options we identified in the memo. And so what if we spend the extra money and we still don't get the extra revenue?
 Then what? Well, we're spending the extra money and we are getting the extra revenue now. So the cost cap issue, one of the ways that it can be resolved is that if there was a general fund subsidy of approximately $200,000 a year, what we would do is charge the collection expenses against that subsidy first before then charging them to the arts tax fund. And that's how you actually get to the 5%. So the...
 The dollars that voters, correction, that taxpayers send in are not the first bucket that you dip into to cover the collection, so you get to the 5%. The added benefit of that approach, I mean, there are pros and cons to all of these, and they're laid out in the memorandum. But one of the benefits of that approach is dollar for dollar, the $200,000 a year flows to RACC.
 because the expenses in the fund are being reduced dollar for dollar, and the third bucket, which is the bucket that's receiving all of these extra enforcement dollars, is rack. Let me suggest this. I mean, this is a hard conversation, and it's not one we're going to resolve here today. And this is not really what the committee is reporting on today, although I think they are right to give us a preface of the discussion to come.
 and it is not going to be an easy conversation, and it gets to the question of priorities, and it means we will probably have to revisit some of the narrative that's been coming up year after year after year since the day this was originally implemented. And if I've known anything about these colleagues on this particular city council, we are willing to make hard choices to correct problems that have existed in the past,
 We're willing to own those problems. We're willing to be transparent with the public about the mistakes that we made and the consequences of those mistakes and what we're going to do to fix them to be right with the people who we represent. But we're not going to resolve it here today. So I'd like to go to Commissioner Udaly, if I could, Commissioner Fish.
 and have her, I think you're going to take us in a different direction related to the report we're actually hearing today. Is that correct? Well, that's the 3 o'clock time certain? Or this? No, no. No, no, no. We're just finishing up on this, but we're focused. I think we've gone down the rabbit hole of the arts tax collection. So, Carla, who signed up to testify? Just one person, Shedrick Wilkins. Okay. Commissioner Dillon. All right, good. Well, at the risk of...
 Going down another rabbit's hole. First, I'd just like to say thank you for the report. I was a supporter of the arts tax. I was an invited participant in the town hall, community town halls that happened leading up to it.
 I largely agree with the tax. I do not agree with the exemption level of $15,000. But first I want to talk about outreach because I know just anecdotally there remains a lot of confusion in the community about the arts tax. If you're new to town, you may not know it exists.
 if you're, even if you're not new to town, you may think that you're paying it in your other tax bills. You may think that if your husband or wife or spouse pays it, that you don't have to pay it. And you may simply not be able to afford it. And in that case, you're accruing a penalty. So I see in 2016 that...
 you know, ramped up outreach. I guess we don't have to really delve into it now, but I just want to put it out there that I see that as one of the ongoing problems. We have this...
 Gap in compliance for eligible taxpayers of, what, 22%? Are we at 78 right now? We're at 73, and we really would like to see 80 or more. Okay. But we have an extraordinarily low number of people who are actually exempt applying for the exemption. So there's just clearly still a lot of misunderstanding in the community. And then my other question, which is...
 I don't want to spend too much time on it. I don't know how that $15,000 exemption was arrived at. It seems arbitrary to me. It seems too low for 2012, and it's certainly too low for 2017 when we've seen rent increases of 60% in the last several years when...
 The wage required to afford housing in Portland is somewhere around $24 an hour, and $15,000 is just a couple thousand dollars above the federal poverty level. So that means a single-parent household could actually be living below the federal poverty line and still on the hook for our arts tax, and that's not acceptable to me.
 Right. And so it was a decision in 2012 to make the exemption level at 100 percent of poverty. There were a lot of voices that wanted to make it higher. The pushback is that less money unless you raise the rate from 35 to 50 or some other number. So, you know, ultimately that was a political decision to place it there. But I can tell you without any hesitation that my staff takes a great number of very difficult calls from people who are in financial distress.
 who are barely able to pay or are just barely on the wrong side of needing to pay. We do our level best to temper our collection efforts, taking those persons' considerations and circumstances into consideration. We have payment plans, and we also have a very targeted collection approach where we attempt to identify those taxpayers that are noncompliant, that have the highest income,
 and focus our efforts on them, on those areas first. And the main reason for that, of course, is because from a risk basis, those are the people that are most able to pay. So there are some steps that we are taking. I guess the other thing I would say, not everyone uses third-party tax preparation software. Many, many people do. Over half the people in the community do.
 We've just secured, and Commissioner Fritz in particular has been pushing this issue year after year. She's a TurboTax user. I don't think you would mind my saying so. And we've finally secured their agreement. We've been in the TurboTax application for some time, but they finally have agreed to pre-populate the data and to make it more like the state form where you're not required to reenter everything. It's just going to flow automatically.
 to that part of the form and make it that much easier for people. The same thing with the H&R Block application. So we're doing some things like that. In terms of a more direct outreach budget, we do mail to every single household every year. So if you moved into Portland that year, you should still get notification. Also, our penalty waiver guidelines recognize that people that just moved here wouldn't have had the five years of history and understanding about this thing. And so anyone who moved here and fails to pay and file,
 can apply for a penalty waiver on the basis of I just moved into town, and those are approved automatically. So we're doing our best to be fair about how we collect this tax. Thank you. And just a quick question for the city attorney. Are we allowed, is the council allowed to change the arts tax without going back to the ballot measure? As a...
 Citizen approved amendment to the city code. The council retains the ability to modify the code. It's a political restriction more than a legal restriction. Thank you. So, Commissioner, for the last four years, I've been interested in making some of the changes that you outlined. I think that is a conversation that we should be having. Mayor, let me make the following suggestion, since we're bumping up against another time certain.
 Thomas has laid out some options for consideration. There are some related issues that our colleagues have. I think we should ask Thomas to have those conversations with each office, see if we can get to some consensus about next steps. And we have one person who signed up to testify, and then I think we should thank and discharge these wonderful people. Very good.
 Thank you. Thank you. How many people have signed up? Just Cedric? Yes. Very good. Come on up, sir. Yeah, I'm Cedric Wilkins, and I support the ARC tax in lieu of the cuts under Measure 97. I think the arts is central to education. I'm not too sure if high school football is or chemistry classes where you could blow yourself up.
 You don't really have to do that. It's better just to explain how you mix the chemicals together. But it's central that people learn to perform. In fact, just as kids learn to perform.
 So does the city council. If you look at just the paper, the sheet of what's – you make it come alive. You talk about it. And that's the arts. It's not just something you stare at because I don't know what's important on this thing. You have to come here and say something. So in that way, you're performing artists. And I like the way music sometimes makes history. My kids are in middle school. They're in their 20s.
 They were learning world history, so I threw in Billy Joel's We Didn't Start the Fire, where he makes everything rhyme, Khrushchev, Kennedy, and all this stuff. And I love Billy Joel's Allentown, about how you use up all the coal and everybody doesn't have a job or something. It's just his way of, like, saying this stuff, of saying history. But, you know, you hum it in your head and it kind of sticks in there. It sticks in my head. Yeah, Billy Joel is just amazing. I mean...
 He's a philosopher. He's not just a performer. So when you get the arts, you get philosophy. And if we're going to cut things, things like sports or science, don't cut the arts. Mayor, I move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further conversation? Please call the roll. Saltzman.
 Well, I appreciate the work of the Oversight Committee. Where'd they go? Oh, they're there. Thank you. Thank you for your work. And it sounds like we'll have a more protracted discussion about the issue of administrative expenses under the arts tax, and we'll have that at a later date. Aye. Udemy. Thanks for the report. Aye.
 Thank you for your work and for the report. This has been an ongoing thing. It's good to see others have stepped up when the first group have been termed out, so thank you for that. Commissioner, I'm really happy to hear that you are interested in perhaps some changes, maybe something when we consider the next batch of things to do with administrative costs.
 What if we had a scholarship fund so that, again, the general fund could help out some of the folks that you mentioned as being particularly cost-burdened rather than making changes? Because, of course, all of us do want to do what we promised we would do in ballot measures. So I think there's a lot of values and principles involved in that discussion. I look forward to having it. Well, first I want to thank the Prescott Elementary school kids and their teachers.
 their teacher, Carolyn Langston, for joining us today. And I love it when we begin council meetings with children performing music. It's as good as it gets. Thank you to Chair Gibbons and Nancy Helmsworth. On page three of the report are all the other members of the committee. We owe them a debt of gratitude for their service. We have a couple of tough issues to grapple with as a council.
 But today, I think our role is to accept the report, and thank you for a job well done. Wheeler. So I want to be very clear. I support...
 the premises behind the arts tax. And I was there at those early conversations. I think Sam called it like the creative coalition or something. I can't remember exactly what it was. She's very good at that. And I enjoyed those early conversations, and I felt like we built a strong community consensus for the need for this revenue source.
 It has, of course, been plagued with some administrative issues. As I said, I think this council is up to the task of resolving those administrative issues, and I look forward to hearing the ideas that will come out of the Revenue Office. I hope we also think more broadly about,
 about creative financing structures. I have heard people say in some of these discussions over the last five years about the tax collection, I've heard people say, you know, the tax I pay in my household, it's a bargain for what we think we get out of it.
 And then on the other hand, you have households who say, you know, truthfully, I can't afford it. This is one more thing that just adds to the cost of living, and we're already struggling to make ends meet. So I hope that in the weeks ahead as we have these conversations, I hope there's a creative solution out there that gives people who really are passionate about arts education and the grant –
 that Commissioner Fish mentioned, is there a way to meld private nonprofit and the public sector here? Is there an opportunity for people to make contributions voluntary that they would like to see towards the arts, towards arts education, towards supporting the kinds of programs that the young people
 exemplified at the beginning of our session today, to potentially be a source of funding to help supplant or offset some of these other shortfalls that we've seen in the program, or alternative, create effectively a scholarship program for people who truly cannot afford it.
 this tax. I just feel like there are creative answers we haven't put on the table yet that should be on the table, creativity worthy of an arts discussion. So with that, that was longer than I wanted to do. I vote aye. I support this report. I accept the report. I thank those of you who are willing to volunteer to be on this committee. The fact that we talked so little today
 about your actual report, I think, speaks volumes about the trust and support we have for you as our fellow residents in this community. And we really appreciate your all stepping up to do the work you do. It's much, much appreciated. Thank you. The report is obviously accepted. Can we take a two-minute compassion break? Two-minute compassion break, then we'll get into our second and final option issue for today, which is the engineer's report for Providence Park. Can I just grab this? Yeah. Yeah.
 All right, we are back in session. Carla, please read the next item. Item 1018, accept city engineer's report for Providence Park stadium expansion above grade encroachment. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. This is a report related to Providence Park expansion, as the title implies, and it would allow them to do an encroachment of our right-of-way, and I'll turn it over to PBOT to give more details. Okay.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Bob Haley. I work with PBOT's Development and Review Section. Bob, I'm sorry. Is your microphone on? Can you see if the light is on? Oh, there we go. There. Thank you. Again, good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Bob Haley. I work with PBOT's Development and Review Section up in the 1900 building, and I'm here to present the City Engineer's Report and Recommendation. One moment. I'm sorry. Carl, are we getting the feed? Yes.
 Okay, our screens are just black, but if you're seeing it up there, I assume that's – there it is. Okay, good. I gave you some hard copies in case it goes blank again of the PowerPoint presentation. Very good. Thank you, sir. It's good. It's working now. Okay. So we don't usually see these very often, at least council doesn't. We brought two last year for an OHSU SkyBridge and a small extension of Portland State Universities, and those were the first two in over 10 years. Yes.
 And one of the major policies of the encroachment review process is to discourage the private use of the public right-of-way. So that's why it's very rare that you see them. You'll see arcaded structures on East Burnside, newer ones which are now allowed without city council approval because there's actually design guidelines that encourage that type of development on East Burnside from about MLK to 12th. So the design commission is charged with reviewing...
 the encroachment within the public right-of-way and making a recommendation to the city engineer who then brings this report with a recommendation to city council. Design Commission recommended approval for this on August 3rd, and subsequently the city engineer's report was published, and now we're here today. So I'll go through a very short presentation. The site is zoned, as you know, it's zoned open space with a design overlay zone. The open space zone continues out into the middle of the right-of-way.
 The approval criteria are found in this June of 1982 encroachments in the public right-of-way. The approval criteria are all in Section 1, and they're for downtown general policies, downtown policies, pedestrian district policies, and standards for encroachments. Included in the City Engineer's Report, you'll find findings and responses that address all of the related policies for this review.
 One of the major ones for encroachment is that there be a public benefit. What's stated in the city engineer's report is there's two that pede out strongly, or at least one that pede out strongly in favor of the other one I think is more of a citywide issue. This is a $50 to $55 million voluntary improvement to a city-owned facility, Providence Park.
 In addition, we believe that we're going to have enhanced pedestrian safety on Southwest 18th with the addition of a sidewalk width widening from about 12 feet today to 17 feet today.
 And within the structure itself, there's been an increased amount of exits added in alignment with the crosswalks in Southwest 18th. TriMet was concerned that after games, it just gets pretty chaotic out there with people spilling across the street into the light rail lines. So we'll try and continue to improve that. There was discussion during the design review whether we do a permanent railing along the curb line or just allow the Providence Park to continue to use the temporary railings they do.
 The consensus was let them try the temporary railings and see if they continue to make that work. I'm sorry. I hate to be ignorant. I don't know what you're talking about. Could you be more specific? Okay. Along Southwest 18th.
 Currently, when games get out, the exits sort of bring you out onto the sidewalk. There's two crosswalks, but people tend to just go straight across me and across 18th, mid-block, across the bus lane and across the two light rail lines to get to the other side of 18th and to the light rail station on that side. What...
 This proposal does is takes that sidewalk, widens it, continues the use of these temporary railings they place along the curb lines, except for at the crosswalks. So it's really directing people there. This will put more room on that crosswalk for people to comfortably move that way. But in addition, the interior remodel of the stadium has added additional exits at the –
 crosswalk alignments. And this is shown on the current slide I have here, where you have the two circles, is where there's been additional turnstile exits to leave the stadium. I see. And then in between these two areas that are circled in red, there will be a railing to guide people to the crosswalk. Is that what you're describing? During Timbers events, there's a temporary railing that they'll put up during the games. Okay. There was discussion of making that a permanent railing, but I think with all the wires coming down and the mesh on the front of the...
 the stadium itself, that another metal railing would possibly feel a little too cage-like inside that sidewalk corridor. Okay, I see. If they wanted to have one later, would they have to go back through a design review? I think if there's a permanent one, they would have to go back. It may be something as a type 2. The other thing, just to mention for information, if you see in these slides pictures of banners and signage on the outside of the stadium...
 Those have not been approved by the Design Commission. That's a separate type three to go back for signage. Is that true just with even temporary banners like the ones you still go through design review for that? I don't know. We have design review staff here who could discuss whether or not we have temporary banners. It's not critical. I was just curious. I don't think that's temporary, though. I think they're intended to be permanent.
 It seems to me when we did the MLS All-Star game, we authorized some temporary banners. I don't think they went through a design review. I think it's a policy because those might be in the right of way. I know we do it for the marathon and a lot of other special events where we allow banners on our streetlight poles downtown. We just don't tell Julie. We do it and we just hope she doesn't see it when she's riding to work.
 Okay, I'll continue on. By the way, the extra five feet on the sidewalk is because you're removing the parking, essentially. Correct, removing the curb out five feet. So there was a sort of substandard with parking lane there. And the benefit is a safer sidewalk. Correct. Where would people using mobility devices get dropped off?
 I'm not sure. I think maybe right after this place there's sort of a curb cut and a driveway into the sort of emergency access between the Multnomah Athletic Club and here, whether or not that could be signed for ADA pickup and drop-off. I'm not sure. We can look into it during the public works. Thank you. Here you just have an aerial orienting you. On the east side is Southwest 18th. West side is Southwest 20th. And Morrison is on the north side.
 This was presented as one of the inspirations for doing a major encroachment. This is the original architect, A.E. Doyle's rendering from 1925 that shows a fully arcaded structure along Southwest 18th. Was this ever constructed? The design team can tell you I don't believe it was ever constructed. It was just part of the original design drawings, and it changed before it was finally constructed. There is hints of that on the Southwest 20th frontage. There are bays...
 This is sort of a cross-section, and I drew in the property line in red so you can see everything on the right of that line is what's the encroachment. That's the structure that will be in public right-of-way. It will be approximately 94 feet tall at its height. And just to be clear here, the structure that is encroaching is owned by the City of Portland? Yes. Providence Park is a city of Portland. It's managed by OMF. And so it will...
 significantly increase the value of that city asset with this improvement. This, if you can read it on the top, is the existing curb alignment along Southwest 18th. You can see where that little indent is where the existing parking lane is. And the width of the sidewalk is 12 feet from property line to the curb. On the bottom shows after the curb has been moved out 5 feet, we get a 17.5 foot sidewalk corridor including the curb.
 On your right hand side of this screen is the existing sidewalk and street configuration with a 12 foot sidewalk, 7 1⁄2 foot clear for the pedestrians and then a 4 foot furnishing zone where street trees, street lights, catenary poles for the light rail are located. And on the left side you see the widened sidewalk where there's 11 foot clear between any structures and then an additional 5 feet beyond the structure in the furnishing zone.
 That'll be less cluttered because we are combining the streetlights with dual capacity acting as the light rail support as well for their wires. I can't remember exactly how many. I think there may be four or five total. The engineering phase will try and space them so they're aesthetically centered with some symmetry to the improvements of the tube structure coming down. It's also the encroachment itself, besides the tube structure,
 The building section that comes out, which is going to contain hallways, restrooms, vendor facilities, those types of supports. There's no seats in the actual encroachment. Those are still within the private property line of the park. The clearance over the sidewalk is a little over 22 feet. And you can see there's a pendant light. It's just a drawing of what it will look like from the inside of the park.
 These are some renderings of the top view is what the existing looks like looking north on 18th. And the bottom is a picture after the encroachment and the sidewalk widening of what that southwest 18th corridor will look like. This is just a wider view of how it will be done. The...
 and the wires that support system for the light rail are all beyond where these tiebacks or these tubes come down and get mounted to the sidewalk. It's proposed to be constructed in two phases. Phase one will begin, they're hoping, this October, next month. And what that will include is almost all the work that's done in the right-of-way. We're moving the curbs, relocating the streetlights, the catenary poles,
 The only section of the encroachment that will be built in this first year, between October and March, is putting the foundations in for those tubes to come down and connect. And those will be covered up again. So at the end of March, you won't really see anything other than just the new widened sidewalk. What are they anchored to? A very highly engineered deep footing. I'm not sure the depth of it will be below grade, but that's what will hold them.
 Phase two is next October of 2018 through March of 2019. That's the work that will include the majority, if not all, of the work of the above structure over the sidewalk, including the cable structure and the new sort of transparent roof system that they've designed. So...
 With that, the city engineer is recommending approval subject to the following conditions. I provided a memo where I amended condition number one. This report was written five or six weeks ago and would have taken a while to work things out. The original condition just stated that the applicant shall enter into a lease agreement with the city prior to issuance of a building permit. In speaking with managers of our right-of-way acquisition group,
 and representatives from OMF, it was determined that a formal lease may not be needed and they may be able to accomplish the same thing with an inter-bureau agreement. And in addition, instead of having to have that agreement completed by next month, we said that's not really going to go into effect until the Timbers fans can actually sit in the seats, not until, you know, in the season of 2019. That condition says...
 Either a lease or an inter-bureau agreement must be finalized prior to Phase 2 building permits. So that moves it up from this October to next October for the city to negotiate those agreements in-house to make sure whatever they do is in align with existing agreements between OMF and the Timbers organization.
 And I'm here if you have any questions. We have staff from a number of bureaus and public to speak. So I have a question. Sure. Because I know this will come up later, and I want to know what we're going to say in response. So the prior, the current existing design has an overhang, and it's fenced all the way to the edge of the overhang. So the public right-of-way is exposed to the elements, right?
 Under the new design, the public right-of-way is covered, protected, and lighted. Who is responsible for security in that new, large, covered public right-of-way?
 That's a good question. I would imagine it falls to the city, but maybe someone from OMF. I don't know if there's agreements. You're talking about probably during non-Timbers Games events? Absolutely, for both. Okay, because for both? I believe the Timbers organization is responsible for their – they have a crowd management program where they have security staff and others to help direct people where to go. During the rest of the time –
 I would assume it's the same people who have responsibility for activities on our sidewalks, which is going to be the city. I think we need to get that clarified, don't we, Matt? I think we need to get that clarified. Okay. And what the arrangement is with Peregrine and others, because... You shoved him in. You, get in there. Before you jump in, since you're not on my screen, we're sure that the public can see it. Is there some reason we can't see it?
 Can we turn off the- There it is. There it goes. Good. Sure. Thanks, Brendan. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners, Kirkwood Development Review of Transportation. In less otherwise specified by city code, the sidewalk maintenance obligation falls to the abutting property. So to answer your question, the city would be obligated to maintain that right away out to the curb line.
 That is going to be something we'll need to look into in terms of the contract with Peregrine for this. I think you were at the maintenance agreement is clear throughout the city, the responsibility for maintenance. It falls with the abutting property owner. So this would be OMF for the maintenance of the service facilities. We maintain the streetlights. TriMet maintains catenary poles. But I think you were asking about security issues. I'm trying to get off of PR disaster. Yeah. Yeah.
 I mean, I'm a strong supporter of this project, so make no mistake about it. I supported it. I vote for it. I think it's a net huge positive for the city, for the people who live here. But let's be honest. When you create a long, block-long, covered space, given what's going on in our community, it's going to be full of people.
 many of whom we'll call at home. And then people are going to start calling us, including potentially the Timbers organization, saying what are you going to do about it? So before we get there and while we still have plans on the table, let's talk about it. What are we going to do about it?
 We do have a representative from the Timbers, the Senior Vice President of Operations is here. I wasn't sure he was planning on testifying on this issue. And also I think from the design team and the architecture team and the land use team, they may have some ideas of what they've planned for those operations. I seem to be naive of us and irresponsible not to have the conversation now when we can't. Yeah, good afternoon. Particularly since the condition of approval says all areas underneath the arcade shall be open to the public. Correct.
 My name's Ken Puckett. I'm the Senior Vice President of Operations for Providence Park, and I've actually run your wonderful building for 17 years. I was hired in June 26, 2000, so I've been through all the construction projects and been there since then. We have a robust security plan. We have covered areas on both plazas now that we take care of, we clean, we police. Our agreement with OMF is that it's our responsibility to keep that area clean, to keep the sidewalks repaired, and we have done that for 17 years and don't
 see that changing, to be completely honest. So is that your expectation with regard to the new covered area that would be created? A hundred percent, yes. We have covered areas on both plazas today that we actively clean, take care of, police. We have 24-hour security at the park. We have 365 days a year, even on Christmas.
 The building is always staffed, and we're always taking care of the city's jewel. I mean, I take that really responsible. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it. Who pays for that? Yes. Who pays for that? We do. Who's we? Paragon.
 Peregrine does? Yes. It's in our operating agreement with the city. And your expectation would be things like the Timbers Army camping out the night before would not be shifted to this area, it would continue to be along... Well, they do go around that corner on Seattle games, so I mean, I'm sure they'll go there, but the line starts around the corner, so it depends on how many get in line. Isn't that they're going to...
 generate a question of who gets to be there. If Timbers Army tents get to be there on game days or the day before but tents sheltering people who as the Mayor says may call it home would not be allowed there. I think that's a problem. Well I mean we're
 Folks don't camp out to get – they just stand in line. Some bring tents. Some bring chairs. It's kind of two different things, I think. And we normally – they don't – unless it's Seattle, they don't camp out for multiple days. I have seen tents up the night before. Yes.
 I'm not going to dispute that. Yeah, but the bottom line is you're responsible for security and maintenance of that area. A hundred percent, and we have been for 17 years. And in all the different agreements, you know, I've worked when it was Civic Stadium, PG Park, Chelwyn Field, and now Providence. I also would vote for you for Facility Historian as well. Yes, thank you. That's a remarkable run. Thank you. Yeah. Really appreciate it. Since you're here, can I ask you a question? Sure. Sure.
 So I live around the corner, and let's say I go to a Thorns game or something. The one kind of choke point currently is...
 just down the street, you know, next to the Providence health facility when you're trying to get in. Sometimes that's backed up a little bit. Right. And you've got people checking bags and then you've got to go through security and there's two doors. Does this redesign improve in any way the access point along that street? It does. I think we're adding, we have two current gates there. I think we're going to five in that area. And then we're proving that we're moving the Providence Clinic area
 entrance back to add some more sidewalk and some more queuing area in that spot. And then the other thing we're looking at doing is actually now if you get a ticket, you can come in any gate that you'd like. So moving forward, we're going to have, like, if you're sitting in Section 201, you'll be directed to a certain gate, and your ticket will only work at that gate. So that will help spread out the fans a little bit more to the different access to get in a little bit easier. Good. Thank you. So we've thought that one through as well.
 Very good. And is there anything more to your formal presentation, or was that it? That's it. Thank you for coming up and clarifying. Colleagues, anything more before we call for public testimony? Very good. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? I have two, and we also have the amendment still to vote to motion to move that amendment. Dan, do you want to move the amendment first before we take testimony? I'm sorry, what was it? We moved the amendment to condition one.
 Second. Okay. So Commissioner Saltzman moves. Commissioner Fish seconds. Any further discussion on the amendment? Hearing none, please call the roll on the amendment. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Now we'll hear public testimony. We have two people, Julie Livingston and Robert Butler. Very good. Come on up. Name for the record, please.
 So hello, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Julie Livingston, and I am the chair of the Portland Design Commission. And I am here today to tell you that the Design Commission supports both the expansion to Providence Park and the major encroachment. The arcade is an excellent response both to the Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines and the Goose Hollow Design Guidelines, both of which are applicable at this site.
 for a handful of reasons, just very quickly. The response both emphasizes Portland themes and enhances, embellishes, and identifies the area. It responds very well to the Goose Hollow guidelines that are specific to improving the stadium area.
 It is coherent. It responds well to the guidelines request for architectural integrity. The commission felt that this design as proposed is a very strong response to A.E. Doyle's original ideas from 1925 about how a completed arcade might look in this position were it to be designed and built today. It's just a really nice historic continuum of the stadium in this area.
 Probably most importantly are the guidelines B2, protect the pedestrian, and C10, integrate encroachments.
 It does a great job of delineating the pedestrian zone. It creates a wider pedestrian zone. It provides weather protection in an area when it's needed. It enhances visibility into and out of the stadium. And it does all of this in what we believe will be a landmark piece of architecture for our city. So thank you very much. I'd be happy to answer questions. Thank you. I have one question for you since you took the time to join us.
 The last time we heard from the design commission about an arcade was, I think, along Burnside. And there was a lively discussion about whether it met some of the guidelines. It sounds to me like, from your view, this is really setting the bar pretty high. It is. It absolutely is. This is a remarkable piece of architecture. And with respect to the arcade district on East Burnside, that is a gateway into the central city. Right.
 And I think it's notable that at East Burnside, we have a gateway into the central city that is marked by a series of arcades. They are expressed in many different ways. Some of them are very traditional arcades. Some of them are more an interpretation of an arcade. And now at the west end, the west entry into our central city along Burnside, we also have a new arcade. So it's really a nice way to bracket the central city. Thank you. One final thought. Temporary banners do not...
 Come into the Type 3 hearings room. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. I'm Robert Butler, 226 Southwest Parkside Drive, Portland, Oregon. I guess she wasn't at the meeting, but I guess she wasn't chair then. So the conclusion of this design people was, why would the neighborhood want this arcade for what they're giving up? What's so special about it?
 That was the conclusion of the design commission hearing. Why? Well, it's because it's to get a $55 million project. You know, whether or not there's right-of-way taking or not, there's going to be a $55 million project there. Trust me, there's the money for it. There's the money in it to do it, and it will happen. Enhanced safety...
 I'm giving the 14 reasons why this is less safe. And I'm speaking to you at the moment for a former licensed professional engineer. This report really sucks. I can't imagine any engineer signing this report as something as factual. So you have the facts in front of you. That's what we're giving up. That curbside loading and unloading for...
 Events at the stadium is vital and of course the vice president of the Timbers will disagree because he knows more than I do, but I do more than he does in that respect. I've been there 37 years. Trucks, Peter Corvallis trucks, loading and unloading, hood to coast, truck after truck load of materials for that event. We got chairs, tables, all kinds of things, awnings to put up.
 curbside loading and unloading is what you need for that safely. To take that away and put it across the street is unsafe. Same for people that, the charter buses that come in and load and unload. And look at your ADA. You're asking about ADA. Well, you shouldn't even ask the question about ADA, should you? That Providence facility should have provided for it.
 That ADA parking spot there didn't occur until a number of years later. Providence did nothing for it. They're doing nothing for it now. This project takes away the ADA parking and it takes away seven other parking stalls. Then the architect says, trust me, when you walk down this corridor without trees and the open sky and whatnot, you're going to find it a more pleasant experience. Oh really? How do you buy that?
 So the deal is this. You're supposed to get a benefit for a benefit, a benefit for a benefit. The benefit we're going to get is that this is going to trash our neighborhood with the fact that the police cannot get people to stop living on our sidewalk. They're going to live there, and you can't stop them. The state of Oregon can't stop them. No one can stop them. So we're going to have a slum there. The benefit for benefit, what do we gain for that extra...
 Right away we give them. They won't answer us. I'll tell you what it is. It might be 100 more seats. So you might get 3,700 more seats instead of 3,800. That's the net benefit for a benefit? What a sorry deal.
 Sorry to you. We're going to trash our neighborhood for that. So it's great. They're going to build it. You know what? They're going to build it. Trust me. It's a question of whether we're going to trash the neighborhood in the process. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate your testimony. Colleagues, any further discussion? Commissioner Fritz? Could I have staff come back up, please? Sure. So when I asked about ADA accessibility earlier, you said it would be addressed during the public works process. Mr. Butler's also reminded me about deliveries.
 Where else are there areas for both people drop-off and deliveries? Southwest 20th has on-street parking that can be reserved for those functions. It's just around the corner. Okay.
 And I think there's some service entries to the back of the stadium on that side as well. Right. We unload everything. We bring everything in, food, beverage, beer, everything on the 20th Plaza in our loading zones. And then there's another set of loading zones down along 18th. The area that Mr. Butler is talking about are actually parking stalls. So we don't unload and load everything.
 generally in those parking stalls. We have bagged them at times. We bagged them during games and parked police cars there. And then we also put about 100 temporary bike racks there during games. Those bike racks are going to be relocated along the Morrison Street closure that we do every game. So we're not going to lose. We're actually going to add some bike racks.
 parking in that area, but the operation of the stadium, as far as those parking stalls being loading and unloading, is very rare. Down the street a little bit from there, in front of Providence, there's a truck loading zone right in front of the Providence Clinic, and then of course there's our entrance, the roadway between us and the MAT Club, which we call Gate 35, but it's just a road, the easement road between ourselves and the MAT Club. Thank you very much. And so would we then reserve the parking spaces on 24 for people with disabilities?
 Well, every parking space is available to someone with disabilities. I don't. In our parking lot across the street, we have ADA parking. And that people can get into at the same cost as on-street parking? I don't know what your on-street parking rates are during games. I think you've raised the rate, so I'd have to check on that before I can answer accurately. I think, what is it, $375, something like that? I'm not sure. The stadium rate. Okay.
 I think that's accurate, but I don't want to speak out of turn. So what would be the cost of the ones that you have in the lot? We charge usually generally $15 to $20 a space. That's more expensive. Something to look at, please. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, right now there's one 88 parking stall, and within a...
 pretty good radius around us. So most of the folks get dropped off on the 20th Plaza, and that's where we encourage our fans to come in through there that need that assistance. We usually have a guest attendant meet them. If they need a wheelchair, they take them to their seats. Or, you know, we have a pretty good program set up for that. So we're eliminating parking spaces, right? Excuse me? We're eliminating some parking spaces. We are. And you mentioned that you sometimes use them for...
 Public safety vehicles now where would those vehicles park? Well, police can generally park wherever they want. So I'm aware We'll figure out where I mean we have areas along 18th Avenue that have We can park our excuse me along 20th Avenue that we relocate We parked at every game. We have edu dog bomb dogs At every event we parked them there because there were trees to keep the dogs cool when they stay in the car So we'll just have to find another location for them. I
 And the temporary barriers, what are they? It's actually, they mischaracterized it a little bit, that TriMet, along with us, put up a temporary cattle guard, is what you call them. They hook together their metal racks, and we put them out before game day and try to...
 direct the traffic towards the uh towards the crosswalk we call it the frogger effect we're trying to stop people from crossing that street in front of the train so along with trimet security and our security you know we we send folks along with portland police that we employ at every game up to that street to kind of control that uh stop any of the traffic we need to stop to flush out the the fans so they're just cattle guards bike racks um
 They go up into place. And I appreciate that because people do use that area as almost like a pedestrian plaza rather than recognizing it as an actual street. And this will improve the lighting and the flow along that sidewalk. I mean, I can't tell you. With the tree wells and the parking meters, you're at 6'4", at a good spot. And now we're talking we're going to have 11 clear all the way through there. So I think that will...
 benefit both game days and non-game days just for folks. So in the event of an emergency evacuation, how hard would it be to remove those barriers? You just push them out of the way. Okay. They're used quite a bit on a lot of large venues, the Rose Garden or, excuse me, the Motor Center. All right. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions, comments? Very good. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Okay.
 It's nice to see somebody in the audience with a PTFC scarf on. And I'm also glad that we're doing this with everything being well thought through. Thank you very much. Hi. Fish. Yeah, I appreciate the hearing and both the presentation, your testimony, sir, answers to our question. I actually live in this neighborhood, so this is my neighborhood, and I think this will be a tremendous enhancement. And...
 I think the public benefits side on this one is extremely clear. But I appreciate that PBOT has scrubbed this so that we're doing this the right way. And I agree with what you said earlier, sir, that on game days that sidewalk is awfully narrow.
 Although I think without the police cars parked there, you have to find some other way to deter people from jaywalking around there because there is a deterrent effect of having those parked police cars. But I would think it would be even better to have actually police officers physically stationed in various places. And by the way, the reason that you enforce those rules is for public safety. You just don't want people dodging cars and MAX trains. Thank you, and I'm pleased to vote aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned until 2 p.m. tomorrow. Thank you.