All right, good afternoon, everybody. This is the September 14th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Wheeler. Here. We're back for a second afternoon of hearings related to the Central City 2035 plan. Sally, could you come up and give us an overview of the day, please, before we call the first item? Okay.
 Thank you very much. Sally Edmonds with Planning and Sustainability. So we're pleased to be back here for the second round of hearings. The record for this plan is now up in the balcony and all 20-some boxes. We need to get a state law changed so that we don't have to keep bringing the boxes. Sorry to deflect this even right out the gate, but that just seems a bit difficult. Yeah, so are you asking whether the boxes need to be here every week? No.
 I know they do now, but how would we get that changed? Would it be through a state law change? We can look at that. I think as long as they are here and you have the opportunity to look at them and refer to them at some point during the legislative process is really what's key. Since there are new items today that aren't from last week, we definitely want them still here now. Well, and it's an incentive program. Whoever goes over their testimony by the longest amount gets to move the boxes back from where they came from.
 Go ahead, Sally. Okay.
 Okay, I thought I would walk you through the schedule for today and going forward. So today we have a 2 p.m. time certain for the new Chinatown-Japantown historic guidelines and a 2.45 time certain for the scenic and environmental amendments outside of the central city. We also have a continued hearing on the U.S. Post Office early implementation and also a continued hearing on the main components of the plan. Okay.
 Then on September 28th, we have a 3 p.m. time certain for the post office and 4 p.m. time certain for the new Chinatown-Japantown design guidelines.
 Following that, we have a fall lineup for you. October 18th, November 2nd, December 6th, we have set-aside time certain starting at 2 p.m. on those days to go through amendments or anything else that council members would like to discuss. We have a 2 p.m. time certain on January 18th where we will have a city council hearing on amendments. Okay.
 And then we will move forward to a council vote in March or at such a date that will follow the effective date of the comprehensive plan, as I went through last time. We cannot vote until the comprehensive plan is effective. And then this plan would be effective 30 days later.
 So, again, today we have a 2 p.m. time certain on the new Chinatown to Pantown design guidelines. This ordinance is scheduled to be continued on September 28th at 4 p.m. time certain, and this would be adopted as an amendment to the existing comprehensive plan, and you'll hear about that in just a few minutes, but there is invited testimony for that. Thank you.
 Then at 2.45, we have another hearing on environmental and scenic outside of the central city. This is part of the central city package, and therefore would be amendment to the new comprehensive plan.
 Then we will have a continued hearing on the U.S. Post Office. This is an amendment to the existing comprehensive plan. That hearing will be continued on September 28th at 3 p.m. There is invited testimony for that, a couple of people, so we'll remember to call them up.
 And then finally, a continued hearing on the main Central City 2035 package. And we have quite a bit of invited testimony for that and have some seats saved for all those people as well. So I think that's it for today. Very good. Any questions, colleagues? All right. Let's jump right in. Carla, please read the first item.
 Item 1019, adopt the new Chinatown-Japantown Historic District Design Guidelines. The purpose of this hearing is to adopt new design guidelines for the new Chinatown-Japantown Historic Districts.
 Historic district design guidelines are discretionary land use approval criteria that apply to alterations, additions, and new construction projects. New Chinatown, Japantown was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 1989 for architecture, culture, and Chinese and Japanese history, and it's the only historic district in Portland significant for its association with ethnic history.
 Following adoption of the guidelines, development in the historic district will honor the rich legacy of those Chinese and Japanese Portlanders who made the historic district their home from the 1880s up to the present time.
 So with that, Brandon, why don't you, if you could introduce your name for the record and jump right into your presentation. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. Brandon Spencer-Hardall, Historic Resources Program Manager at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I have a brief overview of the new Chinatown-Japantown design guideline process and the specifics of the design guideline. We do have invited testimony here today from the Historic Landmarks Commission, which is the recommending body for these guidelines.
 So to kick things off, I thought I would do a quick background on the historic district in question. New Chinatown, Japantown is a National Register of Historic Places district north of Burnside Street. I'll use the cursor here to give a little bit more context.
 The Historic District is a 10-block district between Northwest 3rd Avenue, Northwest 5th Avenue, Burnside, and Gleason. The Chinatown Gate is a focal point and entry into the Historic District on 4th Avenue. And the Chinese Garden is just outside of the Historic District between 3rd and 4th.
 The historic district does overlap with the Skidmore Old Town historic district. And some of you who have been on council for a couple of years, remember we came before you about a year and a half ago with design guidelines for that historic district. This is the next in our process of updating and developing design guidelines for the central city. Thank you.
 And as a quick orientation to this map, and for those of you who may be new to historic districts, in the historic district we have contributing historic buildings, which are buildings that are from the historic period and have associations with the Chinese and Japanese occupants of the district or are architecturally meritorious. And we also have non-contributing buildings, which are newer buildings or buildings that don't have that historic significance.
 In historic districts, the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission and the Bureau of Development Services review new construction, addition, and alteration projects. And the contributing historic buildings are subject to a type 4 demolition review in front of this body. Historic resource review, as I mentioned, is a discretionary land use review process that applies in all of our National Register historic districts. It's administered by the Bureau of Development Services, and larger projects go before the Historic Landmarks Commission.
 In the new Chinatown-Japantown Historic District, the approval criteria today are the river district design guidelines and the central city fundamental design guidelines. But because we have not developed historic district-specific approval criteria, the Historic Landmarks Commission and Bureau of Development Services staff look for those guidelines in those umbrella central city guidelines to look at issues of compatibility, alterations, and how to treat historic resources.
 What is being recommended is adoption of district-specific design guidelines to replace the more general river district design guidelines, but to continue to have the central city fundamental design guidelines also apply. And that would be consistent with other central city historic districts where we do have district-specific design guidelines.
 We got started on the development of the New Chinatown-Japantown Historic District Design Guidelines about a year and a half ago. The project was a partnership between Prosper Portland and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability with the input of a ten-member stakeholder advisory committee and the Historic Landmarks Commission.
 The guidelines were identified as a priority in the West Quadrant Plan. And in the development of the guidelines process, we did hold multiple community open houses, briefings and work sessions with the Landmarks Commission and Planning and Sustainability Commission, ultimately resulting in a recommendation, a unanimous recommendation, of the Historic Landmarks Commission to adopt the guidelines before you today.
 And what we are recommending is adoption of these guidelines prior to your vote on the larger Central City 2035 plan.
 Just quickly in terms of how design guidelines and this set of design guidelines are organized, there are three chapters in the guidelines. The first two chapters provide background and orientation. Chapter three is what will serve as the land use approval criteria. And specifically, we offer design guidelines for all projects called general design guidelines, but then specific guidelines for alterations, additions, and new construction. Thank you.
 And again, only Chapter 3 serves as land use approval criteria. When you look through the design guideline document, every specific design guideline has a one-sentence statement about what that guideline intends to achieve and is accompanied by examples and further narrative description to assist an applicant in what their approach to meeting that guideline might look like.
 I pulled a few example design guidelines just to give you a flavor of what they look like. Guideline A1, which is in the general design guidelines section, really underpins the larger set of design guidelines by encouraging applicants to integrate authentic Chinese and or Japanese design elements in keeping with district character.
 The guidelines provide examples of what that might look like, ranging from larger than usually allowed signs, balconies, awnings, textured storefronts, other approaches that really do honor the history of this district and speak to the unique aesthetic qualities that were brought about by Chinese and Japanese occupants of the district during its historic period.
 Other design guidelines put into place approval criteria that are consistent with how the Landmarks Commission reviews alterations and additions in historic districts and provides that clarity to an applicant about what the land use approval process will be seeking to gain approval. And with that...
 I will end my presentation. We can talk in more detail about specific guidelines if you'd like, but I do want to make sure that the Landmarks Commission has an opportunity to give you some more context on these design guidelines and how they'll be applied. Very good. Thank you, Brandon. Are there any questions of Brandon before we move along? I'd like to invite Wendy Chung from the Landmarks Commission to come up and provide some invited testimony. Thank you, Brandon. Good afternoon, Mayor. Good afternoon. Commissioner Udeli.
 Pritz, Commissioner Saltzman. I'm Wendy Chung. I'm testifying on behalf of the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission regarding the adoption of the new Chinatown-Japantown Historic District design guidelines that Brandon described. As Mayor Wheeler pointed out early in this hearing, the—
 And this historic district is unique in that it's the only district in Portland that's primarily significant for its association with ethnic history. Sadly, you know, a lot of the cultural significance, the extensive cultural history seems to have dissipated in that there's a lot of growth in this district and it's really exciting to us. And as a commission, we see a lot of projects come in.
 in old town Chinatown, Japan town that we're really excited about. We are enormously enthusiastic about these design guidelines because it's going to make our jobs a lot easier. What I mean by that is that it will, as Brandon commented, encourage the use of design elements and architectural styles that authentically express the Chinese and Japanese history of the district while allowing for development to replace surface parking lots and rehabilitation and reuse of the district.
 of the underutilized buildings. I think most importantly, the adoption of these guidelines will provide some clarity and consistency to the applicants because oftentimes we get applicants who have these great projects, but they don't have a clear idea of what is expected in terms of our design review process.
 and they're gaining approval. I know the Commission has previously testified before this body concerning, similarly, Heights. I know my colleague, Kristen Minor, was here last week, and she spoke to that issue, FAR and Heights and whatnot. I know that the rest of this hearing is going to be dedicated to talking about the Central City Plan generally. But as...
 Vice Chair Minor mentioned last week, you know, those types of expectations that are established early on really do make our jobs a lot easier so that when developers come in or applicants come in with these great projects, we can point to a specific guideline or a specific project
 criteria, approval criteria, that will allow us to approve their projects more expediently and make sure that our expectations align with theirs in terms of compatibility. I think this is particularly crucial in Chinatown, Japantown, because of the fact that it's our only ethnically significant historic district. And as Brandon mentioned, we do have district-specific guidelines in other historic districts. I think the key here is getting an authentic, you know,
 being more likely to get authentic elements, design elements in the plans that we see.
 So do you have any questions, or can I add anything? Commissioner Fritz? Well, first, thank you very much for your service on the commission and for your taking the time to come today. I believe that Commissioner Minor asked last week for a specific approval criterion saying you may not be able to get all the help in FAR and still meet these guidelines. Do you believe that the guidelines we're talking about today, do they have enough of that language in, or would you like to see something further? You know, ideally, Commissioner Fritz, I would like to see –
 what I guess the Landmarks Commission has called right zoning, because I don't think that the FAR and height limits match what's in the design guidelines, either the current guidelines, the river district, et cetera, or the new guidelines. So I do think that there is still a gap in terms of compatibility. And even though our code, as you know, places the design review criteria above the base zone, there's still this...
 perception that more can be built than can be. I think the problem with that actually goes to the cost of the land and the buildings, right? Because somebody could say, well, I could build 120 feet or something here, and then I could perhaps place a higher price on that parcel because of that. And then it's disappointing to the applicant when they get to the...
 applicant, they don't understand why they can't bill to that because it is incompatible with the district or doesn't meet these guidelines. So what I would like to see in terms of, since you're asking, it would be great if we could have some right zoning of the heights and FARs
 when I say right zoning, what I mean is I'm not talking about down zoning. I think the density is great. And by the way, I will say that, you know, Chinatowns across the country historically have occupied some of the most dense parts of our inner cities. And sadly, you know, with gentrification, oftentimes they get pushed out to the suburbs because, you know, the buildings become more expensive, the land becomes more expensive. You know, the disjointedness between the FAR and the Heights is,
 And the design criteria exacerbate that problem because it makes it more valuable. And I know we have a lot of affordable housing units proposed and in Chinatown, Japantown now. And I'm hoping that will continue because I would just hate to see all the development in that area be limited to, you know, that which, you know, would pencil out given the inflated pricing situation.
 As you said earlier, we should have clear expectations so that everybody knows. So since this historic district is a relatively small area, I would certainly appreciate hearing from the Landmarks Commission in the next couple of weeks which are the sites where you're thinking that it's going to be really difficult to allow what the height and FAA are. Absolutely. That would be very helpful. Thank you very much. And I would just add that with respect to the size of this district, I'm sure the Commission and Mayor know that,
 Only 2% of the entire city is historic, designated historic anyway. So this is a very teeny tiny part of that 2%. But, yeah, we appreciate the opportunity and really look forward to providing that information to you. Thank you. And if there are contributing or historic buildings in the West End and elsewhere, I'm particularly interested in the Commission's advice to see where we can set really clear expectations so that nobody goes out disappointed. And actually, now that you mention it, Commissioner Fritz,
 The West End and other parts of the central city contain a lot of over 200 historic buildings that are not listed either in a district or individually listed. Those are really vulnerable to demolition because of the fact that, you know, and many of them do occupy affordable housing units. For instance, there's a building on 12th and 13th.
 Alder, I think it is, that has a 55 and over affordable housing and a small business, a small local business in its main floor.
 That may not be possible if those heights, as proposed in the Central City 2035 plan, go forward, because there would not be an incentive to maintain those buildings, but instead to demolish them and put in luxury. I'm not opposed to luxury townhomes or luxury buildings, but it's just I think we need more affordable housing, obviously, and more affordable not only housing but businesses, so that local businesses both in the West End as well as in Chinatown can –
 still operate. Well, I'm probably going off the rails here, but my family had operated a small business in a dense urban area, and we couldn't have done that if we had to pay exorbitant rents because of gentrification. I'll be certainly looking out for your further feedback. Thank you very much. Appreciate your diligence. Thank you. Thank you, Wendy. Are there any other elected officials or member of city commissions who'd like to testify first? No.
 Very good. Carla, please call up the – how many people do we have signed up for this item? Ten. We have ten. Two minutes each. State your name for the record, please. Carla, we'll call you up in order. The first three are Tracy Prince, Helen Ying, and Peggy Moretti. Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Tracy Prince. I've researched and written about Portland's Chinese and Japanese history in all three of my Portland history books. I'm testifying today representing the Architectural Heritage Center.
 Research is clear that the most affordable and most sustainable building is the one already built. We believe that saving our historic buildings in the central city saves massive amounts of affordable housing units.
 There have been efforts to diminish the importance of culture and ethnicity as reflected in the district's architecture and to focus instead on architects and builders of importance. The Architectural Heritage Center supports these design guidelines, which focus more on the recent place matters understanding of historic preservation rather than emphasizing architects.
 We support efforts to encourage the use of upper story setbacks and balconies, to use compatible building materials, matching cornice lines, and similar massing in order to contribute to rather than contradict the overall fabric and Asian aesthetic of the district. Thank you.
 The architectural characteristics most clearly identified with the Chinese community in Chinatown are the use of red and sand-colored brick, second-floor balconies with wrought-iron railings, and first-floor storefronts, which often had mid-floor sleeping lofts or balconies. These buildings were all one- to three-story high, and infill should reflect this historic character.
 Though some people may argue for increased heights in the district, and this is going to the issues that Wendy raised, many of those are property owners who have benefited from the tax breaks of owning a building in the historic district. They should not be able to have it both ways, a tax break when the building was standing and then receive increased heights to encourage demolition of Portland's important Chinese and Japanese history.
 The Architectural Heritage Center supports the proposed heights of 125 feet, even though that may still be too high to protect Portland's Chinese and Japanese heritage. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hi, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Helen Ying. I'm going to wear two hats today. So first I'm going to wear the hat of representing the Chinese-American Citizens Alliance, Portland Lodge. And so I'm going to first share a quote from Alan Spear, who...
 whom I just met in D.C. He represents the National Parks Conservative Association, where he says, the absence of our people in the historical landscape of our country is in itself a civil rights matter.
 And I think that's why I'm here today. Tomorrow, we're dedicating a plaque, a gift that we gave to the city, and Commissioner Saltzman will be there with us on 2nd and Pine in front of the Pine Street Market. That is a plaque dedicated to commemorate the history and contribution of Chinese Americans to Oregon, to Portland. So that's where the old Chinatown was. Thank you.
 But does anybody know about it? Of course not, because nothing would tell us about that. So that is why it's so important that we have these design guidelines to preserve the history in the new Chinatown, Japantown.
 And along that line, now I'm going to switch hats as the chair of the O-Town Chinatown Community Association. We had represented our voice on the Design Guideline Committee, and we fully support what they are proposing. So thank you so much. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Peggy Moretti. I'm representing Restore Oregon, the statewide historic preservation nonprofit for Oregon.
 And I was also pleased to represent us on the committee that drafted the design guidelines for New Chinatown, Japantown. We enthusiastically support their adoption. And I wanted to share that arriving at these guidelines posed some really unique challenges because of the cultural and architectural aspects that need to be considered in them. But I really do believe that...
 with all of the really careful and detailed conversations that we all went through examining and arriving at these, that we do strike a good balance here with these guidelines that addressed both aspects.
 and also afford ample flexibility for development and for good compatible infill. I think it's really important, given the significant and large outsized development pressures right now in the central city, that council consider how easily this very small-sized, very rare and unique district could be overwhelmed and swallowed up by inappropriate new development.
 These guidelines, coupled with the city's support of reduced heights and your support of the Landmarks Commission, who is going to have no small task of threading the needle here with all of this, really are going to be essential to ensure that the history and the character of the district are not lost. It is so small and so precious. The direction and clarity that these guidelines present will...
 I think, make for a much better opportunity for good new development. And we'll just really bless the entire city so that we can pass this forward to new generations. Thank you. Thank you, all three of you, for your testimony. We appreciate it. And these folks clearly understood it. I'll just remind people council rules require any lobbyists to please disclose that you are a lobbyist. And if you're here representing an organization, that's obviously helpful as well. Next three, please, Carla.
 are Marcus Lee, Roberta Wong, and Jackie Peterson-Lunis. Welcome. Sir, why don't you go ahead, please. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Thank you very much for the opportunity to come before you today. My name is Marcus Lee. I'm here as a private individual, a member of Portland's Chinese community.
 I try to give back to my community by volunteering my time, serving on a number of boards, having to do with the Chinese community, the Oregon Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association, Portland's Lee Family Association, Portland Chinatown Historic Foundation, History Foundation, and Lowenfer Cemetery Foundation, where we are working on Block 14.
 Excuse me, and Metro's own first cemetery, which is a pioneer Chinese cemetery. My background is I was born and raised here in Portland. My...
 the history of my dad's side of the family is fairly common for the Chinese community, a number of members in the Chinese community, and that my great-grandfather came here in the latter half of the 1800s, set up a Chinese general merchandise shop named Kuang Song Hua in the original Chinatown down on Southwest 2nd between Washington and Alder.
 that building no longer stands on that location. Over time, as Chinatown moved over to northwest Portland, their store then moved over, the family store moved over to what is now the northwest corner of 4th and Flanders and used to occupy a ground-level storefront there in a building which is no longer there.
 My family, my dad's side, resided under the Rainier Hotel, which no longer stands. I think that, as Brandon showed in his presentation, we have a couple of shining examples of what can be done. The former Sui Sing building, the Society Hotel.
 Is that my time? Yeah. Okay. Thank you. You got your notes. So I am here to support the new historic guidelines. I believe this is a time for Portland to honor the Chinese and Japanese community's contributions in our history of place.
 and the contributions to the building of Portland, the state of Oregon, as well as the Pacific Northwest. And we ask that you please join us in supporting the passage of the historic guidelines to help us preserve what we have left.
 in order for us to be able to pass it on to future generations. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Hi. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, my name is Roberta May Wong. I'm a resident of Portland, born and raised in southeast Portland, and I...
 Share my testimony in favor of the Portland New Chinatown-Japantown Historic District Guidelines. In 1930, my grandfather, Sun Yook Wong, became the proprietor of Tuk Lung Grocery, a Chinese business located at 309 Northwest 4th. Subsequent generations carried on the family business. My father, Francis G. Wong, relocated the business in 1962 to the Overland Building on Northwest 4th and Davis.
 and the added luncheon cafe whose popularity led to the business's third and final expansion in 1977 by my brother, Albert Wong. A new two-story building was built, the first new construction post-World War II in the district and the first by a Chinese resident or a Chinatown business since the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association was erected in 1911.
 It's located at 140 Northwest 4th on Davis, where the new Tuk Lung Grocery, Restaurant and Lounge spurred a revitalization in Portland's Chinatown, leading to the Chinatown Gate and the creation of the new Chinatown-Japantown Historic District.
 In the 50s, with the change in property laws, most Chinese and Japanese left the areas to buy their home in other quadrants of the city. By the 60s, only a few Japanese businesses remained, and Chinatown consisted of two grocery stores, a handful of restaurants, and a curio gift shop.
 On weekends, Chinese families would return to enliven the streets of Chinatown. During the 70s, Tuk Lung's lunchtime popularity developed patronage from downtown professionals and workers, broadening Chinatown's appeal beyond the Chinese community. Consequently, with the growing influx of new Chinese-Asian immigrants,
 In the 80s, Chinatown experienced a mini-renaissance with the new business started by the Chinese immigrants, by the new Chinese immigrants, adding to Chinatown's economic prosperity. In the 90s and the 20s, we saw that Chinatown, with the closure of Tuk Lungs, we saw, I'm sorry,
 the closure of Tuck Lines, but also provided an opportunity for other businesses to fill the void. What solidified Chinatown over the years, however, was the city's investment, guided by the Portland Development Commission, PDC, now Prosper Portland, and community support for the Chinatown Gate, the Lanzhou Garden, and the Festival Streets.
 PDC's financial support of the new Portland Chinatown Museum is a new investment which signals its continuing support of the new Chinatown-Japantown Historic District and of Chinatown's sustainability and growth. The passing of the new Chinatown...
 Japan Town Historic District Guidelines will assure that the cultural continuity of the area will be respected and the district's development will be monitored and guided with the intent to maintain the historical integrity of a community's past and future. Thank you. Thank you. That was a wonderful history and we appreciate you sharing it with us. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners Udailey, Fritz and Salzman.
 My name is Jacqueline Peterson Loomis. I live at 2427 Northeast Mason, and I'm a longtime advocate worker in the fields in Old Town Chinatown since the late 90s. I'm also currently the executive director of the Portland Chinatown History Foundation, and we are about to build, we are building a new museum for Portland in Chinatown.
 We are acquiring a building at Northwest Davis and 3rd, the Keta Building. We set across the street from the CCVA, the Society Hotel, the Merchant Hotel with its soon-to-be Starbucks. Something tells us that something's happening in Old Town. And a block from the Lansu Garden.
 We are in an enviable position, even though I think that a year ago we would have thought this was impossible. But with tremendous support from the Chinese community and from the current owner and from PDC, it looks as though we're going to be open in the spring of 2018.
 We are in many ways, I think, a recipient, even before their past, of the new design guidelines. And in fact, they have helped to inform and perhaps even to encourage us to move forward. I think that the museum was spurred by the promise of revitalization and long-term sustainability.
 for a new Chinatown that is embedded in Prosper Portland's New Chinatown-Japantown design guidelines and its five-year plan for Old Town. Our organization sees the museum as an early example of what the guidelines can offer and future owners of historic buildings in the district and developers of Enfield can learn from. We're developing in two phases. We have a building that's one story. It was remodeled in the 20s, so it's not even contributing.
 But rather than even contemplate demolition, we're going to be opening by completely restoring the inside, meeting all city codes and adding sprinklers. And you'll be very surprised, you're going to see an absolutely first-rate museum when it opens in the spring. But our long-term plan, about five years from now, basically, is to build up five stories with inset floors for housing.
 for student and affordable housing that would include a museum on the first floor and perhaps even much-needed parking below. We think we can adapt the guidelines. We can use neon. We can use balconies. We can use brick. We can create a sense, at least, of the old without being fake. I want to close simply by saying that the elders for whom I have worked for many years and who many are in this audience today who are our board members,
 These are people who grew up in a neighborhood where they could not own property, so none of these buildings were built by them. That's the irony, that the district ends in 1943, the very year that they're given citizenship and the right to own land. And so the architecture we're dealing with here were created by others, and they embellished it.
 So much of the look of Chinatown that we're all trying to restore has to do with signage, with neon lighting, with balconies, with the sort of character that we can find in historic photographs and what still remains. It is fragile, but that's precisely what the nomination meant. Let me just leave you two sentences. These are the first and last lines of the Statement of Significance, Criterion A, which is historic. This is 1989.
 The Chinatown Historic District is nationally significant under Criterion A for its history as the largest and most intact Chinatown in Oregon. It is locally significant as the largest remaining and most viable example of the Chinese ethnic community. Last line, the district is evaluated in the context of the ethnic heritage of the Chinese people and the development and growth of the Chinese community in Portland.
 I hope that you'll be able to help us save this really very important and precious community. Thank you. And, folks, obviously I took a little bit of latitude with the time restrictions here because I think it's important for all of us to hear the historical context by which these guidelines were developed. So I took some latitude, but please be aware of the fact that two minutes goes super quickly.
 So amend your notes accordingly. Thank you, all three of you, for your excellent testimony. We sure appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, sir. Thanks for being here. Next three are Sarah Stevenson, Lynn Puchigami-Parks, and Ruth Ann Barrett. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 So I'll jump in and start quickly. I'm Sarah Stevenson. I'm here today as co-chair of the Land Use and Design Review Committee of the Old Town Chinatown Community Association. And I just wanted to say thank you to the city and to Prosper Portland and to the volunteers who worked on the stakeholder advisory group for developing these guidelines, for putting in the time, for doing it quickly, because it was very important to our community that these guidelines be in place before the zoning and height changes come before you and take effect.
 And our community association has heard from our constituents and has long advocated for these guidelines to help balance the sometimes conflict between development of the area that is coming and is happening and the historic context and the historic fabric that is so important that you've heard about today. So just wanted to let you know the community association stands in full support. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your leadership.
 Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, my name is Lynn Fuchigami-Parks, and I'm the executive director for Oregon Nikkei Endowment. And we're a nonprofit whose major projects have the Japanese American History Museum and the Japanese American Historical Plaza along the waterfront.
 also known as the Bill of Rights Memorial, and all located in this part of town. That was once a very vibrant Japan town up until 1942 when, of course, an unconstitutional executive order caused it to disappear overnight. So I'm here also to testify in support of the recommended draft.
 historic district design guidelines. The proposed guidelines envision celebrate the cultural and multi-ethnic history of new Chinatown and Japantown as well as highlight the district's importance to the city of Portland's past, present
 present and future identity and this is verbiage that was borrowed from the guidelines because I felt it was so well articulated the guidelines create a thoughtful framework that will allow transformation to occur in a manner that brings vibrancy to the district while retaining the significant cultural and architectural qualities and
 that make this historic district so unique and one that our city really needs to treasure. A great deal of time, energy, and effort went into its creation, and the opportunity for community input was both appreciated and clearly considered. And I'd like to thank, again, the same entities that made this possible.
 for their hard work and commitment to establish these guidelines that really strike a balance to support both the retention of existing historic resources and encouragement of compatible development, but all with respect to the preservation of the district's cultural significance and authentic character, something that we were very concerned that was at risk without these kinds of guidelines. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Hi, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Ruth Ann Barrett, and I live in the Historic District. And I don't mean to speak for everybody who lives there, but I will speak for myself. And I totally support guidelines like this. And I only have two comments. One is the process. I think the assistive listening device is interfering with the microphone.
 I can't hear you. The assisted listening device? If you could move it away or maybe turn it off. Oh, I see. Okay. Sorry. I don't know how to turn it off. Oh, wait. Sorry. My electronics are not under control. Anyway, I'm totally for the guidelines. I only have two issues, one process. Yes.
 To my knowledge, there were no residents involved in these guidelines, in the design guidelines. I was told that they couldn't find any. Anyway, so I think that's a process problem, not just generic to these, but in our neighborhood in general, and I would like to see it addressed in the future. We apparently, as residents, are not stakeholders here.
 which I found interesting. The second thing is, and you will hear it and have heard it, is that the idea of land use, and Sarah and I have discussed this, is that, you know, it's the buildings, it's the land. But for me, it's who's using the land. And if we don't address that, we'll have Starbucks in a kind of building that looks Chinese. Yes.
 We have no neighborhood serving businesses. So we have no green grocer, Chinese or Japanese style.
 We have no pet store. And as a resident of this neighborhood, you buy everything, I mean everything, outside of Chinatown. And yet the Chinese, as I have experienced them in my life, are some of the best in the world at providing neighborhood servicing businesses. In fact, I think they're the best.
 So unless we look at land use and look at development with an eye to what is called, I believe, a retail strategy, in the end, I don't think we're going to get exactly what it is that we are imagining. Thank you. Yeah, well said. And the complete neighborhood strategy would embrace what you just said. So thank you for that. That's an important perspective. Thank you.
 Thank you all for being here this afternoon. Next three, please, Carla. I believe the last person I have is Wayne Trantow. Is Wayne here? Is it Wayne or Dwayne? It looks like a W to me. Is there somebody who signed up who has not been called yet? Oh, okay. Well, let's wait 30 more seconds just to make sure we don't miss out on somebody. We ask nobody is over there to testify for this item. Okay. Very good. Thank you.
 So the record will be left open for written testimony until Friday, September 15th at 5 p.m. So if people who are hearing this would like to continue to provide written testimony, you're certainly allowed and encouraged to do so. That's until Friday, September 15th at 5 p.m. Deliberations on this item will be held on September 28th at 4 p.m. here at Portland City Hall in the Council Chamber.
 Carla, please read the next item. Item 1020. Item 1020.
 amend the Central City 2035 Plan, Volume 2A, Part 3, Environmental and Scenic, amend the Portland Zoning Map and Portland Zoning Codes for Environmental Overlay Zones and Scenic Resource Zones. So, colleagues, this ordinance is much more interesting than it sounds. The ordinance we're going to hear now is for scenic and environmental resources that are located outside of the Central City.
 As you will recall, last week we took some testimony on the Central City. It's part of the Central City 2035 plan because there are viewpoints that emanate from places like Washington Park and Twilliger Boulevard. But the decision we make here will impact other views, such as those from Rocky Butte, Mount Tabor, Council Crest, and Powell Butte.
 The crux of the discussion is about vegetation management, particularly tree trimming and removal. And we had some similar situations last week to open up and preserve these important public views. Staff is going to give a short presentation. Mindy, thank you for joining us. Yes. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Mindy Brooks with Planning and Sustainability. Thank you.
 So, as the mayor just said, last week you heard a lot of testimony on Central City 2035. We talked about view corridors and technology. There we go.
 And today we're going to talk about views outside the central city. And as the mayor alluded to, you may wonder why we're talking about views outside of the central city when this is a central city plan. And it's because during the process we identified a number of viewpoints from Washington Park, Twilliger Boulevard, West Hills, that cross the central city.
 And so we talked about view corridors last time they had to building heights, but we're not talking about building heights today. We're talking about how to maintain those views through vegetation management. So this is an example from Japanese Garden. Historically, this was a view of the skyline in Mount Hood. And as you can see from the picture, vegetation has grown up and blocked much of the view of the skyline.
 Last week we talked about extending that view corridor down the slope, and today we're talking about how you manage that vegetation inside of the yellow box in the picture there. And so the recommendation is to allow tree removal and trimming within that space. This is a common problem. These are a number of views from the West Hills where vegetation has grown up and is blocking the intended thing to see, the mountains or the skyline in these cases.
 And today, many of these view corridors overlap with one of our environmental overlay zones, the conservation and protection overlay zones. When that happens, when there's an overlap of the view corridor and an environmental overlay zone, in order to remove trees, you have to go through an environmental review. And so the standard that we're looking at here is to allow that tree removal and trimming through the standard instead of a review. Replacement of trees would be required.
 This standard lives in the zoning code in Chapter 33-430, and that chapter applies to all of the cities. So any time a view corridor crosses an environmental overlay zone, this standard would then apply. Excuse me. Back in 1991, when the Scenic Resource Protection Plan was adopted...
 The views all over Portland were designated at that time. And the decision was made not to apply the scenic, the S overlay to these view corridors. There's a reference in the zoning code to the scenic resources protection plan, and it is assumed that people through review would know where these view corridors are. So what's the practical implication of not having the S overlay?
 Why should we care? Why should you care? It's confusing for people. In order to know where that standard applies, you need to be able to see on the map where the S overlay is. So we are recommending that we reapply that S overlay to the view corridors that were designated in 1991. But we're not changing the view corridors from 91. We're just applying the S overlay to them. Okay.
 And on the slide just before, we did hear testimony asking for the scenic resource to be all the way around Rocky Butte. What was the thinking on not making it 360? In order to do that, we need to update the scenic resource protection plan, the whole plan from 1991. And we would need to do, it's a Goal 5 resource, so we would need to do an entire update to that Goal 5 resource, including the economic...
 social environmental energy, the ESEE analysis. So it's quite a bit of work to make that. How often are we required to do that anyway? We are not required. Goal 5 is not part of the requirements underneath of the update. Thank you. Yeah. So I want to mention a few things that this ordinance that you're looking at today does not do.
 So this ordinance does not require people to remove trees. This is just a standard for if people want to remove trees, to be able to do it through a standard instead of a review. This proposal does not change any heights, building heights outside of the central city. It does not change the level of protection that was designated in 1991. And it doesn't change Title 11 trees or the jurisdiction of the urban forester. This proposal really does one thing.
 It says if you want to remove a tree or trim trees within one of these S overlays that overlap with an environmental zone, you can do it through a standard instead of review. So I'm going to leave it here for a minute if there are any questions, and then I will go over the three amendments that were released last Friday related to this ordinance. I have a couple questions. Could you go back to slide four, please? Yes.
 So it was my understanding that the request for this corridor did not involve removal of any trees. So when did that change? So the Japanese Garden requested that we extend this view corridor down the slope a little bit so they could manage trees. They don't have any plans at this time to remove trees, but the standard would allow that if they needed to remove a tree in the future to preserve this view, that they could do it through a standard instead of a review process.
 And so along similar lines, if we're allowing individuals or entities to remove trees in the scenic corridors, are we also planning on limiting the type of trees that can be replanted? Because obviously some are...
 going to get a lot taller than others. Yes. So the requirement is to replace the trees. They have to be replaced outside of the view corridor on the property that is owned or a property that the entity has control over. Many of these are parks properties that we're talking about, so they have space to put the trees. And so they would be outside of the view corridor, and then the trees need to be from the Portland plant list. Okay. Thank you. So I will move on then to the amendments that...
 So last Friday, September 8th, the mayor released an amendment package with three amendments. And I just wanted to summarize them and take questions about them. So the first one relates to Broadmoor Golf Course. As part of the comprehensive plan that was just adopted, a small portion of Broadmoor, that lower section in gray...
 was rezoned from open space to industrial. This was part of the industrial lands watershed health working group work that came forward with the comprehensive plan. There's a view corridor there shown in blue. The view corridor is there because in 1991 it was stated that this is the golf course layout includes a view of Mount St. Helens. There's no development restrictions within this view corridor. It's about maintaining the vegetation.
 Through the comp plan, changing this to an industrial area, the intention is to develop that as industrial use and the view would be eliminated. So to reconcile the view corridor with a comprehensive plan, the amendment is to remove that view corridor from the map. Is there any questions about this before I go on to the next one? Isn't it unusual to have a view corridor that's from a private property rather than public rights-of-way or public space? It is. Yes.
 We've, in our work that we're doing through Central City 2035, we are only designating views where the viewpoint is starting from a street or a sidewalk or, so this is a little unusual because it's stated that the viewpoint is from the parking lot, which is a little weird. And then it just extends across the golf course as it is laid out. Do we know any of the history of, and do we know if there's any more such view corridors that are from Piper Properties?
 Not that I'm aware of. Almost all of them are from streets or actually in parks. So many of them are like Rocky Butte and Council Crest and places you know about. Or from trails. This is a very unique situation. Well, if anybody knows the history of that, I'm just very curious to find out how that got designated. But since it isn't a public viewpoint, I can concur with changing it. Unless somebody tells me I shouldn't concur with it.
 The next amendment is really just a technical amendment, and this is to add the view, the overlay zone maps into the volume 2A Part 3. These were not included in the volume itself and need to be added in there. And this is just another example that I've provided. So it's a very technical change. And the last one is not about scenic resources, so it's a little confusing. Why is it in here, right? Okay.
 So because we're updating Zoning Code 33430, which is the environmental zone, that's why this is in this portion instead of the Central City main document portion. Back on a week ago, September 7th, there was an amendment entered that clarifies that the zoning code, the whole of the zoning code, does not regulate dredging and water bodies except for in the Central City portion.
 That's the first portion of what's on your screen. Because we've clarified that the zoning does not regulate dredging in any other water bodies, there is no need for an exemption in 33-430 for dredging. It simply does not apply. So the amendment is to remove that exemption because it is unnecessary.
 Very good. Okay. Colleagues, any further questions on these amendments? As Mindy just explained, there are three amendments on the table. The first is removing the Broadmoor View corridor to reconcile with the comp plan. The second is to add the scenic overlay zone maps to Volume 3A, Part 1. And the last is to remove the exemption dredging because it's unnecessary. I move to include the amendment package dated September 8th so that the public can testify on these amendments today. Is there a second? Second.
 We have a tie. We'll call it a unanimous. I'll give it to Commissioner Fritz just because she's sitting to my right at the moment. She will get the second on that, so we're able to take testimony. Colleagues, are there any other amendments you'd like to put forth at this particular time? Very good. We can accept testimony. Carla, please call up the first three. We have a total of four people. Very good. The first three are Michael Elena, Ed McVicker, and Tracy Prince. Okay.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. We've lost the quorum, so we... I'm sorry? We lost the quorum. Oh, so we did. So... Shall we wait? Yeah, we have to, unfortunately. So, how about that rain that's coming? Soon. I never thought in Portland, Oregon, we'd be so excited about the rain. Well, that's all I got. How about the Thorns being in the playoffs? That's pretty good. That's good. That's good.
 That's all I got. We have sparkling conversations between the mayor and me. You can just tell, can't you? It's all been said. All right, my daughter has a joke. Ten cats are sitting in a boat. One jumps overboard. How many are left? Not nine. None. The rest were all copycats. Ah. Ah. Please come back, Commissioner. Commissioner. Okay.
 I think that was pretty much well capsulated in the closed caption also. We'll be remembered. Yeah, OpenSignal is very unhappy. Their ratings are crashing by the second. Oh, look, who's back?
 You have saved the people. Commissioner Udaly, woman of the people. You're our quorum. Good afternoon, sir. Thank you for your patience. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Michael Elena. I'm a volunteer at the Portland Japanese Garden for the past 11 years and a trustee on the board for the past nine years.
 Today, on behalf of the Portland Japanese Garden, I would like to address the Scenic and Environmental Zoning Codes 33, 430, and 480. My testimony last Thursday before City Council regarded the Portland Japanese Garden's CCSW 06 view corridor.
 and the requested extension of that corridor. I shared with all of you its iconic place in the hearts of many Portlanders and visitors to the garden. I thank all of you for your support in extending the view corridor and giving us the ability to maintain that incredible vista of our fair city, the Willamette Valley, and Mount Hood. Today, my testimony is submitted to express the Portland Japanese Garden's support for the new standard of
 that allows tree and vegetation removal and trimming through a standard instead of a review process. We feel the standard process will simplify the current permit process and allow us to maintain our corridor in a more efficient manner. We encourage the city to adopt the standard process and streamline and simplify the process of maintaining view corridors. Thank you for your consideration in this matter. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. My name is Ed McVicker. I'm also here speaking for the Japanese Garden. I'm currently a committee member for a committee at the garden called the Garden Resource Committee. The Garden Resource Committee has been a functioning committee since the beginning of the garden more than 50 years ago. Its primary concern is stated with the condition and just maintaining the garden itself.
 uh... i've been a member of that about ten years or so and i can say that the uh... notion of how we uh... managed trees within our garden and also within the area of uh...
 immediately adjacent to the garden that's owned by the park or controlled by the park, has changed in the last few years as this permit process has kind of been the order of the day. So I'm here today just to represent that committee and the garden in general in speaking in favor of changing to a standard as opposed to that. The permit process has often created confusion.
 not a clear direction and in our specific case because we often have to deal with from where we sit multiple city bureaus, it has created a rather cumbersome path to get any kind of action done in the few things that we have tried to do. So this will clarify and simplify the process quite a bit.
 I can't speak to the content. I can't speak to the process, which I think this will be a great improvement for that. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Dr. Tracy Prince, Vice President of the Goose Hollow Foothills League. We're proud of the fact that half of our board members are low income and half are renters. Three years ago, we changed our bylaws so that board members can no longer vote in their own financial interest.
 We encourage Commissioners Udaly and Fish to require all neighborhoods and business associations to follow our lead. No one should be advocating for their own financial interest while receiving city funding. Goose Hollow supports proposed changes to allow vegetation management and tree removal through a standard instead of environmental review. This is important for maintaining public views. However, we suggest even more rigorous vegetation management.
 We were shocked to read explanations in Central City 2035 listing many views as unimportant and therefore no longer protected because vegetation has grown to block the views. And this is all over the city. For example, the Olmsteads designed Terwilliger Parkway, the Vista Bridge, and Vista Avenue as a way to provide public access to views of Mount Hood and Mount St. Helens.
 Yet many views near both Terwilliger and Vista are being lost because no vegetation management has occurred, so trees now block views. If we believe that all Portlanders should have access to views and not just rich people, which I hope you are all committed to, then we will need more aggressive vegetation management to save views that should be publicly available to all.
 The problem is that the proposed fix does not fix the problem because vegetation management still won't be allowed where today the public views can be seen.
 Section 8.5 indicates that within a view corridor with special height restrictions, trees may be removed or trimmed to preserve the view. We recommend that the phrase, with special height restrictions, be removed and that this same rule apply to scenic corridors. So the sentence will read, within view corridors and scenic corridors, trees may be removed or trimmed to preserve the view. Okay.
 Most current views are being lost in Central City 2035, often because trees have grown to block views, so every remaining view is important. Please fix this bureaucratic conundrum where, on the one hand, city regulations prevent vegetation from being managed, and on the other hand, city staff list a view as insignificant because vegetation has blocked the view.
 This small step will keep many public views available to all in a city where our Planning Bureau and Planning Commission leadership have made it a policy to privatize many beloved and iconic public views only for the rich. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Prince, have you sent that in in writing? I haven't, and I will. Thank you. I'd appreciate that as well. Thank you. Very good. Thank you for your testimony. The last person who signed up is Mark Velke.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Mark Velke, and I live in the Goose Hollow area. I'm also on the board of the Goose Hollow Foothills League Neighborhood Association.
 We support the changes to vegetation management in this draft and believe that use should require even more vegetation management to save many views. Section 8.5 says that trees may be removed or trimmed to preserve the view-in-a-view corridor with special height restrictions. We recommend that the phrase special height restrictions be removed.
 and that this same rule apply to scenic corridors. This will save many views outside the central city. Though this is outside of the Goose Hollow boundaries, our board believes that we must fight for the many Portland residents who haven't been able to read the thousands of pages of code over the last three years to understand what's happening. Two more points I would like to personally make.
 that apparently the writers of the CC 2035 draft are unaware that there are tools available that you can use to trim back trees and bushes. I have been to meetings where I have been told by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability they have to do away with a view corridor as just one example because a tree that was planted a few years ago grew up and now some branches are blocking part of that view. Rather than doing away with
 protected views, it seems to me that trimming back trees and bushes is a no-brainer way to save our views. Just so you don't lose the tree hugger vote in your next election, all I'm asking on many of these is trim the edges, not cut down the whole thing. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate your testimony. Mr. Falke, I think I'm a certified tree hugger, and I support these changes because they require actually even more trees to be planted. Good job.
 Very good. And that's the completion of public testimony, is that correct? The record will be open for written testimony on this item until Friday, September 15th at 5 p.m. if people would like to chime in further on this important issue. Deliberation on any amendments related to this item will be held on November 2nd at 2 p.m. time certain here at Portland City Hall.
 So let's continue the hearing about the early implementation of the post office from September 7th. Carla, could you read item 1021, please? Amend the Central City Plan District to increase height and floor area ratio limits on the United States Postal Service site.
 Folks, we have some invited testimony today from the current post office steering committee. Sarah Stevenson and Nathan Kadish, are you both here today? Looks like it. They're both here. Very good. Come on down. Thank you again. Thank you. Thanks, Mr. Mayor. Commissioners, my name is Nathan Kadish. I'm the Director of Investment Strategy for Ecotrust and the Chair of the Urban Design Subcommittee for Prosper Portland's Broadway Corridor Steering Committee.
 Ecotrust's headquarters, the Gene Volum Natural Capital Center, is directly adjacent to the proposed USPS development site, which has caused us to closely track Prosper Portland's community engagement process and the design guidelines. We appreciate your consideration and action to adopt an increase to the height and FAR on the USPS site, consistent with the Broadway Corridor Framework Plan.
 Today I'd like to share brief thoughts about the public process that Prosper Portland designed and has been following in order to gather input and information about how to make the Broadway Corridor development an inclusive, attractive, and all-around additive asset for the City of Portland. For the last 15 years, I've worked in public, private, and non-profit sectors, and I can safely say I have not experienced a more robust process for gathering input than this project.
 The process to date and going forward consists of two phases. The first phase is the Broadway Corridor Framework Plan. The second phase is the developer's solicitation and development planning process. In phase one, the development of the Broadway Corridor Framework Plan, which started in 2015, it included an engagement of a stakeholder advisory committee and extensive outreach to other community stakeholders.
 The intent of the framework plan and engagement of the committee was to inform the feasibility of acquiring and developing the site, largely based on an assessment of the development potential and value, and investment requiring to deliver on public infrastructure requirements and community benefits such as affordable housing. The committee worked for five months and ultimately concluded that increases to the height and FAR of the site were critically viable to the project.
 The recommendations are included in CC 2035 and Prosper Portland is seeking early implementation of the recommendations to move forward with phase two development planning for the site. In May 2017 Prosper Portland held the first meeting of the Broadway Corridor Steering Committee of which I'm a member. The steering committee is comprised of 42 community members who are demographically diverse and represent a broad range of geographic and subject matter expertise and interests.
 The Steering Committee has met monthly over the last five months, and at each meeting is welcomed public comment. Our committee is currently informing the project goals and priorities to be included in a developer solicitation and RFQ to be issued this fall. Clarity regarding the development height and FAR are critical to ensuring the successful response to the RFQ.
 Following the selection of a developer partner, the steering committee will continue to engage with Prosper Portland to inform the development plan for the site. This will also include a formal master plan for the site, which is subject to Type 3 design review by the Design Commission. A robust community engagement and communication strategy will also be implemented during this phase of work. Thanks for your time and consideration. Appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Thank you for so finely summarizing everything. I will add just a few things. I'm Sarah Stevenson, here now in my capacity as a member of the Broadway Corridor Steering Committee. And not to reiterate, but just to add on to what Nathan said, I'm on this committee in my capacity as a member of the Old Town Chinatown Community Association and also as an affordable housing provider.
 I am involved in this phase of the development. My co-chair for the Old Town Chinatown Land Use and Design Review Committee participated in the framework planning process. So the neighborhood has been involved in both stages of planning for this.
 And it was the framework planning that happened in 2015 where the HEIGHT and FAR recommendations were developed. Our current task is not to revisit those recommendations, but rather to, as Nathan said, inform the RFQ or the solicitation for a developer that will take the site and move it towards its development potential.
 So we are not, we were not tasked with revisiting the height and far recommendations, but rather with informing the priorities and the different goals that Prosper Portland and the rest of the city hopes to get out of the project ultimately. Because we're moving forward on this time, we have a fairly strict timeline. We're meeting monthly and we are working to get the RFQ finalized so that it can go out to developers.
 But it's critical that there be clarity regarding the heights and the FAR before we can fairly ask a developer to respond to a solicitation. That's why early implementation of the height and FAR recommendations that have been developed through this prior public process are important. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it both of you. Carla, how many people do we have signed up to testify? We have two. Two. Very well. Please call them on up. They are John Hollister and Patricia Gardner.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. How do you go first? No, you're first. Okay. My name is John Hollister, and I have spoken to quite a few people in the last week regarding this property, and I continue to be educated. This amendment, as I understand it, is specifically to raise heights, which I support, but if adopted, I hope the new height allowance will still have flexibility in it if additional height is determined to be the best use of this site. Okay.
 I've heard people say that there should be a design competition, which I do not support. I have heard many times that winning designs, although beautiful, are not buildable. They often don't address the market needs or are not financially viable for the developer.
 I believe part of this process is to bring the developer on early so design, market, and finance are dealt with on the front end. I hope in the request that they can mention that there's still, here's the guidelines for heights, but there's still some flexibility based upon your expertise as the developer. So that can be part of their response. Thank you, John. Good afternoon. Hi, Patricia Gardner.
 1200 Northwest Marshall. I'm only going to paraphrase a little bit about my letter that I sent in on behalf of the Neighborhood Association for 2035, and what we...
 stated in that letter is that we were a little concerned that pushing this forward was precipitous. There is a public process that's ongoing. Our representative didn't know that this was coming before city council until we read it on your agenda. It should have been an agenda item at that steering committee that's ongoing now. On a personal note, I sat on all the previous committees, so West Quadrant Plan where we are told we're not talking about the post office.
 the framework plan where we were told we're going to see if this thing makes sense and we're going to have economic folks come in and tell us if this makes sense for the city to buy. And I've been told afterwards, well, no, we were determining what was going to actually happen there. And it feels like a step was missed in the public process, which is, hey, oh, by the way, we're really going to talk about what the code wants to be. And so –
 I just wanted to state that personally, but the position of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association is that we should respect the public process that's going on now, and they should have been told about it. So, thank you. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. And just a heads up for staff, I'm going to want each of the Pearl District's neighborhood...
 comments. I'd like to go through that on our next briefing to hear your responses. Thank you. Very good. We'll continue this hearing to September 28th at 3 p.m. time certain. Of course, the written record will remain open until then. So if people would like to email us their thoughts, you're certainly welcome to do so.
 So now we'll go on to the hearing on the main ordinance and resolutions. Let's continue the hearing on the main part of the plan from September 7th. Carla, can you read the ordinance and resolution titles, please, for items number 22 to 24?
 Item 1022, adopt the Central City 2035 plan, amend the comprehensive plan, comprehensive plan map, transportation system plan, Willamette Greenway plan, Willamette River Greenway inventory, scenic resources protection plan, zoning map, and Title 33, repeal and replace prior Central City plans and documents.
 10.23, adopt the Central City 2035 plan action charts, performance targets, and urban design diagrams. And 10.24, adopt the Central City 2035 plan green loop concept report. Very good. Sally, could you come up and introduce this part of the hearing, please? Good afternoon again. Yes, good afternoon.
 So this hearing, this continued hearing will be on the main part of the plan, as Carla mentioned, plus the package of amendments that we had last week. We've updated that package to include Commissioner Udaly's amendments, and there are copies of this document out on the table up front.
 We have some invited testimony today from at least six people, and then staff from PBOT are available to answer any questions that you might have. Very good. And the first individual is Carmen Foray on behalf of Governor Brown. Thanks, Carmen. It's good to see you. Good to see you, too. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. It's an honor to be invited to be here to speak on behalf of Governor Kate Brown. I'm Carmen Fore. I'm the Senior Director for Federal Affairs and Transportation in her office.
 And I know you're having a conversation around transportation in general for the city, and you're also aware that the state recently passed a very robust transportation package, House Bill 2017, at the end of this last legislative session. I also know you requested Representative McLean to come up and speak as well. And I'm going to leave more of the details about the bill itself and the elements within the bill for her remarks.
 And what I'll do is maybe tee up how we got to the point to get the legislation passed in 2017.
 The conversation around the need for improvements in transportation looking statewide really started in 2014. Governor Kitzhaber formed what ultimately became known as the Governor's Transportation Vision Panel. We invited a group of business leaders, civic leaders, and legislators from around the state to answer a few questions, kind of stripping away the things that would normally stand in one's way when looking at transportation investments. And the questions were,
 Give us a vision, what should Oregon's transportation system look like in 30 years? As part of that endeavor, look at all modes of transportation. We're a very diverse state. We have very diverse topography from surface ports to maritime ports, roads, bridges, rail. But where do we want to be going in the next 30 years? Craft a vision. And then as part of that effort, do a four-year sort of action plan. How do we start making the steps in the right direction in order to achieve that vision?
 So over the course of about 18 months, and Governor Kate Brown, when she came into office, sustained the effort to complete the vision panel's work. We had a series of meetings with subject matter experts, stakeholders, you know, a very robust public process looking at a broad array of issues.
 transportation modes. They developed a series of findings and then we went out and we traveled all around the state and held public meetings to assess those findings and hear from Oregonians and urban rural communities and all points in between. Give us your feedback but what really is important to you and your community? What are those things that we need to do to make improvements in the state to help you and your community live and thrive?
 At the end of the process, really four main themes, and if you dig into the report, there's a lot more there, but I'm going to give you four because I think they're really important. The thing that rose number one for Oregonians across the state was the importance of preserving and maintaining the transportation system that we have today. We as Oregonians have put tens of billions of dollars into that asset and maintaining it, and we not only heard that in community, but when we do community,
 Oregon's values and beliefs serve in a series of formats. We hear consistently from Oregonians that they care about the transportation system that we have today, and they don't want to see it fall apart. But then three key themes came up in every community across Oregon. First and foremost was that Portland area congestion is impacting all corners of the state.
 And in fact, the one piece that really leapt to mind for me was we were in Medford, and when we posed the question, what's impacting you here most in your community? So being in Medford, what's impacting you? Before we could get the sentence out of our mouth, the room was yelling, Portland area congestion. And that's, you know, community by drive on a good day is five hours away from here. The second thing we heard in all communities from Portland, Eugene, John Day, Medford Bend, Coos Bay, the need for transit. Okay.
 Everyone, regardless of urban or rural communities, are wanting more transit. It just looks different in different communities. So when we were here, we heard more bus service, greater frequency, better options, more options for the choice to make the trip. But if I live in Enterprise, I need a bus that works at night.
 I need a bus that works on the weekends so I can get to my job, so I can go to the grocery store, or maybe I can stay in my home and not have to move somewhere to get close to a medical facility. Real practical needs for transit.
 And then thirdly, seismic. We're at a point where Oregonians are well aware of the potential of a Cascadia subduction zone event, and they are also well aware that we have gaps in our system in terms of the supports of that system. But we heard seismic most loudly not on the coast, where you would just naturally think we'd expect to hear it. It was actually in central Oregon.
 The loudest voices around seismic preparedness were there, and the question was, well, what was why? And I think the point that seemed pretty obvious when we were there, it's, well, when the event occurs and communities like here on the coast are going to be more severely impacted, where are we all going to go?
 We're all going to go over into Central Oregon, and they're very aware of that and feel the urgency to be prepared as a consequence. So at the end of their report, it actually dovetailed really nicely at the start of the legislative process that established the Joint Committee on Transportation. Governor Brown, Speaker of the House, and the Senate President –
 came together and said, you know, we want to have a joint – it is a top priority for us to pass a package during the 2017 session, and we want to do it in a transparent, open public process, and we want to do it in a bipartisan fashion, and formed the joint committee. The first thing that they themselves did was they traveled around the state, much like the vision panel did, and, again, heard the same themes from Oregonians all across the state about the needs –
 These four needs I've enumerated, but also the importance of improvements in bike and pedestrian infrastructure, urban and rural. Need for better intermodal facilities so we're able to better move freight commerce around when you're really looking at how agricultural products are moving across the state.
 The need to operate and have funds to operate our state-owned dredge to maintain our state harbors so our commercial fishing fleets can safely get out to fish during the fishing season. And also to remove derelict vessels that are on the Columbia River, which is a huge problem for us right now. And also what are those things can we do to start transitioning our fleet? Things like EV vehicles is in the bill. There's actually rebates in the bill for that endeavor.
 At the end of the day, when the legislature passed the bill, they really incorporated a very robust bill that speaks from stem to stern to all modes of transportation. And as I've worked on and seen transportation packages across other states or even in Congress, that's highly unusual.
 to have a package where you're dealing with maritime ports, aviation ports, maintenance of your transportation system, dealing with seismic congestion, dealing with airports. It's really extraordinary, ultimately, what our legislators did and the voices from our neighbors across the state, how they came together and everyone held together to really pass a robust package.
 Part of the details in the bill that are important to you all are those congestion area projects that the legislature focused on as part of their work group, and then also the legislature's requirement for the Oregon Department of Transportation and the OTC to apply for a value pricing pilot with the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Highway Administration. So those are critical pieces. There will be ongoing public processes associated with those.
 But those were key elements to the bill that were important, particularly for this community. But I would also say in addition to those transit components, those bike ped components, et cetera, on down the line. So that got us to where we were today. I sort of felt Representative would be maybe here next to me and she could pick up the work of the legislative work group in detail. But I'm happy to answer questions before then that you may have.
 Well, Carmen, I appreciate your being here to testify, and you made an important point. A number of people have said,
 We characterize this as merely a freeway expansion. And you've reiterated the fact that a significant portion of the funding, in fact, about half of the funding is going towards bike, ped, and transit, which is also one of our key objectives here. So thank you for that. You're very welcome. Thank you. I appreciate your being here and appreciate the governor's leadership. Terrific.
 It's really great to hear what the comments from the rest of the state are. Every year we prioritize the rest of the state in our legislative agenda, but to hear that they too are being affected by the congestion and have similar goals. In fact, when you're talking about transit, we all want better night and weekend transit as well. So there's a lot of things that we can share. I really appreciate the governor and the legislature getting that package passed. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thanks, Carla. And maybe if I could add a point, because I think there are a few. Some of the public testimony from Portland left dramatic impressions. I know Senator Byers talked about knowing workers who come into the city to clean office buildings and not be able to get home at night because there isn't enough transit available. The other part, which I have to make a strong impression about, was how neighborly,
 Oregonians are across the state. And I think that it was a two-way street, that when you travel around the state and we talk to our neighbors across Oregon, they hear the concerns and the transportation problems impacting people in the Portland metro area.
 They also wanted to be heard and recognized for their needs and how they can get their products to market or how they get around as well, and that that was valued. And I tip my hat to the legislators and the folks across the state who raised their voice, and we stuck together and held a package that addressed those needs. But also I really think what an important effort this was, that we really heard and looked at each other as our neighbors and really took everyone's needs to heart at the end of the day. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 We'll hear next from Kelly Brooks from ODOT. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Hi. For the record, my name is Kelly Brooks. I work for the Oregon Department of Transportation here in Region 1, and I'm a policy and development manager here in Region 1. So my unit has major projects within it. Who's working very hard on the Rose Quarter project. So I am here today actually in a resource capacity similar to the PBOT staff in the room. So if it's okay with you, I'll step back and let the good representative come up and share her thoughts. But I'll stay in the room in case you have questions specific.
 Fantastic. We appreciate that. Representative Susan McLean, thank you for being here today. Well, thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Commissioners, for allowing us to come and testify today on your central city plan and your update on your transportation portion of that.
 And as I was sitting here listening to your other good work, I was curious to look at your goals. I found them on page one. And besides what the governor's office has shared with you as far as the goals of the transportation plan for the state and as far as what our citizens said statewide that we really needed to take care of those pillars of a good, balanced transportation plan,
 The five goals that you have on page one, which is save lives, reduce injuries, limit traffic congestion or transit and freight vehicles so they can move more reliably, and that means limit that traffic congestion, reduce climate pollution and promote healthy lifestyles, and keep more money in the local economy as we spend less on vehicles, fuel, and create great places.
 And what I'm excited about coming to talk to you about today are three projects in the Portland area. And my name is Representative Susan McLean, and I represent Forest Grove, Cornelius, and Hillsboro. And I was really honored to serve on that joint committee, Transportation, Preservation, and Modernization.
 And as the Governor's Office and Carmen pointed out, we did follow the other Commission around in the next 18 months. So we had like three years of open public houses and we were at 12 or 13 different communities from Medford to Ontario, Hermiston, Newport, Eugene, Hillsboro, Portland, Gresham. We went to a lot of these places so that we could hear again and make sure that we'd understood what the message was.
 And we had also 23 cities and three counties in our area who put in a great deal of time talking about what will reduce congestion in a very practical and also in a good, sound, safe, environmental way. And three projects popped up.
 And those three projects, because it was an economic corridor and something that affected the entire state and all communities, were the Rose Quarter I-5, Highway 205, and Highway 217. And they are a system. They work together.
 And so if we were going to reduce congestion in an environmentally friendly way that's also going to continue to help with freight and our economic engine, we're really going to have to do those together. And so we dedicated funds in the package to those particular projects, including the Rose Quarter.
 Safety was a very important issue statewide on many levels, whether it's bike and ped paths to the schools or if it was trying to look for better corridors for bike and ped activity. We also wanted to make sure that in any type of road project that we also were considering safety because it was mentioned many times, especially in the Portland area.
 So safety for all means that it's really important for us to really look at and try to make sure that we are looking at the Rose Quarter and trying to stop the many crashes that are happening right now. It, by the way, has the highest rate of crashes in the state, that particular area that we're talking about. So besides improving safety on a very, very dangerous corridor,
 We also need to reduce crashes and delays, generally speaking, in that same area because this is an interstate freight and a very economically important corridor that gets much of our crops and our products out of state and to other communities that are either international or national.
 So again, the Rose Quarter actually popped to the top out of those three projects that the Rose Quarter was the number one that all folks were really concerned about us being able to address in the package.
 It was a situation where, besides enhancing freight mobility, trying to reduce crashes and delay, we also were trying to help ourselves on the environmental side with the gas emissions and trying to really think about what were some of the projects that could do that.
 And we all know that this project is not a massive freeway type of project. This particular project or expansion, rather, is building new sections through lanes that will be built relatively short
 auxiliary lanes that will be between the interchanges that will improve the flow of traffic and allow vehicles to safely and efficiently get on and off the freeway or off the roads. So that's important because that helps us not have delays. An existing corridor in the central city and adding an auxiliary lane will not induce additional traffic in the same way that building a brand new larger corridor would.
 This project will improve bicycle and pedestrian connectivity across the freeway, making it safer and easier to get around on foot and by bike and access to transit. And the project will help facilitate the City of Portland's plans for redeveloping some of your north and northeast quadrant and also the central city, allowing for a denser urban core.
 It's really important that these bottlenecks, which are causing a lot of idling and stopping, and have got conditions that waste fuel and contribute much more in the distribution
 the greenhouse gas emissions. Research shows that management of these traffic operations, including congestion mitigation, which the governor's office also mentioned is part of the package, these strategies actually reduce severe congestion and increase traffic abilities, and it reduces the emissions at the same time.
 It's really important for us to realize that we have, for the first time, a dedicated fund for transit funding statewide. So that indicates that we are not just working on maintenance of our roads, our freeways, and our interchanges like these important three areas.
 Very important three projects in the Portland area. But we continue to try and make sure that we have all kinds of opportunities and choices for people as they're making their ways around our community. Again, this money in the package is dedicated to those three projects.
 And that's what the money is dedicated for. That's what the money will be spent on. And so I know that there has been some push that you could use the money in different ways for different projects. These were the projects that not just the 23 cities and their mayors and JPAC and the three counties indicated were important in the metropolitan Portland area, but these were the projects that statewide were.
 popped to the top for the most important congestion projects. So that's where we put the money. And I think that's an important element. I think it's important to realize that we are dedicated to a balanced package, a balanced investment, and that we are working on transit, walking, biking, and maintenance of our roads and modernization of our freeways. And that we're going to have a very bright future, I think, with this,
 $5.3 billion investment package over a 10-year period, and this is going to give us an opportunity for seamless, balanced projects in the Portland metropolitan area, including the Rose Quarter 217 and 205, with the state to support this bipartisan transportation investment.
 I'm happy to answer questions. I really tried to cut my testimony down because it seems like you have a lot of really important issues on your agenda today. I'm happy to answer questions. Colleagues, questions for the representative? Thank you for being here. Oh, you bet. Thank you. You answered one question that came up maybe 50 times last week, I think, and I just want to make sure I understand. Let's decide that – or let's –
 say that we decide that we don't like the auxiliary lanes for whatever reason and instead we'd like to take that funding and put it into something else. Can we do that? Right now the process is starting for the design. We know that we have not completed the design on the project and that ODOT and Portland are working together on that. You're going to use the money on this project because that's what it's dedicated to in the package. We have certain judiciary...
 you know, responsibilities of setting that out in any kind of a bill that we're going to bring forward. And so you're going to spend it on the freeway, but there's a lot of opportunity in the design phase to talk with ODOT about what the goals are and see if we have explored all opportunities for the very best ways to take care of those goals. And as I mentioned up front, about half the funding here is bike, ped,
 and transit. Do we have leeway in terms of how we allocate those resources within those buckets? Our budget is pretty specific as far as where the money is going to go. And so we have money in the package for bike and pet and safe pathways to school and additional trails. And we have other money that's set aside to do those things. Okay.
 And so, you know, we have other, you know, opportunities to take care of some of those issues that you've just mentioned. Very good. I appreciate your being here today. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. I have one question whether if you or Ms. Brooks. What we heard last week was that the crashes are usually not serious crashes. They might be property damage. You said it's the highest crash place in the state. If I could get, maybe not.
 Can you address that, please? Do you mind if I jump in? Sure, no, please. For the record again, Kelly Brooks with ODOT. Yes, we do have a high number of crashes in this location. It is fair to say that the majority of those are side swipe type crashes. I believe it was between,
 2010 and 2014, we had 690 of those, however. It's a lot of them. In the southbound direction in this area, it's been a top 5% spit site. That's the highest category that we have for crash locations. So that's how it's been elevated. It is unfair to say that we don't have any severe crashes, however. We've actually had, in that same time period, two fatalities, seven serious injury crashes as well.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. One other statistic that I forgot to mention that I cut out I want to put back in, and that is on the environmental side, that with these additions both for safety and for actually accessing the most productivity in the corridor, there would be a savings of 2.5 million hours of travel time because people are not having to stop and idle as much.
 So, again, it's helping us with air quality and other issues to make sure that the corridor is very functional. Great. Excellent. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate it, both of you. Owen, Roncelli, Wade, Lang, and Matt Arnold, all from the North Northeast Quadrant SAC. And just out of curiosity, do we have anybody here representing the freight committee? They weren't sure whether they were going to be here or not. Very good. So I guess this will be our last invited testimony. Thanks.
 Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, thank you very much. My name is Wade Lang. I'm Vice President and Regional Manager for American Assets Trust located in the Lloyd neighborhood. And I come here today in support of the Oregon Department of Transportation's I-5 Rose Quarter Improvement Plan.
 As one of the original members of the city's North Northeast Quadrant Plan Advisory Committee, I spent almost two years reviewing, discussing, debating the pros and cons and options of improving the I-5 corridor at the Rose Corridor. The I-5 improvement plan has always been about safety, and we on the advisory committee approached the discussion from that angle. Thank you.
 Throughout the North Northeast Quadrant planning sessions, there was always time for public comment and public input. Once the North Northeast Quadrant plan was completed, there was again numerous opportunities for the public to weigh in. To this day, I'm confident the committee collectively came up with the most reasonable improvement options based on the impacts to safety and cost. As a member of the boards of Go Lloyd, Lloyd Eco District, the Lloyd Enhanced Service District, Locust Oregon, and the Portland Streetcar,
 I have been intimately involved in the growth and needs of Lloyd. Beyond the safety improvements, the I-5 Rose Quarter plan brings to the freeway. It also creates a more sensible and safe way to move into and through Lloyd. The improvements proposed, including the lids, on-ramp access, bike throughways, all work to create a better flow for all types of traffic around I-5 and the Rose Quarter.
 With future development, including the convention center hotel and much more residential growth, Lloyd needs to work diligently to see that the infrastructure keeps pace with our growth. The I-5 growth quarter improvement plan is a very smart first step in making Lloyd livable. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon.
 Hello, my name is Owen Ron Kelly, and I am the executive director of Go Lloyd. We are a nonprofit transportation management association in the Lloyd neighborhood, and we've been around since 1994. We have 160 members, and we represent over 13,000 employees in Lloyd. We're proud of the results that we've been able to transfer
 transitioning employees and residents and visitors out of their cars and into alternative modes. We actively promote and manage programs to shift people's travel behavior away from single-occupant vehicle trips, and we live and work in transportation demand management every day. Our organization and many others participate in the North Northeast Quadrant Plan, which, to be honest, was exhausting. We...
 But it was also rewarding, too, because after 24 months and 19 SAC meetings, 14 subcommittee meetings, four open houses, two charrettes, and three community walks, it culminated in an agreed-upon plan.
 And that was the rewarding aspect of it. The plan involved a great amount of compromise. And just as an example, we looked at 70 different freeway alignment options to arrive at the one we have included in this plan. So please honor the public process of the volunteer time that citizens and city staff went through to get the plan to where it is today.
 The main reason Goloid is supporting this project is because of the surface transportation improvements. Half of the project's budget, as has already been stated today, is going towards those types of improvements. We are genuinely excited about the project, not only because it's going to fix long, deficient, and unsafe bike and pedestrian facilities, but it will also create new ones that don't exist today.
 like the Northeast Clackamas Crossing and the crossing at Hancock down to Lower Albina. Each of this will allow pedestrians and cyclists to avoid the Broadway box entirely. Thank you.
 Everyone going through that area, no matter what mode you choose, whether you're on foot, on a car, on a bus, a streetcar, I think we can all acknowledge the fact that it's a pretty lousy and potentially dangerous experience going through there. This project intends to address this and making it a safer place and more intuitive for all users.
 Northbound cyclists traveling east on Wydler have a grade-separated crossing at Williams between Wydler and Broadway. South and eastbound cyclists coming down Vancouver will only have a small fraction of the traffic that they do today because 70% of those vehicle turning movements will be eliminated from Broadway turning onto Vancouver. This will go a long way to reduce peak hour delays for streetcar as well.
 This project does a good job of reducing the number of vehicles traveling through the box. As an example, westbound traffic on Broadway will go through four fewer lights than they do today to get onto I-5 south.
 and a transit-only lane will be created on Wheeler to reduce bus delays crossing Broadway and Wydler. These are the exact types of improvements that we desperately need if we hope to encourage more active transportation use, both for timid and reluctant users, but also attracting new users that are arriving in Portland every day. The improvements included in this project are thoughtfully designed and community-vetted.
 and will result in improved operations for all users. The allocation of funds is significant, but appropriate to address the needs of the transportation system in the area. The project is being paid for everyone who drives a gas-powered vehicle in Oregon, too. Please don't buy into the fallacy that's being circulated that this is a freeway widening project.
 It's an investment in our multimodal transportation system that will transform access for all users in the area for an area that needs it for a really long, long time. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you for your service on the committee.
 Good afternoon. Hello, Mayor, Councillors. My name is Matthew Arnold. I'm the Director of Urban Design and Planning for Sarai Architects here in Portland. I also am the former Chair of the Portland Bicycle Advisory Committee, and it was as Chair of that committee that I also served on the Northeast Quadrant Steering Committee.
 You're here today discussing a major transportation project in central Portland, but I would submit, as I think Owen was just getting at, this project, the question really isn't should we widen I-5. The real question is what is this city, what is the Portland that we want to become? As you all are aware, Portland has experienced a marked increase in auto traffic in recent years. 11,000 additional auto trips per day were recorded in 2016,
 Meanwhile, bike commuting has slipped from a mode split of 7.2% in 2013 to 6.3% in 2016, kind of a bruise for a city that touts itself as America's most friendly in terms of bikes. Carpooling and transit ridership, especially by bus, have also declined. The North Northeast Quadrant area is expected to grow by 8,000 residents and 9,000 employees over the next 15 to 20 years. So how are those folks going to commute? Thank you.
 Where are they going to shop? How are they going to access services? More broadly, as we think about this district, how do we stitch Lower Albina and close-in Northeast Portland back together with the Rose Quarter? How do we seamlessly connect the Lloyd District with downtown? How do we transform this area into a tirelessly vibrant neighborhood again? During the formation of the North Northeast Quadrant Plan, we propose answering those questions with compact, sustainable urbanism and heavy doses of active transportation plans.
 The project components that I and most of my colleagues focused on and fought for were those that would provide the most livability return on this significant investment. The North Northeast Quadrant Plan, which this council actually adopted in 2012, puts forth great local solutions, better design and development controls, transit enhancements, redundant bike and pedestrian facilities, a new signature bridge at Clackamas Street, most eye-catching, maybe the lids proposed to cover I-5 in the district and
 Frankly, in my opinion, those lids should probably be a lot larger if you really want to promote that kind of continuous urbanism. But these are the infrastructure improvements that will support not only the kind of redevelopment and travel patterns that we want to see, but also the 24-7 activity and level of community to which we should aspire to in our central city. As you all weigh our city's official position and commitments to this district, I ask that you focus on the local and sustainable return on investment that the citizens of Portland have come to expect.
 Said differently, it's not our job to build roads and infrastructure. It's our job to build communities and to foster and support those communities. And I ask for your strong leadership in tackling that job. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate it. Thank you, all three of you, for being here. I understand somebody from the freight committee did show up. Is that correct? Come on up. Just the staff? That's fine. Name for the record, please. Thank you, Carmen. Thank you.
 My name is Bob Pleyer. I work for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I am the freight planning coordinator for the city, and I also staff the Portland Freight Committee. Our chair, Pia Welch, and Vice Chair Rahana Ansfrey were unable to attend today, so we did submit a letter, or they did submit a letter for the record. So just to reiterate some of the points that were made earlier today from some of the folks, they suggested to implement the Rose Quarter project as a complete package that's been recommended,
 And the PSG members, they served previously on a north-northeast quadrant planning process. They wanted to recognize that I-5 interchange is one of the most congested in the state, and mainly to honor the commitments that were made and recommendations for the northeast quadrant plan stakeholder committee and also House Bill 2017. So they were the main points they wanted to make in the letter. So they support the current package. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I can answer any questions to staff. Colleagues, any particular questions? Very good. And last but not least, we'll ask Art Pierce and Mauricio Leclerc. From PBOT, do you have colleagues? I don't know if you have specific questions. As a resource, does anybody have any immediate questions? Yes.
 All right. Very good. They're here in case we need them. Carla, let's bring up the next people from the list from last week. I know we had an extensive list of people. My guess is many are not here today, but let's take them first because we made that promise that we would. Are there people in the overflow room or not? Yes. I've got –
 Thirty-eight people have checked in from the 7th to speak today. Very good. And I have two new ones. And I also want to let anybody know, if you are here from the 7th and you did not check in with staff, please do so out front here. Out in front of the main council chamber. And we do have seats in the main chamber. It looks like we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
 Seven. Yeah, security is going to let me know. Security will deal with that. Okay, very good. Thank you. Okay, so the first three off the previous list are number 39, Micah M., number 42, Rose Kowalski, and number 50, Cal Toth. And they'll be followed by 51, Mark Velke, 53, Brian Newman, and 54, Christy White.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. Thanks for having me. My name is Micah Muskell, and I represent the Audubon Society of Portland. I'm not going to repeat the testimony from last week that my colleagues gave, but I wanted today to show support for an amendment that Commissioner Udaly proposed to expand the green roof facility
 surface area to 100%. Audubon supports that. We appreciate efforts and conversations that City Council had about how we could potentially improve the different green policies that are included in the Central City Plan. We think that's a great step. And we also hope that some of the other discussions that took place last week
 could move to council directing BPS to BPS staff to think about how we can improve some of the other green policies whether it's the Willamette Greenway lighting standard that could potentially be looked at for the whole city or for the whole central city or for such things as how we can move
 current development that's in the 50-foot greenway but not river dependent, how we can create mechanisms to eventually move those out of the greenway if they aren't river dependent. Very good. Thank you. Thanks. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Rose Kowalski. I'm a volunteer at the Architectural Heritage Center of the Bosco Milligan Foundation and a resident of Washington Park.
 I apologize for my lateness to the table today. I was going to see if I could race out and feed the parking meter, but I'll just be quick. Don't worry. Commissioner Saltzman's not here. Maybe you could, yeah. Okay.
 My original focus in coming to testify was to have been on seething the rose garden views of Mount Hood in the skyline with vegetation management. But that's been well addressed, so even though I support that wholeheartedly, I'm going to speak to the larger issue today of protecting views with height limitations and reductions, which I understand is now starting to be referred to as right zoning. Okay.
 To me, right zoning in this case means to lower heights to 100 feet. In particular, I feel strongly that maximum heights in the west end should be right zoned to 100 feet. But in a larger context, I hope to illustrate with my...
 with my little handout, how right zoning maximum heights to 100 feet in order to protect iconic views will have effects that go far beyond the sale of picture postcards.
 One example of the synergistic effects of right zoning maximum heights might be that by deterring demolition of historic properties, those saved properties could be subdivided into multiple well-designed sustainable living units, which will introduce new affordable housing while protecting the character and the appearance of the neighborhood. All of this...
 as you can see on my little handout, all of this and saving the irreplaceable views in one fell swoop. Please do remember that the greenest building is the one that's already built. Thank you. Thank you. And perfect timing.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you very much for this opportunity. My name is Cal Toth. I've spoken here before, resident of Goose Hollow, secretary of our board. Just one second. If you need to run and read your meter. I mean, it's very polite of you. Thank you so much. I did hear Dan say something about he's running towards your car. I did hear that. Thank you. I'm sorry to interrupt. We'll start you over again. Okay. So I get an extra 15 seconds? Absolutely. You bet. Thank you.
 Okay, so Portland's historic views have stimulated our economy in countless ways for decades. We should not underestimate their value or trade them away. I am grateful for Mayor Wheeler for fighting to save the views that we've talked about, several people have talked about, and I'll mention something in particular about the Vista Bridge, the view of the Vista Bridge, which must also be protected. I encourage you to follow the example.
 of numerous councils in the past, please continue protecting our iconic views. I'm just repeating things many people have said, but it's important to many of us.
 As others have confirmed, the West Quad SAC was weighted heavily in favor of developers. They should have accused themselves, a number of other things. They lobbied for their self-interest. And they therefore biased the recommendations back in 2015 and 2016 to the BDS and to City Council. Furthermore, in response to the ombudsman's demand...
 They did not declare their conflicts of interest. A few developers have obfuscated them, and others failed not to respond at all. And thank you, Commissioner Fish. I wish you were here for addressing these issues during last week's hearing, agreeing that city policies governing conflicts of interest, ethics, and committee formation need to be tightened up.
 Now I'd like to point out one particular case of some allocated height increases in the plan that enable construction of the few strategically located high-rise buildings in Goose Hollow. Is this microphone doing the right thing? Yes, sir. Or am I doing the wrong thing? Okay, thanks. Once constructed, these buildings will block views of Vista Bridge for the public while creating spectacular private views for the privileged few who buy into these high-rises. This is called privatizing views.
 When developers give their testimonies today, I encourage city council to ask whether their properties, if developed, would block views of Vista Bridge or Mount Hood, and whether they were members of the West Quad SAC, and whether they declared their conflicts, and if not, why they did not. Now, do I have 15 more seconds? You can get 15 more. Okay. Four years ago, I was part of a movement that took back our neighborhood from certain members of the top 10%.
 who are controlling our Goose Hollow board, routinely voting in their financial interests. I alert the council members that some of these past members continue to discredit us, currently on the board, partly because we have strengthened our conflict of interest and ethics policies, which undermine their financially driven pursuits. That's a closing statement I think is very important. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Next three, please.
 We've had a few more people check in, so the next three are 51, 52, and 53, Mark Velke, Fred Leeson, and Brian Newman. And they'll be followed by Christy White, Will Ives, and Zoe Lynn Powers, 54, 5, and 5-6. Good afternoon. Sorry. Good afternoon.
 Mayor, Commissioners, my name is Mark Velke and I live in the Goose Hollow area. I strongly encourage all of you to support the amendments from Mayor Wheeler to save the views of the Salmon Springs Fountain and the Japanese Garden, and also Commissioner Fritz's bridgehead amendment to Lower Heights. Thank you.
 I'm against the privatizing of views in this draft. I attended the Planning Commission hearings. Most testimony was outrage over views being blocked by increased heights, public views that define Portland.
 These views should be fiercely protected for the public. Instead, they are being given away only for the rich. Since I'm not rich, I won't be able to see Mount Hood from the Willamette River. I will only be able to see the snow cap of Mount Hood from the Vista Bridge, and I'll need to stand in the middle of the street underneath the Vista Bridge just to see the arch. But the rich people who live in the buildings blocking these views will have private views of these Portland landmarks.
 I'm still extremely concerned about the conflict of interest that went on in the West Quadrant Plan Stakeholder Advisory Committee. I'm very glad that the city is working towards trying to make sure something like this does not happen in the future, but that does not correct the current problem with the West Quadrant Plan Stakeholder Advisory Committee and how it relates to CC 2035 now. You have not approved CC 2035 yet, so you still have time to fix this.
 I'm asking you as my elected representatives to take action. It is not rocket science. All you have to do is look into who owns the properties in the West Quadrant that got height increases. And if they were stakeholder advisory committee members that were trying to line their pockets worth more money, you at the very least need to lower the heights.
 on those properties back to the original heights. I'm guessing the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability can give you a list of which properties got a height increase, and the rest of the info is available in the public record at the Multnomah County Tax Office on the other side of the river.
 I'm pretty sure you do not want to be a part of, and be on the record, letting these clear-cut cases of conflict of interest take place when you could have taken action to prevent them. Thank you. Thank you, sir. And I'll just reiterate what was, I think, more eloquently stated by Commissioner Fish last week. Through this hearing process, we basically start with a clean slate. We certainly take into account.
 what advisory committees are telling us, but what you described, the situation is certainly well on the record, part of the record. We are all reasonable, intelligent people, and we will evaluate the complete record based on our own views and our own perspectives.
 Your point is in no way discounted, and I appreciate the work that Commissioner Udaly and Commissioner Fish are doing to make sure that these kinds of things don't happen in the future. But I also want to reassure people that, from my perspective, I view this as though this is the first time I'm looking at it. And I'm going to use my own resources, and I'm going to rely heavily on public input. I'm going to rely on expertise from our staff.
 I'm going to rely on other voices in the community to help guide me to the right decisions here. So I appreciate your saying that, but those are advisory committees, and that's how I view them.
 Thank you, Mayor. And just so you know, I have requested those maps to all the site-specific locations. Thank you, Commissioner. I appreciate it. Thanks for your testimony. Yes, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Fred Leeson. I'm a board member and past, present Architectural Heritage Centre. Once upon a time, a long, long time ago, in a city near and dear,
 We had a spectacularly scenic entrance to downtown Portland coming in from the west. When you came through the Vista Bridge tunnels, driving east, on a sunny day, you had a beautiful sky, sunshine, and a fabulous view of Mount Hood. Everybody loved it.
 In 1977, your predecessors on the City Council considered whether to protect that view, and they decided no, development's more important. So when you drive through that tunnel today, what you see is the Coin Center Tower building with its tacky blue tin shed sitting on the roof. Folks, that was an extremely bad trade-off. Mayor Wheeler, I am deeply appreciative that you put Salmon Street Springs View corridor...
 back on the agenda. You know, if we have, if we live in this beautiful place and we can't enjoy it and we can't see it, it's no longer as special. You'll get pushback from property developers. I suspect there are some in the room. My answer to them, and I hope your answer will be, is that no investment comes without risks. If you think you can't make as much money building here now, take your money and invest it somewhere else.
 You know, the staff and the planning commission applied the ESEE using dollars and cents and sold out this few for dollars. I ask them, I ask anybody, to what is the dollar value of the quality of life?
 We elect you city council people members to represent the public interest. You do a very good job of that. I'm well aware and you're well aware. There are many times when the public interest fits hand in glove with the private interest. But on Salmon Street Springs and our protected view corridors, we need you to stand up for the public interest. I hope you'll do it. Thank you very much. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon.
 Hi, Brian. Hi. Mayor and commissioners, my name is Brian Newman. I'm vice president of campus development at Oregon Health and Science University. I'm here specifically to speak about changes to the parking code, and I've passed out a letter that's from Portland State University and OHSU, although Dan Zalco couldn't be here today. Okay.
 The Central City 2035 Plan reduces the maximum parking ratio in South Waterfront for medical centers and universities from 2.4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of development to two spaces, reducing our total allowed parking by thousands of spaces.
 OHSU participated in that process and we support that change, just to be clear. However, we are concerned about changes to the preservation parking code and we have joined with Portland State University to recommend a minor amendment for your consideration.
 As you know, we're building our campus over 30 years in phases, and we manage parking differently than a property owner or a developer. We manage parking as a campus-wide resource and utilize shared parking structures that serve multiple buildings.
 When our three new buildings open in South Waterfront late next year, we'll have 1.3 parking spaces per thousand, about half of what the code allows now. Even with providing extremely low-cost bus passes, which is about $6 a month for our employees, and we actually pay our employees who ride their bikes to work, 1.3 spaces is too low to run a major medical center.
 OHSU serves Portland and the rest of the state, and about 50% of our patients come from outside the metro area. So most of them drive because they're coming from down valley or the coast or central Oregon. Unfortunately the parking code as drafted removes our ability to come back later and build shared parking facilities. So when it becomes time to catch up, to get closer to two spaces per thousand, the regulations as drafted will prevent it.
 Operational impacts aside, the unintended consequence is that we'll be incentivized actually to build, maximize our parking every time we build, as opposed to coming back later. And our hope actually, by deferring those investments, is that over time we'll be able to provide less parking, not more, and actually underbuild campus-wide. Thank you.
 The simple amendment that you have, and I just have one second left, that you have in front of you would allow us to aggregate our square footage and defer parking, under park in other words, and come back later and add parking per our master plan or per our phasing plan as we have scheduled.
 In closing, this amendment is consistent with the spirit of the parking code, and in no time would we be allowed to, as we are, to build more than two spaces per thousand. So it still preserves that lowered cap that we've agreed to. Thank you. Very good. Thank you, sir. And I'm going to need some clarification from staff about exactly what you're asking. Sure. For the 22 years that I worked at OHSU, lack of parking on the hill was a significant problem because the buses just don't run in the middle of the night when I would get off shift.
 So I want, and I think we don't have enough parking in South Waterfront now. So that's, I think it's a more complicated issue and one that I'll take up with staff. Thank you for your time. Oh, okay. Thanks. Very good. Next three, please. Okay. We're going to ask for Commissioner Steve Novick, 54, Christy White, 55, Will Ives, I believe is the last name. And then we'll go with 56, 57, and 58, Zoe Lynn Powers, Soren Impey, and John Hollister.
 Good afternoon and welcome back. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, I, of course, am here to talk about the Rose Quarter Project. Medical research has indicated over the past several years that surgery for lower back pain is always expensive and often ineffective, whereas physical therapy, which costs less, is often effective.
 Research has indicated that widening freeways to reduce congestion is expensive and often ineffective, and congestion pricing is often effective at reducing congestion. So just as a responsible doctor would not go directly to surgery for lower back pain, I think that responsible transportation managers would not go to freeway widening when they have the option of tolling of congestion pricing.
 So what I would suggest to the state, and Commissioner Saltzman has already sort of done this, is why don't you try congestion pricing first, and if that does as much as you thought that the freeway widening was going to do, let's spend the $450 million on something else. And Lord knows we could spend it on a lot of other stuff. You just heard a couple of weeks ago another explanation of the hundreds of billions of dollars that were behind in basic street maintenance.
 There's hundreds of millions of dollars of traffic safety projects that we have to implement and bike ped projects. There's huge needs for transportation dollars. Now, I know that the city wouldn't necessarily get all of that $450 million if the state didn't spend it on this project. But let's say maybe we get half of it. Commissioner Saltzman, I'd suggest that you ask PBOT to come up with the best combination of –
 bike, ped, and maintenance projects they could for $225 million. And if that would have greater value than the bike, ped, and safety elements of the Rose Quarter project, then say, hold on, don't do this project until you've done congestion pricing.
 that's what I would suggest. And so that's my two cents. By the way, I also wanted to add that over the past eight months, I've had the opportunity to talk to many Portlanders for justice, and all of them have told me that Joe Walsh does not represent them in any way, shape, or form. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. I am Christy White representing Michael Menasche. We're asking the council to restore the height taken from Mr. Menasche's properties during the PSC hearings. There are two blocks at issue. Both are highlighted in the materials that were previously sent and are being handed out. Site 1 has a current base height of 350 feet with bonus to 425, and the same applies to Site 2.
 The PSC reduced those heights to 125 on site one and 250 on site two, with no bonus on site one. This is a loss of 225 feet in base height alone. Side note, we're not in a view corridor. The site one is surrounded on three sides with greater heights, leaving it in a bowl with very little opportunity to peek over and around the other sites, significantly devaluing that block. The stated purpose of this significant height reduction is preservation of the historic district.
 That reasoning just can't pass muster. The district was nominated in 1989, as you heard earlier today. In the nomination paperwork, the zoning on Site 1 was recognized as mid- to high-rise development and high-density apartments with allowable FAR up to 9-1. The height was 350 feet at the time of nomination or shortly thereafter based on the 1991 zoning maps.
 The city found that the current heightened density of 350 feet and 9 to 1 was consistent with the historic district and its preservation when it was nominated and established. It can't be made inconsistent now. That would be to revise the very history and rationale that established the district in the first place.
 The city then went through a substantial planning exercise with a stakeholder committee to evaluate preferred redevelopment options in the district. The city's process identified Site 1 as a, quote, primary potential opportunity site and modeled it with a slender tower over a podium.
 Importantly, the taller slender form is also repeated and updated on page 98 of CC 2035's recommended draft. So the city's plan still recognizes the advantages of height and shaping a more delicate building form, but the language in that same plan takes that height away.
 So the PSC recommendation is not consistent with the history of the historic designation, the planning exercises under that designation, or the future of the site as envisioned by the city. So we ask you kindly to restore the heights to Site 1 and Site 2. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you both for your testimony. You're welcome. I also – the next person you're going to call is Tim Eddy from Henneberry Eddy Architects, who has an architectural analysis and opportunities for you. He had to leave. He was –
 here last time and didn't get through this time. Can I leave this letter with you into the record? Yes, absolutely. And for folks who don't want to testify in person, the record is open. So people can certainly send email in lieu of public testimony. What is his letter? What's the topic of it? I'm glad you asked. I can read it in two minutes. I'd just like to know what the topic is. The topic is the architectural opportunities
 with the higher heights to allow you to back off of the Chinese garden. So it's much like Ms. Richter's testimony regarding the Roseland. And what height opportunity gives you on this block is to push away from the Chinese garden, maintain that density and the unit yield you would get out of that, while giving the Chinese garden more air, space, and light, and a better architectural form. Actually, please definitely give it to Carla, and we'd all like to read it. I certainly would. Thank you. Okay, go ahead.
 Was there a Will Ines? That's the one you said. I'm sorry. Okay, so we'll go with 56, 57, 58, Zoe Lynn Powers, Soren Impey, and John Hollister. And they'll be followed by 67, Joshua Pesos, 68, Douglas R. Allen, and 70, Cliff Weber. And again, if you did not check in out front, please do so. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 I'm Zoe Powers on behalf of Zidell Yards. We're requesting two amendments to help facilitate the Zidell Yards master plan, particularly related to the adaptive reuse of the existing barge building. The first relates to the eastern segment of the barge building, and for reference there's a site plan attached to the August 17th letter that is being handed to you, and that was previously sent.
 The wrinkle in the current code is that the Greenway setback line, which is 100 feet from Tapa Bank, runs through the eastern section of the barge building, precluding any additional height there. The reason for this anomaly is that the Tapa Bank line was originally drawn up and around the man-made slipway that launched the Zydel barges. This creates a second setback line along the north-south axis, where there's already an east-west setback from the river.
 The oddly located north-south setback is not a setback from the river, which also runs north-south. Although it's not a river setback, the code makes it the basis for a river setback height restriction that then unnecessarily applies to the barge building.
 To allow the adaptive reuse illustrated in the Zydel master plan, we could either redraw the top of bank line on the zoning map to allow it to continue along the river's edge, or, as our letter proposes, we could allow the design commission to review a height adjustment and design review for the eastern section of the barge building. Thank you.
 So just so I understand, are you referring to the issue around the slipway? Is that what you're focused on? So it's the north side of the slipway that's being treated as riverbank, and you're asking for an exemption to that treatment? So not for an exemption, but to allow the design commission to review a height adjustment and design review for that eastern section. And I want to emphasize that any height in that eastern section will still be set back from the actual river in the same way as all other buildings along the river are. Okay.
 understand. And so are you just referring to the North side? Are you referring to all of the slipway? What are you referring to? Uh,
 I believe it applies to all of this. There's actually code in the letter that's in front of you proposed. Great. Okay, good. And so it's any portion of a building that was located within 150 feet of the top of Bank Line on the effective date of the code amendment. The only reason I asked is the barge building I know is to the northwest of that particular location. Okay, good. Exactly. Okay.
 Sorry to interrupt. So on the other end of the barge building, the current barge building footprint is over 80,000 square feet, and a likely tenant type in the barge building may need 50,000 square feet or more of that space for an adaptive retail reuse. The current code limit on retail in the South Waterfront is 40,000 square feet, so we are asking to change the 40,000 square foot cap for permitted retail use to 50,000 square feet and to retain the current conditional use cap of 60,000 square feet. Okay.
 It's a modest change in the code that'll facilitate the reuse of the existing iconic barge building. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. Do you have any other questions? Colleagues, any questions? Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Soren Impey, and I'm speaking on behalf of Portland Democratic Socialists of America.
 So I want to point out Metro's 2016 transportation snapshot. So in this document, it was reported that people of color and lower-income folk are more likely to use mass transit, to walk, or to bike for transportation. In particular, people of color and low-income folk are about twice as likely to use mass transit in comparison to white people or higher-income folk.
 So spending hundreds of millions of dollars of the people's money on a short stretch of freeway that predominantly benefits higher income people will only serve to perpetuate Portland's record of socioeconomic inequity when it comes to transportation spending.
 Portland City Council should reject the I-500's quarter freeway project and instead call for state funding of more urgent needs. In particular, I'd like to point out that Outer East Portland lacks sidewalks, has many unpaved residential streets, and lacks frequent and reliable mass transit connections. And I'd like to push back really quickly on the idea that half of the money is being used to fund bike, ped, and transit infrastructure projects.
 A freeway cap is about urban placemaking. Calling that bike pad or transit infrastructure is akin to calling I-205 a bike facility because it has a bicycle path next to it. So I also want to point out that marginalized people in Portland, vulnerable people in Portland, are increasingly threatened by the economic, social, and environmental disruption associated with climate change.
 According to the Oregon Global Warming Commission, we are failing to meet our 2020 emission reduction goals, primarily due to gasoline and diesel burning motor vehicle emissions. And a few months ago, Portland City Council committed to a transition to renewable energy. So rubber stamping an unnecessary highway project that will induce increased demand for gas and diesel seems hypocritical to me.
 Portland DSA asked the City Council to remove the I-5 Rose Quarter Freeway project from the Central City Plan and to prioritize basic transportation safety and livability needs of vulnerable communities and of Portland as a whole. Thanks. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. You will be receiving a document here very, very soon. Very good.
 And I'm going to be requesting an amendment to the City Center 2035 plan to include further evaluation of CC Northwest 05 and 08 viewpoints from Fields Park to the Fremont Bridge. So am I...
 There you go. In addition, we have... John, could you state your name? Oh, yes. Well, you just did, but I guess I will too. My name is John Hollister, and my presentation is actually an example of developers and the public working together. I met with Tiffany Schweitzer from Hoyt Properties, who is very, very pro-height and density, and also Stan Pinkin, president of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association, who also supports density.
 They also support protecting valuable view corridors, demonstrated by Hoyt Properties' commitment to the Johnson Street view corridor to the train station. I request an amendment to City Center 2035 to include that corridor that you're talking about, or you're looking at, and at least have staff do further due diligence of this view corridor.
 So, and on this first one, I've been ensured that those people there are real people, and they weren't just like, you know, rendering people. And so the Fremont Bridge is Portland's most expensive art project. And in the code, it says that the reason that Northwest 5 and Northwest 8 were not being built were because the economics was, there was too much economic risk.
 Here I'm showing complements of Hoyt Properties, a line that I drew from the viewpoint to the edge of the...
 of the arch, which doesn't give a complete picture what the view corridor is, but I used another picture where it more clearly demonstrates the view corridor, and the main effect is two partial buildings and a surface parking lot. So I'd like to have staff further review what that would do to be able to protect that corridor. Okay.
 I also will be giving a written testimony on another item with regards to the Northwest 13th Avenue Historic District that I talked about in length a while back, but I'll be providing where I feel that we should honor the Landmarks Commission's recommendation.
 Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you for giving us this table. When I talk with staff next, I'd like to understand what's different between Northwest 5 and Northwest 8 because the language in both of them is identical. Yeah, and I don't know either. So I just – that's – I know that one right there is one of those. Yeah, yeah. Thank you. Yeah, sure. The next three are 59, Sarah Iannarone.
 67, Joshua Pesos, and 68, Douglas R. Allen. And they'll be followed by 70, Cliff Weber, 73, David Bouchard, and 74, Mary Vogel. Good afternoon, sir. Do you want to start? Sure. Thank you. Apologies for being a little late. I was out with a delegation from Australia teaching them how to build their first light rail line, ironically.
 So first off, thanks for having me here. As a Comprehensive Plan Advisory Committee member, I witnessed dedicated staff and hundreds of community members committing thousands of hours to this process, and I want to thank and commend them. Overall, this plan is a remarkable product. As a city, we should be proud of our world-class planning bureau and the civic capacity that we've created around that.
 That said, there's one part of this plan that I find untenable, and that is the proposed $450 million widening of I-5 through our central city, the single largest infrastructure investment in this plan.
 You're going to hear from others here today why this proposed freeway widening project is counterproductive to our express goals as a city and region. They'll explain how it will have little to no impact on our congestion woes or epidemic of traffic fatalities. And the planners will talk about induced demand. Community advocates will explain how it runs counter to our equity and climate action plans. So I can't really add anything to that. So I'm not here as a planner, a cyclist, a pedestrian, or even an East Portlander.
 I'm here as someone whose job it is to share the Portland story with cities from around the globe and to pull you out to a 30,000-foot perspective and remind you that whether we like it or not, our city is a model for the world. Hundreds of city leaders come through my program at Portland State every year to learn what's so special about our place. They come to hear about our policies and best practices, and they come here to learn how they can be more like us and have the outcomes that we've achieved.
 There's a story I share with nearly every one of them that begins, what's so special about Portland? Then I explain it wasn't microbreweries and DIY culture, neighborhood associations or climate action plans, premier urban design, or even transit investments that made this place great.
 The secret to our success was seeded 40 years ago from an intentional change in direction away from auto-centric sprawl, through the passage of Senate Bill 100, the UGB, and formation of our regional government. Indeed, our successes today are based on intentional choices that we made four decades ago to resist the status quo and build places that work for people foremost rather than automobiles. Thank you.
 I then take them on bicycles from Portland State over the Hawthorne Bridge to OMSI, where I stop beneath a dead end overpass, look up and show them this is what it looks like literally when you stop building highways.
 I implore you, please do not deviate from this path. It looks horrible for our city to even think about investing money in freeways when the globe is on fire, literally. Do you want your legacy to be that you voted yes to widen freeways after 40 years of a resisting freeway expansion, after our legacy is built on resisting freeway expansion? Please, let's follow the advice of the advocates and invest this money more wisely in things that will help keep people on feet.
 on transit and on their bicycles. I appreciate your time. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Joshua Posos. I was born in San Francisco and studied mechanical engineering and worked in that field for a little bit. And now I'm going back to school, and I'm at the University of Oregon, and we just did a study of the Green Loop and further of what could be generated from the Green Loop. And I was very excited about this...
 And did I say I'm going to go back to school in architecture and urban design? I was very excited about the Green Loop because it provided kind of a vision of hope and a future of new multimodal transportations and also a path for these to be created.
 With the highway expansion and the rest of the bill, it kind of provides a vision of destruction of our planet and the corruption that comes with it. I would say even if 90% of that bill went towards bikes and fixing the roads, that it was not worth that message.
 But further, I did the study in the industrial sanctuary, the central east side, seeing what the green loop could do and what could be generated from that, in that neighborhood, specifically salmon. And so there's kind of, there's a bunch of different things, but there was...
 Three things that really stood out in kind of streets for the public. So when I studied in Italy, it was amazing to see that a street could be 10 different things in one day just by people moving on and off. Technical nutrients from cradle to cradle. So there's a rent-a-solvent. And so these types of businesses can help the industrial sanctuary grow.
 to help the industrial sanctuary strengthen and create more Portland-centric businesses. So rent a solvent, leases out a solvent, the company uses it, they take it back, and then they separate the solvent and reuse the solvent. So it's also kind of a green. So incentivizing stuff for that could help the industrial sanctuary grow
 And then streets as a way of cleaning. So, I mean, obviously we have the, I'm forgetting the name of them, but, you know, put plants in there and the plants naturally clean the streets. And there's many different ways. So these three things put together could be,
 utilized to help strengthen that industrial sanctuary. And then further, Salmon is very kind of a... Salmon Street on the east side is a very special street that has access to the river right there. And so the green loop could generate, like, people, you know, moving from the green loop down to the riverfront and...
 This is part of what the Green Loop could help. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Doug Allen. I want to second all of the comments made by Portland Audubon, and I'd like to focus my comments on the Rose Quarter project. First of all, I think we really should thank Representative McLean for pushing for getting value pricing, as they call it, congestion pricing, put into HB 2017.
 But I really must call out the fact that this Rose Quarter project is based on a number of false narratives that have been put forth. And I was particularly sorry to hear Representative McLean put forth the false narrative regarding pollution from congestion. There is, as far as I know, no research other than...
 basically bad science research that restricts itself purely to a project area that shows the reduced global warming emissions or congestion, global warming emissions or pollution by lowering congestion, whereas there's lots of research that shows when you look at the entire travel shed that any time you attempt to reduce congestion, you encourage more travel, and that does produce, in fact, more pollution and more global warming emissions.
 And I think that point needs to be examined because it keeps coming forth that this is going to reduce pollution. But, no, it doesn't. I was going to jump on Commissioner Novick because he was the J-PAC representative that kind of allowed this to happen, to get to this stage. I mean, I know it's been going on since 2012, and I've been involved. I testified before the steering committee then, and I testified at the legislature about 2017-20.
 And I know Bernie Bottomley at TriMet has been pushing this thing forward. But it basically comes down to cost effectiveness. I can't believe that you would spend a quarter of a billion dollars. Sorry, I guess my time has run out. Thank you. Appreciate all three of your testimony. Thanks, sir. The next three are Cliff Webber.
 David Bouchard, and Mary Vogel. And they'll be followed by 76, Peggy Moretti, 82, Ted Buehler, and 83, Elizabeth Hart-Morris. Carla, how will I access my slide? Yeah, hold on just a second. Carla is our resident technological genius. The others can go. I was the last in that. All right, sir, why don't you go ahead and start while Carla's sorting out the other speaker's presentation. Okay.
 Okay. My name is David Bouchard. And first of all, I want to say that nowhere has freeway expansion ultimately solved congestion. And I want to speak to someone who moved here about two years ago now, almost two years ago from Baltimore. And I was like many people who came out to visit Portland. And, you know, I fell in love for it. And...
 You know, because I wanted to be in a city that I felt, you know, prioritizes human people-centric transportation, not cars. You know, a city that has a reliable, functional transportation system, less congestion than I was used to on the East Coast.
 And that's why Portland attracted me. And I think that's why Portland attracts a lot of people who come from cities that are just choked with congestion. You know, it's from cities with some of the highest congestion in the country who have massive 10, 20-lane freeways. And that means to me that that shows me that.
 When you add more capacity on freeways of any kind, even if it's just a little bit, that induces more driving. Because you have drivers who are like, oh, yeah, you know, there's more. The traffic isn't so bad. I can go out and drive. And then, you know, then everyone's doing it. And then you've got the same problem that you started with. And now you've got to spend another $450 million to add more lanes. And for the same reasons. So you really...
 need to take a second look at this. Ask yourselves these questions.
 Where are the people from the public coming out to support this? All the people who have come out to support it are either ODOT, who are twisting your arm into doing this because they're telling you that, oh, well, if you don't support this project, we're not going to give you the money. So you might as well just go ahead and support it because it's not that big of a deal. It's not all that much. And we're going to add a few bells and whistles to it for the bikes. Right.
 They're twisting your arm and you need to ask yourself, is that a good thing? Is that an honorable thing for a partner to do? And you guys are partners in this. And really, yes, ask yourself, where are the people from the public who are supporting this? I haven't seen one yet, just people from various government departments and committees.
 Also ask yourself, what are the alternatives to freeway congestion? One of the biggest factors of congestion are all the cars, all the personal cars. Not so much, there are a lot of trucks, but if there were fewer cars, you would have less congestion. So look at other transit options. Some of those options that were, you know, or better bus service, or a couple of things that were mentioned earlier in the testimony about congestion on Williams and Weidler.
 Those areas could have better bus service. We need more nighttime service. We need to get people to choose to take transit or to use other modes and get our freeway capacity down to what it was originally designed for. And that way we will be known as, you know, the Portland that people flock to. You know, that's what we want to be. Very good.
 Thank you. Thank you, and a shout-out for your shirt. I like that one. If you can't see it, it's the chemical components of caffeine. I could use some of that right now. Good afternoon. My name is Cliff Weber. I live in a condo in Collins Circle. Thank you. To invoke a word that was heard in this chamber for the first time last week.
 I would like to talk about the palimpsest that is gradually yielding to lost works of Archimedes. But instead, I'm here to talk about view corridors. After recommending the notorious rezoning of Block 7, the Planning Commission is now threatening further damage to the Goose Hollow neighborhood. It is proposed that the status of Southwest Jefferson Street be changed from a view corridor to a view street.
 The change in nomenclature is small, but the effect on the ground is huge. To see the arch, a person would now have to stand in the middle of the street, directly beneath the bridge. It is said that council wishes to raise Portland's profile. High-profile cities have scenic assets that they protect without compromise. Tall buildings don't obstruct views of the Eiffel Tower or of the Roman Colosseum, and they never will.
 These urban icons are sacrosanct, and so should Portland's be. There is still plenty of real estate left to accommodate tall buildings without having to destroy the view corridors that keep Portland's scenic icons clearly open to view. These views have been enshrined in the zoning code for decades and for good reason.
 If they are obliterated, outsiders in future years will look upon Portland as just another congested American city, and locals will wonder where the Vista Bridge ever got its name. The current disaster in the Columbia River Gorge only serves to remind us that scenic assets are fragile and irreplaceable once they are gone. As a resident of Goose Hollow for the past 10 years,
 I urge council to honor the stewardship of past generations of public-spirited citizens by continuing to protect and to preserve the view corridor that Southwest Jefferson Street has always been for the past quarter century. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. I'm Mary Vogel, owner of Plan Green in downtown's West End. I've been involved in this process since the beginning, about seven years now.
 does nothing to address the surface parking lot owners in downtown's West End who have held the city and its residents hostage for at least 20 years with their treeless asphalt deserts taking up whole faces of city blocks.
 In 105 degrees and smoky, these asphalt deserts are as much as 10 degrees hotter, making my walk to and from, for example, the Pearl, nearly unbearable. And I climb mountains on weekends. What about my low-income neighbors with canes and walkers? Another view of that same parking lot.
 Please amend Volume 5 implementation with these items. One, incentivize immediate interim redevelopment of existing surface parking lots into parking forest with street trees on all sides, achieving stormwater management and multiple health benefits while awaiting full redevelopment.
 Two, tax land that is used at less than maximum productivity, such as surface parking lots, at its development potential to be reduced if the parking forest is installed. And three, if the other two don't work, plant and maintain trees along all sides of all downtown surface parking lots and bill the property owners for planting and maintenance.
 And then I'd also like to address Volume 2B, the Transportation System Plan. I'd like to see a change in the bikeways for Southwest Columbia, Southwest Jefferson, Southwest 12th Avenues, from bikeways to greenways to better accommodate not only cyclists like myself, but also pedestrians, wildlife, and to mitigate the effects of climate change also.
 It's just not fair to the rest of us that even in this era of climate chaos, these owners help destroy our air and water quality, not to mention temperature and aesthetic quality. It's well past time for them to change. And Ecotrust...
 is one great example of a parking lot that manages all stormwater on site and is an asset to the community. Shouldn't other redeveloped parking lots be fun places to hold events too? Was that my time? Okay. So in any case, I mean, you know, this can be done. We can have parking lots and great public spaces too. I have other...
 I know you sent us in by email as well, Mary. My 405 impact strategy and all that I've already sent in. Those are great examples. I did see your email. Thank you very much. Thank you. This is also helpful to have the slide presentation. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. Appreciate your testimony. Parking Forest. I'm going to add that to my list. Done. Maybe I can claim the naming rights. The next three are Peggy Moretti, Ted Buehler, and Elizabeth Hart-Morris.
 And they'll be followed by 86, 87, 88, Dan Yates, Madeline Kovacs, and Doug Klotz. Why don't you go ahead and start since you're there. Thank you. Mayor and Council, thanks for being here today. My name is Ted Buehler. I'm a volunteer with the group Bike Loud PDX. We're speaking on behalf of better bikeways in the city of Portland and of good transportation allocation of funds. We're an all-volunteer group, and we haven't had paid staff to come out and speak in.
 talk about lots of things, but we like to come whenever we can. And thank you for hearing us.
 I have a document here which perhaps you all have seen. This is the Portland Bicycle Master Plan for 2030. It was adopted in 2010 and I came and spoke in favor of it and Commissioner Saltzman and Fritz were here. And one of the things I said is, you know, this is only a $250 million document. It's not really going to cost all that much to build. I think you should also ask your staffers to find out how much it would cost
 If you fail to reach the targets in here to build more roadways for the resulting car traffic, if the growth in employment is not absorbed by the growing numbers of bicycles. And it's all part of the Portland story. If you look at the yellow line here, this is the growth in bicycle ridership from 1999 to 2008. And from 2008 to 2016, it's been flat. Right.
 And the reason that there's lots of cars on the freeway is not because the Portland model has not been successful. It's not because it was a bad idea. It's not because this wasn't a good plan. It's because this was not funded. But bicycle funding and transit funding had a big drop in 2010 to 2014. City Council, you folks were not quite as excited about it as you were the previous 10 years. In the last three years, you've been more excited about it. I'm very happy about that. I would encourage you guys...
 to also take a look before, you know, you want to ask a lot of important questions before dropping half a million, half a billion dollars.
 And if you take out your iPhones, you can pull up traffic, and you can see that on a day like today, every single freeway in the whole city is red, and it's just not a very smart business decision to widen one section of freeway when for the same amount of money you could absorb all of the additional traffic and keep everybody's constituents in Medford happy too because you would solve lots of transportation problems. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, again, I'm Peggy Moretti. I am here representing Restore Oregon, and I'm going to speak to some of the height issues that are contained in the comprehensive plan. We're all trying to figure out how we keep Portland Portland, and how do we embrace that need to grow and the need to retain the unique, authentic sense of place that gives Portland its very identity.
 And we would think that the answer includes striking a balance that also protects the integrity of our historic assets. Restore Oregon has been actively engaged in the 2035 plan for over two years now. And in every community meeting that we attended, the most frequent public input by far was that we must retain the character and historic fabric that creates our authentic sense of place.
 So therefore, the proposed height reductions and the removal of the bonus height opportunities must be approved as proposed for the Northwest 13th Avenue, Grand Avenue, Irvington, and new Chinatown-Japantown historic districts. These districts total up to a minuscule amount of land in this city, but they embody a giant share of our collective history.
 To protect the integrity of our historic districts, the new development within those districts must be compatible. To leave the permitted heights where they are puts the Historic Landmarks Commission in an impossible situation, ensuring frustration and confusion because you simply cannot build compatible infill at 300 or 400 feet next to a two- or three-story historic building.
 Despite what some may claim, it is particularly essential you approve the proposed height reductions in Chinatown, Japantown, Portland's only historic district, as we heard earlier, that's designated for its ethnic history.
 There are many things to like and support in the new plan, and we appreciate the opportunities Restore Oregon has had to participate in shaping it. We especially applaud the historic FAR transfer because we need every incentive possible to attract investment in building rehabilitation and reuse, and we look forward to working with City Council to identify additional incentives in the near future.
 Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Morrissey, have you sent that in? I will give you a copy today. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello, Commissioners, Mr. Mayor. Thank you so much for hearing my testimony. I'm Elizabeth Hart-Morris. I'm with the Green Roof Info Think Tank. I'm their executive director, also known as GRIT. And I'm also a subject matter expert for commercial roofing and commercial green roof development.
 So GRIT is fully supportive of the CC2035 Eco Roof requirement with Commissioner Udaly's amendment, but we'd like to offer the following suggestions to strengthen the requirement. I've got some photos here that you can see and a little other information that I did submit online as well.
 So, in light of Commissioner Udalli's amendment, we're fully supportive of it, of expanding the green roof coverage to 100% parapet to parapet of every qualified roof. We are also supportive of amenity space for people to be able to use the roof and to be able to interact with the green roof, and that is part of the central city plan is to be able to interact with nature.
 for people. And so, but what we would like to do is propose a strong definition of what amenity space actually is so that it's not used as a loophole to get around the green roof requirement. And so, first of all, amenity space would be fully accessible to building occupants. So that means it has to have the proper structural weight capacity. It has to have the proper ADA access, the stairwells, the doors, the parapet walls, the guardrails, everything that would make it an amenity space.
 Number two, no exposed roof membrane. So it's not an amenity space if you're walking on the waterproofing membrane. It's actually a patio flooring with pavers. Many examples all over Portland of green roofs with amenity space. And number three, no more than 40% of the amenity space would cover the roof and the rest of it would be green roofing.
 So that's for the amenity space. For the change, also we suggest changing the threshold at which the requirement applies from 20,000 square feet down to 5,000 square feet because Portland's a city of modestly sized buildings. The current threshold of 20,000 square feet will significantly reduce the coverage of green roofing and also remove the solar exemption. There's no need for a solar exemption. Green roofs are compatible with solar panels. In fact, they function much more efficiently when solar panels are placed over a green roof.
 several pictures in there will show you that, the number of different buildings that have the two together. And we thank you for the opportunity to provide comments and we would like to offer to provide a tour for many of these different types of green roofs over the next few weeks. For everybody, GRYT provides tons of tours. We work with the city very closely with the universities and with other nonprofits. We'd be happy to show you how this is already working.
 employment thank you so if you could please send in your comments on the amen the definition of amenities i don't see that in your letter yes no i just made that change so i will update that and recently thank you very much and i'll just take a moment to say that we are looking at all of these suggestions we certainly don't want to eliminate the possibility of rooftop amenities but our priority remains uh to have as much of the roof covered in
 vegetation as possible. So thanks for giving that testimony and giving me an opportunity to clarify our position. Wonderful. Thank you so much.
 Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. I had the privilege of looking out on one of these examples, and I had the privilege of helping to build the other. So thanks for using them as examples. Great. Next three, please. Are Dan Yates, Madeline Kovacs, and Doug Klotz, and they'll be followed by 89, 90, 91, and we're going to go with 92, Renee France, Adela Maza, Felicia Huggins, and David Norum. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 If I go out of order because I'm sitting down, is that? Doesn't matter. Go for it. All right. Just to speed things along. Dear Mr. Mayor, commissioners, good afternoon. My name is Madeline Kovacs, and I'm the coordinator for the Portland for Everyone Coalition. We support the Central City 2035 plan, and specifically we ask that council adopt the height and FAR maps as recommended by the Planning and Sustainability Commission.
 The plan strikes a good balance, upzoning in some places and downzoning in others, as you all heard at your work session and some other times. We are especially supportive of slight FAR creases made in the Pearl and River Place in order to ensure that more projects will participate in the inclusionary housing program.
 Increasing allowed heights above base allowances only by provision of identified public benefits and making affordable housing the only bonus available everywhere. And bonuses and transfers that will preserve and upgrade historic resources without reducing much needing housing in the central city.
 We also encourage Council to try and avoid situations where, in a word, good plans die deaths by a thousand paper cuts. We urge the City to ensure that future design review and other land use review processes don't include reductions in entitlements given by long-range planning and zoning, and therefore reduction in the number of homes and affordable homes the City has planned for in well-connected areas.
 We ask that the City ensure that the Central City Plan is implemented, not undermined, by one Commission that is not responsible for considering citywide and regional goals and needs. We also want to strengthen incentives that prioritize building affordable homes on-site rather than pay-in-lieu.
 I want to conclude by reminding council that Portland is in a declared housing crisis, but we did not get here overnight. Part of the solution is strengthening tenants' rights. Part of the solution is securing more funding for affordable housing. And part of the solution is allowing enough housing of many different kinds to be built. It supports our comp plan goals, our climate goals, and our sustainability goals. Thank you so much. Thank you, Dan. Why don't you go next? Dan Yates. Thanks.
 I want to thank Troy Doss and his team for doing such a terrific job on leading the 2035 process in the southeast quadrant. I do have a few comments to improve the current draft, and due to time limitations, I will summarize my concerns and provide you with written testimony that goes into greater detail.
 I am pleased that this document has started the process to return water transportation to the Willamette River. I am concerned that we are being short-sighted in restricting the maximum of 5,000 square foot footprint for a marine terminal. I would like to see that restriction removed and let the needs of the facility determine the facility size.
 I'm concerned that the 2035 draft continues to fail to follow State Goal 15 and multiple Ninth Circuit Court and Supreme Court rulings related to the City of Portland Greenway Code. I'm concerned that the draft continues to attempt to place a setback on property that has water-dependent or water-related uses. Goal 15 on page 4, paragraph K, is black letter and stating that there will be no setback for those uses.
 I'm concerned that this document attempts to treat water-dependent and water-related uses differently relating to Goal 15 and zoning.
 I'm concerned that this draft remove all mention of the Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. Previous drafts had wording to provide some flexibility to the proposed code, and that original wording needs to be returned. The City of Portland must allow marine operations to comply with federally mandated security plans. A flexibility is a must.
 mapping issues continue to be an issue with every draft of the 2035 plan. The waterfront is a challenging environment to draw lines for code, and in reference to our property, it continues to be an issue. For example, it continues to show our office building and parking lot as high-value environmental resources. Thank you.
 I am concerned that the E-river overlay does not reflect State Planning Goal 5 ESE analysis as it does not distinguish between activities depending on whether the resource is ranked high or medium. They are treated the same.
 I am concerned the city is attempting to regulate dredging in an area it has no expertise in and that has been professionally managed by the Army Corps with its joint permit process for decades. Surely the city has more pressing needs than to spend scarce resources staffing up on a redundant process that works really well. Thank you for your time.
 Dan, could I ask you a question? We had some testimony a number of people ago related to the Zydell Yards, and they had suggested flexibility in a slightly different context. I don't know if they were declaring water dependency or not. I think they were not. But what they'd asked for was access to a design review process or some other flexible process related to their specific needs with their facilities.
 now historically spill away. Would something like that work? Is there a framework similar to that that might work in terms of providing that flexibility? What were you proposing? I'm a member of the Working Waterfront Coalition, and the North Reach, which was bogged down and still is bogged down, the Satro Reach...
 has been referred to as the blueprint for moving back to the North Reach, I can guarantee you it will end up in court. I have personally spent well over a million dollars defeating the city, building my docks over the years because the city refuses to update its code. And now it has an opportunity to, which we have provided extensive legal analysis. And I don't expect the city attorney to be an expert in this very small niche
 because they're generalists. But the land use attorneys in the city are experts in it, and the city code is still completely out of line. And I just cannot emphasize it enough. There's very few of us at impacts in the way of property owners. There's very few private property owners left on the waterfront. But we do know the rights, and I'm just trying to avoid –
 Going back into court the next time I want to take a permit out to do something on the river, it happens every time.
 Very good. I appreciate your testimony. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. I appreciate the packet. Did you include the summary of what you just said? I included it for her. Okay, great. I'll get it because the multi-page document, it seemed like you had really honed in on the things that you thought were most important, and I appreciate that. I can give you my copy as I walk out. How's that? That would be lovely. Thank you. Thanks, Dave. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, my name is Doug Klotz. No?
 No urban freeway expansion has ever solved congestion, just to put that out there. I ask you to remove the Rose Quarter freeway expansion from the Central City plant.
 Now, I'm a co-founder of Oregon Walks, and I also served on the Northeast Quadrant Committee that came up with the Rose Quarter plan. ODOT told us then that the crashes on I-5 were the reason that this freeway needed to be rebuilt and the driving force for the whole thing. Since then, the City of Portland has adopted Vision Zero. Here's the draft plan. And the object of Vision Zero is to reduce and eliminate –
 deaths and major injuries from traffic. And we now learn that most of the Rose Quarter crashes
 Or minor crashes. I mean, we just heard that there were two deaths there, and that's tragic again. However, if you look at the map in the Vision Zero document, there are hundreds of fatalities in the city. I counted like 25 of them on 82nd. I read it alone. It's a misallocation of resources. 82nd, Lombard, the other arterials in the city, those are where the deaths and serious injuries are. The majority of them are happening.
 Not on the freeways. This project is spending $500 million in the wrong place, and it won't solve congestion either because of induced demand, as we've heard. So I take Commissioner Saltzman's advice, and let's try congestion pricing first.
 I want to cover a few other things. On the West End, I'm puzzled with everyone talking about this as if this is a new thing. The West End plan basically leaves all the heights as they are. The 250-foot, the 325-foot, they're the same as they've been for 17 years. This is nothing new. And we need those heights and FAR amounts to get more people living in a central city where their carbon footprint is lower.
 and we should hold with those recommendations of the panel, regardless of how they got there. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you, for your testimony. Next three, please. I think we'll go with just Rene France right now, and then I have a group of four that need to come up together. Very good. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. It's going to be mighty lonely up here.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. My name is Renee France. I am here this afternoon on behalf of the Irving Hotel Investors LLC, who have a property interest in the site located at 1202 Northwest Irving Street in the Pearl District. I provided written comments that is consistent with this testimony requesting a modest increase in the Central City Plan District, FAR, in the Pearl area north of Hoyt Street.
 The Irving Street property is just north of Hoyt Street, and the current FAR on the site and much of the surrounding property to the north and to the east is currently 4-1 FAR. Under the recommended plan, the FAR in that area would increase to 5-1. We support the recommendation to increase the FAR allowance in the Pearl District north of Hoyt Street and commend the planning efforts that recognize that that increase is needed in order to satisfy the city's goals.
 However, the proposed 5-to-1 FAR is still one of the lowest FARs in the central city for similarly situated properties. An increase of 6-to-1 would be more consistent with the city's density goals, would create closer alignment between the FAR and the base and bonus heights in that area, which range from 250 feet to over 400 feet.
 It would also create greater parity across the Pearl area. For example, the FAR on sites directly south of Hoyt Street have a 6-to-1 FAR, yet the area south of Hoyt Street has maximum bonus heights that are either equal to or lower to the areas north of Hoyt Street.
 Even with a 6-to-1 FAR, most sites would need an FAR bonus or transfer to develop the maximum heights, and therefore the requested change would not diminish the applicability or the effectiveness of the new affordable housing or historic resource priorities for FAR bonuses and transfers. Thank you.
 For these reasons, we respectfully request that the Council implement the recommended FAR increase in the relevant Pearl area north of Horde Street, but implement a ratio of 6 to 1 in place of the recommended 5 to 1 ratio. Very good. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you. And the next group are Adela Mazza, and she's coming with a translator, Felisa Hajin, and David Norin.
 And they'll be followed by Deanna Mueller-Crispin, Corey Poole, and Joss Hetrick, 95, 96, and 97. Good afternoon. Hi, good afternoon. For the record, my name is Lisa Higgins. I'm a lobbyist for the janitors and health care workers that were talked about earlier and the other 13,000 members of FCAE Local 49.
 Before I give my testimony, I'd actually like to request that Adela's testimony, who's going to happen after me, I'd like to request a doubling of her time to allow for translation. We always do. We don't count translator time. Great. Thank you. On behalf of our members, I'm here to urge the City Council to amend the draft city plan that is before each day to include language in the pro-
 proposed code consistent with the equity provisions of Policy 3.3D of the comprehensive plan adopted last year. SEAU Local 49 feels that not only did the Council do an incredible job, the Bureau of Planning and other folks who were involved in expanding that 3.3D section and including equity and inclusion in some of the work moving forward, we also feel like it laid a foundation to have a discussion about good jobs.
 We know that now we live in the most inequitable time when it comes to economic disparities in the history of our country. That includes the time of the Great Depression. We think we urge the council to take amendments into consideration that in every aspect that the council is doing and setting its planning for the future to reduce those inequities and disparities.
 The comprehensive plan to push for the greater equity mechanism in the policy 3.3D mandates the city to incorporate requirements into the zoning code to provide public and community benefits as a condition for development projects to receive increased development allowances.
 We have joined with many of you to work on housing for the last four years. We've also been working on this issue for the last four years, and we'd like to talk about the transfer FAR, which is above the bonus FAR in the housing, after the housing allowances. We have our attorney, David Noren, who will come up and outline what the proposal is.
 because we believe the current draft code doesn't go far enough, and you have the opportunity to do something greater. I really appreciate your time today. I'm happy to answer questions now. I'm also happy to answer questions at a later date. I know that you have a...
 a lot before you, and I'd like you to hear from Adela before we jump into questions. You are going to give us the written suggestions for how to change the policy. And we're going to give you written suggestions for how to change the policy, an infographic on how the policy should be changed, and many other materials you can read at your leisure. Thank you very much. Very good. Thank you.
 Buenas tardes, Alcalde Pilar y consejeros. Me llamo Adela Maza. Soy miembro de SCIU Local 49. Soy inmigrante de Guatemala. Hace más de 30 años que me mudé a Portland en busca de una vida mejor. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Adela Maza. I'm a member of SCIU Local 49. I'm an immigrant from Guatemala, and I moved to Portland over 30 years ago for a better life.
 I have two full-time jobs in downtown Portland. In the morning, I work at a downtown hotel, helping with the morning breakfast. At night, I work as a janitor for ABM Building Maintenance, cleaning the standard plaza. I live in Gresham, but before I lived in Hathorne and La Quincea.
 But even though I had two jobs, I couldn't afford to pay rent to continue living there. I moved to Gresham because it's a cheaper place. And I know that most of my colleagues at the hotel and the janitors...
 Tampoco pueden vivir en el centro de Portland. Ahí tienen que vivir cada vez más lejos y viajar para el centro de Portland viviendo en Hillsborough, en Aloha y en Horses Grove.
 I live in Gresham. I used to live closer to Portland, near 15th and Hawthorne, but even working two jobs, I could not afford to live there anymore. I moved out to Gresham because it's a more affordable place to live. I know that most of my coworkers at the hotel and at my building can't afford to live in downtown Portland either. Like me, they have to live further and further away, commuting from places like Gresham, Hillsboro, and Aloha.
 Los llanitos que, como yo, ganan el sueldo aproximadamente de $13.75 la hora, porque tenemos un contrato de unión. Los trabajadores de limpieza sin unión suelen ganar $2 menos la hora. Yo trabajo y sostengo a mis nietos y a mi hija, y aún con mi sueldo tengo que...
 Hacer decisiones difíciles, eligiendo entre pagar la renta, comprar mi comida, comprar útiles para la escuela de los niños. Los janitores como yo, que trabajo en el sur, hacen aproximadamente $13.75 por hora debido a nuestro contrato de unión. Los janitores no de unión a menudo hacen $2 menos por hora que yo. Yo apoyo a mí misma, a mi hija y a mis hijos. Incluso en mis salarios, tengo que hacer decisiones difíciles sobre pagar la renta, pagar por las almacenadas y comprar suplicios para mis hijos.
 Mis compañeros de trabajo y yo hemos luchado por las condiciones de los janitors y los trabajadores de seguridad para que sean justos. Muchos edificios nuevos en la ciudad me preocupan a los trabajadores en esos edificios, compañeros de trabajo y también las familias que no sean afectadas por los sueldos bajos en los nuevos contratos de los edificios.
 sean peores estándares para todos nosotros. Necesitamos una ciudad justa y equitativa para todos, no solamente para los afortunados
 Buscamos el apoyo del Consejo de la Ciudad para ayudarnos a construir una ciudad donde la gente tenga acceso a trabajos buenos, que paguen sueldos justos con beneficios. Podemos utilizar la ley para crear un lugar mejor para todos.
 Necesitamos una ciudad que sea justa y equitativa para todos, no solo para los afortunados. Buscamos al Consejo de Ciudad para ayudarnos a construir una ciudad donde la gente tenga acceso a buenos trabajos que ofrezcan salarios adecuados y beneficios. Podemos usar la ley para hacer un lugar mejor para todos nosotros. El centro de Portland no debe ser solamente para los ricos. Yo pido en nombre de las familias trabajadoras a través de Portland que la ciudad de Portland adopte normas que protejan a las familias de los trabajadores. Gracias.
 Portland no debería ser solo para las personas ricas. Le pido en nombre de las familias trabajadoras en Portland que la ciudad de Portland adopte políticas que protegen a las familias trabajadoras. Gracias. Gracias. Adela tiene que irse a trabajar, por el recuerdo. Gracias por estar aquí. Gracias por la traducción. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes, señor presidente. Mi nombre es David Noren. Soy un abogado representante de CIU Local 49.
 Justo te hemos dado otra copia de mi letra del 1 de septiembre que tiene algunos propuestos propuestos específicos para abordar nuestro propósito. Hemos estado traiendo este tema antes de ti durante varios años, aumentando y aumentando nuestro enfoque en él y espero que en este momento estemos enfatizando los objetivos que has establecido para mejorar la vivienda de forma eficiente y
 as you set out in your comp plan, make sure that when we have increased development allowances that there's some public benefit or public good. Our concern has been that the proposed draft of this central city update and the recommended draft both sort of give a pass to transfers of FAR. There's no requirement that transfers provide that public benefit.
 Before you can get to a transfer, it's true that you have to have a bonus, a three-to-one bonus FAR that you can earn by a fee in lieu if you're a commercial building before you can get to transfers. But that bonus is itself your benefit. So that's the increased development allowance. So in order to be consistent with the comprehensive plan provision, you really need to have some additional public benefit there.
 And what we've suggested in our proposed amendments is a mechanism that will support affordable housing or historical buildings, one or the other, in a couple of different ways. One is that you can do transfers to a commercial development, a larger development, from a project that has on-site housing, and you don't have to do any additional public benefit.
 or the same for historic. But if you bring FAR in from some other site, then you need to provide some additional public benefit. And what we propose is that you make sure that the workers who service that development after it's completed and occupied have good jobs. And we've provided a new definition of that that's tied to 50 percent of MFI for the area. And it will, as our documentation has shown,
 help assure that the folks who work in these developments at least have a shot at being able to afford housing. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. And I look forward to reading the document. Thank you. Next three, please. Our Deanna Mueller-Christman, Corey Poole, and Josh Hetrick. And they'll be followed by 99, Lawrence Kumar, 102, Kevin Johnson, and maybe Aaron Jones, and 104, Kiel Johnson. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 You can go ahead and start. My name is Josh Hetrick. Whenever I hear about another proposed urban highway project, and there always seems to be another, I'm reminded of my experience as a resident of Boston. The Big Dig was a massive project which, like this one, promised surface street enhancements, public transportation improvements, and other environmental mitigations in exchange for a central city highway reconfiguration. The highway portion of the project came first, as always, and of course, it went drastically over its budget of time and money.
 As a result, many of the proposed mitigations have been and continue to be delayed, watered down, and outright canceled. Many years and billions upon billions of dollars later were right to question projects such as these. The modest improvements to travel times were quickly and predictably eclipsed by induced demand, countering a central justification for the entire project. When so many mitigations have to be proposed, let alone completed,
 We are right to give pause and consider the inherent and disproportionately negative impacts of urban highway infrastructure. And we are right to be skeptical of plans that spend enormous sums of money on highways now in exchange for tradeoffs that may not come. Rather than building an ever-taller ladder to get us out of the hole we're digging, better that we simply stop digging and start building things that make sense.
 Please remove the I-5 Rose Quarter Freeway expansion project from the Central City Plan and focus instead on projects that truly advance our safety, equity, and environmental goals. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Deanna Mueller-Crispin, Mr. Mayor and Council. I'm concerned about the mindset in the proposed plan equating population density with super high residential buildings. The need for more housing density does not create a need for the proposed increased building heights, which would be increased by FARs for the West End.
 The Central City Plan projects 64,000 households, or about 200,000 people, in the Central City by 2035. The plan covers 4.6 square miles. This equates to about 43,500 people per square mile.
 As an example to help reach that density, the plan proposes by increasing FAR ratios up to 8 to 1 to allow 250-foot tall buildings in much of the West End. This is the height of the 26-story Benson Tower. These bonus heights extend clear to the park blocks. Compare this to Paris, France, with its predominantly 8-story tall buildings about 80 feet tall.
 Paris's population density is 55,500 people per square mile. At the population density of Paris's eight-story buildings, our projected central city residents in 2035 could be accommodated in 3,500, not 4.6 square miles. Surely, we do not need super tall buildings to house our projected 2035 population.
 Also, higher buildings contradict affordability. You've heard that already. Allowing increased heights has two pernicious effects. It encourages demolition of older affordable buildings, often with historic character, and always results in much higher rents in the new high-rises, thwarting the plan's call for affordability in new housing.
 The West End has over 100 historic buildings, almost all of them low-rises, with affordable rents. These buildings will be especially vulnerable with the proposed zoning, well, FAR height increases. Demolition, I just need to add that demolition and reconstruction is an environmentally wasteful process. The plan's commitment to sustainability should include policies to discourage, not encourage demolitions. Thank you. Appreciate both of you.
 Next three, please. Lawrence Kamar, Kevin Johnson, and it's probably Kyle Johnson. And they'll be followed by 105, 106, and 107, Sherry Salomon, Steve Salomon, and Daniel Salomon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you for having us here today. Thank you.
 Last week, I remember, Commissioner Udeli, you asked for, I believe, illustrations to think about these building heights and to actually visualize it. Because we're talking about numbers so often that we can't really understand what we're physically experiencing and feeling. So I have a few diagrams I'll leave for you to be able to study later.
 I've had a growing concern about Portland's rush to join the ranks of skyscraper cities. The Central City 2035 plan embodies that dollars-in-the-eye vision and has serious defects in my mind regarding these issues of height.
 Much taller than a ratio of one to one being the building height to the width of the street space. This is a very basic way of creating an illustration is with your own hands. Results in a building that looms over people strolling on the sidewalk below. Again, I'm saying a one to one as sort of a maximum. One to three gets much more suburban, you could say.
 Yes, on an average, a 60-foot right-of-way, buildings towering over 80 feet increasingly destroy the character and quality of place historically experienced on the streets of Portland.
 Many may not notice the impacts of these 150-foot and taller-plus buildings until it's too late. I encourage you to incorporate more prescriptive form-based coding, of which there is a foundation here in the codes already, such as upper-story facade setbacks as a way to still allow taller buildings but adhere to a standard of that maximum one-to-one street-to-height ratio.
 You've heard plenty of testimony not to increase building heights since it promotes teardowns of existing affordable housing and historic architecture. The notion that some historic buildings could be saved by transferring FARs to nearby parcels is highly concerning for me, as it will only exacerbate an erratic height differential rather than building mass that is based on that human-scaled civic space.
 I'm speaking not only from an analytical mind that focuses on the statistics, economic analysis, housing targets, and employment numbers, but I urge you to allow your intuitive, perceptual minds to make decisions too. The side that perceives the character, quality, and shape of urban space, which in turn encourages cultural placemaking and livelier neighborhoods.
 Don't let developers lead all our land use decisions. Stop counting beans, which inadvertently encourages citywide demolitions and redevelopments in order to achieve an abstract regional housing density goal. Let's not rush forward increasing building heights without a sense of how that alters the very quality of civic spaces in our streets. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Kyle Johnson, and I'm one of the founders of the Friends of the Green Loop. Our group's goal is to bring energy from the public and eventually help raise private contributions to make the Green Loop something that engages and inspires all Portlanders.
 When Portlanders rose up to stop the Mount Hood Freeway in 1974, our city was a leader in rethinking cities not as places to travel as fast as possible from one end to another, but as places that we want to be in. Places that enrich the human experience and make us feel connected to one another. Roads are our largest public space. Let's make sure this space is used to connect community rather than divide it.
 Seven years ago, I took the streetcar through South Waterfront when it didn't really exist, and we went by the tram, and there were about 50 bicycles parked there. A couple years later, I came up with the idea to get a camper trailer and park it down there and start fixing bikes. Okay.
 And now we run the largest bicycle valet in North America. And the tram is the more people bike to the bottom of the tram than anywhere else in North America. And that's all because I was inspired by seeing people using space kind of differently. And that's what I hope that the Green Loop continues to do for other Portlanders.
 I'm confident that projects like the Green Loop that encourage people to engage with their sense of place in a positive way will always be worth the investment. We live in a world whose rules and structures are built by our parents and previous generations. However, our children get to live in the world that by some small and large measurements will be determined by us in this room today. Let us build the best possible world for them. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 My name is Augustine Enriquez, a principal at GBD Architects. I have provided written testimony with more detail that you have. I will summarize it quickly. I'm here today requesting the same building height limits for an eight-acre site called River Place as exists at the adjacent South Waterfront sub-district of Portland Central City. Those heights in South Waterfront are between 150 and 325 feet. The site is south of the River Place Marina and northwest of Poets Beach.
 In addition, we are also seeking a special opportunity for a 400-foot height iconic building within the redevelopment. We are not requesting additional density. Rather, we are seeking more design flexibility in the form of additional building heights to achieve that density. The additional height will also allow us to achieve the following.
 Up to 500 affordable housing units, a world-class gathering place that combines mixed-use urban environment with nature, open and available to all of Portland's citizens and visitors.
 Thinner profile towers that allow for more light and air between the buildings and for more views through the site, effectively creating a more visually porous development, and redevelopment that maximizes the public's investment in existing infrastructure with a 3 million gross square feet high-density mixed-use development. That density has already allowed that FAR. We're simply looking for more heights to achieve a more flexible design.
 In conclusion, the property owner for the River Place Development site is requesting an increase in height from its proposed CC 2035 150 and 200 foot height across the site to a range of maximum height limits commensurate with the nearby South Waterfront neighborhood. 150 feet to 325 feet with one special opportunity for a 400 foot tall iconic building. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks all three of you. The next three are Sherry, Steve, and Daniel Solomon.
 And they'll be followed by 108, Roger Leachman, 113, Patty Tillett, and 115, Dan Petrosich. I would like to ask, could I read my husband's two minutes of testimony? He had to leave. He wasn't feeling well. Go ahead. Thank you. Stan, why don't you come over here closer? Okay. Okay. Okay.
 I'm Sherry Salomon. I live at the Vista St. Clair in Goose Hollow as a renter. I am also on the board of the GHFL, which represents our neighborhood and my interests as a citizen. My family is here today to ask for City Council to save historic buildings in Goose Hollow, save public views, and to remind you of ethics problems.
 The ombudsman found huge financial conflicts of interest with West Quadrant Stakeholders Advisory Committee, SAC, members who, as public officials, promoted their own financial interests and advocated for increased heights and relaxed zoning on their own properties or properties they had financial connections to. Residents who attended the West Quadrant meetings repeatedly told staff their concerns that they saw flagrant financial conflicts during the West Quadrant process.
 Planning Bureau staff scornfully dismissed those concerns. One, a developer on the SAC sent emails to staff saying that they forgot to raise height limits on those blocks, which, as it turns out, to be their own properties. Two, a current Planning Commission member who was on SAC had many years of paid work trying to get the parking structure at Southwest 10th and Morrison redeveloped, yet advocated for that redevelopment.
 that redevelopment to be made a West quadrant priority claiming it wasn't a conflict. Three, a developer who owns many properties in goose hollow advocated to remove the required residential overlay, relaxed zoning and raise heights in goose hollow. Uh,
 and benefiting himself. Staff told concerned residents that these weren't conflicts. They clearly were. Conflicted SAC members will gain approximately $50 to $100 million in increased profits because of increased heights they voted to give themselves.
 Planning staff, SAC members, and the Planning Commission ignored the ombudsman's requirement for SAC members to disclose their financial conflicts. You can fix this by refusing to give conflicted SAC members the heights they gained unethically. I'm going on to read my husband's. Our family testified at the Planning Commission. We were stunned to learn that it didn't matter, that much of the testimony was against these conflicts.
 The commission ignored the outpouring of public testimony and voted to give conflicted SAC members millions of dollars from serving on SAC and steering policy their way. According to the Northwest Examiner, Commissioner Saltzman owns many properties in the central city but did not recuse himself from voting to approve.
 to approve the West Codrant plank, and he is not recusing himself right now from voting on CC-2035, which will increase the value of his properties by millions by raising heights. He is violating state ethics laws. Portlanders are repulsed by this way of doing business. Please vote for Commissioner Pritz's amendment to lower bridgehead heights, which will help address –
 heights that were gained unethically. Other propers gained heights unethically as well. We also believe public views should not be privatized. They should be kept public. Please vote for the mayor's amendment so that they will save views at the Japanese Garden and save views at Salmon Spring Fountain.
 The Planning Commissioning Chair said she didn't think there was a view of Mount Hood at Salmon Springs Fountain. That's interesting. She lives in Lake Oswego and apparently doesn't know this basic fact about Portland. Yet she heads the commission that votes on heights and views.
 Sam and Springs Fountain is visited by thousands of tourists each year who add millions of dollars to our economy and thousands of jobs. You will only need to lower heights on 18 properties to save the last view of Mount Hood from the riverbank. Please keep at this view from being privatized. We also need amendments for other views. Daniel? Yes. Can you start the clock for me again? Okay. Okay.
 I'm Daniel Salomon, a Section 8 renter, who feels very proud that the Goose Hollow Board is one-half low-income and one-half renters. My board makes sure that my voice isn't silenced or made invisible. The Rose Garden simply requires adding the downtown skyline as a focal point on all views and listing all as prohibited. No heights need to be lowered.
 The view of Mount Hood from the Vista Bridge will only be of the snowcap. We're asking to save today's view which shows a beautiful contrast between the low slopes and the snowcap. The Vista Bridge is one of Portland's most important views. It will only take lowering heights 48 feet on eight properties to save today's view.
 We love the views of the Vista Bridge, which can be seen from many parts of the city. Please reject this draft, which allows buildings to block the bridge. Please lower heights for four blocks next to the bridge and keep the current view corridor from I-405 down southwest Jefferson so that the views of the bridge won't be privatized.
 For those of us who aren't rich enough to live in a building blocking views of the bridge, we shouldn't have to stand in the middle of the street underneath the bridge to see the arch.
 Please save nine historical buildings in Goose Hollow by lowering heights on these properties along and near Southwest Morrison. These include the Timothy Center and the Historic Concordia Club, a Jewish social organization formed when Jews weren't allowed membership in the Mack and Arlington Club. The 325 feet heights will incentivize their demolition. Please lower maximum heights to 125 feet.
 Photos of the views and all of these requests are listed in the Gusalo Photo League letter, which we've given you copies of. Please vote for the average people and not to those who stand to gain the most financially. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. The next three are Roger Leachman, Patty Tillett, and Dan Petrosich. Thank you.
 They'll be followed by 116, 117, and 118, Jackie Peterson-Lumas, Patricia Gardner, and Tina Wysinski. Would you like to start? Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you. My name is Roger Leachman. I live on Southwest Vista, and I serve on the board of the Goose Hollow Foothills League.
 The neighborhood's concerns are clear from our detailed letter and from the testimony of the citizens. I would point out that we are elected by these neighborhood citizens to serve them. We put in hundreds of hours. We don't get paid, and we don't have paid staff. This is grassroots democracy at its most local. For such unpaid advocacy, we get to be called racist NIMBYs to answer legal threats from a city-funded group.
 to be publicly denigrated and defamed by the president of neighbors West Northwest, and more and more. But, bottom line, none of us get millions from our advocacy, and we don't have conflicts of interest.
 bottom line. The absentee property owners, architects, developers, and real estate interests stand to gain millions by their advocacy and had manifest conflicts of interest in their domination of the West Quadrant recommendations. I'm not going to belabor that further. You've heard so much already. The view corridors
 that so many have testified about are a public benefit and are iconic, as many have said. But in the existing recommendations, the corridors, as Bill Failing said last Thursday, are being manipulated for developers' benefit so that private profit trumps the public good. Pun intended, because it's certainly a concept. It's certainly a concept he would endorse. It's not hard...
 It would not be difficult or far-reaching to make the adjustments to maintain the public good. A rich few would still make millions, just some millions less. So please do the right thing. Otherwise, it would be like the original planned and executed view from Jefferson's Rotunda to the Blue Ridge. Gone, gone, gone. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Councillors. I'm Paddy Tillett, and I'm appearing on behalf of the Parks Board. We submitted a letter on the 5th of September, and I'll just sit on the highlights of that.
 As you probably know, the Board has previously testified in support of the Central City Plan 2035 and generally supports the plan as now drafted. We reiterate our support for the goals and policies to protect and enhance parks, recreational facilities and open spaces and we strongly support the urban design concept to reconnect with the Willamette River. It's a very important aspect of the plan.
 We also support the recognition of the distinct characteristics of each of the ten districts in the central city plan. Among the goals and policies that the board calls out for specific support are enhancing the Willamette for people and wildlife, the concept of the green loop,
 complete neighbourhoods including parks, open spaces and recreational opportunities, promoting healthy and active living, and expanding the open space network through signature open spaces, new parks, open spaces, and expanded opportunities in existing parks. In terms of code amendments, the Parks Board endorses the proposed revisions
 to Section 510.115 regarding additional uses allowed in open parks.
 open space zones. The board worked closely with Parks and Recreation and with the Planning and Sustainability staff to reach an amicable agreement on how to deal with this. The notion is to allow limited retail sales and services in parks within the central city zoned open space. They're used in a very different way from parks elsewhere in the city.
 And an important aspect of this is the confidence of people who are using the park that there are eyes of the public upon them. So that's something particularly important. The other points I shall have to leave to the letter. Very good. Thank you, sir, for your testimony. Good afternoon. I love your accent. Hi. I'm Dan Petrusich.
 And I'm pleased to be here, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm a managing member of Jefferson Holdings, and we own a property at Southwest Jefferson and 18th Street. I'd like to address the testimony of the Goose Hollow Foothills League.
 GHFL claims that I used my position as the Portland Business Alliance representative on the West Quadrant Stakeholders Committee to influence the decision to increase the height limit on our property. This claim is not only false, but would have been impossible. The SAC Committee's last meeting was in September of 2014. The staff solicited comments on scenic resources, including the Vista Bridge, more than six months later in the spring of 2015.
 West Quadrant SAC and Scenic Resources Review occurred at different times and had different purposes. I submitted Jefferson Holdings' first comments on May 29, 2015. Please ask the staff to verify the dates. GHFL wanted to rely on the images they created. These images are misleading and inaccurate, showing a building on our site at 130 feet.
 The staff and PSC approved a maximum height of only 75 feet. Please rely on the staff images that show the heights along Jefferson that will result in development that's both consistent with Goose Hollow character and meets the city's goal for increased density. Our 100-year-old unreinforced masonry warehouse is directly across the street from the Max Light Rail Station, which is an ideal site for transit-oriented development.
 The proposed height would allow a 5 over 1 residential structure, which is very common in the central city and Goose Hollow. And by the way, TriMet has endorsed our height adjustment. The current board stands in opposition to development, business, and property rights. The most recent example is their appeal to press blocks and their continued attempt to significantly lower height limits that have existed for more than 30 years.
 Please move forward with CC 2030 plan as written. Thank you. Thank you. It's getting kind of late, so I'm not sure. That's probably why I don't understand what you just said, but it sounded like you said that the height wasn't increased and yet there's more density. So is it still 75 feet? Was there a change in height on that property? Yes. It went from most of the site's 100 feet, part of it's 45 feet, and they raised it 30 feet to 75 feet.
 Okay, and that's the piece that's in dispute that may or may not affect the view to the bridge. Is that correct? I understand that correctly. Thank you. All right, can I do a time check, Carla? And thank you for your testimony. How many people do we still have remaining? I show 20. Okay. So there is no way we're going to get through all 20 because we lose our quorum fairly quickly.
 Why don't we take testimony for about 10 more minutes? Is that okay with folks? Do we have a quorum for the next 10 minutes? So let's do two more sets of three, and then we'll hold it over. The next three are Jackie Peterson-Lumas, Patricia Gardner, and Tina Wyszynski. And then the last three will be Gwen Baldwin, Susan Pierce, and Emma Pellett.
 And colleagues, I'll let you stew on this. What I'd like to do is continue the hearing when we're done until September 20th on all of these items, 1022, 1023, and 1024.
 but only for people who signed up to speak as of today. In other words, if people who are signed up today don't get the opportunity to speak, then they will be the ones who have the opportunity to speak on September 20th. We'll obviously keep the written record open, but that would be my recommendation out of respect to people who have been very, very patient and have signed up and have been here and have not had the opportunity to testify. And would that be in the afternoon? That would be...
 5, I don't know. 3 p.m. 3 p.m. time certain on September 20th. So I have an existing obligation at 6 that I need to get to if I can't get out of it. We should, well, it sounds like we should be able to. Yeah, good. Okay.
 All right. Good afternoon. Okay. My name is Patty Gardner. The first part of my testimony is on behalf of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association. I was personally honored to represent the PD&A throughout the West Quadrant Plan seven years. Was it really seven years of effort there? In general, we're supportive of many of the proposals for the Pearl District, including the Green Loop, which was approved.
 vitally important for all the people in our neighborhood as well as the commuters who come from the east side and all the
 all the diverse elements who used the Broadway bridge to get into the city. We are also in favor of the elimination of the bonuses within the 13th Avenue Historic District as well as the elimination of most of the bonuses including the addition of the historic resource bonus and the affordable housing bonus.
 There were a few items that needed some adjustment. I've put in a letter, which you can read in detail. But specifically, we went through the North of Lovejoy process, and there were some things that were supposed to come south of Lovejoy. This is the process that we were told would make that happen. And so we're trying to get those elements south of Lovejoy to affect the whole parole process.
 So on a personal note, I've been listening to all of the testimony, so I feel very much for you.
 And one thing I just wanted to think, I've been thinking about, this is a 25-year plan, and I have heard a lot of fear, and fear of change and fear of things that are coming up. And I just want to keep that thought process in mind. This is a 25-year plan, and it's crucial to the health of the city. We need a strong urban core. And I keep asking myself, if you cannot build urbanity in this central city, where are you going to build it?
 And the price of not embracing an urban future is that Portland's going to sprawl. And I'm sorry, but a traditional Portland block on the east side is about 30 units, a traditional block.
 The Pearl District block is 200 units, you know, 150 to 200. That's a big difference, and that's what you get with extra FAR and height. So I urge you to keep all the generations in mind and keep that long vision ahead when you're looking at this, that there is a long window ahead of you, and there are a lot of generations to come who need a strong urban Portland. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you very much. My name is Tina Wyszynski. I'm a resident of Goose Hollow, and I am the president of the Stadium District Business Association, which has boundaries and location in a good part of Goose Hollow. I'm here today to represent the businesses in the Stadium District and to say that as an organization, we fully support the current Central City 2035 plan as it is written. We owe it to the neighborhood. We owe it to the city, and we owe it to the region.
 So much public investment has been made in Goose Hollow, in the three max lines and in the stadium, it would be unpardonable not to maximize the number of people living and working and walking around and bike riding in this area. One last thing. As people push you to consider lowering height limits, I think you should know that several of these folks live in buildings that according to their suggestions would not be able to be built. They can live in tall buildings, but no one else can.
 Limiting heights in this area also limits the number of people who can move into this area and live in this area, and that seems unfair. Thank you. Thank you. Gwen Baldwin left. Yeah, you were in the last group, Gwen, sorry. And we'll go with Susan Pierce and Emma Palette. Okay, thank you. How about Haython Toulon?
 Good afternoon. You can go ahead and start. Thank you. May I re-alert, Commissioners? For the record, I'm Gwen Baldwin here tonight representing Oregon LOCUS, part of Smart Growth America's developer and investor coalition. LOCUS supports the overall approach of Central City 2035. The development framework is more objective and supports walkable urban housing and job growth, and that's a good thing.
 so long as there is certainty that the projects can actually get the additional FAR outlined in the framework and regulatory layers and costs are not amended in. The current FAR transfer requirement is what introduces uncertainty into whether a project can actually get the additional density needed to build beyond the base FAR and achieve the affordable housing and seismic support for historic properties the plan prioritizes, and we support it.
 Locust has submitted written testimony that goes into more detail, but Council should add certainty and remove the barrier of requiring site-to-site transfer for additional FIR by simply allowing FIR up to the height limit. In contrast, testimony given at the September 7th hearing would remove all certainty if landmarks and design review processes could remove height in FIR on a case-by-case basis.
 Simply put, the risk of FAR and height reductions during the review phase would directly conflict with the goal of maximizing affordable housing production, and Oregon LOCUS opposes any reductions to the FAR height through design or landmarks review. And because Oregon LOCUS supports making affordable housing and seismic resiliency bonuses work, we urge Council to maintain the minimum FAR proposed in the draft and not increase minimums.
 It's important that Council addresses the current uncertainty within the plan and ensures that future policies align with the density and height called for in the plan, especially when updating standards and guidelines. Thank you, and Oregon Locust looks forward to working with you all in finalizing this important guiding plan for the central city. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for having us here. I'm Susan Pierce. I'm chair of Hossford Abernathy Neighborhood District Dislocation, or HAND. I have brought hard copies. I sent an electronic copy, but I'm not at all convinced that it got to you. I just want to give some highlights. Thanks.
 We look forward to mixed income, mixed commercial, and residential development in the Clinton Triangle, and we think that that would be an excellent place for the 18% set-aside of affordable, low-income housing designated for the urban renewal area district. We very much advocate for...
 maintenance and designation of sight lines both east and west if buildings must be we don't want a big blank wall so if buildings must be tall we would advocate for slender so there's plenty of space between them for air sight and light
 I'm also a member of the Central Eastside Transportation and Parking Management Committee. My hand is very much in favor of the green loop, but we're not at all convinced that 7th Avenue is the best alignment and more conversation needs to take place. We want to be at the table. I think 7th Avenue is a figment of Peabody's imagination.
 We advocate for safety on 11th and 12th Avenues, and I think some conversation could take place for mixed modal bikes, peds, and freight. Is that the end? No.
 For somebody it was. Yeah, somebody's calling in. Yeah, where's the moon door? We're very pleased to hear that TriMet thinks that we have funding for the Gideon crossing bridge that was lost in the Orange Line protection. That's very important for safety as well as connectivity between the neighborhoods overall.
 There's that big barrier that are all those railroad tracks. That was the end, right? That was the end. Great. Thank you for your testimony. You are welcome. And I'll let you read for the details. Thank you, Mr. Toulon. Mayor Wheeler and council members, thank you for your time. I'll keep this short since I'm the last one for the day. But I am Hytham Toulon. I own 306 Southeast Yvonne Street. I am the managing partner of OSB Toulon Management.
 I'm here to talk to you today about the view corridor restriction from the Tilikum Crossing, and it's taking my property from a 250-foot bonus down to 60 feet. This challenge, with the existing constraints that the site has,
 from environmental and geotechnical will make the site virtually undevelopable, leaving it feral at the time. If you look at the second and third pages of the handout you have, it shows the site and the constraints proposed in the 2035 plan. Along with the environmental overlay that encompasses more than half the site,
 I will not be able to find a suitable spot to build on it. However, with more planning and not taking a one-size-fits-all approach, we can connect the Greenway Trail to the Springwater Corridor. We can build a public beach and public park on the site and find a permanent home for Portland Boathouse as well.
 And that's pretty much where I'd like to be right now and keep it short. Wise man. Thank you. Very good. Thank you for your testimony. Colleagues, there are only two people remaining from last week's list. Can we call them and see if they're here? Allison Reynolds and Evan Heitman.
 I just want to say you have my favorite graffiti wall in the city. I just took a boat tour, and I took pictures of it. And our plan is to maintain the seawall, so I would like to make it an art installation in the future. So is Allison, I'm sorry, who is the other? Evan Heitman.
 I don't see a bay of lift. Very good. Allison, you get the last word today. This is great. So I'm Allison Reynolds with Perkins Coie. We represent TR PacWest LLC, which owns the PacWest Tower at 1211 Southwest Fifth Avenue in downtown. And we're asking the city council to change the building's base FAR and height limit in order to make this iconic building conforming under the current zoning code.
 So specifically, we're asking for an increase in the building's base FAR from 12 to 1 to 15 to 1, and base height limit from 300 feet to 430 feet.
 The PacWest Tower was originally permitted in 1980 through a variance that allowed its FAR to be 14.2 to 1, and we've confirmed with the city through a zoning confirmation letter that the building was legally constructed within that FAR limit at the time based on the way the city code actually counted floor area at that time.
 Under the way the city currently calculates floor area in a building, which does not include many of these 1980 era exclusions, the FAR is actually close to 15 to 1. And so the current FAR limit is 12 to 1, so the tower is nonconforming. And it is also at 428 feet, which was allowed in 1980, but is nonconforming under the current 300-foot height limit.
 So the FAR limit for this property is especially important to our client because they hope to remodel and modernize the building in a way that will, under the current code, technically add a nominal amount of floor area, such as enclosing some of the existing balconies with glass so they can be used year-round.
 but under the current code limit, our client would first need to true up the building by purchasing almost 120,000 square feet of FAR before it could add even a single foot of floor area to the building. And that is prohibitively expensive, as you can imagine, and needlessly restricts these relatively minor building changes.
 And as you probably know, having compliant FAR in height will also make future sale or refinancing for this building easier, since lenders and insurers often have some serious concerns with nonconformity.
 And you're going to give us the written testimony? I am actually going to submit a letter tomorrow. And that was my question. Since we're carrying over the rest, or I guess am I last and there's no one else left? Well, there were, I think, 14 more people-ish who signed up today. Oh, got it. And we'll get to them next week. So is written testimony due tomorrow still? So here's what I'm proposing to my colleagues since you're prompting. I'm sorry.
 proposing that we continue the hearing to September 20th, 3 p.m., time certain here at Portland City Hall. But that would only be for people who are currently signed up on the list, the people who came and signed up today. I'd like to extend the time for written testimony until Friday, the 22nd of September at 5 p.m., if my colleagues are okay with that strategy. It sounds like they are.
 Yes, Commissioner Fritz will be submitting something in writing that also includes all the exhibits that I referenced. Fabulous. Thank you very much. Very helpful. Very good. Thank you. Once again, this has been very constructive and helpful. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Colleagues, anything else for the good of the order? Thank you, everybody. We are adjourned. I wonder what all the sirens were. There's a lot of music. All the sirens were going. No, I don't know. I didn't get anything. I just got it. Yeah.