At 9.30. Good morning, everybody. This is the September 20, 2017 morning meeting at the Portland City Council. Welcome, everyone. Good morning, everybody. There it is. I got it. Welcome to the September 20 morning session at the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Selksman? Here. Udaly? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Here. Here.
 The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern.
 In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the Council, we must all endeavor to preserve order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everyone feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and also to ensure that decorum is maintained.
 There are two opportunities for public participation. First we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly speak about any subjects they wish to address. These items must be scheduled in advance with the Clerk's Office. Second people may sign up for testimony on the first readings of reports, resolutions and ordinances.
 If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time. Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, council rules require you to disclose that information. If you're here representing an organization, please identify that organization. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light is going to light up, and when your time is done, the red light will come on.
 conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting others' testimony or interrupting during council deliberations, will not be tolerated. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who's disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass.
 If you want to show your support for something, thumbs up is great. If you don't like something, you hear thumbs down. The bottom line is this. It is a shocking day if you agree with everything everybody says at the dais. So let's just be respectful and consider it an opportunity to learn when we hear perspectives and views that are different for our own. So without further ado, Carla, please call the first communications item. Thank you.
 Item 1025, request of Mimi Gurman to address council regarding crosswalks, KKK, and cops. Good morning. Good morning. This is a letter, Mayor, to you. Dear Ted, we're done. Our relationship is over. I can't go on pretending that one day you'll find your balls. You won't. You can't. The cops took them, and they won't let you have them back.
 You're emotionally paralyzed by fear, and I can't be in a relationship with a guy who fears the cops so much he won't even agree to fight for a crosswalk with a proper light on pheasanton, a street just itching to take the life of a kid or a woman in a wheelchair. I can't continue on with this abusive relationship where in your powerlessness you create fear for those more vulnerable than you are to the cops. Shame on you, Ted. I don't fear you. I don't fear the cops.
 You're all a bunch of abusers who need to get run out of town. Hashtag thugs. You're thugs.
 You'd rather spend $200,000 on keeping me at a city hall than you would putting an ADA ramp, parking spot, and elevator in at City Hall just to show your might and muscle over those in need. I get it. I've been punched in the gut by your decision since January, day one of your charade as a mayor who ran on a platform to house the houseless and create police transparency. You abused our houseless with your games and injure and kill our community with your cops.
 This sadistic nature comes out with the lies you tell. I tried to connect with you when people were freezing to death last winter. You showed us then that you were a coward, and worse, a coward with a microphone who did nothing more than tell the abused you were going to help them. They died waiting for help. You are feckless and afraid to move. You can't go back and you can't stand still. If the thunder don't get you, then the lightning will.
 And the KKK fiasco. It started with your refusal to talk about Nazi-Cob Krueger. That's where your fear sets in. We should all be afraid of the KKK, but that fear should charge us forward to get them out of our city. You would prefer to give bus passes to white supremacists so that the members of our community end up slain on our transit system.
 Your attempts at everything have been feeble. The side of you that feigns strength speaks out, but the abused side of you runs away. You are weak. You are powerless to the cops. They know that. We know that. And you know that. But you try to keep a good game face with the Portland liberals who do love you so.
 Look what I did. Look what I did. Well, we're looking, and you've done nothing positive. You even lied to the families whose kids were shot by cops, pretending you'd somehow find the truth, when all you did was give the cops four million bucks on top of their raise for live ammo for target practice. Man, that was cold.
 You've stolen money, directed specifically to house the houseless. You've allowed sweeps in the houseless instead. This is abusive. So Ted, I'm sure you'll accept this Dear John letter. You've seen me as the problem all along. You've laughed in my face. You've thrown me out the door. You've thrown my friends out the door and sprayed their faces with pepper spray. You've lied. You've chastised. You've accused me of being wrong. But I've never been your problem.
 I've only held some answers to your problems, but you chose to beat the hell out of reality and twist this city into a scene from Gotham in Batman and Robin, and you are the Joker. All these deaths are on you. The suffering is on you. There's more, but I'll email it to you since my time is done. I think I get the point. Thank you. Good afternoon. Next item. Item 1026, request of Joe Walsh to address counsel regarding communications. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I would like to ask for some extra time on the ADA because I'm struggling with speech. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh and I represent Individuals for Justice. Sometimes I run into people who ask me why I get so angry at these meetings. Here are just three minutes of my reasons. All five of you...
 think you know more than the people of Portland, and vote against us often. The last mayor and you, Ted Wheeler, react to confrontation by using your gang of cops and G4S thugs against the very people who are on the street trying to bring some comfort to the most vulnerable among us. All of you campaign using sugar words
 But after being elected, you care only for the next election. Betrayal is very high here. Often, when we want to talk about a current event, we can't because you have shut down any important discussion by pre-signing, and communications may take up to six weeks to finally get to speak. Five. We have asked, suggested, and agreed.
 and finally demanded that you spend a week per month on the road. Holy City Council meeting in different parts of the city. Say maybe about 7 p.m. This would allow participation by the working people. You have $258 million by a bond measure, and you were doing nothing until the media did a story on you, lack of even attending meetings.
 Shame on you, Ted Wheeler. We have thousands of people on our streets. The other day, a person asked me an interesting... Oh, the other day, a person gave me an interesting compliment. She said something like this. Joe, I used to think that you were a little bit crazy. But then I started to pay attention to City Hall, and now I know why you are so outraged. You can pass me off as...
 But remember what comes after me is a lot worse than a 75-year-old veteran who believes in nonviolence. The young are much more aggressive than we are. And it would be wise for you to listen to what we say. We ask nothing of you except to do your jobs. I have two more requests for your consideration.
 When a person's offends opinions, we would like them to state for the record if they take any monies from the city, state, federal government. We'd like to know who's being paid and by who. Nonprofits should acknowledge that they come before you to make themselves unemployed. They work to solve and resolve the problem and not perpetuate it. I had to invent a word.
 That explains very smart, decent people doing stupid and evil things. The word is matunumus, and this council is full of matunumai. Thank you, sir. Thank you for your attention. You bet. Thank you. Next item, please. Item 1027, request of Floyd Jones to address council regarding Portland Water Bureau issues. Good morning. Welcome. Thank you.
 Roy Jones with Friends of the Reservoirs. Just a couple of items. I came here on July 19th when you were voting on the procurement item that allowed contracts to be brought up to $500,000 and, in essence, $750,000 because most Water Bureau contracts do increase by 25%, which they're allowed to do without bringing it back to council.
 On that date I also read to you verbatim from the utility board document that said that most projects brought to the utility board are major projects or brought fait accompli. And when I wasn't able to respond after I left, Commissioner Fish, you represented to two of your colleagues and to the cable TV audience that I misrepresented.
 that statement from the Utility Board. I read verbatim. I subsequently sent you all an email. The Utility Board subsequently sent you that very letter, and it was subsequently published in the Tribune. I think it's very sad. The Water Bureau has a long history of attacking citizens who don't support these major projects, and it's really sad to see if a commissioner is following suit.
 I also wanted to speak about the August 2nd vote to add chemicals to our water. And it's really only in an Orwellian world that the water bill can represent to you that there is a public process. We've had big public processes in the past.
 And a downtown room, the Portland Utility Review Board room, filled with Water Bureau PR and absent any public, isn't a public process. An online board where Water Bureau employees are the main people who submit comments isn't a meaningful public process.
 Other utilities, so we are on a countdown. Those of you who were here years ago when we had this hearing, and we kept hearing about the ticking clock. Well, yes, we are now to the end of pure bull run water, and for no good reason. Since that hearing, I've asked twice in writing from the Water Bureau to present me with a document that shows, or just to, not a document, to tell me whether they've sent to you and sent to the utility board documents
 information that substantiates their hypothetical benefits from filtration. They presented that to you and I remember you're laughing at that saying isn't this convenient that the numbers add up to a hundred million dollars. They've not yet answered. It's a simple question. Did you send information to the utility board? Did you send it to City Council?
 And then in August, it wasn't just that vote that was a bad vote. You also voted to give again CH2M Hill another, now they call it not an infrastructure master plan, they call it a supply plan. So this is a 2000 report, MWH Global, CH2M Hill, they outlined their long list of projects for which
 They wish to receive future contracts. Now they're going to get them again, and they've all changed names. So this afternoon or later this morning, you'll see Symantec. That's MWH Global. Jacobs has bought out CH2M Hill. They're not new companies. It's the same corporations that are getting all these contracts.
 The middle class is suffering. You need to do something to lower rates. At the last utility board, they said, no, we're not going to make any changes to our budget to accommodate filtration. That's not what they told you when they were here. So you need to take a look at that. Very good. Thank you. Appreciate your coming in. Next item, please. Item 1028, request of Jimmy Wittenberg to address council regarding control of the city by developers and builders, traffic congestion, and speeding.
 Thanks. Morning, sir. I'm Jim Wittenberg from Portland, mainly the last 50 years, but I have been a few years in other cities around the country, about six other ones. But I'd forgotten I'd signed up for this. I am leaving tomorrow at 8.20 on the Amtrak, and I'll not see you folks again, so you'll be through with me for good. But I have just a few things to say before I go.
 I don't want to forget this. The last mayor was running for office, and something he said in my travels was, he said, I love this city on the back of it.
 And I've never heard any of you say, I love this city. Or maybe you have, but I've never heard it. If I was a commissioner, I'd get up every morning and I'd say, I love this city. I can hardly wait to get to work for it. As much as I'm being paid and as much adulation as I get.
 people in the city, you should love this city. This should be your crowning thing every morning. And that's why I've always loved it. But Charlie, he did some things I didn't like. But at least he said, I love this city. I wish we could all do that. That's my wish for you. Secondly, I found in my closet...
 I'm cleaning out my apartment to be vacant. So things which are really great. There's a cartoon here by Dewsbury, which I really love. It kind of entails my life. This is my best friend up in Seattle, where I'm going to stay tomorrow night. And this is Tom Potter, one of my really good friends, who I helped in his election campaign.
 I bought and ordered my house, the Peace House, and we made cheese and fondue together. I really loved that man and his wife.
 Finally, I've just got a few reasons why I really choose Seattle over Portland to retire, and I may end up in Montana because of my health. Right now I'm falling a lot. I fell three times this week and tore up this shoulder and elbow and right hip. I'm just losing my balance all the time now.
 But the bus system is dangerous in the city. We can see people died recently on it. We need to figure out some way to make it a safer system to ride. Social Security office, it's
 Direct monthly payments to your bank account or you can't get a check anymore? What kind of bull is that? They threatened to arrest me when I protested up there. They brought the police in. Good Lord, what kind of public agency is this? Mayor, I like all of you guys. There's none of you I don't like. I would tell you if I didn't like you, you'd be the first to know. So that's the way I operate. You always know where I stand.
 Finally, the treatment of mental health, the newspapers four days a week. What kind of a one-horse town is this? Finally, the lack of professional sports, no baseball or football. Again, it's the one-horse town. And the infill in housing. It's getting so filled up on the east side, I can barely get to the grocery store. I'm a walker. I have to ride around...
 By bus, and it's a dangerous place to be, I hope I get out of here before I get run over. MLK is a terrible street. Grand are terrible streets. Dictatorian Cross. Broadway is really bad. Broadway and Whitehead are really bad streets. Those are the ones I frequent. That's the ones that I may be killed on. Okay. Thanks. Thank you. Safe travels. Thank you, sir.
 Next item, please. Item 1029, request of Scott Fairstrand to address council regarding the homeless and tolerance. Is Scott here today? Carla, have any items been pulled off the consent agenda? I have had no request. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. First time, certain item, please. Thank you.
 Item 1030, approve funding recommendations made by the Children's Levy Allocation Committee for September 1, 2017 through June 30, 2019. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. The Portland Children's Levy has been in the enviable position of receiving more revenue than we anticipated from our property tax collections. Thank you.
 And we have invested that money in some additional programs that we're pleased today to shine a spotlight on a few of these programs that are new to being supported by the Portland Children's Levy. Since 2002, the levy has strengthened our community by helping thousands of children from birth through college reach their potential. We have done this through increasing children's access to proven programs that provide positive early development.
 school engagement and academic achievement, high school graduation assistance, and family safety and stability services. We are thankful that Portland voters have chosen to make children a priority each time the levy has come before them, creating it in 2002 and overwhelmingly renewing it in 2008 and again in 2013. We're gratified by our community's confidence that the levy is empowering not just children,
 but parents and caregivers to become more skilled at advocating for their children in their classroom and in their lives. Today, Portland Children's Levy Director Lisa Pellegrino is here to ask Council to approve new two-year investments in after-school programs made by the Levy's Allocation Committee, which is the governing body. These investments will run from September this month through June of 2019.
 These investments will provide safe and high-quality after-school, academic, and enrichment programs for students throughout the city. So we're pleased that we can accomplish this with a 5% administrative cap so that 95 cents of every dollar goes directly to proven programs and that the levy receives high grades from our annual independent audits. So now I'll turn it over to our director, Lisa Pellegrino. Thank you, Mr. Seltzer.
 That's good? Okay. There you go. The green light was on, so I thought I was good to go. Good morning, everybody. Nice to see you all again. I am Lisa Pellegrino, as Dan Saltzman introduced me. I'm the director of the Children's Levy. And as Dan noted, the Allocation Committee made the decisions that we're asking you to approve. And just to remind everybody about who sits on the Allocation Committee, Commissioner Saltzman is the chair of the committee and is the representative from city council. Deborah Kofori is the chair of Multnomah County and sits as the elected representative from the county commission.
 Julie Young is the city-appointed citizen rep that sits on the committee. Serena Studemeyer-Wesley is the county-appointed citizen rep that sits on the committee. And last, Mitch Horniker is the appointee of the Portland Business Alliance who holds the fifth seat on the committee. So that's the group of people who made these decisions that we're asking you to approve today.
 As Commissioner Saltzman said, these additional grants were made because we had more revenue than anticipated, and that revenue accrued over time. The committee came together and has made a variety of allocations you've approved, and this latest set they decided to run a grant round for additional after-school programs because after-school programs are the most requested. We get about six times the request for the level of money that we offer for after-school programming whenever we let grants for after-school. So it's the...
 Typical ratio was 3 to 1, after school is 6 to 1. So it just goes to show that there's tremendous need out there for after school programming and there's tremendous demand. The committee elected to pilot a two-step process in making these grants. They did a letter of interest process where grant, prospective grantees could submit a letter of interest and then be asked to submit a full application. We received approximately 23 letters of interest and 13 were asked to submit full applications.
 The committee decided to pilot this process because the levies funding application is a pretty heavy lift for many organizations. It takes a lot of resources to complete it. So this allows people to kind of test their idea and gives the committee a chance to have a little bit longer process to consider the different possible grantees.
 So of the 13 applicants that the committee reviewed, the all submitted applications, they were scored by volunteer reviewers. The committee looks at the scores that the reviewers present, and they also consider the geographic location of programs, the population served, the needs addressed, and whether or not programs are culturally specific. And after considering all 13 applications, they agreed to fund seven of them. And there's the list of them, and it's also attached to your paperwork there.
 We have a number of them here ready to present and tell you a little bit about their programs. Go ahead and see the full list of everybody. I'm happy to answer any questions about process if there's any questions, and otherwise we do have folks here to tell you a little bit about some of the programs that were funded. Colleagues? Looks like you're off the hook for now. I know I'm the least interesting person. The programs are much more fun. Thank you. And now we'll be hearing from four of these new after-school programs, El Programa Hispano-Catholico, REAP,
 Kairos PDX, and Latino Network. So I'd like to invite El Programa's program coordinator, Adriana Lopez, who will be introducing some of their participants. Welcome. Good morning, everyone. So I'm the program coordinator for the Puentes Mentoring Program.
 And first of all, we're going to say thank you so much for giving us the opportunity to partner with the city on this program. We have this program for several years, and we're working with high schoolers and middle schoolers. But this time we have the opportunity to serve elementary kids, so we're very grateful for that.
 On top of that, with the situation and the political environment, I think it's very important for us to be recognized by the city and say there's a need and there's a population that needs services and support. So I don't want to talk a lot about what I do, but I do want to introduce a couple of people to have received the services and will be receiving the services. And if I can introduce them. Bring them on up.
 The first one is Pedro, so he can introduce himself. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I just want to say thank you so much for giving me the opportunity to speak about this program. I myself am a product, per se, of after-school extended day supporting from the Brown-Weiss panel. I started back in high school trying to fit in, trying to figure out what to do after school. I had a lot of choices, some of them not so good. But I decided to mentor kids because I was given the opportunity to start coaching soccer.
 From there I started to get involved in a lot of different ways supporting academic enrichment activities through the summer programs as well. And I got to the point where I believed in the program so much that my sister was also a part of the program. She went through it herself.
 So now that I've graduated college and I've been able to keep on giving back to the community, I've decided to work for this organization one more time and really continue the values and the mission, what they saw, and open the doors to students like myself. So now I get to do that on a daily basis for other students. So I wanted to make sure you let you know a little bit of what's going on within the community. This is something that's very much needed. There's a lot of support needed for these students.
 There's also a lot of work being done. So I really want to appreciate some of the people in the room, like Patrisa, for example, who works with a lot of kids and a lot of families. And I think this is going to be a great opportunity for the community to work with the families that are involved.
 primary school level because it's going to be a lot of different things that they can be engaged in a lot of understanding of new systems for those families so it's going to be a really great opportunity I'm help me help my family and help a lot of kids I know that now I've graduated high school and continue to go to college and do get back at some point another thank you thank you thank you very much the other person at family it's a mom Reina
 And we were trying to get a couple of students, but since it's the beginning of the school year, we didn't want to miss classes. Right, right. Hola, buenos dias. Mi nombre es Reina Alvarado. Good morning. My name is Elvia Alvarado. Aquí estoy para hablar de mi hija que está en 10 grado. El programa de Puente es muy importante y yo quiero que siga ese programa.
 I'm here to talk about my daughter who is in 10th grade and that she is involved in that program and I want to let you know about that program and how important it is for her. Because she has been a great help to that program. She has improved a lot. She is very happy that she was in that program and I want her to continue to give more funding to the
 And she is very happy with the program. She has gotten so much better. She's very happy that she's in it. And I want you guys to know that and to encourage you to go ahead and allocate more funds for this program because I want all students to have this opportunity that she is having because she's very, very happy to be in it.
 I love that I'm making a mention of the end I keep on and this are called program I did point a less well I'm primaria easy study emotion not a time a pocket a statement that they've got a lot of time they are not
 aprender a leer, aprender a hacer la matemática y todas otras actividades después de la escuela. Y yo quiero de mi parte que siga dando suficiente fondo para toda la escuela y me gustaría que extendiera más ese programa en otra escuela para que pueda ayudar más niños. Gracias.
 I was also told that there is another program that they're going to be doing for elementary school children, and I think that is wonderful. This is going to help the children with math and different things, and I wish that you would allocate more funds so that all the children in this school can participate in this program because I really believe that that would make a difference for the children. I want you to know how important it is and how much it's going to impact all those families that are being supported through these programs in the school.
 Porque eso le va a ayudar mucho al estudiante porque hay algunos niños que entran en primer grado, en segundo grado, y ellos no saben leer, no saben así. Y con este programa, después de la escuela, los mentores le van a ayudar bastante para que ellos sigan mejorando más. Y ya cuando ya están en su ocho grado, nueve grado, ya se están mejorando. Porque mi hija, la de diez grado, ella cuando estuvo con programa de puente, ella...
 And I think that this is going to help the children. Like children come in through the first or second grade, and they don't know how to read or they also lack in math skills. And this is going to really help them to support them so that they have those skills that they need so they can excel in school. Just like my daughter, that she's in 10th grade, she struggled. And now that she's in this program, that really helped her to become better and be a better student. And that is going to help all the students to do better in school.
 And as another program, my daughter, the 10th grade, she is in another program, AVE, and through the bridge, she was in the AVE program, and it is also helping her a lot. And I think that more than anything, she is continuing with the program.
 And my daughter, too, she's in a program called AVID, the one that's in 10th grade. And that program, as well as the other program, Bridge, it really helped her. And I think that those two programs together, you know, have really helped her accomplish a lot. And so I really do think that these programs will help the students to do better.
 And thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. And I just want to say one last thing, that this is not only an after-school program. It's a cultural-specific program, and we work with the entire family, and we have an impact in the entire community, not only the students. Thank you. Thank you, Adriana. Thank you, El Programa, for being here. Next, we have REAPS, Anderson Dubois, and Kali Self.
 All right, good morning. Morning. And thank you for your time. So I'm Anderson Du Bois, this is Kaylee Self, and this is Lindsay Perez. And we run the Reflections Program at over five different sites. And so in a sec we'll have Lindsay talk a little bit about her experience in the program. But the Reflections Program is a school time program that promotes leadership.
 We were working to elevate our students into places of leadership. And so this was our during the school day program. And Kaylee will talk about our after school program in a sec. But our motto is to prepare the next wave of leaders for the future now. And so we will have Lindsay talk a little bit about her experience. Good morning. My name is Lindsay Chavez Perez. I'm a fourth grader at Oliver Elementary School.
 I've been in the REAP program for about a year now. It has taught me so many things, like to do better in class and to respect, to always respect others and to have discipline. And I've been practicing my patience well.
 Something that I didn't reap, and I always respect them. How did I grow? Well, how you see me now. I respect my elders, and I have been very happy, and I've been a role model for others. Thank you. Thank you. Wonderful. Could you suspend the rules and give her a hand? Yeah, good job. Thank you.
 And this is her first time coming into City Hall, and so that's part of what we do, offering opportunities for students to really stand up and extend their voice out. And those are the words that she prepared for you guys today. Maybe one day you could sit here or there. Thank you.
 Thank you again for your time this morning. My name is Kaylee Self, and I am the site coordinator at Park Lane Elementary School, which is in the Centennial School District. And as a native Portlander, I have definitely noticed the migration of students of color from the inner city areas of Northeast Portland into the Centennial School District. So it's been a pleasure and an honor for me personally to serve those students and serve that community as a member of that community.
 Secondly, I'd just like to say that it's so encouraging for Lindsay to be here and to see democracy in action, to see our community activists and leaders in our community speak on the things that they're passionate about. And lastly, I hope to see faces and genders like Lindsay represented at your commission right now, because we definitely have gaps in that and representation of students of color and people of color in this community.
 Last off, I'd like to say that we are so thankful to the Portland Children's Levy for this additional funding. There is definitely a need in this community. And although we have made great strides with our Reflections Program, which first and foremost is a disciplinary program, so students who we see are often experiencing conflict, whether it be in the classroom with their teachers or their staff,
 And what we're trying to do is to promote a restorative justice model. So that is to end patterns and build leadership in students like Lindsay. And as you can see, she's made a complete turnaround. And she is here representing that growth and that change that we promote in students.
 Moving forward, this extended programming is going to do lots for the Centennial community. And we are so excited to provide this extended programming to make culturally relevant programming part of our daily lives.
 daily after-school programming, as well as providing not only academic supports, but family supports, providing opportunities for students to see leaders in their community that look like them and can mentor them to the next step. So again, I want to acknowledge that Lindsay is going to be a leader of the future and for the next wave of leaders now, and I hope to see her behind the desk where you are now. Thank you.
 Great. Thank you. Thank you very much. And we look forward to it. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you very much, Reep. Our next program is Kairos PDX, and we have Zalika Gardner, principal from Kairos PDX. Welcome. Good morning, everybody. I'm Zalika Gardner. I'm co-founder and director of education at Kairos. I want to tell you real quickly some things about our program, and then I have some other people that are going to come up and share as well.
 And we do definitely come in gratitude. We're four years old, so we've been, we're a charter school program. We serve, currently right now, we serve kindergarten to fourth. When we're full grown, we'll serve kindergarten to fifth grade. We specifically are working to anchor the Albina community. We're about 73% kids of color, mostly African American, and mixes thereof. Parents are very specific about their choice to come to Kairos. Our mission is to close the achievement and opportunity gaps that exist here in the city around race.
 And toward that end, so academically, we have some innovation and things that we do in the program itself. One of them is to really attend to the whole child.
 So we do believe that academics needs to be rigorous and full of relationship and all those things that we know work for our children. But we also believe that in order for a child to come out strong and ready to lead, they need to have a really firm foundation academically, socially, emotionally, and culturally. So we're really specific about teaching toward, assessing for, and working on growth in all of those areas.
 And to do so, we partner with families. And one thing that we've heard from the very beginning of our program is the need for that extended after-school care. Like, it's just a very present need that we, with our current funding model, we're not able to make happen for them. So we're really grateful that through the Children's Lobby, we're able to now begin to make that happen. And we're excited that we're able to do it within the context of STEM, which is where we're really heading, because we really do believe that the achievement gap is really based in opportunity. Okay.
 And wanting to make sure that those opportunities are available for all children in our city and in our school. So I have Lydia, who's going to share a little bit as a parent, and Cottrell, who's going to share a little bit as a community member. And we should come in gratitude. Thank you for supporting our program. Thank you.
 So as she stated, my name is Lydia. My daughter has been in Cairo since kindergarten. And I have had the opportunity to watch my daughter become a leader. She's in third grade now. We went to Florida last year.
 on vacation and my daughter was intrigued, one, because the humidity, because she had never left Portland besides going to Seattle and different places like that, but to go down south and the humidity was overtaking her so she thought she was gonna pass out. She eventually figured out she wasn't. I told her to start breathing because she will pass out. But she was more intrigued with all the animals that were everywhere. She was able to catch a gecko.
 and was able to explain everything about this gecko, like from the feet being sticky so it could stay on the tree, and that's the reason why the feet are sticky, so it can climb up the trees. Like she explained everything. And I definitely want to say that's because of Kairos, because she is a leader at Kairos. She's not only a leader in Kairos, she's a leader in her community.
 I can honestly say that I appreciate what my daughter has learned. I'm also the chairperson for the family council for Kairos, and I serve on that board.
 particular platform because I want to see our families grow and I also want to make sure that our children are included in everything that all PPS children are included in because we are a part of PPS. Even though we are a charter school, we are still a part of the Portland Public School District as well as
 This program will help me as a working parent be able to make sure that my daughter is somewhere safe Somewhere where she can continue to learn about science and things like that Because that is what she loves to do. Not only did she catch a gecko. She caught a frog She was attempting to catch a snail and I was like, okay you're done Done enough catching up the animals and so but the
 the fact that she can be who she is and explore science and do different things like that, not just science and math and English or anything that she wants to do. At Kairos, they teach our children that they can be anything that they want to be in this world. And so I want to say thank you for allowing us to be a part of this.
 But also thank you for funding this program and for allowing children of color to be successful in school as well. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Cottrell White, and...
 I'm just pleased to be here and see something that's being supported that is really a good, outstanding program. How do I know? I've worked with kids for over 40 years. Now, don't tell anybody, but it's been over 40 years.
 think that I know what a program, a good solid program is. And I'm real pleased that you decided to fund them and I hope you continue to fund them. Also, I want you to know that I'm not paid by anybody, so I'm here in my own volition. Thank you, sir. And I'll turn this over to Sid. Good morning. I'm Sid Burt.
 I've been in education in Portland since 1969. I retired from Portland Public Schools in 2003. Since that time, I've done a little teaching at Concordia and Mount Hood Community College, training new teachers and doing some diversity work. When I heard about Kairos, I was excited. I was excited.
 Because one of the things that's been sort of a passion is how do we close what's been known as the racial achievement gap? And then they call it the opportunity gap now. But it's been there at least since 1968 that I'm aware of. And Kairos has that as a mission. On the way in today, I asked one of the parents standing there, what is it do you like about this program?
 And he said, he just sort of gestured with his hands, and he said this. And it took me a few minutes, and so I said, what? He says, I like the fact that my child can come to school and see other students that look like her. And this has been something that we really need to do, have schools that are designed for kids who are generally underrepresented in education.
 They're good students, but they're not well represented. And I think Kairos works on that. There's one other little thing I'd like to throw in here, and that is that so often we like to discipline kids. And what we call discipline generally means punishment. Kairos is trying to avoid that definition of discipline.
 It's training, it's education, and it's helping children learn to be successful. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, and thank you, Kairos, and congratulations. And then lastly, we'll hear from Latino Network Executive Director Carmen Rubio. Commissioner, while they're coming up, if I could just make a comment with regard to Kairos. I know there's some discussion about the location.
 of Kairos, and I want you to know that I have sent or am in the process of sending a letter to the school board expressing my support for the continued location of Kairos at Humboldt. So I want you to know we're investing in this program. The results of the program are very, very good, and I don't want to see the school board do anything inadvertently that would derail the good progress that you've already made. We've talked a lot about this achievement gap issue,
 and it seems that it would be the wrong time and the wrong thing to do to uproot this program. So I want you to know I stand with you, and I will be working to encourage those on the school board to stand with you as well. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Carmen Rubio, and I'm the Executive Director of Latino Network. And I'm here with my colleague, Joel Cisneros, who's our Director of School-Based Programs at Latino Network. And our mission is to transform the lives of youth and families and communities in Oregon. And we do this through very high-quality programs and dedicated staff. And most of our staff are bilingual, bicultural, and a strong belief in community self-determination.
 We're in two counties and in 35 schools, and we serve nearly 6,800 youth and adults a year. And my team and I believe that this work is a privilege and an honor for us to do every single day.
 And I want to begin by expressing my appreciation to the staff of the Children's Levy and the Allocation Committee for all the tireless hours that they put into this work. And we know this very rigorous process ensures that our tax dollars are funding the highest quality and most effective programs. And so we're very incredibly honored to be considered among the company of the people that we heard today. That was really wonderful.
 One of our core values is our dedication to complete and equitable education. And we currently have programming across the county aimed at preparing youth for success and to become college and career ready through culturally responsive and culturally specific programming and interventions.
 Through our programs, we are working from students from pre-K all the way to 12th grade. And our data shows that we are facilitating long-lasting and positive change. For example, last year, 98% of our 12th graders enrolled in our after-school programs graduated and were enrolled in college or career technical programs. And so today, PCL funding will allow Latino Network to deepen its commitment to youth across the city, especially in the high-opportunity areas of East Portland.
 Our after-school project focuses on young students, and a number of them being English language learners, and particularly those attending kindergarten through third grade across three schools. And so I will turn it over to my colleague, Joel, to talk a little bit about the specific interventions and the outcomes that we expect. Thank you.
 All right, so thank you again. So Joel Cisneros, so our program is going to focus, like Carmen said, in our after-school program setting with K-3, and particularly promoting executive functioning skills, which are the building blocks for the cognitive and social capacities of lifelong learning. In order to achieve this goal, our program will pivot on the nationally recognized curriculum, Second Step.
 And Second Step promotes self-regulation skills, social-emotional competence, and school connectedness in program participants. Youth participating in our program will receive the four core components of Second Step, which are developing skills for learning, teaching empathy, emotional management, and problem-solving strategies. So what we know is if we can help those students be able to self-regulate and be able to have those basic building blocks, they will achieve academically.
 Our goal is to use instructor data as well as teacher data in order to measure effectiveness of the program. And we plan to reach 60 students per year with 20 students at each school site.
 So that's just a little bit about our program. If you have any questions, we're open to those. But we just want to say thank you for investing in this really critical service. This is truly changing and giving opportunity to our most vulnerable children. So thank you. Thank you, Carmen and Joel. Appreciate it. Thank you. So I want to thank all the program participants who came here to testify about how these programs are transforming lives. Thank you.
 And this investment you're about to vote on represents $3 million invested in seven high-quality after-school programs. And we're very grateful to the work that these programs do on behalf of children and family of the city of Portland. And I would urge approval. Could I ask one more question of Lisa? Could you just come back up for one moment, please?
 So, Lisa, during public testimony on prior matters, the question came up about the salaries and expenditures of nonprofit organizations. Could you tell us when the selection committee is discussing various nonprofits, what is the conversation around things like overhead? Do you have standards? Do you have comparators? How do you address those issues? Sure.
 We limit, so each grant proposal submits a budget along with their proposal to the amount of staffing that they want to cover to be able to deliver the program. There's usually also an administrative cost to delivering any program, and we limit that administrative cost to 15%.
 So that's sort of the upper end. Not everybody takes that full 15%. So sometimes that is an element that reviewers will note, is that this program can be delivered perhaps a bit cheaper. So that's, I mean, it weighs in, but I wouldn't say it's necessarily decisive, since we set a cap on how much they can claim. And then it's my understanding you don't necessarily just hand over grant money. Then there is a continual conversation about these types of issues. There's an engagement process.
 Oh, yes. Could you describe that briefly? Yes. So each contract is negotiated and each budget has been approved for the – so that goes through a staff vetting process before we make the grant. Then people have to collect a lot of data, most of which is not very fun for them, but they do anyway. So we track sort of five major metrics for all programs. We're looking at are they meeting the goals for the numbers of kids that they reach?
 Are they meeting the goals for the level of participation that we're expecting? So we want students to show up for this program. It's not enough just that they came twice, right? So we're tracking the level of attendance. We're tracking the outcomes. So every grantee sets outcomes for their program, and they have to have a way to measure it, and we give them assistance in figuring out how to do that. So they have to report to us annually about outcomes, and we assess that. And we also look at staff turnover, right?
 because that is a major issue in program quality. In addition, we provide other supports for quality improvement in each of the program areas, so folks have access to some assistance to improve quality on a day-by-day, like youth development, program delivery, or how you coach staff to be a good supervisor so you retain your staff, those kinds of supports. So we're monitoring that and reporting that on an annual basis to the allocation committee that looks at all of those questions.
 grant assessments and then before we would renew a grant or consider it again, we would look at that cumulatively over time. Thank you. I appreciate that clarification. Colleagues, any other questions while she's up here for now? Very good. Thank you. Public testimony? I believe we have at least one. Joe Walsh and I think Pedro Fartan already spoke. Yes. Very good. Mr. Walsh, come on up. Good morning. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice and
 We fully support this program, obviously, if you know anything about us. But there was a question that came up, and this is a question. We listened to sessions yesterday, and we realized that you're going to have a problem down the line somewhere with the federal government and funding. And we're concerned that these programs that are outstanding, and again, let me say, we love this program, and...
 If that happens and the feds start to cut the funds, we usually criticize you for having too much in reserve, but we're cautioning you that that's going to happen one way or the other. Either we're going to have a financial disaster with this group in Washington, or it's just going to happen because Mother Earth is just really mad at us at the moment.
 And these expenditures for hurricanes and earthquakes is going to eventually get to us. So we're concerned that if you create these programs and you fund them and you expand them, please take it with the thought that the feds may cut your funding. And what do you do then?
 Are you going to guarantee these kids a continuation of the program? We would fight you tooth and nail before we let you cut these programs, but often you don't pay attention to us, so I'm just cautioning you. I haven't heard anything today that gives us any feeling...
 that you're thinking in those terms. Good program, new funding. What happens if this jerk up here pulls the funding from the feds? And it's going to happen. We know it's going to happen. We just don't know how bad it's going to be. But it ain't going to be good. So we would just caution you. Congratulations on the program. It's a wonderful program.
 You should be proud of what you're doing. I often criticize you, as I did this morning. However, when you're right, you're right. And I've often said that over the 10 years. And you're right on this one. You should be proud of it. But please have a plan B, because we are in for a really difficult three years.
 Thank you. Plus, actually. Thank you. Good morning. Sorry. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Now, maybe I didn't hear you properly, Commissioner Salzman, but the grand total allocation is $1,032,000. I think you stated $3 million. You're right. I'm wrong. Sorry. Okay. Just for a correction there. Okay.
 Issue number two is that I really like the choices, so I absolutely approve of all the grants, and I know you'll do very well. One of the questions I do have, though, is not separating myself from the picks, is I noticed some of the numbers here of $210,000, some as low as $100,000. I wasn't quite sure how you would actually determine how to allocate toward that.
 each group from the grant process. So that was just kind of a question to me because I saw some people on the lower side of 100,000, so it was kind of a concern to me. And also, if I heard properly, I thought it was stated that there would be a 5% administrative cap. Then I heard somebody else state, no, we calculate that and it's 15%.
 Maybe I heard that wrong also, but so I heard two different percentages, so it was just a little bit confusing to me. Because when I heard 5%, I said, you know, that's really good. That's really amazing that you can do that. Another thing I'd like to see possibly is I know a lot of younger kids in school, some people that have a real creative...
 and may not want to follow the rules and the structure of the schools. And I didn't know if you had a program that kind of you put them into and some of these grants that have been given out to where kind of from more of a creative process type style of young kids that they can actually have certain kind of courses to be tailored toward the direction they might be going in the arts or maybe in...
 you know, a more creative direction. So I didn't see anything in here. Maybe what I'm trying to say is kind of an entrepreneur innovation type thing
 education direction. And maybe some of these different groups or the grantees, you do provide that even at a young age, which I think is very necessary to understand not everybody's going to go to Harvard such as Mayor Wheeler or MIT is doing.
 Commissioner Saltzman, or Harvard as Commissioner Fish, which I'm not putting Harvard down by any means. I will. I'm going to do that. You did attend there, if I'm correct. I got a better education at Northeastern. Okay, okay, that's more than fair. But what I'm saying is that I want to –
 have that creative style of individual in the city of Portland, make sure they have the opportunities after school type courses so they don't get left behind, which obviously a lot of them do and they end up not completing their education. Thank you. Thank you, sir. If I could just go ahead and take a seat. You did raise a good question. I just want to clarify that
 Yes, today we're asking you to invest a million dollars in new money. The allocation committee is still sitting on another almost $2 million that we'll be bringing forward those recommendations later this fall. And the administrative cap, the 5% administrative cap applies to the children's levy program itself, the administration of the children's levy. The 15% cap applies to the organizations that we fund. So good point, good catch. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions?
 Questions? Commissioner Saltzman, anything else? No. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Well, thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for your continued diligence on this. And this is truly a legacy project and results in 98% graduation rate. That's pretty impressive. Aye. Fritz? Fish?
 Dan, thank you for an outstanding presentation, Director Pellerino. And thank you particularly for bringing the stories from the community forward because I think it's important for people to see the lives that are affected by this program. And I continue to think, Dan, this will be your singular legacy on this council. Bye. Wheeler.
 Well, I think it's great. And I once many, many years ago had the privilege of serving on the allocation committee. And needless to say, I thought people were very, very engaged. And I thought the vetting was intensive by the staff prior to it even coming to the allocation committee. And then the allocation committee asked lots and lots of probing questions. So I feel like
 The reason it's easy for us to vote yes on this today and the results of these organizations are good because we do have that vetting process that Lisa and her team and then the volunteers on the allocation committee to provide to the process. So it's very well done.
 structured, in my opinion, to make sure that the programs that are the most worthy rise to the top, and therefore it makes it easy for us to have these conversations. I absolutely vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you all for coming in, and thanks for the, Dan, I thought it was a great group of people providing testimony today. Thank you. Carly, would you mind reading the next two items together, please, 1031 and 32? Teresa? Yes.
 1031, authorize a contract with Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. in the amount of $3,325,000 for the corrosion control improvements project and 1032, approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize the use of the alternative contracting
 of construction manager general contractor in connection with the corrosion control improvements project for an estimated amount of $11 million. Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much. And, colleagues, I apologize for the timber of my voice. One of the medications I'm on, which is a steroid, which is going to prevent me from playing professional football, has the effect of suppressing my voice. And Mr. Walsh is nodding, and perhaps nodding in part because –
 Different people have different opinions as to whether I should continue on this indefinitely to lower the decibel level from this chair. But it has the effect of suppressing my voice. Colleagues, the Portland Water Bureau has had corrosion control as part of our water treatment system since 1997.
 And while the Water Bureau remains in compliance with the Environmental Protection Agency's lead and copper rule, today's proposed council actions will improve the existing corrosion control treatment system. The proposed project is part of a compliance schedule with the Oregon Health Authority and is planned to be completed by April 30, 2022. We have an all-star panel today I'd like to introduce. They are Celeste King from Procurement Services,
 Teresa Elliott, the Chief Engineer of the Portland Water Bureau, and Michelle Cheek, Senior Engineer, Portland Water Bureau. And they're going to give us a presentation about a competitively solicited design contract and a proposed competitive solicitation for the project. Ladies, welcome. Thank you.
 I'm Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer of Portland Water Bureau, and I'm primarily here as moral support and to help answer questions. Michelle is going to do our presentation, and then Celeste is going to talk about procurement's part, and then we'll be available to answer questions. Thank you.
 Okay. I quickly would just like... Lindsay has left, but more power to that young lady for sitting up here and talking in front of you. This is very intimidating, even as an adult and professional. So anyways, I will get started. So I am here today to give you an update on the Corrosion Improvements Project. And in support of that, get your approval for a PTE design contract and then also...
 on an alternative procurement process for the construction. So the corrosion improvements project will design and construct a new corrosion control treatment facility, which will also include support facilities, including a new utility water pump station and associated piping and support systems to make pipes.
 the treatment facility operational. To put you at ease, can I start off by thanking you for something? It may seem small, but it's not. Thank you for actually doing the overheads in type that people can see. And we've been putting out the word. I think it was Mr. Walsh who first raised this issue a number of weeks ago. And you are amongst the first to actually implement it. So thank you for that. It's a great standard.
 I would love to take credit for that, but Gabe is the one that put this together. Pass it on. Just say thank you. Yes, thank you. There's a lot of people at home who really struggle to read the slides if they're too small, and I do as well, I'll confess that. So we really appreciate that. Sure. So in March of this year, we were at council to talk about the Corrosion Improvements Project. Okay.
 In early March, you gave us, or you approved our request to move forward with the contract for the corrosion control treatment pilot. So we have kicked off that work, and it is underway. And then on April 5th, we completed our water quality corrosion study and submitted that report to OHA in accordance with our compliance deadline. And we presented the results of that to council in early March. Okay.
 In April of this year, we also released the RFQ for the design consultant, and the contract that we are here to get approval for today is a result of that RFQ. In mid-May, OHA approved our modified schedule for improved corrosion control treatment, which accelerated our schedule by five months.
 And then at the end of June of this year, we submitted our pilot study plan to OHA again in accordance with our compliance schedule. So current project activities that we're working on, we're here today to get your approval for the PTE design contract. May I just interrupt you? Sure. This is a bit of a negative. Could you say what all the acronyms mean? Oh. Thank you. On this one.
 Oh, okay. Yeah. PTE, Professional Technical Engineering Services. I use these so often, I forget what they actually mean. And CMGC is Construction Manager General Contractor. Yes. Thank you.
 No problem. And so upon approval of the PTE design contract today, we will begin some early design tasks on the corrosion control treatment facility that are required regardless of the treatment alternative that is selected. So things like geotechnical work, surveying work.
 survey of existing facilities to figure out how to integrate future facilities with the existing facilities. And then at the end of this year we'll be implementing improvements to our lead hazard reduction program as part of our interim
 lead reduction program that was submitted to the state. We are working with the Oregon Health Authority to evaluate the education component of the lead hazard reduction program and any recommendations that come out of that will be implemented as part of improvements to that program.
 So future project activities, we are currently well on our way to meeting our future compliance deadlines. July 31st of 2018, we will be submitting our recommended treatment alternative and the results of our pilot study to OHA and then immediately thereafter begin detailed design of those recommended treatment improvements.
 April 30th of 2020, we are required to submit our treatment plans and specifications for that facility to OHA. August 1st, we're required to begin construction of that facility. And then April 30th of 2022 is when those facilities are required to be online and operational. Thank you.
 The overall project budget for the corrosion improvements project is $19,916,000. And that includes the design contract and the CMGC contract estimate.
 and also PWB management and staff involvement time. The design contract that we are bringing forward today is for $3,325,000, and the CMGC contract estimate is $11 million, and the total project estimate has a low confidence level given that we have limited design done at the time.
 So can I just ask sort of a top-line question? So between the CMGC and the design contract, 11, 12, 13, 14 million, 325, what's the rest that gets you the 19, 9? Yeah.
 Yes, that's PWB management staff involvement time and also some contingency given the low confidence level of the project. Okay, very good. And what typically do you put into contingency? Is it 10%? What is the contingency? Low confidence levels up to 50%, possibly greater. Oh, okay. Just given the lack of detail that we know at the time about contingency.
 Okay, so this is very much then conceptual at this point. So these are numbers, these are basically ballpark numbers at best.
 Correct. I think technically the description is an educated guesstimate. Okay, and then you come back as you refine the guesstimate with more detail. Correct. And at what stage do you do that? What are the waypoints along the line to get towards more confidence? So at each of the design milestones, we'll be completing constructional
 construction estimates or new estimates for the construction. And then also the CMGC contractor will be brought on board early in the design process and will be giving us a guaranteed maximum price for the construction phase of the project early on. And Celeste will – or somebody from procurement will be coming back to council to present that. And just so I understand, on the CMGC portion of that, if they're –
 will agree on the design parameters, and then after the construction, if there's any cost overruns, they eat it, not us. Is that correct? Or how does that work? Yes, that is generally correct, provided that, I mean, they are providing a guaranteed maximum price based on a specific scope of work.
 So if I may, Mayor, Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer. Thank you. A guaranteed maximum price is what we bring forward as the construction contract. And as long as nothing has changed in the scope of work, then if the price is overrun, then they eat it. If there is something that the Bureau or the city has added to the contract, or if there's major differing site conditions that are outside of the scope of the contract, then...
 then the language of the contract says that we will negotiate a change order for that. So the beauty then of CMGC is that you have the maximum. The downside to it is we need to make sure our upfront work is sterling, right? Correct. That's where the protection is for us. And it's also the other protection is by bringing the contractor on board during design, we have the ability to remove some of the risks involved.
 because we can do exploration stuff in advance, and the contractor is more aware of what's being designed and what's being built. Okay, that's helpful. Thanks for that digression. That's helpful for me to understand. Thank you. Yeah, no worries. And that covers my slides, and so I'll turn it over to Celeste, and I think a lot of this we've covered already, but right. Okay, good morning, Commissioners, Mayor. I'm Celeste King, the Procurement Supervisor in the Construction Group.
 So the city attorney has reviewed and approved the findings as they are attached as Exhibit A, finding them in compliance with the requirements set in ORS 279 in city code. This project will benefit by being outside the standard low bid process by having the ability of all parties to work together on the design elements significantly early in the project. Having the construction contractor brought in early will likely result in a better project.
 Another benefit would be working together on sequencing and scheduling to maintain continued operations and meet water's compliance deadline. Water and procurement will work together on developing the subcontractor and supplier equity plan for this project and agree that we will aspire to exceed the standard goal and maximize participation. The DMW ESB utilization goals will be one of the evaluating factors in the request for proposal process, which is not available to us in the standard low bid process.
 The DMW ESB goals will also be included in the contract negotiation. Today we are asking for approval for the ordinance to authorize an exemption from the competitive bidding process and authorize the use of an alternative contracting method, CMGC, in connection with a corrosion control improvement project for an estimated amount of $11 million. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions? Where will this facility be located? Okay.
 We are looking at our Listed Hill facility up in it's not it's not in the watershed itself but it's up in the basically it's used as agricultural area in Clackamas, Moulton County. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. You'll stick around in case there are any questions. Yes. Public testimony? Yes. We have three people signed up. Very good. Joe Walsh, Dee White and Floyd Jones. Yeah. Certainly.
 Good morning. Dee, do you want to start today? Thanks. Boy. Sorry. My name is Dee White.
 And once again, the Water Bureau and the city, of course, is going to approve this. It's putting the cart before the horse. You're going to build a treatment facility to dump a whole bunch of chemicals in the water. You're going to have to dump even more than you need to because you haven't flushed the pipes.
 And flushing is best practices. It was recommended in the previous, the Black and Veatch corrosion control study that they are being informed for this next corrosion control study that they're doing. And Black and Veatch, one of their suggestions was to flush the pipes. And we brought it up at the budget meeting. Y'all had discussed.
 Flushing pipes is best practice. Y'all do about seven miles a year. That makes it so with 2,700 miles of pipes here, that means that the pipes don't get flushed every 75 to 100 years. And there are probably some pipes out there that have never been flushed.
 That is a major reason why the water is corro- that is a major reason why we've got lead, is because the water corrodes the pipes. There's biofilm on it. There's scale. It's all- The Water Bureau, instead of doing their maintenance, they're so far behind in maintenance, they're just going to build new fancy, glamorous projects that-
 way overpriced. I mean there was $5 million spent back in 2013 on an expansion at Lusted Hill and design and I don't know if it was constructed, I don't think it was, but the design $5 million given to an engineering firm for an expansion was that not even looked at. There were plans were made, $5 million was spent. I don't know if y'all have ever been to Lusted Hill and like
 We don't even know if it's going to go at Lusted Hill. Y'all are going to have to do a wildlife survey that's on the last contract. The public doesn't know anything about this. I mean, y'all don't even know where you're going to do it. You do know, but you're not going to let the public know. The last...
 In the fall, well, last year, the EPA and the OHA, we exceeded the lead action level. No level of lead is safe, but the EPA gets above 15. The EPA comes in and says, you've got to do this. Well, this hasn't even been mentioned either.
 The test, you know, y'all threw a bunch of chemicals in. You said you were going to raise the pH to 8.0 or 8.1 or 8.2. The results come in. The latest test from the last quarter action level, it's 14.75, right below the action level, right below it. The pH is only 7.9. Good Lord. Has that three minutes already gone by? Yeah.
 Thank you. Well, can I just read one more thing? One more thing. Yeah, sure. Go ahead. Mr. Rogers says, life is deep and simple, and what society gives us is shallow and complicated. This is so much like what the Water Bureau, everything is complicated, everything, and it's so simple.
 Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Floyd Jones, Friends of the Reservoirs. And I've only had opportunity to briefly look at this Black and Veatch report from April 2017. It's about 400 pages.
 But it brings up issues that we've talked about for many years. I served on the Water Bureau Budget Committee. I often pushed for flushing of our system on a routine basis. That was ignored. And I'll just give you a story from 2004, which I think represents how all of these projects go. The Water Bureau had a public meeting out at the community center on 106 off of Stark. And they were pushing all these big build projects.
 Water Bureau employees who were milling around before the session were lamenting that our system was so simple, they go to these conferences, they just come back, everybody else was having fun, they weren't able to build. At the end of the session I asked more to Nishiravani than Director, why is it that you spend so much money on studies, consultant studies, and yet the auditor has said you need to do all these maintenance projects, you're not following him. And his answer was, designing and building is glamorous, maintenance is boring.
 That theme has continued out in all these years, 16 years of looking into Water Bureau issues. The Water Bureau number of employees, it used to be historically 425 employees. Then when Randy Leonard got into this whole big, let's raise our rates starting with 17 point, whatever it was, and every year big rate increases.
 it expanded. We're well above 600. But you don't allocate staff, enough staff, to be doing this unidirectional flushing, which needs to be done routinely. And again, that's part of this report that perhaps the PH
 that we already put in the water would be more effective if there weren't the biofilm. And it talks about that in this report. The other issue is cancer-causing nitrification. We said all along, you eliminate those open reservoirs. We're going to have nitrification. EPA has documented it for decades that's a problem. They said we failed to address that in the EPA LT2 rule.
 AWWA talks about that, it's talked about in this Black and Veatch report. I continue to go to the wholesale customer meetings and I just don't understand why the Water Bureau and the wholesale customers are not together down there at the Oregon Health Authority and talking about this together. Every meeting was just there last week, they say the same thing again. You're going to do this, build this plant and then you're going to create problems for all of
 these outline areas because everybody has all these different water sources. So I
 I don't know if you can intervene. I've done public records at the health authority before, and it's not that the health authority necessarily pushes these time schedules. It's the Water Bureau wants these time schedules. If everybody met with OHA together, we might end up with a better result. So I think you need to reallocate some funds and put it into maintenance instead of designing and building. Okay.
 Thank you. Good morning. Sorry. Good morning. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We support everything that was just said. One of the things that Stun does was low confidence. No project should go forward with a low confidence rating. None. They should be automatically stopped until you get to reasonable,
 or high confidence, we know what we're doing. That's the area up there. We know what we're doing. Not low confidence. You're talking about a lot of money here. You're talking about millions of dollars. And it always sounds in the presentations that we got this under control. We got this figured out. And almost every project doubles. Why is that? Why does that happen? I mean, you can answer. Why does that happen?
 Every project that goes through this council, if it's under budget and on time, you stand there and you have a cocktail party to celebrate. That's how unusual it is. Does it happen? Yes, it does happen. Does it happen often? No. It would be interesting to do the statistics on it. And I would like to see the statistics on low confidence.
 How about that? Let's do a statistical analysis on low confidence on a $10 million project if we had to raise the fees. And Commissioner Fish, it's... Could I take just a couple seconds of your time? This is Mr. Walsh's time. I couldn't give up my time, right? Sure enough.
 I just want to make one more comment on the alternative procurement contracting, because that happens a lot again over the last 10 years. And in the document that's submitted to you it says that this doesn't support favoritism, but again go back and look at every time they do this, it ends up being the same corporations getting the contracts.
 It may help them in designing and carrying out the project, but it does end up with favoritism. You can go back and you'll see CH2M Hill, MWH Global. And like I said earlier, those names have changed now because they were bought out this summer by a bigger conglomerate. But that's another big issue that needs to be looked at. Okay, and let me hitchhike on that. We have a consensus here that we would really like to see minority contractors get more business jobs.
 We don't say that. And again, when you say it, it's sugar words because it doesn't mean anything when you do this stuff. You have to go out and get minority contractors and really work at it. Not just take $10 million and throw it out there and say, well, this guy over here has all the facilities. He can do it really easy or she can do it really easy.
 You have to work at it. And that's what we're saying. We object to this. And we are on the record object to it. And please, in the future, don't say nobody objected. We did. All three of us. Very good. Is that it? The end of public testimony on this item? That's all who signed that. Could we have staff come back up, please, and then we'll go through some of these issues.
 If I could, and I won't remember all of them, but the comment was made, why would we start on this if we don't have reasonable or high confidence? Could you explain that? I would be happy to. Thank you. Back in... Introduce yourself again. Teresa Elliott, chief engineer. I believe back in 2008, maybe 2009, city council adopted an ordinance saying
 on what kind of confidence rating they wanted to be applied to all contracts and ordinances coming to City Council. If a project is in planning or at the beginning of design, it is considered to have a low confidence rating.
 If it is at 100% design and going out to bid, it has a high confidence rating, which means that it has still a plus or minus 20% contingency. A low confidence has plus or minus 50% contingency, according to your confidence ordinance that was passed by city council. Okay.
 Thank you. That's very helpful. The comment was just made with regard to minority contractors. Could you state what the commitment is? So during an alternative procurement project, we negotiate with procurement and with the contractor to set what the goals are. We always look at what the current city goals are for MWCB participation and
 for both contractors and for workforce, and then we work to make sure that we exceed those. The current ones for the alternative projects that we have going forward right now is 22% for MWSB participation, 12% of that going to minorities, at least 5% going to women, and 5% going to anybody else.
 I don't anticipate our goals ever dropping below those, so I'm expecting it to be at least those numbers. Very good. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions before we move these? Commissioner Udaly? I'd like to know how to get on the invite list because I haven't been invited to a single city council cocktail party all year. I haven't either.
 Very good. So with regard to item 1031, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second. With regard to items 1032, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It also goes to second reading. Thank you, ladies all. Thank you.
 Next item, 1036 has already been removed. Is that correct? Yeah, we should read the title. Go ahead and read it. Okay, 1036, amend contract with Enviro Issues, Inc. in the amount of $35,000 to provide additional police review board facilitator services. This has been moved to the 27th of September, so we are not discussing it today. Next item, please.
 Item 1037, authorize a contract with Squire Patent Boggs USLLP for federal lobbying not to exceed $198,000 a year. Colleagues, the city has benefited from having an on-the-ground team in Washington, D.C. in order to get in front of our delegation, the administration, and work groups like the United States Conference of Mayors.
 Having a presence in D.C. is essential for the city to make sure that not only our friends in the congressional delegation know our priorities and values, but that the current Trump administration continues to know that Portland, as well as other cities, stand as engines of ideas and our nation's economy.
 and that Portland and our communities won't be trampled by this administration's divisive brand of politics. I've appreciated the work of Vicki Cram, in particular, and her team generally to represent the city's interests. She does fantastic work, and I look forward to continuing our work with her. I've had the opportunity to go back and meet with our delegation, and I've found Vicki's help vital to the success of those meetings that I've had in D.C.,
 Thanks to Elizabeth Edwards and her team for being here today. Nils Tolstrom is here. Carrie Poffel, I don't know if she's here, but thanks to her as well for running a very thorough process. Elizabeth, it's all yours.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Commissioners, for the record, Elizabeth Edwards, Interim Director with the Office of Government Relations. You've covered a little bit of the background. We have, obviously, dedicated staff here in Portland that work with our Oregon delegation and coordinate efforts locally, but having that presence on the ground is incredibly important to advocate on behalf of the city's interests. And it's really not just about...
 or key committees or the administration of federal agencies, but as you highlighted also, these national organizations that share the city's values because it's not just about the federal government, it's about national politics. And that's why it's so essential that we have a knowledgeable, strategic, physical presence in Washington, D.C. So before you today, we are bringing an ordinance to allow the Office of Government Relations to enter into a contract for federal representation. Our current one expires in October.
 And just by way of background, our current contract is with Squire Patent Boggs. We extended it. It was going to expire at the end of August, and we extended it through the end of October in order to allow for a robust procurement process. Starting back in April of this year, our office worked with Procurement Services as well as the Mayor's Office in order to issue a request for proposals. And we were looking for responses from individuals or firms that have
 a demonstrated experience working with the federal government and representing other cities or municipalities. Unfortunately, this April RFP didn't produce sufficient responses for a competitive procurement process, and so we canceled that RFP and we reissued, updated and reissued the request.
 In July, with the help of Procurement Services, our office convened an evaluation committee comprised of four city employees, a mix of council offices and bureau representation, as well as one external member of the public from the Excellent Minority Evaluator Program.
 After review and discussion of those proposals, the evaluation committee ultimately determined that Squire Patent Bogs provided the best proposal and awarded it the highest score. So the contract itself is for three years with the opportunity for a single extension for an additional three years. The amount is not to exceed $198,000 per year.
 And the funds for the lobbying contract already exist in the government relations budget, so no additional funds are required. So I'd also like to echo thanks to Niels Tilstrom and Kerry Paffel for helping shepherd this process through. And with that, I'll close my remarks and happy to answer any questions. How many companies proposed or responded to the RFP?
 We ultimately had three viable proposals come forward. It's an area of lobbying that doesn't have a wealth of folks practicing in that area.
 Commissioner Fritz? Well, I appreciate the robust process and going back out since we didn't get it. I was also very happy to see the contract awarded with Victoria Cramstall being our representative. I'm getting old enough that people start retiring hither and yon. So I'm just wondering, I don't know what Ms. Cramstall's plans are, but supposing she were to decide not to continue working for the firm, what would be – do they have viable alternatives? Yes.
 Commissioner Fritz, yes, as part of the proposal, it's not just Vicki, but she's supported by a whole team of folks. And so there is a bench there. But Vicki is, of course, our primary point of contact. And I've been very impressed with how successful we've been at the federal government. So thank you. Thank you. Very good. Is there public testimony on this item? Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. President Trump. Yes.
 Are you going to give any federal funds to the state of Oregon? Do we have lobbyists in there that can communicate to you in a reasonable manner to ensure that we get those funds? We have a lot of city commissioners in here that think that stopping the city in its tracks and hurting the overall city economically is going to send a message to the current administration that,
 But I think the current administration is going to send back a message and say, we're going to stop your funding like we're going to do North Korea, and we're going to remove half of you out of your seats. And, you know, my question here is this, is that we have two senators that really speak out against the current administration, really speak out against somebody that has been elected as the president. Now, in my opinion, if you're going to do that, make a stand. Make a stand like North Korea.
 Be willing to lose everything economically. Be willing to stand there and say, I don't like you, and it doesn't matter. Make that stand. Stop all the federal funding coming to the city of Portland. Make your stand. We have lobbyists that we're paying, what, $200,000 a year to try to create ways to get that funding. Are the current senators right now working alongside the lobbyists?
 or making it very difficult for the lobbyists to obtain any type of funding from the federal government. What is their job? What are the jobs of these elected officials here? Anti-Trump? Anti-Sessions? Anti-federal grants? Make your stand. Be willing to make your stand, like North Korea. Be willing to take your whole economy down, like North Korea. And remember one thing.
 These elected officials here, when you do that, you're not going to be sitting in those seats. And I have a statement to all of you that think you can negotiate with the current administration in the manner that you think you have up to this point. Guess what? What is he doing with North Korea right now?
 What is he doing at the United Nations right now with North Korea who made that stand? I ask any of you elected officials here, what is he going to do with North Korea? That's what he's going to do with the city of Portland. These lobbyists don't have a chance to get any money. They don't have a chance to get anything. They don't have a chance. Because when you go into negotiations with the same mindset as Kim Jong-un, who's a complete idiot...
 An idiot who should be removed. If you go in with the same mindset, you're going to see what happens to Kim Jong-un and his regime in the same way the Trump administration will come back and let you know. We will destroy you economically. We will destroy you military. And you know, let me ask you something, Mayor Wheeler, since you're here. I'm always here. I'm easy to find. Do you think that you're going to help these lobbyists get any money from the federal government?
 by denying the right to go over and sit at a meeting with Jeff Sessions and just look at his face and say, you know what? Excuse me. I'm the police commissioner. This is off topic. No, it's not off topic. Excuse me. Because they go.
 for money. Excuse me. Okay, if you let me talk, I will actually answer your question. Okay, number one, I disagree with, you said I don't like. This isn't personal. I profoundly disagree with this administration's policies vis-a-vis Sanctuary City. And I'm not putting that out there as a statement of value. I'm putting that out there as a point of law. And
 The Attorney General can have his opinion with regard to Sanctuary City, but guess what? The federal courts, including a judge in Chicago appointed by Republican Ronald Reagan, agrees with us that
 and disagrees with the president and disagrees with the attorney general. I stand on the principle of law. And for me, as an elected official, that is what I'm going to continue to do. So guess what? I believe both we will stand on that principle and I believe we're entitled to those federal funds and we will continue to fight for them. And this firm, which works across the aisles, I don't know what Vicki's...
 politics are, and I don't care. But I know she has a lot of clients who are Republicans as well. We will continue to work with her to fight for the funds that we believe we are entitled to and uphold the law, which is what we are obliged to do. But thank you for your testimony. If I might just respond real fast. If I might respond real fast. Sure. I respect your debating back and forth in a reasonable manner. And I always appreciate yours as well. Thank you. Thank you. We need to understand what these lobbyists' positions are.
 They're representing us. They're representing how much money we're going to get. And when we negotiate and see what North Korea has done with the current Trump administration, it's a lesson to be learned. It's a lesson to understand.
 Whoever is the president, we need to go in there and negotiate in a reasonable manner, which will benefit the city, not bankrupt it like North Korea. Lesson to be learned. Lesson to watch. Thank you. Very good. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it. Any further questions or comments on this one, folks?
 Thank you, Elizabeth and Niels, for coming in. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. Commissioner Fritz, at the bell. Just before you gavel, I'd like to associate myself with your remarks and thank you for speaking on behalf of the entire council. Very good. And I shouldn't presume to speak on behalf of the council, but I know we've had these conversations, and so I took that liberty, and I appreciate your stating that. This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you.
 Next item, please. Item 1038, amend and repeal citywide accounting administrative rules relating to capital assessment asset accounting. Well, this just goes to prove that we cover all kinds of topics, interesting to the mundane, all of them equally important. Colleagues, OMF periodically reviews and updates city code and administrative rules to reflect current practices and requirements.
 These three accounting administrative rules pertain to the accounting of citywide capital assets. The content and structure are revised to provide clarity and improved usability. As a practice, OMF brings revisions of administrative rules to city council for formal approval. Thank you.
 And we have two wonderful people here to tell us about it. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. I'm Michelle Kunick-North with the Office of Management and Finance. With me today is Michelle Kirby, the City Comptroller.
 And we have a resolution to amend and repeal a set of citywide accounting administrative rules. This is impacting three financial administrative rules, all that provide guidance to financial staff about the appropriate way to account for capital assets across the city.
 We're making a set of changes, as the mayor mentioned, primarily for usability and clarity. The most significant changes are to financial 6.11. That administrative rule has been repealed or revoked.
 with this proposal would be repealed and completely replaced. Much of that is because of structural changes, improved clarity, and the incorporation of what was 6.09 relating to computer software, which we now consider a capital asset and have included in that larger 6.11 policy. And then finally, financial 6.12, disposal of capital assets, had some...
 less, sorry, more minor changes for clarity throughout that administrative rule. Michelle is here to say a few words and also to answer any specific questions you might have about these changes. Very good. Morning. Morning. Michelle Kirby, city controller. Not to confuse you with the two Michelle K. show here. Okay.
 The city is, as a reminder, the city is required to follow generally accepted accounting standards as set forth by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, or GASB. And the accounting admin rules provide guidance as to the appropriate accounting practice and procedures for the city to use, and it also reflects best practices.
 As Michelle mentioned, the admin rules discussed here today pertain to capital assets, and it's important to note that there have been no recent changes in the accounting standards pertaining to capital assets. The revisions presented here today restructure the content, add clarity to items that were deemed a little confusing based on Bureau questions and feedback.
 These capitalization rules are very complex. The numbers are large on our balance sheet, and the revisions presented here, and there's also accompanying procedures and examples, are meant to be a useful tool for city financial staff and decision makers.
 And so I'd be happy to answer any questions. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Well, first of all, why is this resolution coming to us? Is it because the Office of Management and Finance doesn't have the authority to make its own administrative rules?
 In this case, actually, the chief administrative officer does have the authority to adopt changes to these rules, but it's OMF's general practice if there are more significant changes being made to bring them to council for review and approval. Excellent practice. Thank you, and great answer. Second question, in Exhibit B, there's a change from monitoring to compliance, in monitoring to compliance.
 The existing rules require annual reports to council on non-compliance of disposable of capital assets. I don't remember hearing one. Have those reports been provided, and if so, when? And if not, is that because there haven't been any instances of non-compliance or for some other reason? Thank you.
 The reports that would come to your attention would probably be like significant nature, comparable to like an audit finding, which we haven't had over the last couple of years. Well, I don't think I've had one at all in the eight years I've been here. But that's because you're checking to make sure that everything's in compliance. Right. One of our performance measures is to...
 have zero audit findings. And so we do monitor ahead of time and work with the bureaus, provide them guidance and tools such as this to keep things moving smoothly in the way they're supposed to be. So as the city controller, which I think is one of the best job titles ever, is it your responsibility to let the council know if you find something out of compliance? Yes.
 if it was of a significant nature. Okay. Under the new rules, how will the council or even the commissioner in charge be aware if a bureau is out of compliance with the rule because it changes it from requiring the reporting to not requiring the reporting?
 That's in Exhibit B still. There's a sentence struck. So you're specifically referring to the last sentence of that monitoring section? Correct. It's changed from monitoring to compliance, and it deletes. The controller will report all instances of noncompliance annually to the chief financial officer and city council. Well, I work closely with the chief financial officer and the city auditors on a regular basis. And so...
 The reporting mechanism would come through, not specific to this admin rule, but as part of the overall...
 financial audit of the city where we present the findings and they include reports on internal control. Right. That's exactly what my chief of staff said, but their so-called CAFA is usually about three inches thick and it's not something that I'm going to necessarily dive into. Well, okay. Would it give you heartburn to keep that sentence, maybe even just remove the word annually, that the controller will report all instances of noncompliance to the chief financial officer and city council? No.
 It would not cause me heartburn. Second. So we have a motion on the table from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Fish. Any conversation on that issue?
 And I just want to echo the sentiment of my colleague and friend. And I think, actually, I'm sorry the CFO is not here to field a couple of these questions because I think what Commissioner Fritz is getting at is the accountability tree. And since we have established an independent CFO whose job it is to report both to the CAO and directly to counsel, and I actually think that and the independent budget office have done
 in some ways our work. I think it's important to know that the CFO feels that this language is satisfactory so that we get a referral if there is a significant accounting issue
 problem. And I agree Commissioner Fish since we have had the independent CFO reporting to all members of the council Ken Rust has given me lots of information on the CAFRA in very detail so I'm confident that the incumbents of that position would. We're looking for another one and I just feel more comfortable if we on exhibit B page 1 if we just keep a slightly amended version of the controller will report all instances of non-compliance to the Chief Financial Officer and City Council.
 Can I add a legislative intent? Sure. Since potentially the chief financial officer is watching this. This is going to go – oh, this is a resolution. Excuse me. Nope, I withdrawed. But is this an administrative rule? So if it turns out that – Well, I think it would be appropriate for the CFO to let us know in writing if this does not accomplish the goal that you've established.
 And I would like just to let you know that these changes were reviewed by Ken Russ, the CFO, by Tom Reinhart, the Chief Administrative Officer, and by the City Attorney's Office. Good. I think I move the amendment. Very good. And is there any public testimony on this item? You can go ahead and pull your heels, and we'll get right back. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Excellent presentation. Good morning. Good morning. My name is...
 Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. One of my biggest concerns on the capital assets of this city is I would like to see the auditors do an audit every year on the capital assets. I want them to be watching the valuations that are being put into place. I want them to be watching the transfer of the assets.
 And what I'm talking about also is that when we're talking about, say, one bureau from the Water Bureau and we transfer a property over to, say, Parks and Recreation. Now, let's just say that property was donated and we have a certain low value on the donation. It should be, in my opinion, not transferred over to the other bureau at a market value. Now, there have been...
 when that has happened. And why I say that is that if we already own the property once, I don't want to see the public paying twice for the property if it transfers to another bureau. That's my biggest concern. I do not want to ever see the public paying twice for the transfer of an asset. And that is...
 through the accounting process to understand when these properties were delivered, what was the cost at the time, what was the appraised value at the time, what was the transfer of the property over at the time. And again, my biggest concern, and that's why I think it needs to be audited every year, even if we have to hire an independent auditor above the auditors to audit this, because
 I think that the values on the capital assets have to be watched the closest of this city. We need to know every property that we own. We need to know...
 what name the property is in. We need to know who's donating these properties. We need to have an analysis to where we can go down and look at every asset, when it was bought, how much it was paid for, when it was delivered, who donated the property, what is the purpose of the donation. I want to be able to analyze everything on every capital asset right down to every number, right?
 number to have a clear understanding and that comes down to the accounting process done properly and that has to be put in the books properly and when they're transferred to a grant at zero dollars I want to be watching that very close to understand what the motivation is for that making sure current policies are followed properly and understand these commissioners don't have free rein on the capital assets
 You don't own them. You work for us. You are our elected officials. And let me tell you something. Those are the public's property. And you don't give them away without our authorization. And I want to see data. Thank you very much. Audit everything on capital assets year after year. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there any other public testimony on this item? No one else. Colleagues, any further questions? I move the amendment.
 Commissioner Fish moved the amendment. Commissioner Fritz, I think, already seconded the amendment. Please, the first. I had it the other way. Oh, was it the other way? Fritz moved. I apologize. It's all right. Please call the roll on the amendment. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Sorry. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment is adopted to the main motion. Any further discussion? Please call the roll.
 Saltzman? Aye. Udaily? Aye. Fritz? I'd just like to add into the legislative intent. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for clarifying. If it turns out that the current city financial officer is...
 concerned about the amendment which I just made, it was clarified that the Chief Administrative Officer does have power to change these administrative rules. So to the extent that it then needs to be further changed, I would expect that the Council would be okay on that and that both our current financial officer and our current administrative officer would be very prompt as they always are in telling us about it. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Thank you. Next item please.
 Item 1039, amend marijuana regulatory license procedure and requirements business regulations. Commissioner Udaly. Yes, Mayor. Thank you. A couple weeks ago, we had the first reading of this item. We shared concerns about the wording or the language around the 1,000-foot rule. We had a little confusion and came back with amendments.
 to align our language with state language. And the confusion was that in... Sorry, in the rules, the 51% change in ownership exists. So in order to reflect state language, we still do have to spell that out. So we're coming back without changing those three proposed amendments, but with an additional change
 two amendments to clarify the city's position. And I have staff here from ONI to answer any questions. Should I read those amendments now? Does this change from last week? The three amendments from last week have not changed at all. They are...
 align our language with state language, which was the goal. And then the two new amendments are what I'm about to read that clarifies the city's position on this issue. Could you please read those in your record, Commissioner?
 Commissioner. So amendment number four add to council fines. The city has an interest in ensuring that marijuana retailers can operate, make infrastructure improvements, and sell their business to another business owner, even in cases where a new school opens within 1,000 feet of that marijuana retailer. Eight, the city commits
 Sorry, this is a subsection. The city commits to reexamining and potentially changing its cannabis regulations if changes to Oregon Revised Statute or Oregon Administrative Rule are made that affects cannabis businesses. And Amendment No. 5, add to now, therefore...
 The City of Portland urges the state to amend its rules to permit licensed marijuana retailers to continue to operate and renew their state license when a school opens within 1,000 feet of the retailer, even if the ownership of the business changes by 51% or more. Are there seconds for both of those? Commissioner Udaly moves Commissioner Fritz seconds what we will call Udaly 4 and Udaly 5. Okay.
 Greetings. Hello. Yeah, I'm Brandon Goldner, the coordinator of the cannabis program. Christina Corsi, cannabis program assistant. Yeah, and we're here to just answer any clarifying questions you may have, but I think Commissioner Newdaily explained that quite well. So, yeah, the intent here is just to follow the state's rules and
 It sounds like there's some desire from council to see the state amend their rules in the future, and the purpose of these amendments is to just reflect that intent, that if the state were to change those rules in the future, that Portland would reevaluate its regulations and may move to change them when that happens. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Commissioner Udeli. So these last two amendments came out of conversations that I had with Commissioner Udeli and our chiefs of staff in noticing that the piece about changing rules
 Changing the ownership by 51% by state administrative rules right now requires a new application, so there's no way around that. And so the final two amendments are trying to change those things. So it's actually kind of a smaller question. Do you have any sense when the state is going to start referring to it as cannabis rather than marijuana? Yeah.
 Commissioner Fritz, great question. I apologize. I do not know. Well, I mean, nobody might know. But, you know, from my learning about the program, and I know within the city we've been urged by those in the business to call it cannabis rather than marijuana because of the derivation of that second term. Yes. So to the extent that we can continue to use the word cannabis in our ordinances and such, I would...
 Appreciate that. Thank you. Absolutely. And just a clarifying point that even though we call ourselves a cannabis program, you'll find in our code language we often refer to marijuana businesses, and that's because the term marijuana is defined by state law. So, yes, just to clarify that. Thank you. Thank you. Any public testimony? Sorry, Commissioner Udali, anything you did? I was just going to move that we add an emergency policy
 to this so that we can enact these changes. So Commissioner Udaly moves that we add an emergency clause. Commissioner Fish seconds. May I just state for the record that the purpose of the emergency is so that the businesses can get licensed as quickly as possible, and that's in the public interest. Mayor, can I just point of order, please? My understanding, just regular order, is we would vote on the amendments first.
 And if it is amended, then we have an ordinance which would otherwise go to a second reading, so that the sixth amendment offered is an emergency clause on the main ordinance, which would allow us to adopt it today. That is correct. In other words, the votes are final both on the amendments and on the ordinance as amended, provided that we adopt the emergency clause first. And we'd first vote on Udailey 4 and 5.
 That's correct. It's one through five. Legal counsel. It's all of them, correct? Yeah. Because we left them open. We didn't actually take the votes last week. Very good. Great. Any public testimony? All right. Good. Please call the roll on Udailey 6. I'm sorry. Who moved the emergency clause? That was Udailey. Udailey 6, the emergency clause. Yes.
 Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. I apologize. So I think we need to vote on the amendments first and then the emergency clause last. Oh, is that right? Yes. Very good. Okay. Let's call the roll instead on Udailey 1. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Thank you, Brandon. Thank you, Christina, for your fast foot work and everything you do for the office. Aye. Thank you.
 Fritz. I'll make my comments on the final vote. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Amendment 1 is adopted. Amendment 2, please. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The Amendment 2 is adopted. Please call the roll on Amendment 3. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Amendment 3 is adopted. Please call the roll on Amendment 4.
 Oh, I had four and five together. That's fine. Call the roll on four slash five. We did that. Sorry. Am I...
 Getting these backwards. I was only up to three, so I thought the roll was on the first three that were introduced last week. Right. And then two amendments were introduced today. Oh, so I have to do the emergency before four and five. No, not through the emergency at the very end. No, Carla's got it. There were three amendments introduced today, actually. Okay, then what's the problem with introducing four and five? We're taking them up. Four is two clauses. Five is a separate clause, as I understood it. That's fine. No, I've got three motions. Okay.
 And the first one was from last week, number one, two, and three. Then the second one was from today, number four and five. And then the next one is the emergency clause. Correct. So there's three motions. Very good. And now we need just the final vote. No, we haven't done four or five yet. No, we have not added four or five. To be clear, what we just voted on was Udailey Amendments 1, 2, and 3, which were introduced last week but not voted on.
 Now we are going to vote on what I have called and which I will stick with, Udailey Amendments 4 and 5, as described on the information here as Commissioner Udailey read them. And, yes, that's my understanding as well. And then last, we will vote on the emergency clause. They're at the front of the packet, yeah. Very good. So Udailey 4, call the roll. Number 4. Saltzman. Hi.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Udailey 4 is adopted. Please call the roll on Udailey 5. Saltzman? Aye.
 Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Now Udailey 6, which is the emergency clause. I don't have this many motions. So let me review for the record. Here's what I believe the record is. We put on the record last week three amendments, Udailey 1, 2, and 3. Is that correct or incorrect? Correct. That's one motion. Thank you. Then Commissioner Udailey read number 4.
 Add to council fines. The city has an interest in ensuring that marijuana retailers can operate, made infrastructure improvements, and sell their business to another business owner, even in the case where a new school opens within 1,000 feet of that retailer, marijuana retailer. And Section 8, the city commits to reexamining and potentially changing its cannabis regulations if changes to Oregon Revised Statute or Oregon Administrative Rule are made that affects cannabis businesses. I have that as you daily for.
 Venue Daily 5 I have is add to now therefore to. The City of Portland urges the state to amend its rules to permit licensed marijuana retailers to continue to operate and renew their state license when a school opens within 1,000 feet of the retailer, even if the ownership of the business changes by 51% or more. Is that correct? So we've figured out the mystery. The –
 Four and five were read together, but there was only one motion and one second for four and five. So if we can get a second, excuse me, a motion for Amendment 5 as described. Some move. Fish moves. Second. Udaly seconds. Five is now on the table. Please call the roll on Amendment 4. All right.
 No, no, five. We already did four. We already did. God. Oh, my God, I need a clock. Okay. Please call the roll on Amendment 5. I already have a roll on that one as well. Did we already vote on that? We've done five. Okay, good. Then we have one more. We've done five.
 We have one more, which is the emergency clause. Please call the roll. I already have. We did a roll on that. It can be redundant. That's fine. Let's take a redundant roll, and then we have an abundance of time for the last one. It won't be the first time or the last time. Okay. Roll on the emergency clause. Assaultsman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Yes. Wheeler. Aye. That amendment, two, comma, is adopted. Now the main motion. The motion is adopted. Please call the roll.
 Saltsman. Aye. Udaly. Thank you again, ONI staff, for your hard work on this. It's been quite a year, and I'm very pleased with the progress that we've made. And as we heard from industry people when we introduced this, they are as well. Aye. Fritz. Well, colleagues, lest our two new members to the council this year feel that this is
 No, this was pretty much how every one of the cannabis discussions went in the fall of 2015 and 2016. I lost count of how many hearings we had, never mind how many amendments and votes we had. And we're all trying to do the right thing. We're trying to support this new emerging business and to treat cannabis businesses to extent practical and appropriate, the same as any other business subject to the Oregon Liquor Control Council, etc.,
 This particular package, I appreciate Commissioner Udaily bringing it now because it's similar to what we did with medical and retailers in the fall of last year. And what we're trying to do is to make these businesses that are already located where a school then moves in within 1,000 feet. Any other non-conforming use would be allowed to change ownership. So we're going to be encouraging the state to change that regulation.
 I'm so proud of this programme. It was fascinating to me to be in charge of much of the discussions on it. Thanks not only to Brandon and Christina, but also to Teresa Marchetti, Victor Salinas and Amalia Aliconda-Morris, who, with the council at the time, including Mayor Hales and Commissioner Novick, noodled through endlessly about this. And I feel really proud and happy that we're doing so well. I read on the Oregon Health Authority website
 about the cannabis education yesterday that there are more cannabis outlets in Oregon than there are Starbucks, which is quite startling to me. I do think we do need to do more education on the dangers of youth using cannabis. Of course, they're not supposed to until they're 21, but even up to 25, it can be damaging to brains, and we need to continue to get that information out.
 Thank you also, Commissioner Udeli, for having your staff from Development Services working on this. It's really great that that partnership continues. And Mitch Nichols and Mika Keenan, I know, have done a lot of work on this. And I'm glad that although we're allowing the businesses to open sooner, they do need to be in compliance after one year, which makes me feel more confident.
 more comfortable. Thanks to the Cannabis Policy Oversight Team, one of my favorite acronyms, and Claire Adams-Sik in my staff, and just everybody who's been involved. This has been a very positive process, and I hope it's going to continue to have positive outcomes for our community, with just a small mention of the tax, which, of course, is going to fund really great things right in our community. Hi. Fish. Well, Carla, first, thanks to you for keeping us on the straight and narrow. Thank you.
 And thanks to the mayor for scrupulously following Robert's rules. And this has been a good discussion. And I think the underlying message is this council is committed to streamlining the regulatory process and cutting red tape. And I appreciate the collaborative way we're doing this, and I appreciate the leadership from the Bureau and the commissioner in charge. Hi. Wheeler. Wheeler.
 Glad this is over. Thank you, Commissioner Udailey, and thanks to your team and to the office for working so hard on these issues. I think this has been a really excellent collaborative effort, and it is a great example of the city listening to the needs of the industry and the community.
 And I know that there was a lot of compromise and a lot of discussion and a lot of wordsmithing and a lot of meetings where people sought that rational center, and you found it. And so I'm very proud to support this amendment. I, the amendment, the ordinance is adopted as amended multiple times. Thank you. We are adjourned until 2 p.m.
 Oh, there's Judy. Great. Yeah, we have... Yay, Judy. I think so. Do you have popcorn? Bish, are you ready, Carla? Yes, and BTS is coming just as backup. I'm sorry? BTS is going to come over, send somebody over. Just in case. Great. Okay, very good. Thank you. Oh, you're welcome. We'll see you.
 All right, good afternoon, everybody. This is the afternoon session, September 20th, 2017, at the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Wheeler. Here. Basic rules of the road during testimony. Everybody respect everybody else. Thank you. Please call the first item.
 Item 1040, proclaim September 24, 2017 to be first annual Salmon in Our City Day. Excellent. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I have a longish opening statement. So first I want to apologize for the timbre of my voice. One of the byproducts of the treatment regime I'm in now is I'm on a steroid.
 which means my cherished goal of once playing in the NFL has been dashed. But it changes the tone of my voice, and it makes it sound worse than it is, and I apologize, but I'll do my best. Colleagues, it is a great honor to lead the Bureau of Environmental Services, and today I get to acknowledge the successes of my team and to celebrate their community partnerships to restore and to protect salmon habitat in Portland.
 It's hard to overstate how important salmon are to our region, a key marker in how we're treating our environment. Salmon are our history, integral to the life and culture of indigenous people. And they're our future. As our city was built out, we've made poor decisions in the past. We built culverts and we eliminated habitat, resulting in fewer salmon returning from the Pacific. In 1998, steelhead were designated as threatened under the Endangered Species Act.
 And in 1999, salmon were too. It was our wake-up call. And since then, we've made significant investments in salmon recovery and in our urban watersheds. We're cleaning up the Willamette River, replacing culverts with fish-friendly alternatives, and prioritizing stream restoration. What we do locally matters a lot. Portland is the key location for salmon recovery in Oregon and beyond.
 Every salmon headed to the Bull Run Watershed, Eastern Oregon, or even all the way to Idaho passes through Portland. Mayor, maybe another tolling opportunity. Twice in the average lifetime. Here's what we're doing now. By coordinating our efforts across city bureaus, we became the first city certified as salmon safe. We've gone beyond the letter of the law to restore salmon habitat and to improve water quality.
 I'm so proud of the leadership role the Bureau of Environmental Services and the Portland Water Bureau have taken in this work. The Water Bureau created a 50-year habitat conservation plan for the Sandy River that helped meet regulatory requirements for our bull run water supply. And the Bureau of Environmental Services has made culverts passable for fish while leading Portland's work to protect endangered species. That's a little mouthful.
 But perhaps our biggest success has been the restoration of Crystal Springs Creek. The Bureau of Environmental Services, the Portland Bureau of Transportation, the Parks Bureau, and 21 other public and nonprofit partners like the Johnson Creek Watershed Council and the Crystal Springs Partnership came together and restored Crystal Springs over eight years. And today, salmon can now swim the creek's entire length.
 Crystal Springs is a bright start, and we have so much more work planned. We're working with our congressional delegation, the Army Corps of Engineers, and ODOT to fund and break ground on five more projects, including Tryon Creek and the Columbian Slough. The good news is that we're doing better than we expected, sooner than we anticipated. Salmon are now found in 125 miles of Portland's 300 miles of stream. That's almost half.
 And nowhere are those streams healthier than in Crystal Springs. So today, Mayor and colleagues, we're celebrating that progress with two actions. We're proclaiming September 24th the city's first annual salmon in our city day, and we're designating Crystal Springs as Portland's first salmon sanctuary. Two very proud accomplishments. Here to tell us more are Caitlin Lovell, Science Integration Division Manager for BES, and
 Rhonda Fast, Environmental Program Coordinator, and Emily Roth, Senior Planner at Portland Parks and Recreation. They will be followed by a panel of Crystal Springs partners, including Judy Bluehorse-Skelton from Portland State University, Zach Perry from Reed College, Carl Lee from the Crystal Springs Partnership, and Joe Mitchoff, a fourth-generation Crystal Springs resident, and Dan Kent, Executive Director of the Salmon Safe.
 And later, as we designate Crystal Springs as the city's first salmon sanctuary, the mayor will read a proclamation. Ladies, welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Caitlin Leppel. I manage the Science Integration Division for the Bureau of Environmental Services. As Commissioner Fish stated, I'm joined up here today with Rhonda Fast, who's our Environmental Program Coordinator, and with Emily Roth, the Senior Planner for Portland Parks.
 We are part of an inter-bureau team that included the Water Bureau, the Bureau of Transportation, and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability here to talk to you today about the start of salmon sanctuaries in Portland. Salmon have effectively defined the Pacific Northwest. We have – Just move a little closer to your mic, yeah.
 We have big trees because of salmon. We have rich agricultural centers in our valleys because of salmon. We have clean rivers because of salmon. And for the indigenous populations, they were an integral part of their culture, religion, and physical sustenance. Even the initial settlers harvested those big trees and built a whole fishing economy on the backs of salmon. We would live in a very different place were it not for salmon.
 However, we are at risk of losing that identity. Salmon have declined significantly throughout their range, including here in Portland. We've overfished them, blocked and degraded their habitat, polluted their water, and eliminated their spawning grounds. And yet, they still return. When, in 1998, the first steelhead were listed, the first of 13 listings, this council...
 declared that their role was going to be to aid in the recovery of the species. And when they did that, people didn't think there was a lot we could do. And in fact, to this day, there are a lot of people out there who think that there isn't really a lot of habitat to be saved and restored in urban areas. And if you look at the maps, you can see where they come to that conclusion. Portland has 13 ESA-listed species. Seattle has four. San Francisco has seven.
 L.A. and San Diego each have two. So when you look at those numbers, it's easy to conclude that there's something terribly wrong in urban areas, and it's a lost cause. But in fact, Portland has 13 ESA-listed species because of where we're located. We are at the confluence of the 4th and 19th largest river systems in the United States alone.
 The land above Portland is, I'm sorry, these rivers drain the land above Portland to the tune of 250,000 square miles. There's over 1,280 river miles above Portland. So every salmon trying to reach those lands and swim in those river miles are passing through Portland twice. So what happens here matters for the entire region. End.
 There's a lot that's out of our control, and we can't lose sight of that. There are declining ocean conditions, and in particular, climate change, that are a big driver for what the future of salmon looks like. But today, Portland can stand tall because we've lived up to our commitment and are doing our part. Everything from restoration projects to how we do street maintenance, engaging the community in restoration activities, invasive species, land management, land acquisition projects,
 how we build and treat stormwater on our roads and impervious areas. All of that added up to us integrating and institutionalizing this notion of building salmon recovery into the way we do business. And that, in fact, led us to become the first city to be salmon safe certified. However...
 Where we have really advanced, and what's really exciting, is the energy and the scale and the scope of how we've been doing business more recently. This is just a snapshot of Crystal Springs by the numbers. Twenty-one partners came together over eight years to result in almost half of the entire stream being restored, nine culverts being replaced, and
 We actually removed 33 acres of property, private and public acres, from floodplain. Those properties are no longer at risk of flooding. So could you explain why that's a good thing? Doesn't that mean more is just flushing down somewhere else? We removed the floodplains, the private property in the floodplains, by putting the floodwaters in places where it won't damage property. So we shifted the floodplain. Okay.
 And in the process of doing that, all of that, we've rescued almost 61,000, over 61,000 different fish, including salmon and trout. And where do you get those numbers from? That is every time we do a project, we go in and we actually physically rescue those fish. So those are hand-counted numbers. Each fish is measured and identified and then placed either upstream or downstream to keep it safe while we do our construction projects.
 Similarly, with the help of the Xerces Society and the community, we've rescued 3,827 native mussels, which are a new foray for us. It's really exciting. Mussels actually depend on the gills of salmon to be able to distribute through the system. So this is very much a symbiotic relationship in this whole river system. I've got to ask, how do you rescue a mussel? Sure.
 And you have a – it's a really cool process. And, in fact, I am going to go back. This picture here that you can barely see, but in the middle of all the people standing in the lake there, that's what they're doing. They've got these periscopes, and they literally put these, like, magnifying glasses in the soil itself and then see where there's movement in the soil and quickly reach down and grab it. Oh, yes. They don't move.
 Yeah, they're very slow-moving creatures. Sorry, and then what do you do with them? Again, like the fish, we move them upstream or downstream to keep them safe while we're doing construction projects. Okay, very good. This has been so successful that ODOT just recently adopted this process for their recent project on Highway 99.
 And when we do that, and when we do it in this scale and with this intensity and with 21 partners, we create a culture and economy around restoration. And really, the results are measurable. We can test and see how the water quality has improved, how the habitat has recovered, and how many trees we've planted. But most importantly, we rely on the salmon to tell us how we've done. Is this working? Yes. So we're looking at a pair of coho salmon, male, female,
 which is the brighter colored and the female which looks like she has a white tail. That's actually the result of her scales losing their pigment as she digs in the sand and gravel to build a nest for her eggs. Coho salmon enter the Columbia River during the summertime and depending on how
 long their journey is up to their spawning grounds. They usually start spawning in late summer, early fall. So here the male is encouraging the female to keep working on the nest. The healthy guard I think. Displacing sand and gravel.
 in order to either dig a pit where she'll lay her eggs, or to cover up eggs that she's already laid and the male has fertilized. And she'll continue to do this until she lays all of her eggs, usually around 5,000 or so. After laying the eggs and building the nest to her satisfaction, she'll sit on the nest, protecting it from predators. It could be other fish or animals or humans. The male's died.
 So now a second male has arrived in the vicinity of the nest, and both the male and the female vigorously defend it. Oftentimes the second male may be able to sneak in and fertilize a female's eggs, so the original male on the nest is usually vigilant about protecting his territory. So after spawning, the coho...
 adults start to break down and you can see the female's eye tissue already gone. Her body will start to break down and once she expires, her carcass will then feed bugs that are living near the nest that her newly hatched fry in several months will be able to feed on. So that was... That's an all-time record, Carla, for technology. Thank you. Absolutely wonderful.
 And that was filmed by our fisheries biologist, Melissa Brown, in Crystal Springs. And what's really exciting is that those eggs that were laid, if they survive, they will be returning as adults this year. And to talk about that, I want to turn it over to Emily Roth, who's going to talk about our activities on the 24th. Hi, how are you? Nice to be here this afternoon. Thank you.
 First, Parks was the first city bureau to achieve salmon safe certification, laying the groundwork for the city certification in 2016. And this year will be our fourth salmon celebration at Westmoreland Park. The original celebration was right after Crystal Springs was restored through the park in 2014. We saw salmon return at that celebration.
 At that time, we also opened up the nature play area that mimics the stream, boulders, and large debris now in the creek. Both a wild success. This celebration is both for salmon and for the community. Our partners and tribal nations participate with the salmon bake, storytelling, and watershed education activities. And finally, the salmon celebration is on the Sunday Parkways route.
 We encourage everyone to ride their bike or walk to the park. We hope you can join us to enjoy nature in this city. And this year, we're also unveiling a new virtual tour that Rhonda will describe.
 So going live this week, it's a new way for the public to experience Crystal Springs Creek and to learn about Crystal Springs Creek. In 2010, BES and the Crystal Springs Partnership developed a wildly popular walking tour map guiding people along the length of the stream in the heart of the city and exposing them to the story of Crystal Springs. And there's a long, wonderful story of Crystal Springs.
 To build off the success of this tour, we received an innovation grant to test out the idea of developing this tour on a digital platform. With a consultant, we explored platforms to host the tour, developed content, and put it all together using a StoryMaps feature in ArcGIS. Features on this web-based tour are videos by Capstone students from Portland State University and a feature that was done on Crystal Springs Creek by OPB.
 and audio from experts, educators, and advocates, many of whom are actually in the audience today, and then photos and links for people to get involved as well. And the idea was to tell the story of Crystal Springs from multiple perspectives in a way that's educational, compelling, accessible, and it can be used either as a complement to this walking tour map on a mobile device or anywhere in the world on a desktop computer.
 So we also put together a toolkit so that tours like this can be used, can be developed and used by other projects, other geographies, other bureaus, so that it's something that we can carry forward beyond just Crystal Springs. Thank you.
 And I think that's really important here. Crystal Springs is just the beginning of this story. We really wanted a way to celebrate our investments, to recognize the incredible community efforts that have gone into this restoration project, and to build momentum for improved continued improvements. There are more Crystal Springs stories out there. But true to the Portland way, we wanted to do it in a way that had this robust scientific vigor behind it.
 And so we decided that we would designate the best of the best streams as salmon sanctuaries. A salmon sanctuary is a result of public investments in restoration, rivers, and streams in the city that have conditions for salmon to thrive. We chose the top ten criteria for salmon, and they're criteria that we actually measure. So this is a quantifiable tracking tool.
 It will not only help us identify when a stream hits that bar, that high bar of being a salmon sanctuary, but also on the remaining streams to help us focus on those areas where salmon need us the most.
 Today, we ask you to designate Crystal Springs as the first salmon sanctuary. And in the future, the very, very near future, we get to look forward to other systems, including Oaks Bottom, one of our highest-profile restoration projects going forward next summer with Portland Parks and the Army Corps of Engineers, trying to reconnect the Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge to the Willamette River.
 and doing so in a way that not only benefits salmon, but benefits turtles, amphibians, all of the native vegetation, and helps us get an upper handle on the invasive species in Oaks Bottom. As well, Miller Creek and Forest Park, a little-known creek that very few people have visited, but is one of the only Forest Park creeks that has a direct connection to the Willamette that is passable by fish. So we need to do a little bit more monitoring there to confirm that fish are getting up there.
 And then Tryon Creek, as Commissioner Fish mentioned in his opening remarks, we have authorization from Congress. It was signed by President Obama in December of 2016 to replace this culvert, and we are currently working with our delegation to secure funding through the appropriations process. So stay tuned. More to come. We're really looking forward to coming back to you on an annual basis with more success stories.
 Thank you.
 That's five. Sounds like five. We can squeeze. The microphones can be moved around as well and shared. Welcome all. Judy, would you kick us off? Or whatever your sequence is. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Fish.
 He was at our very first salmon celebration at Westmoreland Park with your son. I'm Judy Blue Horse Skelton. It's an honor to be here and excited to be part of celebrating salmon in our city. They've always been here, and it's exciting to see everybody working together to ensure that they will continue to be here and thrive.
 That first salmon celebration at Westmoreland Park was the culmination of so many partnerships coming together. The first time I took students down into Reed College Canyon to look at the habitat that Zach Perry was working on, we knew something was going on. The students said,
 Can we learn at PSU how to be a keeper of the canyon like Zach Perry is at Reed? This was probably at least 12 years ago, and we're closer to that now at PSU's Indigenous Nations Studies program than ever. Sam and our brother...
 As the presentation indicated, indigenous people of this region, Salmon Nation, we are still very involved with the management and the ceremonies, the blessings and the traditional protocols for salmon so that they will continue to return to us. We carry a part of the salmon in our heart, and they carry a part of us with them. And so...
 It's a very exciting time. The Native American Community Advisory Council to Portland Parks and Metro have been meeting for over five years monthly and are part of the community that continues to get out in the field. I just came in from a metro site, Quamish Prairie, where the community is out meeting with some of the scientists with metro talking about camas, cattail, and oak savanna restoration around the city.
 This summer, the Native American Youth Environmental Corps were actually at Oaks Bottom gathering mussels, learning how to do and use those techniques with Parks natural steward person, Isabel LaCourse, showing us how to gather and move them, getting ready for that culvert event.
 I think every fourth grader in Portland recognizes their identity as salmon people. They can tell you the life cycle of salmon better than a lot of us older folks. And I applaud that the city is going to start with this day, but we're already looking at how to make it Salmon in the City Week and Salmon in the City Month and maybe Salmon in the City...
 forever. Katsi Yau Yau, thank you for all of those who've been working to make this happen. Just another element of celebration, Oxpo, which has been closed due to the fires. And
 We are working with Metro to revive Native participation at their salmon celebration, the Salmon Homecoming, which will be October 21st and 22nd, 11 to 4, both days, with drumming. The ceremonies of returning, as you saw, the male and female after they sacrifice their lives so that the next generation can live together.
 and we will have those ceremonies as well. There are teachers. We're all serving. We're all sacrificing our lives so that the next generation can live, and I'm really honored to be part of this community. Katsuyo. Judy, thank you very much. Zach Perry, could you give us a perspective from Reed College? Yes, sir. Counsel, thanks for having me today.
 I'm Zach Perry. I'm the Canyon Restoration Manager. I've been overseeing an active restoration of Reed College Canyon for the last 19 years. In the center of our campus is a 28-acre headwater forest where Crystal Springs emerges from a series of underground springs and provides our campus and the surrounding city with the cleanest, coldest water source in the Portland metro region. Reed College is dedicated to protecting this resource and has made a commitment to being long-term stewards of this waterway.
 Part of our goals is to ensure that this clean water resource leaves our campus within the banks of Crystal Springs Creek as valuable as it has entered.
 We are committed to improving the functions of the surrounding forested habitat by removing invasive species and reestablishing native plant communities, and will continue to adapt our management practices to accommodate for the ever-growing diversity of native species, such as beavers, otters, owls, frogs, steelhead, chinook, and coho salmon.
 Reed Canyon and the Crystal Springs Creek that flow from it provides Reed students and over 1,500 public school children a year an opportunity to access safely a complex urban green space for ecological-based studies and a beautiful public area to recreate for the broader community. Beginning in 1999, Reed College coordinated with your city staff and other local agencies to build a fish ladder in the center of our campus.
 which now connects the spawning corridor for salmon to the upper spring source for the purpose of juvenile salmon rearing. We have also worked with your staff to build retention swales along 28th Avenue to reduce contaminated stormwater to enter the fragile freshwater system and worked with BES to introduce the first of a series of culverts at the western edge of our property to allow migratory species to reach Reed Lake, the oldest natural occurring lake within the city limits, built originally by Beaver.
 I'm here today representing Reed College and sitting amongst my peers to show my support for the recognition of Crystal Springs Creek to be identified as a salmon sanctuary and that September 24th be recognized as the first salmon in our city today. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Mr. Perry, very much. Carl Lee from the Crystal Springs Partnership. Thank you very much. My name is Carl Lee. I'm the co-chair of the Crystal Springs Partnership. I want to thank the city of Portland for their focus today.
 on Crystal Springs Creek. On behalf of the Crystal Springs Partnership and our partnership with the Johnson Creek Watershed Council, we're happy to be here today. Many of my Crystal Springs Partnership colleagues are here in the audience. And, you know, our message is, kind of our tagline is, connect, protect, and restore. And in
 pursuit of a five-minute talk, I'm going to kind of stick with the connect piece, as the connect piece kind of helps sort of glue the whole thing together. We're connecting people with the creek. Let me tell you a little bit about the partnership. This is a stream that's accessible by transit, pretty much a five-minute walk from the 19 bus, the light rail, the 75 bus, the 70 bus. We're in the city here, and we have
 an amazing resource that's accessible to many, many people. We're not way out in the boondocks. We're right here in the city. We have students that come help us, all kinds of access in the city. So we connect people with the creek, and we're also educating people about what this place is. You know, we're educating the connection among the wildlife in Crystal Springs Creek.
 The salmon, they get the name today, but it's like the whole village kind of concept because when you bring the salmon up, everything else follows. We're teaching people about how beavers and salmon interact, wood in the stream, building dams, providing habitat.
 for the fish, how trees interact with salmon. Again, wood in the creek, and we're planting like crazy. The beavers are chewing down the trees like crazy, but we're planting more. And so we're helping establish that, you know, cement that message that, you know, there's connections here. And it was spoken about before about the mussels. This is a huge success story. We went about...
 with the Xerces Society rescuing freshwater mussels out of Westmoreland Park back when the duck pond was removed and have done these projects as these culvert projects come up as recently as just a couple months ago. We were in the dark with flashlights rummaging around underneath McLaughlin Boulevard rescuing hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of freshwater mussels. And again here, an education piece, kind of ODOT, Oregon Department of Transportation project,
 They were all set up to rescue the fish, and this muscle thing just sort of became, it got on their screen, and they said, let's go for it. And so they provided us some tools. We provided some expertise, and it was a hugely successful project. Another connection that the Crystal Springs Partnership is doing is connecting places on the map
 to the watershed. As recently as a few weeks ago, I was at a tabling event at a farmer's market, and I asked people if they are familiar with Crystal Springs Creek, and they sort of say no, and then I said, have you been to the Reed Canyon? Have you been to the Rotor Dinner and Garden? Have you been to West Mormon Park? And they said,
 play area? Have you been to Johnson Creek Park? You know, heads nod. And those places, and people say, oh, that's the creek. That's the creek that's there. And so we're trying to provide this view of that the creek is this linkage. The creek is the lifeblood that flows through these places. So we put together, as Rhonda mentioned, the walking tour map, and we're connecting the dots. We're taking people out, and we're providing the self-guided tour, and now this...
 The virtual tour is coming online. Another connection piece that we're providing is sort of the bigger picture. You know, your map up there kind of shows it, but we're going from Crystal Springs to Johnson Creek to the Willamette to the Columbia River to the Pacific Ocean.
 And the Crystal Springs Partnership is throughout sharing that message that we have a unique place here and we have a gift to give and we have an appreciation for that stream. Future salmon sanctuaries next year, the year after that, the year after that, whenever it is, they're all in that line and they're all due to benefit from the work that's been done on Crystal Springs. Another final connection piece.
 is that our history here, and Judy mentioned this very succinctly, that the Salmon Celebration, indigenous people have been caring for this land for a long, long time. And part of our gig is to help share that message through the Salmon Celebration. And so we're on help with that education piece coming up on Sunday, this Sunday, by the way.
 So we're not exactly done here. Many of the culverts are done, much of the work, the big bulldozer type restoration work is done, but I think a really compelling piece for us in this salmon sanctuary designation is that
 you know, we're still working on this. Education is still going on. Restoration is still going on. Memory, you know, sort of fades about what we're doing and why we're doing it, and we have to keep kind of reminding people over and over and over again what it is we're doing, why it's important, and why it really matters to the city. So we're helping bring up salmon recovery citywide. We've got a ways to go. As Caitlin pointed out... Here's a thunder there. As Caitlin pointed out...
 we've got some tasks to do. One of them has to do with stream temperature. A lot of these criteria that we meet very, very well. We've got lots of water. The water quality is very good. The temperature is problematic. We're still working on part of our goal and part of our continued education piece is to keep people informed about that and to find ways to reduce stream temperature through the activities that we're doing.
 So, again, the Crystal Springs Partnership thanks you very much. We look forward to sharing our successes over the next year and reporting back in a year. Thank you, Carl. And we're going to call you back after a couple of panels. We're going to call you back for a special presentation a little later. Joe Mitchoff, fourth generation Crystal Springs resident. All right.
 Well, I'm actually the third of four generations to live on Crystal Springs. My grandparents moved from the Brooklyn neighborhood to the banks of Crystal Springs in 1967. And growing up, I saw pictures and heard stories of the early days of living on the creek. There were fond memories of the gravelly creek bed with many crawdads scurrying about and salmon bounding up the river in the spring and fall, banging their bodies against the creek banks. There were lots of them.
 My grandmother described Crystal Springs as a tale of two creeks after the Tacoma Street culverts were installed. Downstream, the water was fast-moving, and the creek bed was clear, much like it is today. However, upstream, it was a different story. The culvert was small, and it was hard to imagine the whole creek could move through such a narrow tube, so the fish simply couldn't swim fast enough to make the journey. Over the years, the creek bed gradually silted in, and salmon became a rare sight until they all but disappeared."
 When I was born, my family lived next door to my grandparents, so I grew up on the creek. It was always beautiful, but I don't remember a time it wasn't mucky on the bottom. It didn't stop us from wading in it, but we always came home a huge muddy mess. I remember vividly during heavy rains, the creek would back up all the time, an indication a log or a branch was clogging the culvert. And my grandfather and my dad took it upon themselves
 doing their neighborly duty to clear it with a long metal pole with a hook on the end of it. I still actually have the pole in my backyard and I'm really grateful I don't have to use it these days. Thank you.
 Growing up, I recall my grandmother saying many times, I hope I live to see the day they take that culvert out. And thanks to all the hard work and effort on the BES and all the partners, my grandmother got to see her wish come true. She was beyond thrilled that those culverts were removed in her lifetime. The transformations occurring on the creek have great benefits for salmon and people alike.
 My regular running route takes me along both Crystal Springs and Johnson Creek, so I've seen all these changes. On 21st Avenue, where just a few years ago there was a duplex literally built on top of the creek that was prone to flooding, there's now a natural area with cool rushing water and a family of beaver. When I was a kid, Tideman Johnson Park was a foreboding and kind of forgotten place, often an illegal dumping ground. And now it's safe and it's a natural haven right here in the middle of the city.
 And finally, when I was a kid, the lake in Westmoreland Park was actually surrounded by dense, tall bamboo. And it was a really fun place to play hide and seek, but it was always muddy and gross. And today, with the restored wetlands, it's a joy to run on the causeway over the wetlands and watch the changes that are taking place every season.
 I'd like to take the opportunity to thank all the individuals and agencies involved in these improvement projects, especially Rhonda Fast and Caitlin Lovell. They are creative, dedicated people with a zen-like patience for the challenges that came up in the public part of this process. I'm grateful to them for their perseverance and the commitment of City Council to improve salmon habitat.
 And in closing, a really short story. Last summer, we had our neighborhood block party right on the creek, as we always do. And by good fortune, one of my neighbors spotted a salmon lazily swimming upstream, so we all stopped to check it out. It was exciting, in part because of its rarity, but it's really encouraging for me to know that the kids growing up in a neighborhood today won't be able to recall a time when there weren't salmon on Crystal Springs.
 So thank you and keep up the magnificent work for Salmon and all of us. Thank you very much. And finally, Dan Kent, Executive Director of Salmon, safe to put it in a bigger context. Welcome. Thank you very much, Commissioner. What an inspiring story of place.
 Last October, Portland became the first city in the world to complete a comprehensive assessment of its impacts in this watershed with a third-party verification organization. That organization, of course, being Salmon Safe. Working site-by-site across the city over more than three years, Salmon Safe and our independent science team evaluated the operations of city bureaus with respect to impacts on the urban Willamette watershed.
 That meant assessing everything from stormwater management at fire stations to how fire trucks are washed to Bureau of Transportation street maintenance practices. Even the products used in graffiti removal. It was a comprehensive and thorough audit of city operations.
 That work culminated last year with City Council accepting the findings of our science team's assessment and committing to improve operations with an eye towards protecting downstream water quality and prioritizing restoration actions across city bureaus.
 As Emily mentioned, this citywide effort by Portland was itself inspired by more than a dozen years of restoration work by Portland Parks as part of its long-term salmon safe commitment. And a lot of that work focused, of course, on Johnson Creek and Crystal Springs.
 Today, as others have noted, we have seen the leadership of BES, Transportation and Parks, among other bureaus involved in the salmon sanctuaries effort. It's an example of how the city is connecting the recommendations from our science team to strategically prioritizing salmon safe restoration opportunities citywide and taking action with results on the ground.
 We also see this effort, like the BES Watershed Report Card, as an important step by the City of Portland for greater transparency and accountability in its environmental initiatives, and we applaud that. In our work with cities up and down the West Coast, we see just what a leader Portland is on a whole host of environmental issues, climate change being the big one.
 But working also on the ground proactively in actions like creating urban sanctuaries for imperiled native salmon. You know, it's a creative idea, and we strongly applaud the city's actions. So congratulations to Portland on this first salmon sanctuary. It's an important step forward in the city meeting its commitment and claim to being the world's first salmon-safe city. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. I'm now going to ask the mayor to read the proclamation and ask our partners to stay seated because the proclamation is directed to you as to anyone in this room. So, Mayor, would you do us the honor? I would, and, Commissioner, if I could take the liberty of reading a brief statement before in support of your efforts and in support of the efforts of people here today. I often say how important the Willamette River is for the city of Portland.
 For too long, we've turned our backs on this river, but now we're reconnecting to it by cleaning it up and making it a renewed home for our iconic salmon. Portlanders are once again swimming in the Willamette and treating it like the treasure that it's always been. The city must continue to create a future that embraces and strengthens our rivers for both humans and for our salmon.
 The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability plays a critical role in reaching this goal, leading the way on climate change, the environment, and helping us to build a resilient city. The Climate Action Plan and Supporting Climate Action Plan preparation strategy include a variety of approaches that will reduce human impacts in our urban area while expanding and improving habitat in and along our waterways.
 The River Renaissance established a vision for reinventing Portland's rivers, and many of you here had a great deal to do with that renaissance. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability's river planning work continues to make that vision a reality.
 Nowhere is that more apparent than in the Central City 2035 plan, where the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability has included sites for recreation, economic development, and habitat improvements along the Willamette River. Planning for the south reach of the Willamette will begin in the next year. We know that when we take care of our environment, it takes care of us. We look to the salmon to see how we're doing, as Commissioner Fish noted.
 And today I'm proud to say that we're making strong improvements. We still have a lot of work to do, but examples like Crystal Springs and the efforts that you have all collaborated on make great strides in a short amount of time to ensure that salmon not only survive here but continue to thrive.
 And so it is my honor, Commissioner. Excuse me, because I'm not, for some reason, I'm not able to read my notes. Can we also recognize other commissioners who may wish to make a statement before the proclamation? Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, and thanks to all of you. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. This has been an absolutely wonderful celebration of where we've come from and where we're going. I hope you're going to find ways to get somebody to put the movie as a public service announcement on many channels to get OPB to do this story, to get certainly Channel 30 ought to be doing this on repeat loop over and over. So it's...
 I want to thank all the partners, the Environmental Services, the Army Corps of Engineers, TriMet, Crystal Springs Partnership, Metro, Dunstan Creek Watershed Council, Audubon Society. I know there are others. All the neighborhood associations have been involved in this. My park staff, our park staff, Emily Roth, Sandra Burt-Sose.
 Lynn Barlow, Martz Hughes, Betsy Redfern, Cindy Wright, Ali and Matthew Berger, Elizabeth Kennedy Wong, and formerly Jim Shulin. I mean, there's really so many people who've been a part of making this so spectacular. And indeed, in addition to Caitlin Love and your team at BES, it's important to recognize that Dean Marriott was a big part of this. I remember vividly when I was a
 young and enthusiastic and idealistic going to a celebration in Southwest where he talked about the ship of state of environmental services which had been going in the grey direction for such a long time and his determination to help turn that ship. In partnership with people like Ivy Francis and Patrice Mango, some still here at BES like Patty Nelson, Mark Wilson and Amin Wahab. Then our partners formerly of Parks and Metro, Mary Rose Navarro.
 It's all of us, and I think that's what makes it really special, is that lots of people have had a hand in this. So if I might, in honour of the tribes who were the stewards of this land, who now, with the Treaty of 1855, we are responsible for continuing to do it in partnership with you. Katsuyama, thank you so much.
 Commissioner Udaly. Well, thank you everyone for your hard work and for the lovely presentation earlier. I'm newer to this conversation than most of my colleagues, and I just wanted to share a couple comments. One is, one of
 One of my favorite parts of the salmon story is what salmon bring, not just to the freshwater streams, but to the adjacent ecosystems, which means land. I think that for some people, because fish are something that we can't necessarily see, and rivers are just big bodies of water, they may not realize that the loss of salmon doesn't just impact our river, it impacts our land, it impacts...
 plant, animal, and human life as well. And the other comment I want to make is how excited I am to move forward on our new eco-roof policy because I understand that will also help the salmon. So congratulations on all your hard work. Thank you. Commissioner Salzman. Well, I just want to thank everybody who's played a role in helping Portland and indeed the Northwest become an area that really speaks proudly of what it does for the salmon.
 as they have done so much for us and continue to do every day. And it really is emblematic of who we are as a people. So I really just want to thank all the people in the room today and all the people who aren't in the room today that have awful played roles in the great work at Crystal Springs and elsewhere in our city. And I'm really happy to be here on this salmon sanctuary in our city.
 Thank you, Dan. So because I keep screwing it up, let me just give you the run of the show. We're going to do a proclamation from the mayor. We're going to do a presentation to our friends at Crystal Springs. And we're going to have Mike Houck at a moment like this. Of course, Mike Houck must be here. And Mike, to kick off a new annual tradition, we've asked him to read a poem. So that will be the sequence starting with our mayor. Very good.
 Whereas wild salmon and steelhead have been a source of life, food, and ceremony for the indigenous people of this land since time immemorial, sustained nearly 150 species of fish and wildlife that depend on them are an indicator of clean and healthy rivers and are a symbol of vibrant, resilient, livable city.
 And whereas wild salmon and steelhead in Portland were on the brink of extinction and remain in perilous condition in the face of continued habitat degradation over harvest, competition from hashery fish and other invasive fish, and climate change,
 Whereas all salmon and steelhead in the Columbia River and Willamette River rely on Portland's rivers and streams to survive their journeys to and from the ocean, and since 2000, the City of Portland is committed to helping recover these wild salmon and steelhead.
 And whereas the City of Portland and its partners, residents and business owners, have lived up to this commitment by investing in projects that help improve water quality and restore habitat in Portland's rivers and streams through the Big Pipe, foster floodplain natural area, culvert removal in Crystal Springs, stream and wetland restoration in parks like Westmoreland Park and Butterfly Park at Stevens Crank,
 and the Salmon Safe Certification, and whereas the City of Portland envisions a future for salmon and steelhead by establishing strong land use laws under the Comprehensive Plan, acquiring and protecting remaining natural areas, and providing educational and stewardship opportunities for Portlanders, and whereas salmon are returning to Portland's rivers and streams,
 And whereas continual recovery in a climate-changing future will require numerous sanctuaries of refuge that provide cold, clean water, suitable habitat, abundant food and shelter, and plentiful spawning areas safe from predation and competition,
 And whereas Portland will continue to improve and restore these salmon sanctuaries across the city's urban watersheds to support salmon recovery, and whereas together with our partners in the community, we will celebrate these successes in salmon sanctuaries at the Salmon Celebration at Westmoreland Park on September 24, 2017,
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim September 24, 2017, to be the first annual Salmon in Our City Day in Portland, and in honor of this day, do hereby declare Crystal Springs Creek to be the first salmon sanctuary. May we suspend the rules? So done. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 If I could ask the invited guests to reclaim their seats for a moment, and I'm going to ask Carl Lee to keep your seat, and Daniel Newberry, Executive Director of the Johnson Creek Watershed Council. Sir, if you would come forward. Gentlemen, Crystal Springs is a model public and private partnership. It's an example of the great things Portlanders can do when we come together. Colleagues, two groups made a significant contribution to this project by hosting events like Creek Cleanups,
 tree planting, salmon surveys, and tours for school groups and international conferences. The Johnson Creek Watershed Council held over 30 events, with nearly 2,000 volunteers contributing over 8,000 hours in just one year. Truly remarkable. And the Crystal Springs Partnership, which is only a few years old, held six events with over 150 volunteers just last year.
 One particularly notable day, Philip Nosler, an intern with the Johnson Creek Watershed Council, discovered two new species of dragonflies. I'm proud to say that Philip is now interning with the Bureau of Environmental Services. Today, colleagues, in honor of this great work, the City Council is proudly awarding the Johnson Creek Watershed Council and the Crystal Springs Partnership
 a $5,000 grant to continue their stewardship and restoration efforts. Thank you, Daniel and Carl, for your help in making Portland a home for wild salmon and for helping us restore our urban watersheds. And the best part. Mayor, would you do the honors for me? Would you present the check, Mayor? I'd be happy to. Quick, run. Caitlin, would you come up for a second? Gentlemen, use it well. Congratulations. Thank you.
 You think this check is good? Wait until you see the credit card. Congratulations. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. We're almost done. Thank you, gentlemen. Please, please, come forward. Why not? I don't see the security guy. I have a bandana for each of you. Thank you very much. This is the 2017 Hot Off the Press Award.
 Thank you very much. Congratulations to all of our partners. Mike Houck, would you please come forward? We could not kick off a new annual celebration without having our friend Mike Houck here, a champion for urban green spaces and watersheds.
 And Mike has graciously agreed to read a poem. Mike, welcome. Well, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, I hate to contradict you right off the bat, but I'm not going to read a poem. He's going to sing it. Excellent. Thank you.
 That's going to be great. Actually, the suggestion came about, I got a call from staff asking if I'd be willing to come in and read a poem that was similar to what we do each year for the last 31 years for Great Blue Heron Week. When we adopted the heron as our official city bird in 1986,
 I wrote a letter to William Stafford, who was then poet laureate for the state of Oregon, and asked if he would pen a poem to commemorate the heron, and he did. And you're all aware of it, the spirit of place. It's one of the most...
 moving things I've ever read. I said no to me reading a poem today for two reasons. One, first thing I did was ask if Judy Blue or Skelton had been invited to speak today because if somebody's going to be poetic, it's not going to be anybody but Judy Blue or Skelton, in my opinion. The second thing was I'm not a poet, and I couldn't think of something that was not generic. Right.
 We really think, I think we need something specific to the place to really celebrate the return of salmon on Johnson Creek and Crystal Springs Creek.
 So what I'm going to suggest, and again, Judy brought up the potential for Great Blue Heron, or I'm sorry, Salmon Week, Salmon Month. I'm not sure if she had in mind a salmon year. But for the future, for next year, I'm going to suggest we have three really great authors in Portland. Robin Cody, obviously Kim Stafford, and David James Duncan.
 And what I chose to do is read a very brief excerpt from the River Wye. I don't know how many people on council or in the audience have read the River Wye, but it's very inspiring. He dedicated the River Wye to the defunct...
 Fairview Creek and the diseased body of Johnson Creek. And he and I have had arguments over, he moved to Montana to kind of get away from what's going on in the metropolitan region. I said, there is no way, David, there are going to be issues there as well. So I think it would be interesting to bring David Duncan back to Portland to show what's happened on Crystal Springs Creek and Johnson Creek and engage him maybe in coming up with some inspiring ideas.
 prose, if not poetry, to celebrate. This morning, by the way, I was 8 o'clock this morning speaking to a group of conservation educators from around the country and described what we've done over the last 40 years, this being one example. And they said, how do you keep going? How do you keep your energy up, your optimism? And I said, come to city council today at 2 o'clock.
 and you will find out why. And I think we need to do this kind of celebratory action more frequently than we have in the past. So I'll be, actually I think I'll just paraphrase what I was going to read, because we've been here quite a while. I'll just say that in starting the River Wye, he was basically suffering from writer's block. And his friend suggested he go out on Johnson Creek, which he did. And he caught a steelhead.
 He actually caught a steelhead, and as he was bringing the fish up, three guys drove up in a van, and they looked out at this guy who was actually in his street shoes and street clothes, but he had jumped into Johnson Creek to land the steelhead. And they told him they had just been to the Coquille River, and they got caught.
 No fish whatsoever. And he noted shortly thereafter the three guys were standing on a bridge over Johnson Creek all trying to catch a fish. What I would like to read is very poetic, not a poem per se, but I think it relates to the video we saw. He got into the stream and saw a male and female salmon spawning.
 She laid eggs so tender to the touch of a small child's fingertip would crush them, eggs the color of setting suns. The dark, fierce kite male passed over those suns, raining milk down on their chosen bed of pebbles. We were held, we three creatures, in the rhythm of lovemaking. I realized they weren't making love to one another. They were making love to the very land and the water."
 I knew as we communed that they would soon die, their clutch of eggs orphaned in a frigid gravel womb. What does it mean to truly love one's place upon the earth? There is fire in water. There is an invisible flame hidden in water that creates not heat but life.
 When I at last rose from the water, thank the prayer wheels that rivers are. Thank these prayer-like creatures that still somehow traverse the great wheels and set out for my own little red, little streamside bed where he lived on Johnson Creek.
 So I'm just going to suggest that we try to find, you know, get David back here or we could work with Kim Stafford, whoever, with the Crystal Springs Creek stewards, with the city, and come up with something truly specific to what's going on on Crystal Springs Creek. And I just want to congratulate everybody for the incredible work they've done. It's amazingly inspiring and it does keep us going.
 Mike, I want to second your suggestion. So we'll take it up. And thank you for the exclamation mark on a beautiful presentation. Mayor, that concludes our presentation. Very good. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. That was outstanding. Thank you, everybody. Thanks to the bureaus. Thank you to all of you who have been working so hard on Crystal Springs Creek. This is fantastic. Thank you. Thank you, Mike. Should we take a three or four-minute break? Yeah, why don't we do that? Let's take a quick recess. That was great, Nick. Nick, thank you.
 Carla, if you're ready. You have the hard job here, not us. Okay. All right, folks, we are back in session. Let's continue the hearing for the remaining testifiers on the main part of the Central City 2035 plan. Carla, can you read the ordinance and the resolution titles? And you'll notice there's a paragraph prior to the three titles. If you could read that as well, please. Thank you.
 Item 1041, adopt the central city. Could you actually read the paragraph prior to that? Sure. Thank you. The central city 2035 plan items continued from September 14, 2017 hearing. Only those who previously signed up and have not testified yet will be able to testify. No additional oral testimony will be taken. Written testimony may be submitted until 5 p.m. September 22nd.
 And more information on the project website is at www.portlandoregon.gov slash BPS slash CC2035.
 Thanks. And now you can read the three items. Sure. Thank you. 1041, adopt the Central City 2035 plan, amend the comprehensive plan, comprehensive plan map, transportation system plan, Willamette Greenway plan, Willamette River Greenway inventory, scenic resources protection plan, zoning map and Title 33, repeal and replace prior Central City plans and documents required.
 1042, adopt the Central City 2035 plan action charts, performance targets, and urban design diagrams.
 1043, adopt the Central City 2035 plan green loop concept report. All right. So today we're going to try and finish hearing testimony on the main ordinance and the resolution for the Central City 2035 plan. As Carla mentioned, we're only going to hear from people who either signed up on September 7th or September 8th.
 There will be another opportunity for public testimony on the Central City 2035 plan on January 18, 2018, after amendments have been introduced. So, Carla, let's call up the next people from the list.
 From last week, as per usual, everybody has two minutes to testify. If you're a lobbyist per council rules, we need to know that. Commissioner Fritz. I was just wondering, Mayor, it doesn't seem like we have a whole lot of people. And I do feel very grateful for those who sat through the entire testimony last time. I was wondering if we might give three minutes if necessary. You know what? That would be a great bonus opportunity. Let's do it.
 Okay, sure. For their three days of patience, we're giving them an extra minute. So maybe we'll even be a little loose. But that seems only fair. Thank you. And we are starting from the September 7th original list. Okay, just make sure. The first person is 62, Britt Conroy. 116, Jackie Peterson-Lumas. And 131, Emma Pellett.
 Very good. Welcome back. Thank you again for your patience. We truly appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thanks for allowing an extra day of testimony. Appreciate that. My name is Britt Conroy, and I'm a Portland resident. In this chamber, our city's priorities are set. From limitless competing demands, council members decide what projects and initiatives are funded, what challenges are addressed, what problems will be solved.
 At its best, good governing marshals resources from within and without a community to protect the most vulnerable and provide opportunities for those who are struggling. As this council secures money for transportation, whether from our city's coffers or through your requests for funding from your partners in Salem, you have the opportunity to invest in your state of priorities, safety, livability, climate, and reducing the related cost of housing and mobility.
 When looking at what Portland secured from its partners in Salem, one would think that we have a $450 million single-location fender-bender crisis in this town. In fact, we have a crisis of transportation deaths, and we have a housing crisis made worse by insufficient transportation options, particularly for those living in East Portland. Expanding urban freeways has never solved traffic congestion, but investing in safer streets does save lives. Three dozen human beings died.
 die on Portland streets on average every single year. The Rose Quarter Highway Expansion Project will cost nearly twice what last November's Municipal Housing Bond raised, seven times the projected revenue of last year's gas tax, and, it must be said, will cost an amount equal to what the Portland Children's Levy will raise over 30 years based on that program's average revenue. I urge you to remove projects related to this highway expansion from the TSP and RTP projects
 to implement value pricing to address congestion and avoid costly and unnecessary highway widening projects, to invest value pricing proceeds in providing mobility options for those most impacted by the tolls the state legislature has mandated, and most importantly, to codify transportation spending priorities that, regardless of source of funds, ensure the city gets the most mobility, equity, safety, and climate benefits for its buck.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners Udailey, Fritz, and Salzman. My name is Jackie Peterson-Lumas. I am an historian, and I appreciate the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Portland Chinatown History Foundation, of which I am its executive director, as well as as a member of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee of the New Chinatown-Japantown Historic District Design Guidelines,
 and a former board member and current co-chair of the Art, History, and Culture Committee of the Old Town Chinatown Community Association. I am a Portland resident as well.
 As I know you all are aware, the Old Town Chinatown community is a complex fabric of historic districts and properties, waterfront park and garden destinations, and numerous arts, cultural, and educational institutions. We're also home to a web of social service and low-income residences, a weekend nighttime entertainment district, a growing number of significant restorations such as the Society Hotel and the Overland Warehouse,
 combined restoration and infill projects such as the Grove Hotel, corporate offices of young businesses like Movell and Airbnb, and our first Starbucks due to open this fall. This description captures the history, energy, and diversity of Old Town Chinatown and lays the ground for the robust vision outlined by the city for this downtown waterfront neighborhood in the 2035 plan.
 In the plan, Portland's planners and creators have not envisioned an extension of either the Pearl or downtown, but rather a culturally and visually unique historic neighborhood, which could well become the City on the Willamette's most visited tourism destination of the future. Thank you.
 We applaud the 2035 plan for our neighborhood and the accompanying zoning code adjustments and incentives, which we believe have provided an equitable balance between protection of existing and future cultural education and historical resources and support for new construction for much-needed housing and offices and for business growth of all kinds.
 We want to thank city planners, especially for the welcome reduction in heights in the northern half of the new Chinatown-Japan Town Historic District, running from northwest Everett to Gleason between northwest 3rd and 5th.
 The reduction of building heights within the northern portion of New Chinatown, Japantown, from 450 feet, which it used to be, to 100 and the recommended 125 feet is long overdue. In fact, I was shocked to learn several years ago that such extreme heights had ever been approved for a National Historic District by the city.
 All of Portland's downtown federally recognized historic districts have height limits of 75 feet, or in the case of the southern half of New Chinatown and a part of the new historic district in the Pearl, 100 feet. Thank you.
 The historic buildings in all of Portland's downtown districts are rarely higher than four stories, and in this environment, even a 100-foot building looms large, challenging the sight lines and noise levels of an otherwise sunlit, highly walkable, low-rise historic streetscape. I thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for your foresight in protecting our most valuable and most energy-efficient assets, our current buildings that are already standing. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Thanks for your patience. Thank you for hearing me today. My name is Emma Paulette, and I'm a property owner at 109 Southeast Salmon Street in the Central East Side. I love Portland. It's an incredible place. And one of my favorite parks in Portland is the Shakespeare Garden up at Washington Park, where you have an incredible view of Mount Hood. It's amazing. Thank you.
 I urge you today to vote against the Salmon Springs View Corridor because I don't feel that it's equitable to choose a view of Mount Hood that's only 36 feet above sea level and only visible 85 days out of the year. On a day like today, you can't see the view at all. This will unfairly impact the Central East Side and will really make it challenging for us to meet our economic goals and our employment goals. Um...
 On that note, I also believe it's the city's responsibility to educate property owners on who's included in this and who stands to have their property changed by this rule. So as you can see on page one, these are some maps. And these maps are all from the current City Council Amendment 2035 plan. And this is from the August 29th draft date. So on the first map, you can see my property's not included. But on the map above,
 On the next map, you can see my property just to the left, also not included. And on the third picture, my property is still not impeding the view of Mount Hood. And on the last page, you can see there's a map on page 46 from the plan that does show my property to be in the view corridor. Okay.
 but the following map does not include it. So I'd like some clarification on if my property is included or not, because it's very confusing. Three of the four maps show that it's not, but one does. So is my property included or not? And so I'd ask that the City Council, if you do not vote no on the Salmon Springs View Corridor, to please clarify this and make the View Corridor of Mount Hood follow the exact cuts of the view so that we can lessen the economic impact on the Central East Side.
 Commissioner Frist? Have you had any conversations with your neighbors who are definitely in the view corridor? I have, yeah. And what kind of feedback would they be giving us? People are very concerned. We spoke over a year ago. We all came and testified. We had about maybe 15 or 20 people testify, and we all submitted paperwork. You heard from the lawyer that we hired then who also submitted on our behalf documents.
 People really feel like this is going to be challenging for the future of the Central East Side. We won't be able to reach our density in the Martin Luther King Grand Corridor, and it's going to be challenging to meet our numbers for employment in our district in the future if this view corridor is established. Thank you.
 So this would actually lower the heights in the view corridor, is that correct? Yes, absolutely. It would take my property height from 175 down to 35 feet. Oh, wow, that's really low. Right, especially if my property doesn't impede the view at all.
 So I feel like this is, especially for the properties on Salmon, it's a real burden because we have the green loop that will be going in there as well, and that will be something that drastically changes our street. I personally am in for the green loop, but I think it isolates landowners and puts an unfair burden on just a few people.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. First of all, yes, there appears to be an obvious inconsistency in the charts, and I even see Joe back there shaking his head. So we will most certainly clarify that. That would be wonderful. And secondarily, this is an amendment I put on the table for discussion purposes because I've been hearing a lot about it.
 And I know that the Planning and Sustainability Commission had very long conversations about this. And ultimately, they voted, I want to say it was like 7-4, I believe, in favor of removing the – or not creating the view corridor anymore.
 and continuing with the density proposals in the Central East Side. And I did say at that time I was inclined to take the recommendation of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, but I wanted to hear what people said and how strongly people felt about it.
 and it is in that spirit that I've wanted to hear testimony on it, but there's clearly an inconsistency here, and it looks like Joe right behind you there. Do you have an answer to this, Joe, today, or is this something we can resolve and potentially get back to Emma on?
 Joe Zender with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. We need to follow up to get precise, but over the process we narrowed the view corridor. Okay. So we think that you had an old one and a new one, and a new one that property is not in. But other properties do have the height reductions that we're talking about. Okay. Yeah.
 So even though they weren't able to come today, they would have the same testimony. I remember at one point your family was looking at possibly having a park somewhere in the east side. Is that still a possibility? You know, it's still something we'd really like to do. We've had a few other things that have come up. But I'd like to make that happen. And I'd love to work with...
 So miss you daily on that because we'd love to get that spigot so we could water our grass. We'd love to make that happen. I'm just also wondering, could there be a view of Mount Hood from that park? Unfortunately not. The park is right just one block behind the Portland Storage Building, which is 12 stories tall. All right. Got you. Scared of that question. Thank you very much. But maybe from their roof we could have a great view. Great. Thank you both for your testimony. We appreciate it. Thank you.
 The next three, we're on the 914 list now, are Brad Molson, Juliana Lukasik, and Ted Levy. And if anybody else is here who didn't sign in, just let me know. Is that all we have on our – Then we have one more. Okay. And if there's somebody else here who bothered to show up, go ahead and sign up. My name is Brad Molson. I'm president of the Central Eastside Industrial Council. And –
 of Beam Development. First of all, I want to commend the Bureau of Sustainability and Planning for putting together an incredible process for the 2035 plan and for the Southeast Quadrant plan. My angst is more about the process that we have gone through. The Southeast Quadrant plan, which I participated in,
 and observed was an incredible process that brought in stakeholders, brought in advisors. Her testimony took place over weeks, months, years to kind of reach a consensus as to what we could do, what makes sense in the southeast, in the central east side, and beyond.
 And it's very painful for me to engage my constituency in the Central Eastside and tell them to get involved when they put this time and effort in, reach consensus, and then are told that at the last minute a view corridor is now considered and can absolutely change the whole process of planning for the Central Eastside. The Central Eastside, as you guys probably well know,
 is one of the most active districts in the city that has produced, I think, a significant level of jobs, if not the most since the last turnaround, downturn. And we are very anxious to continue that process.
 We are very anxious. We realize that the investment that has been made in planning and the investment that has been made in transportation in and around the Central East Side has always contemplated increased density. I'm not sure how you get density in the Central East Side or any place around without height. I mean, they just kind of work together.
 So I feel we all have to make sacrifices for the city to move ahead. Central Eastside is contemplating, I think, really significant opportunities with new businesses, with new investment, with new opportunities to build buildings, restore old buildings, preserve the industrial sanctuary. I don't need to tell you how much opportunity other people have seen in Central Eastside to become residential or residential.
 more retail, and we've resisted that. We really went through this process very carefully to protect the Central East Side and the commercial corridor. So I really want to ask you to really consider hard what the goals and the objectives are in terms of jobs, density, and creating opportunities in a very active corridor. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. And I believe you also submitted a letter for the record, which we all received earlier this week. So thank you for that as well.
 Good afternoon. Hello, everybody. Thank you all so much for having us. I've literally been here for, this is probably the eighth hour, so I was here on all three days. And so I've heard a lot of testimony, and it's been a really educational experience for me. And I appreciate what you guys have done and all the opinions that you have listened to.
 I've also, I am Juliana, I'm about to do it. Hi, I am Juliana Lukasik and I am here today speaking on behalf of my experience as the person on the SAC for the Southeast Quadrant Study. I am also the Interim Executive Director of the Central East Side Industrial Council.
 I have been on three larger SACs in my time in the close-in city. I was on the Couch Street couplet many years ago. I was on the Eastside Transportation Advisory Group that ultimately created the Transportation Parking Advisory Commission. And I was on the Southeast SAC. And I want to say, I'm here to sort of talk about process.
 I've seen what goes into stakeholder advisory groups, and I have seen how well they work. In each and every one of those, we sat at the table with people who are involved, stakeholders from all sorts of fields.
 areas and it was very diverse. We had the bike community talking to the freight community, the environmentalists sitting with the developers. And we spent years, probably combined with those three SACs, I've spent probably eight years on SACs. So I do know what I'm talking about and I am incredibly impressed with the process.
 I'm impressed with the dedication from the city, the people who staff the SACs, the amount of effort it takes to wrangle a whole bunch of really diverse groups. To say that they're wrangling kiddies is putting it mildly. These people sit at the table, they look at each other and they come to it with this idea that they're never going to compromise. At the end of the process, they compromise. It's a really wonderful thing to see.
 that happened in the southeast quadrant study and it was a very, very good process. I know there have been some challenges with the west side one and I would hope that those would not reflect poorly on the processes for the other SACs because these were incredibly long processes of commitment and volunteer ism and compromise. So I ask you guys very strongly to support the recommendations of
 the Bureau of Planning because it was through a lot of process to get there. So when we talk about things like the view corridor and the need for 100% eco roof, we really would like you to go back to the 60% eco roof and take the view corridor off the list because they really
 were already well vetted, and we hope that you will honor those. So thank you very much for having me today. Thank you. And if I could just ask, first of all, a statement, then a question. A statement, thank you. I know you put a tremendous amount of energy and effort into this, and I also applaud you for hanging out through all eight hours of testimony. Today I waited through a river out there. Yeah, it's been an incredible...
 educational experience for me as well. So that's, I think, interesting that you'd reflect that. We did hear quite a lot of testimony on the Green Roof proposal, 100 versus 60. Could you just flesh that out a little more?
 why you would be opposed to the 100 and why you think the 60 is appropriate. Just give us a flavor of your argument there, please. I'm concerned about, first of all, anything that's 100 percent versus a compromise at a lower percentage rate raises a red flag for me. Okay.
 I think the definition of the green roof and the 100% is very important. I'm concerned about amenity space. I believe strongly that in order for people to understand the importance and the value of a green roof, that they need to be able to see it. So I am very, very concerned that 100% eco-roof might not allow the amenity space that would allow people to go up and enjoy a green roof. By the way, I am also a...
 a environmentalist and a tree hugger. I think Commissioner Frist mentioned that. And those are my roots. So I'm very, very much in favor of eco roofs. I just am concerned about the 100%. I also am very concerned about affordability. I'm concerned about affordable housing and I'm concerned about affordable commercial space. And if we do not make it feasible for
 developers and people who are redeveloping their buildings to have incentives to keep the affordability in place then we're not going to get the affordability that we need both from a residential position and from a commercial space position. One of the biggest challenges in the east side is how do we grow and still keep spaces open for small businesses and makers and so that's a really big issue for me and
 a real tension with the adding costs to construction and trying to convince people redeveloping and developers to have a component of affordability. So that's one of my biggest issues with that. Very good. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, do you have a question? That was my question, too. Okay, very good. Thank you. All right. Good morning or good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 Mayor, city councilors, my name is Ted Labby, and I'm the policy program director with Mike Houck's Urban Green Spaces Institute. Thanks for the opportunity to comment on the 2035 plan, and by the way, congratulations on the Salmon City Proclamation. That's great. Today, I want to pick up on some written comments that I submitted on September 6th, a few things in there and kind of add to those. The 2035 plan is a plan that's been in place for a long time.
 sets the tone and pace for innovation and change in the city core for the foreseeable future. Portland has a lot of work before it, cleaning up the Willamette, providing affordable and accessible housing, diversifying our transportation choices, sustaining a vibrant economy, maintaining good governance, and integrating nature into our built environments and more. There's a lot to like in the 2035 plan, which takes us towards these goals. Thank you.
 However, there are also elements that fall short and need strengthening or revision before the plan goes forward. We strongly support the green loop and the wider vision of the green web that Randy Gragg
 to you a few weeks ago. It isn't a choice between the green loop and the green and the Lentz ring, Lentz green ring, sorry. We need both. But the advocates suggesting we drop the green loop have a point. The city needs to take a more active involvement and commit more funding to the bike ped transit and greenway connectivity in Lentz and other underserved neighborhoods beyond the central city.
 Among the elements of the Central City 2035 plan that we especially like are the explicit incentives for large-form trees in the new master plan standards. Thanks for that. And we strongly support Commissioner Udaly's amendment to require 100% coverage on eco-roofs on new buildings above a certain size threshold. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for that.
 We appreciate and support the simplified parking code with more shared use and the elimination of minimum parking requirements, but I think we can go farther on that. All new parking should be constructed in a manner so that it can be converted to other uses in the future once we determine we don't need all that parking.
 Aspects of the plan that fall short are measures to boost the urban forest canopy. The targets for certain tree-deficient districts like the Central Eastside Industrial District are set too low and are not adequately aspirational in order to drive innovation and focus on the part of PBOT, property owners, developers, and others. They're a little too close to the microphone. Too close. Yeah.
 The flexible street design standards for the Green Loop are great, but we need these standards to apply more widely within the central city and beyond. We need to consider reallocating street right-of-way to reduce on-street parking for automobiles and narrow travel corridors to make more space for trees. We can make the now optional front building setbacks for new development required in tree-deficient neighborhoods.
 Undersized planting spaces can be expanded into the adjacent street, and we can lift the Title XI tree code exemptions on commercial and industrial lands.
 Going farther, the city could assume responsibility for all street planning and maintenance in the central city and fund this work with street frontage fees that incentivize space for trees and discourage or minimize utility vaults and driveway curb cuts, which limit space for trees. The city needs to start thinking about urban forestry as a utility, something that we all pay into and benefit from.
 Trees can't continue to be an afterthought in the central city. Trees sustain a vibrant street life, lower crime, soak up storm water, clean the air, and cool us during summer heat waves. Finally, I want to say that freeway expansion has never solved traffic congestion, and we are proud to stand with a broad coalition of community-based organizations and citizens who are asking for removal of the I-5 Rose Quarter project from the transportation plan.
 Well, there might be localized benefits to the project. We believe it would come with a very high opportunity cost and would divert much-needed city dollars from other important initiatives like housing, affordable housing, better transit, and street improvements in the outer east side of Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate all three. Thanks for coming in. The last person I have is Damian Hall. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Mayor, city commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today, and thank you for the extra minute. I'll try to use it well. My name is Damian Hall. I'm an attorney with a local firm called Ball Janik. I'm here on behalf of our client, Joe Angel. I'm here to speak about a particular piece of property and a particular scenic view corridor that is proposed that impacts that property. This is a different one than the very popular Salmon Springs view corridor. This one's called...
 CC Northeast 01. What that means is there is a proposed pedestrian bridge that is yet to be built that would cross the Sullivan's Gulch and there is a proposed scenic view corridor from that as yet to be built bridge looking west towards downtown and the West Hills. So if there are a number of practical issues with that set of circumstances.
 So I'd like to outline a few of those and then make a specific ask. The first is...
 The view corridor is not necessary. There is a natural view corridor created by Sullivan's Gulch. The below-grade nature of I-84 going east to west there preserves for perpetuity unless we come up with a plan to cap the freeway. Those views will not be replaced by redevelopment of tall buildings. The same goes for the adjacent train tracks that run along the bottom of that gulch.
 The second issue is the uncertainty related with this particular viewpoint. Because it is a viewpoint from a structure that's not yet been built, it is an estimated viewpoint that has been translated into actual lines on a map that impact a piece of property owned by my client.
 Even if you were okay with that set of circumstances, the way that it's been translated to the map is additionally uncertain. On the first page of my testimony I provided you, I've blown up the map. The property in question is the yellow piece of property. And as you can see, the lines that indicate the boundary of the scenic view corridor are slightly wider than the city streets.
 So as far as trying to understand where that boundary is located for redevelopment purposes, that line is approximately 70 feet wide if taken to scale. The difference between the ability to develop inside and outside on each side of that boundary that is uncertain is the possibility to go from 350 feet in height to a maximum of 75 feet in height.
 So for those reasons, we think that there are a number of practical concerns. I've listed at the end of this memo some legal concerns as well, but those are secondary. So now for the ask, I'd request that the Council direct Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff to revisit this viewpoint.
 and work with my client to establish with some certainty its location, if it is advisable to move it forward. We've provided our best effort at actually taking that map to scale and have attached that there. If council feels it's wise, we would accept direction that that map be approximated as the official boundary. And then as an alternative, simply wait until the pedestrian bridge is built
 actually go stand on it and let's figure out where the view corridor should be. My understanding is the status of that project is that it's funded, so it should be happening, but that there's still an ongoing discussion about its alignment because the street grids on the north and south of Sullivan's Gulch don't exactly line up. So it shouldn't be that far in the future. Very good. Thank you.
 Thank you for your testimony. Colleagues, any questions? Very good. Thank you for being here. Thank you for your time. So, Carla, does that conclude our testimony? That's all who I have signed in. Very good. Could I ask a question of staff? And it's sort of just a general question about process. So much of the testimony that we have heard is broad in its nature, but we've also heard –
 a considerable amount of testimony related to specific issues, such as what we just now heard from the representative from Baljanic.
 Do you work with the individual property owners to resolve those issues, or is the expectation that the council will meet with individuals with specific issues and resolve that for the purposes of amendments? What is your proposal in terms of how we address issues related to very specific property questions? We're glad to –
 meet with property owners. We may have already, depending on what the application is, because some of these may have percolated through the Planning and Sustainability Commission process as well. I'm not quite sure we've discussed this last one that you've heard. So it expedites the ability of us to put up a recommendation for you all to be able to do that, so we're glad to. Okay.
 It might make sense, then, if you could exchange business cards prior to your departure just so you have that. And it sounds like Emma, where Emma's still here, great. It sounds like that is a broader issue. It's not just specific to your property. We need to resolve the exact borders of that proposed view corridor. Sure.
 But I just want to make sure that specific property issues aren't falling through the cracks because they are specific. Oh, sure. No. Good. Okay. Good. That's all I had. Commissioner Fritz, anything else? I was just wondering with the chicken and egg question on that particular view corridor, would it be better for us to decide whether we should have it and then put to the work of deciding where it should be? Or does where it is affect whether we should have it or not? Okay.
 If you had decided that we weren't going to have a view quarter, then the particular issues with that view quarter would be off the table. And so there's a longer – I think there's a more nuanced story for the second one we just heard about the view down the BAM field. So we want to talk that through with the –
 and bring it back to you promptly. Yes, it seems to me that if the majority of the council is not interested or not willing to support the Salmon Street Springs view corridor, you don't know to go to the trouble of deciding exactly where it should be. Correct. Very good. Anything else?
 All right. Thank you. Oral testimony is now closed. Written testimony will be accepted until Friday, September 22nd at 5 p.m. This matter is continued and deliberation on this item will occur during the October 18th meeting at 2 p.m. Time certain Portland City Hall Chambers. No public testimony will be taken on that day.
 Now, while we have staff up here, colleagues, are there any amendment concepts based on public testimony that you'd like to provide today, or any questions you have of staff while they're up here? Commissioner Fritz? Some of the broad categories, which I believe planning staff is aware of, the map of the West Quadrant Street,
 advisory committee's properties in relation to the participants on the body, so that the whole council reviews potential conflicts as well as revisits the heights in those areas altogether. The greenway setbacks, we're currently having some differences between the Audubon Society and parks, and so obviously that's going to need to have some broader discussion.
 The big question with the Rose Quarter and freeway widening, which a lot of people were concerned about, one of my particular questions is how much city money is in that project versus state and federal money. The view of the Vista Bridge from Jefferson Street, I've had some specific testimony on that. And then further discussion, as we had a little of today, about the green roofs requirement as to the pros and cons of 60%, 100% or something in between. Thank you.
 I guess I'll add a couple. The Zydell property, the issue with the setback. You didn't just include that, right? Vista Bridge is another one I'm interested in. There was a question about the Roseland Theater height restriction. Because it is outside of the historic district, why is a height...
 There's a similar height restriction being placed on that, considering its proximity to public transportation and the surrounding area. It's all like, hmm? Oh, well, we really... I don't know if...
 In testimony last week, we heard an idea for parking forests, which I realize that there may be some visibility and safety issues involved with turning a parking lot into a forest. But I do think it's a legitimate question to raise. Why, when surface parking lots are such an inefficient, wasteful way to use precious space in our central city, are the owners not...
 There often are no trees on the block, so I'd kind of like to know why that is and if we can encourage them to plant some. So I don't have – I'm not prepared to articulate any amendments I might have today, but I probably will have some based on testimony I've heard. And many of the issues Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Udaly just mentioned are issues I'm also interested in as well. But I thought while you're here, if you could just once again maybe just –
 Give us the process for getting home on this whole thing again? Sure. Yeah, just repeat it for me one more time. Sure. Okay. So, excuse me. So on September 28th, you will be hearing the post office ordinance again, and there will be some public testimony on that. The record closes at 5 p.m. that day. You will also be hearing the historic guidelines one more time, and you'll vote on that day.
 Then we have October 18th at 2 p.m., as the mayor mentioned. We have that set aside for discussion of amendments on a set number of topics that we've emailed your staff about, in particular height, scenic views, FAR, historic, green buildings, that sort of thing.
 And then on November 2nd at 2 p.m., we have time set aside to talk about amendments related to the scenic outside of the central city, bonuses and transfers, anything to do with the river and that sort of thing.
 Then we have another session set aside on December 6th at 2 p.m. for amendments related to the parking code and then whatever else we have been able to cover at the other sessions. We are hoping to conclude discussion of amendments at those three sessions. And we have a January 18th, 2 p.m. hearing scheduled for amendments. Okay.
 on the central city. So any amendments that you develop in these fall sessions. And then,
 Finally, the final vote on the central city plan can't be taken until the comprehensive plan is effective. And at this point, we are looking at a March 1st date for the comprehensive plan. That date may change, but we're not sure about that yet. But the vote would follow the comprehensive plan date.
 Have we heard from the Department of Land Conservation and Development whether they're approving our comprehensive plan? You know, what we have heard is that they understand the urgency and are actually organizing to try to expedite their review of the process and get the resources on their end to keep it moving. So they're being not just cooperative but proactive in trying to meet these deadlines. Okay. Thank you.
 Very good. And like Commissioner Saltzman, I will more than likely be introducing amendments, but I want to have the opportunity to discuss it with staff.
 and go through some of those issues in more detail before I offer them up. So thank you. Some legalese here, as we mentioned, at the September 14th hearing, counsel will discuss other aspects of the Central City 2035 plan on September 28th as follows. 3 p.m. time certain on the post office. We'll accept public testimony on that day related to that item. The record will close at 5 p.m.
 At 4 p.m. time certain on September 28th, we'll be discussing the new Chinatown-Japantown design guidelines. Public testimony and the written record are closed on those items. There being no further business, colleagues, we are adjourned. Congratulations.
 I'm a huge proponent of an asphalt parking lot tax. So they don't need to twist my arm very hard there. That is a source of revenue used in other communities. It could be used for very specific purposes. For me, it sounds like it should probably be related to something relevant to the activities
 on these lots, whether it's the absence of housing or whether it's with ability issues or something. All right, interestingly...