There we go. I'm going to call the City Council meeting for January the 6th, 2015. Welcome, everyone, to the first meeting of 2015. City Council. First order of business we have tonight, we have the oaths of office for City Attorney Kit Williams and it looks like Council Member John Latour from Ward 4 and Judge Story, would you like to...
 Do those? We'll turn it over to you. I anticipated several other members to be sworn in. I did too, but here we are. And I'll have to sort through my oaths. Okay. Just one second here and we'll start. Mr. Williams, if you'd stand and raise your right hand. I, Kent Williams, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States,
 And the Constitution of the state of Arkansas and I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office Of city attorney city of Fayetteville Upon which I'm now about to enter. Thank you judge. Mr. Latour if you'll stand Yes, sir. I John Latour Do solemnly swear
 I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Arkansas and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Alderman Ward 4, position 1, upon which I am now about to enter, so help me God.
 congratulations y'all thank you mayor if there's just another minute or so i'll have his stock helper present these oaths absolutely thank you thank you that was fast i'd certainly like to thank judge george for coming down and administering this oath absolutely honored to take it from you judge thank you judge
 Okay, the next order of business. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Here. Tennant. Schottmeyer. Latour. Here. Long. Here. Gray. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 okay under the mayor's announcements proclamation recognitions uh we have city council meeting presentations reports and discussion items the first thing we have tonight is the election of the vice mayor kit uh mayor let me uh read uh what the rules of order and procedures fable city council says about this it's very short the city council shall at the time of organizing in public session elect one of its members as vice mayor
 Any alderman may nominate himself or herself or any other member of the City Council for Vice Mayor, and no second of the nomination is required. Each alderman shall vote by naming his or her choice by voice vote. If there is more than one nominee, if there is no more than one nominee for position, a majority vote of the City Council shall be required for election. In the absence of the mayor, the Vice Mayor shall preside at the City Council meetings.
 I shall note that we have a pretty small city council, only five out of eight, and a majority vote of the city council would be five votes. So I just want to call that to your attention before we start voting tonight. Okay. How? Could we make a motion to suspend the rules and vote on this at our next meeting? You mean table it? When the rest of the city council is here. Oh, just table is what you need to do. I'll make a motion to table this to the next meeting. The motion is second to table. Any discussion on that?
 Okay, Sandra would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Luture? Yes. Long? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, moving along to number two. Yes, for your listening entertainment. Tonight I'm about to do the report on the Fireman's and Policeman's Pension and Relief Fund. Okay, and keeping with the statutory requirements, I am presenting this report for 2014.
 on the local police and fire retirement and relief funds for the city of Edmonds. Both of these plans were closed by law in 1983, and there are no longer any active working members remaining. There are currently 40 police and 52 fire retirees. December 2014 projected expenses from the fire pension fund was approximately $1.4 million as compared to fund revenues of $1 million.
 projected police pension fund expenses were approximately 1.6 million as compared to fund revenues in excess of 1.5 million this is before adjusting investments to market value however on a cash flow basis contributions are not covering expenses actuarial evaluations are the responsibility of the state of arkansas iron police pension review board
 The last evaluations completed were as of August 2014 for the year ending December 31, 2013. Based on those evaluations, the unfunded pension obligations of the police and fire funds were $8.8 million and $11.3 million respectively and have grown considerably from prior years. The unfunded actuarially accrued liabilities for these funds were approximately $12.7 million for police and $14.1 million for fire.
 In the annual reports issued by the Arkansas Pension Review Board, neither the fire nor police pension fund were found to be actuarially sound pursuant to established financial tests. Back in October of 2010, representatives of the Pension Review Board came to Fedville to present a special report on the fire pension fund. Both fire pension board members and the city council members attended the meeting when this report was presented.
 During that presentation, the PRB Board Actuary indicated that the fund ran a 90% risk of ruin within the next 5 to 10 years, and conditions have not improved since then. The Fire Pension Board has again received correspondence in 2014 advising the Board of the fund's risky financial condition.
 During 2014, operating conditions of the fire pension fund have been relatively the same, so no improvement has been made. However, the assessed value of the fund continues to be under $5 million, which makes it subject to further investment restrictions. These restrictions no longer allow investments in individual securities.
 Investments will be limited to cash, cash equivalents, government bonds, and no-load mutual funds. This means overall returns in the future are likely to be less than previously experienced, which could bring about depletion of the fund even earlier unless the pension board does something.
 The Fire Pension Board has been aware of the unstable condition of the fund and has been discussing the situation and possible options since 2009, but has not decided on a plan of action supported by the majority of the board. The primary option that has been discussed is the possible reduction of current benefits. The City Clerk and I have each introduced motions and had numerous votes to reduce benefits, but all votes to do so up until this point in time have failed.
 The Pension Board has also been advised that there is no specific enabling legislation to reduce benefits, and legal issues might prevent that option. All other options presented would require substantial financial contributions by the City. However, the City Attorney has advised the Pension Board and the City that the City has no direct obligations to fund the pension plan other than the .4 mil dedicated levy for each plus state insurance turn back.
 The PRB has continued to classify the fire pension fund as projected insolvent. The police pension fund is also considered actuarially unsound, but not in immediate danger of being insolvent. The Police Pension Board is also aware of the police pension fund status and has been considering options that would guarantee long-term solvency.
 I will continue to monitor these pension funds in the future and keep you apprised of any new developments. And that is the... If you have any questions on the finances, Paul is here to answer those questions. Do we have any questions on that? Okay. It is what it is. I know Sondra and I have tried to reduce the pension a couple of times, and we have not been successful. But it is what it is. So anyway...
 We will move along then to the Housing Authority Board Commissioner's appointment. Oh, hi, Della. Hello. Good to have you. Thank you for having me here. Who has that report? I have it. Okay. If someone can give me a copy, I don't know. Thank you. Justin could not be here and ask me if I would do this. Okay.
 Dear Mayor Lionel Jordan and the Fayetteville City Council members, this letter is to confirm that the Fayetteville Housing Authority's Board elected a new commissioner to fill the term of a resigning commissioner, Leon Jones, Jr., and reelected commissioner, Christopher Terry, to serve an additional five-year term at its December 18, 2013, regular board meeting.
 The new commissioner for the Fayetteville Housing Authority Board is Christopher White, who was appointed to fulfill the remainder of the term of Leon Jones, Jr., who resigned at the December 18, 2014 regular board meeting. Jones' term was set to expire on December 28, 2017. Christopher Terry's new term will expire on December 28, 2019.
 Federal Housing Authority Board requests that this newly elected Commissioner Christopher White, along with re-election of Commissioner Christopher Terry, be placed on the next City Council meeting agenda to be formally confirmed by the Municipality's governing body in accordance with the Arkansas State Statute number 14-169-208.
 If you have any questions, please feel free to call or email Freda Swain, Executive Director. Okay. We need to approve those, correct? I will entertain a motion to approve the Housing Authority Board Commissioner's appointments. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Lature? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay.
 Okay, I don't have to vote on that one, do I? All right. The next one is the ORT Regional, Ozark Regional Transit Semi-Monthly Report. Who has that? Yes. Thank you, Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the council, my name is Jeff Hatley. I'm the Mobility Manager and Public Information Officer with Ozark Regional Transit. I promise to be brief. I want to start off by thanking the council
 So very much for your continued support and backing. We finally got this ship headed in the right direction we feel like, and with your continued support and funding and direction and feedback, we hope to continue that path. Relative to Fayetteville, the fixed route ridership has increased 2% over the same month, which I'm reading from November, same month in 2013.
 The paratransit has increased 57% over November 2013. Of course, I've talked about that before. That's from the scheduling and the software that we use and the retraining of our staff to get more bang for our buck out of that. But the main thing I wanted to address with the council tonight is that we had a record year.
 I don't have the full report yet, but I will email that to Sandra as soon as it becomes available. But we've had ridership of 320,976 passengers in the year 2014. That's a record year. So I definitely wanted to get that out there. With that, I will leave it open to questions, comments, and concerns. Do you have any questions for Jeff tonight on this? Yes.
 Do you know what the rider revenue was? People who actually received the service, do they pay for the service, or is this all funded through government grants? We do charge a bus fare. It's $1.25 for the bus and $2.50 for the paratransit or bus.
 demand response, minibands. Do you know what that total amount collected during 2014 was from the riders themselves? I don't have the whole 2014 report yet. All I have is the ridership. He sent me a text on the way over here. All I have is up to November. I can probably find that number if you'd like. We'll wait for the email from Sandra. Okay. All right. Thank you. You bet. Any other questions? All right. Thank you. Thank you.
 all right the next order business have not city council committee appointments those are something i do every two years and um i trust you to look those over and that's where i have assigned folks for the next two years so any comments or anything okay
 We do have to approve the water and sewer and there's some state. And the transportation also. So it would be a motion to approve the appointments. All the committees and just be. So I'm going to second. We have a motion to second to approve all the city council committee appointments. Mayor, and just to be clear for the record, this is the second listing that went out, not the first one included. Right. Okay.
 All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Lature. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay.
 All right, next order of business is a consent. I understand that Councilman Latour would like to pull item two, the resolution to approve the Transportation Division's Overlay Sidewalk Projects List for 2015. Is that correct, John? That is correct, Mayor. I'd like to have a discussion about that. Absolutely. So we will pull that one and I will read the rest of the consent agenda and then we will come back to the sidewalk projects. All right, number one,
 Approval of December 16th, 2014 City Council meeting minutes. Number two has been pulled. Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing hazmat services revenue received by the Fire Department from Washington County in the amount of $5,180 and increasing the related expense budget. Number four.
 A resolution authorized acceptance of a non-matching continuation subgrant from the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program in the amount of $14,976.78 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number five a resolution agreeing to change the zoning from our one single-family residential to our own residential office for property located in the city of Johnson that joins parcels in the city of federal number six a resolution to approve a five-year lease agreement but an option to renew for an additional five years with Dan and Anita Spencer for approximately eighteen point one eight acres of
 unused city property on the west side of Lake Sequoia in exchange for dispensers conveying additional easements to the city that are necessary for construction and operation activities pertaining to the Lake Sequoia sediment removal project I will entertain a motion to accept so moved
 Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Hattie? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Letier? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay. Let me reread resolution number two, resolution to approve the Transportation Division's Overlay Sidewalk Projects List for 2015. John, I understand that you would like to pull this and discuss it. Great. I appreciate the opportunity, Mayor.
 As many of you know, my family and I live across the street from Razorback Stadium. And as many of you know also, Razorback football games bring many, many tourists to our city. And we benefit immensely from sales tax dollars that come in from that tourism business. I think it is incumbent upon we, the city government of Fayetteville, to make sure that those visitors are safe to the maximum extent possible.
 Right outside of my driveway is Hossel Road. There was a construction project started on Hossel Road early in 2014, building curbs and sidewalks on the west end of Hossel. It came all the way to Cross Street and stopped. We were told by the construction crew, not that they would know that, all the ins and outs of workings of our policy, but we were told by them that it was going to come all the way to Oliver Avenue.
 On game days, thousands of people walk down Hossel Road who park up in the neighborhoods, various places, and there is no shoulder on Hossel Road from former Councilman Rhonda Adams' home all the way to the corner of Hossel Road and Oliver Avenue. There's a pretty steep embankment and a ditch. On game days, people walk in the ditch to avoid being run over by automobiles.
 I think we need to improve that. I had a good conversation with Director Terry Gulley this week. He expressed concerns that we may not have right-of-ways to build sidewalks in that area. I suggest that we do what's necessary to attain right-of-ways and build sidewalks for public safety. I understand our policy to build sidewalks wherever we can for aesthetic values. Here's a very strongly compelling...
 Public safety issue that we as the council I think need to address I wanted to bring this to a public forum to highlight the seriousness of the risk being assumed by pedestrians on game day But that's not the only risk We have a lot of people in our neighborhood who walk through our neighborhood and there's no sidewalk in that area what I'm suggesting is instead of building a ward for sidewalk on Markham Street a block to our south and
 Let's build that same sidewalk on Hossel Road where it's desperately needed. A sidewalk is needed and is welcome probably wherever you want to build it by pedestrians. But for maximum bang for the buck, the maximum efficiency of our spending, I think it needs to be built on Hossel Road. If we don't have the right-of-ways, let's get the right-of-ways.
 I just wanted to make that clear to the council. Okay, so you want to move the sidewalk by John from Markham to Hossel? That's correct. Then pull it on down. Alan, what comes to you? I appreciate those comments. We had several Ward 4 meetings on the topic of the priority list and that general area, and Markham was much higher on the priority list, and actually some of the people that lived on
 the other street wanted to maintain the narrowness and lack of sidewalks there, but we've asked that they continue those discussions in the next year. So I don't think I'd be able to support that at this point just because of some of the public meetings we've had with the work for people wanting the Markham access, because that connects a lot of area there instead of just one small area, because they just opened up the sidewalks and that gets actually people to the university.
 from farther out via walking. So at this time, I think it would be better to leave it. OK. Personally. It's been through the Transportation Committee, I take it? Yes, it was. And I don't want to speak for Alderwoman Adams, but my recollection was that her comments were very similar to Alderman Long's. OK. Who else is on transportation? Della. Yes. Well, I also listened carefully to Rhonda as she talked about
 many of the residents on Halsa, of course. I also hear what Alderman Latour is saying, that it's a safety issue. So I do think it's something we need to look at, but, you know, it's not as though we haven't looked at it, is what I'm saying. As Alderman Long says, we've had numerous meetings, and I think the Ward 4 aldermen feel it strongly that it's
 that it is in the proper place in the plan. Okay, Terry, what input do you have on this? I'll just give you a little background on what we did last year when we talked to, and what our past history of what we do is, we present several alternatives to the different ward aldermen, and then we get their recommendation on that, and that's where we came up with this this year. We've done that the last couple years.
 One of the reasons we did go with Markham is we completed the sidewalk from Hossel, across Cross Street, over to the Markham area with the intent to do that because it's about a 900 foot sidewalk to complete that section. The east end of Markham currently has sidewalk that leads directly to the south end of the stadium.
 and we did not and we have the right-of-way that we need on that street to make that happen this year. Our intent is still to look at getting that right-of-way through the course of this year with the idea that in the future years as quick as we can obtain that to go back and do the hostel sidewalk and turn on Oliver and go all the way to Maple because we've got to get the Maple because that's the next section that then leads down to Razorback and complete that section.
 So that's our plan on that. The Markham project is a seven-week project with about $59,000 worth of expense associated with it. We went back and figured the Halsall project, it's about 1,500 feet, 13-week project that cost about $121,000, so it's pretty much right at double.
 taking our entire budget for the year and both time and available funds, I don't have an extra $60,000 or an extra six weeks to make all that happen this year. So that was the idea behind it, plus talking with the board alderman and coming up with the decision to go with Markham this year and looking to try and get the right-of-way obtained. That was one of the issues on...
 also is that the road is not in the center of the right-of-way. It's almost adjacent to the south side, and the south side of Hossel is where we need to continue the sidewalk so it'll connect to the western part we completed earlier, well, last year. So anyway, that's the reasoning behind what we did and what we're trying to accomplish and the time frame on what we're looking at to try and do both.
 Okay, is there any questions for, yes, Alan. And I was just going to add, we did at the ward four meeting discuss the necessity of having both eventually because they're both a safety risk because they're jumping in the ditch basically on both sides on game day. So not to say that you don't have a great idea. They both need to be done eventually. We just thought in our ward four meetings and from constituent input that Markham was more of a priority at the time. Okay, yes, John.
 I would just like to point out that many of the people who use Hossel Road on game day don't live in Ward 4. They're tourists. I was trying to draw the link between our city budget and the importance of tourism to our city. And I think we need to be sensitive to their needs, not just the Ward 4 residents. I want to represent my ward to the best of my ability.
 But we have a Razorback Stadium right adjacent to our ward, which has an impact on our ward, on that part of Ward 4. I think we need to make those people as safe as we can. I understand Ward 4 meetings might have pointed us in a different direction. That's why I'm trying to bring it here before the Council. Those of us who live adjacent to this area see the danger.
 There are three short hills on Hossel Road. When you come over the hill, you can't see what's on the side of the road or what's trying to get out of your way. It makes it increasingly dangerous. So I just wanted this in a public forum. I wanted it in a public record that there is danger here. I don't see the same danger on Markham. I don't see the volume of people on game day on Markham. But I don't live on Markham. So maybe it's there and I just don't know about it. I see what's on Hossel Road.
 So I would encourage us to look strongly at this, and I understand if we can't do it this year, Terry, I appreciate that. I don't want to get on the back burner and die off somewhere. So that's what I'm trying to do is accentuate that need. Okay. Mr. Mayor. Yes, ma'am. Yeah. I'm Sarah .
 Really, I'm going to support going forward with the plan as presented. Earlier, I guess it was last year, we heard from the Pratt Place Inn and Barn that they were wanting to expand their operations. And one of the primary reasons that we couldn't support that was because of the danger along Markham Road in terms of traffic and pedestrian interface. And so when talking about tourism and local businesses,
 I think it's really important that we increase the safety on Markham Road. I know that a lot of thought and work has gone into this plan, so I'm really going to support it as presented. As it is. Okay. Mayor, I have a question. Yes, ma'am. This is for Alderman Long. I think, as I understand it, the traffic or the foot traffic on Markham is kind of all the time, not just game days. Is that correct?
 I would say the foot traffic in the entire area is all the time and not just game day, but there's a more direct— But not as much on—seems like on Halsall. It's less of a steep area to walk in, and I see that as encouraging more people to walk from the University on that slider steepness there. Well, I'm certainly all for getting it done. I certainly am, but we've put a lot of time into the plan, so I'm going to support sticking with the plan.
 i'm going to take some public comment on this anyone like to address this from the public please come up introduce yourself everybody gets one turn at the microphone and the only time you can come back for council member brings you back to ask you questions please give us your name and address keep your remarks to me don't engage somebody in the audience or council member okay thank you mr mayor i'm sean bollendorf i live on oliver avenue and i have property on hostel avenue so
 I see a lot of what John Latour sees. I'm sympathetic to previous meetings as well that I was unaware of even coming into this meeting. But I did at least want to speak up and say, you know, I'm there on game days all six this fall, really all five or six every fall. I've seen after games in particular, I have seen several people get hit with vehicles, not to the point of going to the hospital. It's more side swipes.
 just simply because there's nowhere to go. I'm walking up and down that road all the time after game days, and, of course, you have a lot of people who have had drinks before and during the game, and so after the game, you know, they're not walking straight down that road either. And so you literally do have thousands of people coming down that road after game days. I've seen it time and again. So I do think there is a safety concern there. Okay. I think that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you.
 hi mr mayor my name is zara niederman i live in ward 4 on hotz drive i see the need on hall so certainly it's it's dark there the curves however just as a counterpoint on markham you have people coming in every day particularly a lot of students that come in the back way from saying
 to cross and down Markham. And if you kind of stand there, you'll look that half of them are on their phones or texting as they're coming around the curve, coming down Markham, and people are walking up. There's no sidewalks there. So it's definitely people driving a lot faster because they're going downhill. I'm not saying I have an opinion, but just that's from my perspective. That's kind of, I think that Markham's definitely unsafe, and it's a constant. Okay. All right.
 Mr. Mayor, I am Trigletor, and I live at 14 North Oliver Avenue. And I understand what everyone has said about the traffic. Everyone knows about game days. And there are students that drive on Markham to get to the stadium, and there's also students who drive up Hossel to get to the university every day. But there's also a lot of students who live back in the neighborhoods of Hossel who walk up Hossel to get to the university. So I think that that also contributes to a lot of foot traffic all year round. Thank you. Okay, thank you.
 Who else? Okay. Bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? I mean, we accept the, we pass the original plan. Okay. Let me read it again. A resolution to approve the Transportation Division's Overlay Sidewalk Projects List for 2015. You're making a motion to pass that? Yes. Second. We have a motion and a second. Okay.
 any final comments on this if i could just make a comment on behalf of staff we are in complete agreement with council member latour's comments uh we're committed to acquiring the right-of-way to do the plan for next year both of these items are priorities this is like a puzzle piece of time and dollars allocated by all four awards and so
 While this project is double in time and dollars, it will be a high priority for both of our council members for Ward 4 to prioritize the next year knowing that we will work this year to get the right of way so that we don't have that problem next year. Thank you. Thank you. All right. If there's any other final comments, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Chartlois. Yes. LaTier.
 right, yeah, March, yes. All right. And on an under unfinished business number one, an ordinance to amend the federal code by enacting 71.016 insurance requirements for motorized bicycles, motor scooters and mopeds. I will entertain a motion to go to the second read. The motion is second to go to the second rate. Our water. One of order we we sent that to the ordinance review committee.
 We have not. Well, we left it on the first meeting so it automatically comes to the next meeting as a second reading. Ordinance Review Committee certainly can pick it, take it up whenever they want to. And I think the City Council indicated they wanted the Ordinance Review Committee to take a look at it. But it still comes at this meeting as a second reading. Okay. Okay.
 All right, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. In order to amend the Fable Code by enacting Section 71.016, insurance requirements for motorized bicycles, motor scooters, and mopeds.
 So we will hold it right here, correct? Yes. I'd like to make a motion to table this ordinance until February 17th. Okay. Second. A motion and second to table this ordinance until February 17th. Any discussion on that? Okay. Would you please call the roll? Cady? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes.
 Number two, under unfinished business, an ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 14-48-59 for approximately 1.9 acres located at 300 and 400 block of Martin Luther King Boulevard from NC Neighborhood Conservation to DG Downtown General. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 14-4859 for approximately 1.9 acres located at the 300 and 400 block of Martin Luther King Boulevard.
 from neighborhood conservation to downtown general jeremy anything mayor council just uh for the benefit of mr la tour was not here this item was tabled back on the december 6th meeting i believe to this item to this meeting sorry december 2nd meeting to tonight by the applicant this property is located on the north side of martin luther king jr boulevard between wood avenue and willow avenue so it's
 several blocks east of the intersection of Highway 71 and MLK. It's within the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan boundary. The property should currently develop the single family homes on this property and then all the properties surrounding, a couple of which were constructed by the applicant within the last couple of months, within the last six months. Our future land use plan designates this site as a complete neighborhood plan for Walker Park.
 staff did not feel like rezoning the property from the current zoning designation of neighborhood conservation to downtown general would be a compatible zoning district for this area of small single family small-scale homes
 we felt like another zoning district such as neighborhood services which we investigated with the applicant and met with him to discuss that would be probably more appropriate in this area the planning commissioner did vote 6-2 in favor of the downtown general however and as we discussed with the applicant staff would be likely supportive of an amended request to rezone a portion of the property downtown general particularly at the intersection there along
 eastern boundary where you see adjacency to downtown general there at the intersection
 But we're not resigning the entire property at the downtown general at this point in time But you would entertain an amendment to resume some of it we would and we discussed that with the applicant at mr. Niedermann can speak for himself on that particular proposal I believe he would like to have a council consider the original proposal our concern primarily with downtown general which allows for a
 A number of non-residential uses, which is not the primary concern. I think our primary concern is massing and scale. The size of buildings allowed in downtown general is much different than neighborhood conservation. We simply have a concern of that within this particular neighborhood, particularly mid-block, where you really have single-family homes and single-family residents in this area.
 Okay. Mr. Niederman, would you like to... Yes. Would you like to say something to the council? Yes. Thank you very much. We spoke before Christmas, and I think we had some good conversations, but just with the holidays, we couldn't come to an agreement. I think we have similar... We're along the same lines, but I had talked about having the...
 If we were going to keep the, if we could keep downtown general but then look at a height limit or density, decreasing density from downtown general and the staff felt that that wasn't enough to give them the okay.
 Later, after looking at some of the different options, I looked at, oh, well, in the conversation, they felt that it was not just the size, but how it was developed. So then I proposed, what if I were to go forward with the downtown district design overlay so that it would look appropriate for, you know, just there would be more design options
 oversight of it, and the staff felt that that wasn't enough to give them comfort with moving forward with Downtown General. My feeling is that the just
 councilmember latour um as you can see you know to the to the west um it's all downtown general to the east it's downtown general and blue um and i talked with architect chris barabo at moda studios to see his thoughts and what sort of you know limitations i could i could put on it that might you know satisfy the council and um or we could have some meeting of the minds um but you
 His thought too was that that made sense to be downtown general from all the way across. On 7th Street as well, so one block down. With regard to it being a single family neighborhood setting,
 A lot of the houses there are old and they're just in need of repair or to be torn down. I don't feel like it really has the neighborhood feel that you see in a typical neighborhood. It's a fairly busy street. There are single-family houses. It just has a little more urban feel to me, and that's kind of the way I see the neighborhood.
 why I see downtown general is making the most sense. Neighborhood services has some interest, but the density is a lot lower. It has density requirements, and it's more single family, and I just don't think that from what I'm looking at and what I think is appropriate for the neighborhood, that neighborhood services really will meet that need. Do we have any questions for Mr. Neiman on this?
 I'm trying to get up to speed on it, Mayor. This is located on MLK? It's on the east side, though, so it's more narrow. Once you hit School 71, it closes down to Tulane, so it's a little bit... There's still a lot of traffic, but it's slower and more narrow. I travel that quite frequently. Okay. And in layman's terms, what do you want to do? Okay, I would like to have it have...
 build it so it's not just single-family houses I'd like to have some commercial space with residences above so that it just there's people can walk to the commercial spaces that are in the neighborhood and also live above them so that there's just part of the part of the Walker Park plan was to have a walkable neighborhood with
 Jefferson, which is to the left in the blue, Jefferson Center being a core center. And to the right of it is Huntsville area, where that was going to be neighborhood commercial space, so making this sort of a core area. And so my thought is that we should connect the two, have commercial space in between, so there's a real walking, there's just a real presence of that neighborhood of...
 of mixed-use commercial and residential. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay. We will take some public comment on this project. Any public comment on it? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Okay. What you all want to do? Yes, sir. Okay.
 I really like this plan you know we talk about a lot about encouraging infill development creating walkable neighborhoods a good mix of services of commercial and residential I like it's you know it's on our transit lines it's in close proximity to Willow Bend so you know we could get some jobs and resources there
 And I think that the small size of the actual parcel will help limit some of the potential adverse effects that downtown general might otherwise create in a larger area. So I support this plan. I would like to see this move forward to help improve that neighborhood. Yeah. I think Alderwoman Marsh makes a good point about the size of the parcel being a limiting factor. I think, you know, there's an undercurrent here which I think –
 is important for future decisions about this and you know i'm thinking a lot about this i think to me it's become apparent that our zoning code isn't as granular as perhaps it ought to be i don't think that we have the zoning designation on the books that would be most appropriate for this parcel if you look at neighborhood services and you know do a side-by-side comparison with downtown general there's a tremendous gap
 between the two. And yeah, I agree with staff that in absolute terms, the scale of downtown general that's allowed is probably not appropriate for this site. I'm comfortable voting for it because of the size of the parcel, but I would have to disagree on the point that neighborhood services is adequate for the applicant or even the highest and best zoning district for the neighborhood. I don't feel like we have one on the books that would be the highest and best zoning district for the neighborhood. And so I'm
 I'll support the request, but I hope that we see this as some motivation going forward to add some granularity to our zoning code and maybe go through a calibration process with some of the best practices that are out there as we update our city plan this year. Any other comments? Now we're on the second reading, everybody. So you can leave it here and wait for more council members. You can- I would like to see us leave it on this reading.
 when we have more members here. OK. OK. Well, what's everybody think? You want to leave it here or? I mean, I have a habit of deferring to the alderman of the board whenever that happens. I'd be fine voting on it tonight, too. I would as well. The applicant should know that it requires five affirmative votes in order to pass, no matter how many council members are here. And two council members are absent.
 It's like two no votes already. So usually we give the applicant an opportunity when there are not the full council here to not request it to be voted on tonight. But you can if you want to. That's just whatever you want to. Yep. Mr. Niederman, if you're going to speak, please step up the microphone. Good night. And if it doesn't reach five votes, then...
 And then it just stays where it is? No, it fails. No, it fails. Okay. I mean, that's what I'm saying. Or you can leave it on this reading and then- It remains the same zoning, yes. Okay. But I can come back and propose it later? If the Council wishes to leave it on this reading, then in two weeks we will look at it again. If it fails, though, you cannot propose the identical zoning, I think, within a year. Right. Right, Jeremy?
 We've been, my thought, let me just explain my thought and then I'll tell you what I'm thinking. Okay. Just as a. It's fine. Good here. As a, just as a means of sort of considering the, I have a number of half a dozen other properties in the neighborhood so I'm very invested in what happens here.
 And so just within a block of that location. So I'm, and my, just from, I guess, I mean, I have pictures on my computer I can show you. But, you know, just what it looks like now, the houses that we have built, which we put porch, front porch, big front porches on all four of them to increase the feel of a neighborhood. And that's what I would like to see there, more of a neighborhood. So with that, that's,
 But you're really not allowed to discuss your project. This is a use zoning and a form zoning, so it's the uses that are allowed on that rather than what you actually plan to build unless you're going to present some bill of assurance or something like that that would say you're going to build this. Okay. Do you have a question? No. Yeah, let's go ahead and move forward with the...
 Okay. Okay. All right. Thank you. So if we're going to go forward with this, we will need someone to make a motion to go to the third and final reading. Yes, Alan. I'd like to make a comment, and then I'll make a motion. Sure. Absolutely. I've looked at this project, and I've thought about it extensively since we discussed it at agenda session. I think it would really be a good step in revitalizing the area. I think it needs it.
 So I'll be voting with the Planning Commission's recommendation on this one, and I'll make a motion to go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes.
 And, Your Honor, it's rezoning that property described in a rezoning petition, RZN 14-4859, for approximately 1.9 acres, located at the 300 and 400 block of Martin Luther King Boulevard from Neighborhood Conservation to Downtown General. Any final comments from the council on this? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay. So it passed. Yes. Yes.
 Under new business, number one, an order is waived in the requirements to form a competitive bidding and approving a one-year contract with the Northwest Art and Cell Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $40,017.86 for a stormwater education program for 2015. Kip?
 Whereas the city of Fayetteville, along with 17 other cities in northwest Arkansas, has been operating under the Environmental Protection Agency's federally mandated Phase 2 stormwater regulations as a municipal separate storm sewer system,
 And whereas the Northwest Arkansas Planning Commission has determined that a regional approach to certain minimum control measures required for renewal of municipal separate storm sewer system permits, specifically public education and outreach, public involvement and participation in the education component of pollution prevention and good housekeeping, is both logical, cost effective, and appropriate. And this approach has been approved by the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality. Thank you.
 And whereas the Northwest Arkansas Planning Commission has endorsed a proposal from the University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension Service to design and provide a stormwater education program to all municipal separate storm sewer systems in Northwest Arkansas.
 And whereas the cost of the agreement to the city for 2015 exceeds $20,000 and would otherwise require competitive bidding unless the requirement is waived. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical...
 and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the mayor to sign a memorandum of understanding, a copy of which is attached to or made a part hereof, between the city and the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $40,017.86 for stormwater education programs to be provided by the University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension Service to satisfy portions of the Environmental Protection Agency's Phase II stormwater regulations.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. As Kit noted, this is a contract with the Regional Planning Commission. They function as a clearinghouse. All the cities pool their money into this single contract, and then the work that's provided for all of the cities is provided by the Cooperative Extension Service of the U of A.
 This is to meet our permitting requirements for our MS4 permit, our stormwater permit on a yearly basis. They provide three items, public education and outreach, public involvement and participation, and pollution prevention and good housekeeping, which is essentially training for city employees.
 This is an amount of $40,000. I did have a question about what are we getting out of that, what are we receiving? So I asked the Corporate Extension Service to provide us with some information. I've got a long list of things that they've done that I won't read, but the total value of the hours that they've spent is about $74,000. Again, the reason we're able to get that is by pooling resources.
 They can put out a commercial, that sort of thing, that all of the cities benefit from, but we're only spending money once. What questions do we have for Chris on this? Okay. What public comments do we have on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 Second. The motion is seconded to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Loutier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. An ordinance waiving the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approving a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $40,017.86 for a stormwater education program for 2015.
 We suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. An ordinance waiving the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approving a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $40,017.86 for a stormwater education program for 2015.
 Any final comments from council? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Heddy. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Leterro. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay, number two, an ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 14-4864.
 for approximately .26 acres located at 232 West Ash Street from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre to RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. Kip? It will be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification
 of the following described property from residential single family four units per acre to residential multi-family 24 units per acre as shown on exhibits A and B attached here to you may part hereof and section two that the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one.
 As you can see here in the map behind me, this property is located on West Ash Street, mid-block between Gregg Avenue and Woolsey Avenue. That's approximately a quarter of an acre, currently zoned RSF4, has a single family residence and outbuilding dating from the mid-1950s.
 The proposal is to rezone the property to RMF 24, which as you can see, several properties along Gregg Avenue, particularly on the east side of Gregg Avenue in this area, are zoned RMF 24. However, you'll also see that it transitions quite quickly, one building usually, perhaps to into a quiet single family residential neighborhood with very narrow streets as you go further to the east.
 Staff and the Planning Commission both did not support this rezoning request. We felt like the encroachment of multifamily developments further to the east would allow for introduction of height and density that would be incompatible with those single family neighborhood, which is predominantly owner occupied further east. It does change to some rentals, duplexes, smaller residences along Ash and those general areas and the cross streets in this area.
 There are other multifamily zoning districts. We did not feel that the 24 unit per acre zoning would be appropriate in this area, and the Planning Commission agreed with that, voting 6-3 in denial of this rezoning request. The applicant has appealed that and certainly can present their case to you tonight.
 My name is Taylor Kutruviz and this is my associate Terry Parker. You might want to pull that microphone just a little bit closer. Okay. Can you hear me? Yeah. Okay. I'm a little nervous. All right. So we're talking to you today about our family's lot here at Ash Street. As you can see, it's really close to the intersection of Ash and Gregg. It's the first small house you'll come to if you turn off of North Gregg Avenue onto Ash Street.
 um the house when we purchased it in the middle of last year was a dilapidated overgrown lot and we have rebuilt the house completely redone the lot so that it has a new face to it but there's a big open spot behind the house that's surrounded by apartment buildings that we are trying to get this rezoned so that we can build a triplex on it um
 At over just a quarter of an acre, at the zoning of RMF 24, even though it sounds like a lot of units, it would really only allow for four total, which would be our house and the triplex behind it. The lot is surrounded by 16 apartment units to the north and to the side of it. And across the street, there is a small house that's used as a rental. And they've subdivided their lot, but they have a similar situation to a larger scale with six apartment units behind it. You can kind of see it going down.
 across the street and the next door on the other side is a duplex. So I don't think that it would really be
 I don't know. I don't think it would contrast too sharply with the surrounding properties for us to build a small triplex. There was a concern at the zoning board meeting about influx of traffic coming onto Ash Street due to this additional residence. But we actually own that apartment building next door to this property, and we have a driveway already poured coming off of Gregg Avenue to the lot itself. And it meets the city requirements.
 as far as its width and to accommodate the building that we want to build. So we could really bypass the traffic going onto Ash Street and just have them come directly off of Gregg into this lot. And we're also planning on building a privacy fence behind the house that's already there. So if you were to drive on Ash Street, you wouldn't actually be able to see the triplex that we want to build. It would just be kind of back behind and accessed through Gregg.
 If you look at a plot map also of this neighborhood, as he mentioned, every property on Ash Street is currently used as a rental. If you zoom out further and look onto Woolsey, over 60% of the properties are owned by LLCs. J.R. Ball, I think, owns three of them. There's an LLC there on the corner. They're all used as rentals.
 As the city continues to grow and the university grows and the demand for rentals increases, I think that this neighborhood will move in that direction more so. Instead of being just for small families that used to own these homes in the 70s when the
 This could actually fit in quite nicely here. We have an opportunity to really, instead of redlining this neighborhood and leaving it as it is, allow for growth and allow it to have some economic stimulation, really. This project would increase the property values over there and help it to look even nicer, I guess. I don't know. Do you have anything you want to say?
 Yes, Terry Parker with Parker & Associates. Yeah, our main approach here was to leave the existing residence there to screen it, what we would do behind it from the road, and then also to have our access coming in off of North Gregg to alleviate all these traffic concerns. So I think what we're proposing would be very much compatible and work with the neighborhood that's there and would really enhance it in terms of what's been described as the intent.
 so i didn't know if you had anything else i think it would also help to make a nicer transition off of greg um just one last comment as there are there is an eight unit apartment complex there and then across the street is the six unit it's called assalin place apartments across the street so on our side of the road it would kind of go from eight units to four if you include the house or three if you're just thinking of the triplex and then two as the duplex and then into a house so
 So it could kind of help to make a nicer transition into this neighborhood that's back behind, as opposed to just going straight from apartment building to houses. I think if you have any questions, we'll answer them. Does the council have any questions for the staff or the applicant? Mayor, what were the main objections to? Thank you, Council Member.
 i was just going to ask jeremy if you could speak to the the driveway part being added into the apartment complex also would that have alleviated any concerns from the staff's perspective um we didn't really get into a lot of the
 The detail of the development, I think the intent is clear again, though we can't consider what development that this might, what might occur on the property. For all we know, it could be conglomerated with the overall multifamily acreage included as one lot and then an apartment building be constructed that includes all of the acreage along Gregg as a density, so adding a quarter of acre then to their property.
 possibility for increased density so I certainly think these folks have the greatest intense but we're looking at zoning beyond even their ownership possible possibly and so I think the the concerns cited by the plant commissioners were compatibility encroachment within the neighborhood further we certainly believe in in adequate transition and that's in the ID beholder at times
 I think that was one of our concerns as well as the Planning Commission and traffic that was mentioned by the Planning Commission is pulling traffic into the neighborhood. We could not restrict them from having an access from Ash Avenue entirely, being it's its own current lot with access now. John, you had a question. That was basically my question. What were the objections of the staff?
 It seems the applicant just told us that they're pouring a driveway, not that some future owner couldn't come and jackhammer the driveway and do something else. Property needs to be used for its best use in a point in time, and we may not have the wisdom as the City of Fayetteville to understand how that may change through time. I would be in favor of letting the applicant build their property and use it as they see fit.
 After all, in our country, we do have private ownership of property. Not to say that we shouldn't have planning, but I don't want to step over those bounds very much. That would be my sentiment.
 Yes, Kent. I should know, I was at the Planning Commission and there were neighbors who were private property owners in the same area that were objecting to this as an infringement upon their property rights for their single family houses. They might be some tonight. I don't know if anybody is here, but they did appear at the Planning Commission and asked that this not be allowed because in fact if you vote for this rezoning, you could get a six unit multifamily structure there because this is more than a quarter acre.
 opposed to what you've heard and and none of what you've heard is enforceable they can do whatever they want to once it is zoned and so that's what the Planning Commission was looking at the the concerns of the neighbors as well as what could actually happen on the property but of course it's up to you all decide what's in the best interest of the city are we allowed to speak to that at all
 Can I say something? Yes, go ahead. Okay. I met with Quinn Thompson in the zoning office and actually with this zoning, if someone were to buy this property and come through and completely tear everything down, the most they could build here is four units due to the fact that the city has rules about green spaces, trees, maintenance, riparian areas. Even if someone were to come by later and buy it from us, you couldn't fit six.
 You could only put four. And the people that came, there was one family that spoke against us at the zoning meeting, and it was actually the sister of our next-door neighbor in the duplex. And we're actually really good friends with the man in the duplex. His sister doesn't live in the neighborhood. She lives on the other side of town. I mean, she was the only one that came to speak against us. Okay. Yeah.
 I believe you had something. I have a question for Kit. Are we as a council allowed to ask? I know these rules are very stringent for a bill of assurance. No, we cannot ask for that. That's called contract zoning, so you can't do that. Something like that has to be voluntarily offered by the applicant to try to get you to approve their zoning. This would be a question for Mr. Pate. Do we have a zoning?
 Do we have a zoning that would accommodate what they want to do? I'm sure we do. I think without the details of a plan, looking at how all the site would be developed, the
 the tree preservation as they mentioned, and really going into more detail of a project related to their intent, it would be difficult to just kind of throw a zoning district out there that might or might not work. I'd hesitate to do that because we might say something and then it doesn't work. Just as they mentioned, there are limitations on what you can do with your property even if you have zoning.
 Well, if the concern is that someone will come and raise everything that the applicant bills and come back and build a six-unit apartment house or a 20-unit apartment house, it seems like we as a city could come up with a zoning classification that would preclude that possibility. And I'm sure the applicant would be willing to submit a plan that might fit into a qualification that would allow a triplex, which is what they want to do.
 John, that's interesting because we have two weeks between each meeting if you hold it on, say, this reading, and they have two weeks to work with the staff to look at a different zoning type thing. But it's going to be dependent on what you all want to do. Sarah, I believe you have. I had a few questions. Jeremy, on that section of Gregg Street, is there a left turn lane? I don't believe so. There's not one. What about sidewalks?
 There are for portions, but there's not a continuous sidewalk along Gray. I don't think on either side, honestly. And what about transit service? Do we currently – I don't believe ORT runs a route there. I'd have to look at our GIS maps to see if that's in that area. Okay. And then under the current zoning, could they build an accessory dwelling unit or anything in the back? Okay.
 So under the existing zoning, they could add additional living unit to their property. They just couldn't do the triplex. Under the current zoning, they have a single-family home. They could add by right.
 an accessory dwelling unit, which is a small unit in the back. By conditional use permit, they could request for a duplex on this property. Anything further than two units, however, would take at least some zoning, such as RT12, which is a residential two and three family, which would allow triplex of three units.
 for one of the RMF zonings and we have a number of those. RMF 6, 12, 18, 24, and it's all based on the density. So I think they do have some other options in the existing use unit. I think the idea of an accessory dwelling unit, otherwise known as like a granny flat, could enable them to recoup some additional, get some additional value out of their current lot.
 I guess what we're trying to do is retain the, they've already done improvements and remodeling on the existing structure. So we want to be able to retain that and add some other units and not have to knock it
 and we've met we met with the zoning um we met in the zoning office to discuss our options at the meeting they brought up rmf 12. but really as i mentioned before with all of the city's other regulations on building on your lot in order to build what we'd like to build we have to get rmf 24. i know it sounds really huge and
 scary but I mean we've considered yeah it's only a quarter of an acre lot so at 24 units per acre with the other additional city rules on development this is kind of our only option
 So you're saying you've met with the staff to look at other zoning and you haven't found anything compatible with what you want to do? And we have a general contractor and we've met with Terry and he's tried to fit things on the lot, simulated, you know, using these regulations and we've met with city staff. This is really the only zoning that would accommodate our, what we need. Okay. To go forward. Okay. Alright. Any other questions from the council? Let's take some public comment.
 Anybody want to address this from the public on this project? Okay. Bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Yes. Well, I prefer to hold it on this reading. I just feel like I personally need some more time to think about it. I defer, of course, to the council's wishes. Sure. I agree. I'll second that. Everybody just want to hold it right here? Sounds good. Okay. We'll hold it right here. Two weeks. All right. All right.
 Okay, moving along to number three. An ordinance rezoning that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 14-4894 for approximately 3.78 acres located at 3525 South School Avenue from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to I1 Heavy Commercial Light Industrial.
 It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the following described property from C2, thoroughfare commercial, to I1, heavy commercial light industrial, as shown on exhibits A and B attached here to and made a part hereof. In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1 above. Thank you.
 This is a property on the west side of South School Avenue, Highway 71B at the intersection of Willoughby Road. It's developed with several warehouse buildings and a former retail building totaling approximately 50,000 square feet. Those buildings, several of them have been vacant for the past several years. One of them was utilized for dentist home furnishing for several decades. The city plan 2030, Future Land Use Plan designates this site as industrial for its future land use.
 this request is to rezone the property to I-1 light industrial heavy commercial. In staff's opinion and with a vote, unanimous vote of the Planning Commission, we felt this I-1 zoning district would be an appropriate designation for this property near Willoughby Road, standard register, Cooper Power Systems and Drake Field Airport. And so staff is supportive of the rezoning request for this four acres. Okay. Any questions for Chair May on this?
 any public comment on this first oh sorry yes sorry applicant my mistake hello morgan hooker representing the applicant uh seems like uh kind of has its time for c2 and retail um we think industrial fits the use there have any questions i'm happy to answer okay any questions okay any public comment on this okay bring it back to the council
 Motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. An ordinance rezoning of property described in rezoning petition RZN 14-4894 for approximately three and three quarter acres located at 3525 South School Avenue from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to I1 Heavy Commercial Light Industrials.
 Move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. Motion second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Cady. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Lateur. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marne. Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property is described in rezoning petition RZN 14-4894 for approximately three and three quarter acres located at 3525 South School Avenue from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to I1 Heavy Commercial Light Industrial.
 Any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. LaTour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay. Number four, an ordinance amending Title IV, Unified Development Code of the City of Federal to amend chapters 151, 161, 162, and 166 to create a new use unit for small scale production including boutique and specialty manufacturing
 and to place this new use unit in appropriate zoning designations. Okay. Whereas the City of Fayetteville planning staff has identified a need for a new use unit to allow for small-scale specialty manufacturing, and whereas recent trends in the manufacturing of handmade and craft products are directed toward smaller scale and locally produced products,
 Whereas the current zoning and development code does not currently specifically address these types of small scale operations And whereas planning staff has determined that these types of uses if scaled appropriately Are compatible with neighborhood land uses now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the city of favela Arkansas section 1 at the City Council the city of favela, Arkansas hereby adds the following definitions to chapter 151 definitions
 Coffee roasting facility, a facility in which unprocessed green coffee may be sorted, roasted, and processed or packaged for use and consumption. Microbrewery, microdistillery, and microwinery. An establishment for the manufacture, blending, fermentation, processing, and packaging of no more than 15,000 barrels of alcoholic beverages per year.
 It may serve alcoholic beverages for sampling on the premises and may also have wholesale and resell for sales of alcoholic beverages produced on the premises. Section 2.
 At the City Council, the City of Federal Arkansas hereby amends Chapter 161 zoning regulations by inserting use unit 45 small-scale production as a conditional use in the following zoning districts. 161.16 Neighborhood Services, 161.17 Residential Office.
 Section 3 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville are hereby amend chapter 161 zoning regulations by inserting use unit 45 small-scale production as a permitted use in the following zoning districts and
 161.18 C1 Neighborhood Commercial, 161.19 CS Community Services, 161.20 C2 Thoroughfare Commercial, 161.21 UT Urban Thoroughfare, 161.22 C3 Central Commercial, 161.23 DC Downtown Core, 161.24 MSC Main Street Center, and 161.25 DG Downtown General.
 Section 4, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amends Chapter 162 use units by inserting use unit 45 small scale productions as shown in Exhibit A attached to the made a part hereof. And Section 5, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amends Chapter 166 development by repealing the first paragraph of Section 166.25B and replacing it with the following language.
 Section 165.25 applicability. These design and development standards apply to commercial developments, office development, small-scale production, those parts of a planned zoning district or other mixed-use developments with commercial and office elements, and to industrial developments within the I-540 overlay district.
 Over the past several years, the city has seen an influx of smaller startup businesses operating out of residences, leasing small buildings or partial tenant spaces, and in smaller industrial buildings. In addition, a number of these existing vacant buildings along our commercial corridors that have been aging, have been adapted and reused for a variety of non-residential uses.
 not typically seen in commercial areas where churches, fitness studios, light manufacturing, retail types of uses are centered. There have been situations where a new or expanding business has either had to request a conditional use permit from the Planning Commission to operate in an existing commercial building or been forced because of zoning to an undesirable industrial area or a different community to find appropriate space to lease.
 A demand for small light manufacturing tenant space, we believe, has increased based on permits we've issued and simply conversations we've had with entrepreneurs, including uses such as microbreweries, which I believe you're probably all aware of and heard of. To address these issues, staff is proposing several changes to our unified development
 We are looking to create a new use unit, 45, which is called small scale production. It would include all of our clean technology uses but limited to size by maximum 5,000 square feet in gross floor area. That would include high tech research and development, fabrication of alternative energy projects, products, things of that nature, which would then be allowed in a number of our zoning districts where they're not currently allowed.
 Typically those are that type of light manufacturing or production uses are only allowed within manufacturing zoning districts. We feel like limiting it in size would limit the potential negative impacts that production has and manufacturing has and allow them to be located in commercial type areas.
 We're also including definitions for things such as coffee roastery and microbrewery, microwinery and microdistilleries. Again allowable with a maximum gross floor area of around 10,000 square feet and a production less than 15,000 barrels per year. We did a lot of research to try to find out what the magic number there was for square feet and production. We did several site visits.
 to indicate that microbreweries were very different than a typical manufacturing facility, often with minimal impact to neighbors and oftentimes with a lot of interaction with the public within the actual facility itself.
 Several local microbreweries are in facilities greater than 5,000 square feet but less than 10,000 square feet. And we felt like in some of our downtown areas, some of our commercial areas, particularly to adaptively reuse old buildings along College Avenue or MLK, these would be perfect types of uses rather than push them all to industrial districts.
 And then finally, boutique and specialty manufacturing limited by size to a maximum of 5,000 square feet. Those would be things such as a coffee roasting facility or other specialty manufacturer with minimal impacts to adjoining neighbors or properties. We left it open to allow the planning director essentially to make a call if there was another use that was,
 tend to fall in this to allow that flexibility there and look at the type of use and type of impact within that square feet within the use unit. So there still is that flexibility for future things that we're not even thinking of yet.
 The staff is certainly proud to bring this forward, to incorporate these uses within the zoning districts, allow for more flexibility within our codes, and the Planning Commission was also supportive. We had intended to allow that to be at the Planning Commission for several weeks.
 voted to forward it on at their first meeting and first reading of that six to zero. We also had several local microbreweries submit emails of support as well as the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce in favor of the ordinance change. We also, our planning director interviewed the Arkansas Alcoholic Beverage Control to understand what their rules would be to make sure we weren't creating anything amiss with what they would do.
 and we included that information there in the packet as well. So staff is recommending at this meeting or at a future meeting that you make these changes to the Unified Development Code. Staff did a great job on this. This is something I've been interested in for a while, and they did an absolutely fantastic job on this. So thank you, Jeremy. What questions do we have here? Staff on this one.
 Thank you for bringing this ordinance forward. I think it's something that is fantastic. I have a question. I noticed that there's a difference of 5,000 square feet for most everything and 10,000 square feet for microbreweries. I was curious if we had...
 a boutique manufacturer come in and they needed 6,000 square feet and they would otherwise be approved, would staff be willing to consider a variance in a case like that?
 I think staff couldn't grant a variance. They'd have to go to the Board of Adjustment, I think, wouldn't they? I think the Board of Adjustment could. They can't approve a different use, but the Board of Adjustment can vary things within the details of a zoning district. So I believe they would have that avenue in order to— But there is a burden to go there because you have to prove a certain due hardship to you. And so that might be a difficult standard just because you want another thousand or two feet square feet.
 It might be difficult for them to show that they cannot develop it in the square foot that is allowed under this. I guess that's my only, in such a minor, it's my only concern about the ordinance because we, staff is able to tour actual facilities that come up with a recommendation for 10,000 square feet for microbreweries.
 I suspect that there are industries out there that would typically require more than 5,000 square feet that we don't have the opportunity to tour today, nevertheless, which we would hope to attract here.
 I understand we have to choose a number, but I'm skeptical that base 10 decision making is less than arbitrary. In any case, I'm happy to support the ordinance. I'm hopeful that we would demonstrate some leniency if an industry came forward and they could show that it was pretty typical to build more than 5,000 square feet.
 Certainly appreciate those comments, and we've always committed to bringing things back to the council to change the ordinance if we don't feel like it's working. We're taking a step out there to allow a lot of these uses by right that are generally industrial. So in the middle, the heart of downtown, right off the square, you could have some of these uses, cabinet shops, some of these things that we're looking.
 residential uses may be mixed in and so we felt like being conservative on the size requirement at least right now to test that market and see how it works and if it if it seems like it functions well and there's more space needed we have this avenue to come back to you all as well and change it up okay John
 I very much appreciate the staff bringing this forward and recognizing that we don't always have the wisdom to understand what's coming down the pike. This facilitates entrepreneurship. People with an idea that may be the next Bud and Sam Walton, may be the next Stephen Jobs, may be the next Michael Dell starting in their garage and innovating that may change our lives like the iPhone has. It's that sort of entrepreneurship, that sort of innovation.
 which I think this proposal will help spur on. If Mr. Petty has a concern about 5,000 being too small, we're the lawmakers. Let's make everything 10,000 square feet to accommodate even more innovation or more potential for what we see around us now in the business world. I appreciate what the staff is doing. I appreciate this ordinance, the direction it's headed. It's recognizing these things. Thank you.
 I'm sorry, Allen didn't answer. That's okay. I was just going to say that I'm very supportive of the ordinance, and I like what it's trying to do, and I like that it's trying to give some new startups a chance here in Fayetteville and kind of work outside of what we've normally done by right, and I like that. However, it did only have one reading at the Planning Commission, and I would like for us to hold it on this reading tonight to see if there's more ways we can improve or expand on it by taking public comment in the next two weeks.
 I plan to support this ordinance, but I think that we might have an opportunity to take more public input. I'm just not sure it's been out in the public long enough.
 i would like to take some public i'm sorry sarah go ahead um i actually spent the afternoon with a small business looking for manufacturing space in south bayville and downtown um and i i do want to echo alderman petty's concerns about the limitation of 5 000 square feet not so much because this company needed more than that but because there were so few places to choose from that um
 you know it's hard to be specific in the amount of size you need when there's only certain sizes available so um you know if there is an opportunity to make this a little more generous in that square footage area i i would support that but otherwise i think that this is fantastic you know it certainly beats trying to be limited to finding light industrial land which we seem to have less and less of so good work by staff and i think this is going to do great things for our economy you too
 Is there any public comment on this? Okay, bring it back to the council. Mayor, if I could, I've got one question for Jeremy. I noticed in this list where it's all as a permitted use, we don't have, through all these other commercial areas, you don't have heavy commercial light industrial, which seems like it might fit in there. I don't know what your reasoning was not to allow a microbrewery in an I-1 zoning, heavy commercial light industrial.
 They would be allowed there already without limitation to size. Already allowed? Correct. I1, I2 already allows all of these uses currently. It has no limitation to size. That's really the reason this is important because we didn't have a lower intensity zoning designation that even allowed those uses within. This is allowing them. I realize manufacturing was. I didn't realize the selling was allowed there. Okay. Does the Council want to hold it on this reading?
 Mr. Hamm. Just because of the conversation we've had tonight, the City Attorney still had a question. There's probably going to be some questions out there. I would prefer and respectfully request that the Council hold it for two weeks. Okay. Well, what does everybody think? The benefit then is Mark and Justin will be able to get filled for it too. Yeah. That's right. You need a motion, sir? No. You can just hold it right here and we'll pick it up in two weeks. Okay.
 Well, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have tonight? Mayor, the City of Fayetteville Recycling and Trash Division is currently collecting Christmas trees through the month of January for citizens who just need to set them outside on their normal trash and recycling day and it will be picked up by the yard waste program. It's through the month of January.
 They can return them on the first Saturday of each month if they choose to bring themselves. And that's from 8 to noon at the facility there on Armstrong Road. Also just want to remind the council that the city will be closed on January the 19th for Martin Luther King holiday. And trash services on that particular Monday will run as regularly scheduled.
 as we do on most holidays. And the marinas at Lake Fayetteville and Lake Sequoia will reopen after their holiday close from December the 24th through January the 14th. So if you're looking for a boating or fishing permit at the lakes, you can see those reopen on January the 15th. Any other announcements? All right, thank you all, we're adjourned.