I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of January 3rd, 2019. First order of business we have tonight is the Oaths of Office. Kid Williams, City Attorney. Ward 1, Sonia Gutierrez. Ward 2, Mark Kenyon. Ward 3, Sloan Scroggins. And Ward 4, Teresa Turk. And Judge Story, I believe that you will administer the Oaths of Office. And so... Well, maybe I have a moment there. Here we go. Good evening, Judge. I think we'll start with Attorney Williams. If you'll please stand and raise your right hand. Repeat after me. I, Kit Williams, do solemnly swear I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Arkansas and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of city attorney, city of Fayetteville, upon which I am now about to enter. Congratulations. Ms. Gutierrez, if you'll stand and raise your right hand, repeat after me. I, Sonia Gutierrez, I, Sonia Gutierrez, Do solemnly swear Do solemnly swear That I will support the Constitution That I will support the Constitution Of the United States Of the United States And the Constitution of the State of Arkansas And the Constitution of the State of Arkansas And that I will faithfully discharge And that I will faithfully discharge The duties of the office The duties of the office Of Councilmember Ward 1, Position 1 Of Councilmember Ward 1, Position 1 Upon which I am now about to enter. Upon which I am now about to enter. Congratulations. Mr. Struggett. If you'll raise your right hand and repeat after me. Aye. Sloan-Stragen. Aye. Sloan-Stragen. Do solemnly swear. Do solemnly swear. I will support the Constitution of the United States. I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of Arkansas. And the Constitution of the State of Arkansas. And that I will faithfully discharge. I will faithfully discharge. The duties of the Office of Council Member. The duties of the Office of Council Member. Ward 3, position 1. Ward 3, position 1. Upon which I am now about to enter. Upon which I am now about to enter. Congratulations. Mark Kenyon, if you'll stand, raise your right hand. Hi, Mark Kenyon. Hi, Mark Kenyon. Hi, Mark Kenyon. Do solemnly swear I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Arkansas and I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Council Member Ward 2, Position 1 upon which I am now about to enter. upon which I am now about to enter. Congratulations. Ms. Turk, if you'll raise your right hand. I, Theresa Turk, I, Theresa Turk, do solemnly swear, do solemnly swear, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of Arkansas, and the Constitution of the State of Arkansas, And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. That I will faithfully discharge the duties. Of the office of council member. Of the office of council member. Ward four, position one. Ward four, position one. Upon which I am now about to enter. Upon which I am now about to enter. Congratulations. Congratulations. I appreciate the opportunity to do this and wish each of you the very best in the coming year. And you'll need to sign these at some point to be completely legal. Thank you, Judge Story, very much. Thank you, Judge. Thank you, Judge Story. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Present. Here. Here. Mr. Joyman, the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, under the Announcements, Proclamations, Recognitions, City Council Meeting, Presentations, Reports, and Discussion Items, we have number one... The election of the vice mayor, I will now open up the floor for nominations for vice mayor. Mark. I would like to nominate Sarah Marsh for vice mayor. Okay. Any other nominations? Okay. I will close the nominations. And by vote of the city council, we will call the roll and please name who you are supporting for vice mayor. Please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Sarah Marsh. Sarah Marsh. Sarah Marsh. Sarah Marsh. Council Member Marsh. Morgan. Sarah. Bunch. Marsh. Okay, thank you all very much. Congratulations, Sarah. Thank you very much. Okay, number two, the City Council Committee Appointments. We have sent those out. I hope you have reviewed those. Any discussion on the Council Appointments? Committee Appointments, sorry. City Council Committee Appointments. Okay, thank you all. Then we will move on to number three. We have a report of the Fireman and Policeman's Pension and Relief Fund. That would be me. I know you're excited to hear that. All right. I'll read the following report. Local Pension Fund Report for 2018. In keeping with statutory requirements, I'm presenting this report for 2018 on the Local Police and Fire Retirement and Relief Funds The city of federal both of these plans were closed by law in 1983 and there are no longer any active working members remaining. There are only currently 35 police and 45 fire retirees and beneficiaries in the system. At December 2018, projected expenses from the fire pension fund were approximately $1.3 million as compared to fund revenues of $1 million. Projected police pension fund expenses were approximately $1.5 million as compared to fund revenues in excess of $1.3 million. This is before adjusting investments to current market value. Actual evaluations are the responsibility of the State of Arkansas Fire and Police Pension Review Board. The last evaluations completed were as of May 2018 for the year ending December 31, 2017. Based on those evaluations, the total pension liability of the police and fire funds were $17.1 million and $17.6 million, respectively. The net pension liabilities for these funds were approximately $10.5 million for police and $14.3 million for fire. In the annual reports issued by the Arkansas Pension Review Board, neither the fire department nor Police Pension Fund were found to be accidentally sound pursuant to established financial texts. The Fire Pension Fund has been classified as projected insolvent since 2009. The Fire Pension Board has been discussing the unstable condition of the fund and possible alternatives since that time. No specific request was made by the Fire Pension Board to the City Council in 2018. The Police Pension Fund is also considered actually unsound but not in immediate danger of becoming insolvent. The Police Pension Board is also aware of the police pension fund status and has been considering options that would guarantee long-term solvency. And I will continue to monitor these pension funds in the future and keep you apprised of any new developments. I do sit on both of those committees. So, that being said, is there any discussion on the fire and police pension funds? Okay. Next, we'll have the monthly financial report from Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is a report for November 2018, so that's our 11th month. First, I would like to share a little information to especially the new council members. When I give the monthly report, I normally will concentrate on the revenue side and where we are, whether we're up and down from revenue. I do this because the budget is already set. So if we're within budget. and the revenues are roughly where we projected them, we're doing fine to that point in time. So that's why you'll hear me talk much more about revenue than you will expenses. Of course, if I see any dangers that we can't meet the budget in a specific fund, I will bring that to you separately. Also, for your information, I give a monthly report on sales taxes to the Council of the Agenda Session. That's because 60% of the general fund revenue is sales tax, and certainly that's our most important barometer. With that said, I'll talk a little about the general fund. The sales tax for the general fund are up 5% compared to last year. This is about $650,000 over the budget. So sales tax is doing very well at this point in time. I'm happy to report that building permits are very strong through the month of November. Actually, we're up almost $700,000 compared to the budget. Court fees are down a bit, about $200,000. Franchise fees are up maybe $100,000, but we're up about 3% in the general fund in total, which will equate to about $1.3 million. So we're doing very well at this point in the year, and we're within the approved budget. First, street fund is concerned. Street fund revenues have been primarily flat throughout this year. We still are funding to the street level to where we had expected, but revenues are flat. No real growth there, and expenditures are within budget. As far as the parking fees are concerned, we're down about 3% through the month of November. Okay. This could result in a fifty thousand dollar or so deficit through the end of the year But that's manageable when we look to the to the fund balance in the funder We talked about that a little bit at budget time. However, the fees are down roughly three percent at this point in time and HMR sales have been very strong this year, we're up 4.7%. Now the HMR fees that we look at right now, these are for parks development fund. That's to help fund the maintenance of the parks. There is also a fee that goes to the HMR board for distribution, but that is separate and not really a part of this report. One penny goes to each place to park development, one penny to HMR. Again, we're up 4.7%, which is very strong at this point of the year. Water and sewer, we're up about 4.6% in usage so far this year. So we are expanding with the usage at this point in time. I had reported to the council that our water usage was up substantially due to some of the leaks that we had this summer, but those have subsided, so we have brought that down and we're not experiencing the same water leakage that we had However, the revenues are up 4.6%, so we're doing well in water and sewer at this point in time. I will remind the council that we did budget some extra money next year to put on a couple of extra positions to address leakage, and we also increased our water usage budget because the water usage was up. But water and sewer is very stable at this point in time. Recycling and trash collection revenue is pretty flat compared to last year. Expenses are in line So we're right about where we have expected to be in recycling and trash collection Airport sales of fuel are up 25% for this year. That's very strong Remember our expenses are also up and you've proved a couple of budget adjustments especially for fuel because that's the fuel that we are that we must use to generate the revenue. But we'll be up this year probably about $600,000, which is a very, very positive surplus. The one thing I do want to remind everybody and make the new members aware of, the concern that I do have on the airport is that we really aren't generating enough for capital improvements over time. The airport has done a very, very fine job is obtaining grants, federal grants. They're 10% matches, and sometimes we get that match back from the state. But those grants allow us to upgrade and improve the airport and provide for replacement of needed equipment there. If we ever run into a problem there of not being able to obtain some of these grants, then we're going to have to look to other sources to keep the airport up to snuff on a capital basis. So that ends my report, and I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on the finances? Anything? Thank you. Thank you, Paul. All right, the next thing we have tonight, number five, is the Ozark Regional Transit Report. Thank you, Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the council, my name is Jeff Hadley. I'm the public information officer for Ozark Regional Transit and here to give our periodic report. Unfortunately, I don't have the year-end numbers yet for the entire system, but our statistician did put together numbers for our Fayetteville-specific routes, which we have three of now. We went from four earlier in the year down to three, but that was – due to some changes to increase frequency and to trade off Some redundant routes we had with raised back transit and overall make us more efficient and serve citizens of Fayetteville more 2017 was a terrible, terrible year for us for lots of reasons. Late 2017, we came to this council and every other major municipality in northwest Arkansas asking for a funding increase in order to maintain the services that we had at that time. Every other municipality plus NWAC decided to reduce those services and keep funding the same. Fayetteville is the one exception. Fayetteville did increase our funding to allow the same services to be provided. And then, as I mentioned, in August, we made some changes to increase the frequency of the routes and increase the ridership in Fayetteville. As I stated, our statistician put together some numbers specific for the Fayetteville routes, and I put that on your individual desks. Our overall ridership for the whole network in Northwest Arkansas is actually down 4.7% even from 2017 when it really plunged due to our fire and a lot of other different things, a lot of routes being defunded and things. So we had 208,337 passengers as of the end of November. Of course, December will come out and we will have those numbers to you, hopefully within the week. But in Fayetteville, the year numbers are still forthcoming, but ridership is on the rise. Every month in 2018 showed an increase in ridership, with the exception of August, which August was the year that we incorporated all these changes, and we just blamed that on the learning curve, people figuring out the different routes and schedules and things. Yeah. A comparison of October, and I'll put that on your desk, a comparison of October-December numbers from 2018 to 2017 shows a 43% increase in the Fayetteville routes. So that shows that what we're doing is working, especially compared to the rest of the region. We actually even had a couple record days in Fayetteville recently in November 26 We had 664 passengers and just missed matching that number a week later on December 3rd with 663 Last time I mentioned that we had gotten a couple grants. One was to replace 12 of the 20 buses that we lost in our fire in January 2017. And they are currently on the assembly line in Indiana. And they're going to be replaced. And we're expecting the first of those deliveries of those 12 buses in mid-March. However, we have had to go back to them and ask them to push back the delivery by two weeks, and that's due to the government shutdown. And... We have all the grant paperwork and everything provided for the powers that be to check off and sign off on. There's nobody there in Fort Worth office to take those grants and nobody there to even answer the phone. So we've asked them to push that delivery date back by two weeks, and we may even have to do that depending on how long the shutdown lasts. The other grant we received for a new administration building and operations center, we have gone through the qualified bidder process and have determined three local contractors. to go forth with and bid documents for that will be available on the 15th of this month to those contractors and then on February 1st We're going to have those Three companies representatives come to our office. They'll walk through in a pre-construction meeting and start getting this thing going It's a it's going to be a design build. So we're we were very picky about which contractors we wanted to have make sure that they were going to be up to the task and So with that, I'll leave it open to any questions or comments or concerns. Okay. What questions do we have for Jeff on this? Anything? Okay. All right. Don, I believe you have. Mayor, I just wanted to make a note for the council. We're also collecting data from Razorback Transit, which was a part of this expanded no-cost program as well, and we've seen significant ridership increase on the Martin Luther King routes. And we've also seen more crossover between our university students who used to have to pay to be on the ORT system that are now able to ride on that same system as citizens of Fayetteville free of charge. So we'll have the collected combined data for you as we move through 2019 and the future. Okay. All right. Thank you, Jeff. All right. Thank you. Okay. The next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Okay. number one resolution to adopt the rules of order and procedure of the federal city council for 2019. number two approval of the december 4th 2018 city council meeting minutes number three a resolution to award bid number 18 to ask 15 to authorize the purchase of physical fitness equipment from best price products incorporated from white plains new york in the amount of $46,110.96 plus sales taxes for use by the fire department. Number four. A resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with Skydive Federal LLC for office space in the airport terminal building in the amount of $160 per month. Number five. A resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with Skydive Federal LLC for office space in the airport terminal building in the amount of $204 per month. Number six. A resolution to approve the purchase of a 2019 Pierce Velocity Ladder apparatus from emergency vehicle specialists incorporated in the amount of $1,178,986 plus performance and payment bond at the cost of $3,220 pursuant to a Houston-Galliston area council cooperative purchasing contract to approve a project contingency in the amount of $25,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number seven, a resolution to approve the purchase of seven police-packaged Chevrolet Tahos from Superior Chevrolet of Siloam Springs in a total amount of $245,224 pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the police department. Number eight, a resolution to approve the purchase of four Jeep Renegades, from Superior Dodge Ram of Siloam Springs in the total amount of $74,228 pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the Community Resources Division and Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number nine, resolution to approve the purchase of a Dodge Durango from Superior Automotive of Siloam Springs in the amount of $25,727 pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the Community Resources Division Number 10, a resolution to authorize purchase of a Ford F-250 truck from Lewis Automotive Group of Federal in the amount of $26,978, pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division, and number 11, a resolution to approve the purchase of four Dodge Ram trucks with towing packages from Superior Dodge Ram Asylum Springs and and a total amount of $91,492 pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? So moved. And Sarah? We have a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Okay. Okay. Sandra, I think I hit the button to make a motion. It's got Sarah Marsh as the seconder. It doesn't matter. Is it okay? Yeah. All righty then. As read. Yes. May I? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. all right thank you all on our unfinished business number one in order to amend 50.40 rights for service of the federal city code to align the city's recycling and trash collection rates with the recent rate study i will entertain a motion to go to the second reading so moved mark i'll second that we have a motion a second to go to the second reading something would you please call the roll Kyle was the mover and Mark was the second, right? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. In order to amend Section 50.40, rates for services of the Fayetteville City Code to align the city's recycling and trash collection rates with the recent rate study. Okay, Peter. Mayor and council, good evening, and welcome to our three new council members, and welcome back to our five returning council members. Looking forward to working with you all. Moving into the future, with regard to the Recycling and Trash Collections Division rate changes, a little background on this particular set of ordinance changes. On February 6th of last year, of 2018, City Council passed Resolution 49-18 and authorized Mayor Jordan to sign a contract in the amount of $47,932.00. with MSW consultants to conduct a recycling and trash collections rate study to comprehensively evaluate the solid waste system's full cost of service and to develop a five-year financial plan with recycling and trash disposal rate recommendations. MSW consultants provided a detailed analysis of the existing waste collection services, facilities, and rates for each major type of service that we provide throughout the city of Fayetteville. consultants also provided a cost of service analysis and projected rates needed to fund these various services these included identifying costs associated with new or expanding services our commercial organics of food waste composting commercial glass and multifamily recycling and commercial recycling services all of those are supported in the 2017 solid waste reduction diversion and recycling master plan and lastly The final collection and disposal rate recommendations are provided for all of the facilities and collection services that we provide. These recommendations are explained in great detail in the Recycling and Trash Collections Rate Study that the City Council adopted at the December 18, 2018 City Council meeting at the last meeting that you all had. Implementation of the Recycling and Trash Collections Rate Study will enable the Recycling and Trash Collections Committee. Division to more fully implement the 2017 recycling master plan and will help us Increase waste diversion by implementing the following service enhancements that we provide throughout the city of Fayetteville We'll be able to provide all inclusive trash and recycling services for multifamily and small commercial complexes previously these Customers and complexes had to pay extra for recycling services. This is seen as a financial disincentive for those wanting to participate in recycling and We'll be expanding curbside recycling to apartment complexes with 24 units and less. That will include two new routes, trucks, and drivers to service those multifamily complexes that are 24 units or less, and those trucks are on order right now. We'll be discounting commercial cardboard and paper recycling to all the businesses throughout Fayetteville. We'll be transitioning our commercial food waste composting pilot to a full-service program for our commercial businesses. we'll be transitioning our commercial glass recycling pilot to a full service program for commercial businesses and we'll be increasing the transfer station tip fees to encourage diversion and that tip fee rate is a two-tiered rate it's a higher rate sixty dollars a ton for out of city waste coming into the city these are typically outside haulers and folks bringing waste from outside of the city of Fayetteville and a $52 a ton rate for customers that are residents or businesses located within the city of Fayetteville the ordinance amendments needed to implement the rate study are located in chapter 50.40 in the public works section of the fable city code The necessary amendments to codify the study are included as an attachment in your packet, and they include specific changes that I'll read to you. We'll be relocating the Consumer Price Index language so that the Consumer Price Index increases in the future apply to all customer classes and rates. Previously, the CPI, or Consumer Price Index, had only applied to residential rates. We'll be adjusting the residential single-family trash and recycling rates to align with the rate study recommendation, and that's a 5% increase for our single-family residential customers. On average, that's a 74 cent per month increase to those single-family customers. We'll be adjusting the residential extra trip and extra bag charges to align with the rate study recommendations. we'll be adjusting the codified multi-family trash and now recycling collection rate to match the current codified rate we'll be adding language that allows for all-inclusive trash and recycling services for those multi-family complexes again this removes the financial disincentive that's currently included in the rate that requires those multi-family complexes to pay extra to participate in our recycling program We'll be adjusting the commercial trash rate to align with the rate study recommendations. That's a 15.8% increase, average increase for our commercial customers, which equates to an average $11 per month increase for commercial customers. Keep in mind that $11 compares to what some of our commercial customers are paying, which is in the order of $200 and $300 and $400 per month for commercial trash and recycling services. We will be adding language to discount the commercial recycling rates. We're increasing the trash rate and decreasing the commercial recycling rates. And then we'll be adjusting the commercial dumpster lease fees to align with the rate study recommendations and adjusting the compost facility fees to align with the rate study recommendations. And this is for drop-off of compost material, and it only applies to out-of-city customers and commercial businesses from out of the city. The overall impact of the rate study recommendations is an across-the-board 9.1% increase. If you blend and average all of our customer classes together, that breaks down to a 5% increase for our residential single-family customers, a 1.9% decrease for our multifamily customers because those who are currently paying for recycling are actually going to see a decrease in their bill and everybody else's bill that's not paying for recycling, their number is going to stay the same. It's a 15.8% increase for commercial customers for trash and recycling services. It's a 5% increase for temporary containers, a 13.3% increase for drop box services, and a 19.8% increase for that tip fee at our transfer station. And again, that's a higher tip fee for out-of-town customers and a lower tip fee for in-town customers. With that summary mayor, I'd be glad to answer any questions that the council might have Now here's the rules for everybody comes to the podium everybody gets one turn at the mic we have the five-minute limit and You can be given extra time by a motion in a second and a majority vote of this council, or the council can ask you questions. And keep your comments to me. Don't engage anybody on the council or anybody in the public. Stay on topic. If you get off topic, I will get you back on topic. And we need your name and address. So who would like to be first tonight to discuss the... the recycling and trash collection rights program. All right, well, I will bring it back to the city council. Here we go. Sarah. Thank you. It's a very comprehensive study put together by the consultants, and I believe the proposal is a fair and appropriate rate structure that will help us cover the cost of responsibly managing our waste while incentivizing recycling and composting. So with that, I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Mark. Okay. I totally agree with that and I will second the motion. Okay. Teresa. This is the holidays and I still think we ought to wait and not go to the third reading tonight to give the public a little bit more time to review the rates and that sort of thing. So I would lobby that us not go to the third reading. Okay. Any other comments from the council? All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading, correct? Okay. Any other discussion on that? Senator, would you please call the roll? No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. An ordinance to amend Section 50.40, Rates for Services of the Fayetteville City Code to align the city's recycling and trash collection rates with the recent rate study. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council Teresa? I'd like to um, well, there's a couple of things I really want to applaud the efforts of City and also MSW consultants. I thought they did a really great job on this especially expanding the the recycling and reducing the cost to to multifamily residents. I think that's terrific. These are really great step forwards. However, I noticed that there still remains a $5 charge for recycling for commercial vendors. And I think we should really get rid of any kind of impediments to recycling. And so while $5 is not very much, I think that that should be actually lowered to zero. So there's not any kind of financial disincentive to recycle. And I would suggest that maybe that $5 fee could actually be sent over into the charge or carried over into the trash fee. So that's what – so I would like to make a motion. I made a motion. An amendment motion to amend the proposed recycling fees for commercial vendors from five dollars of charge to No charge for recycling services. This would be consistent with the residential way that we do Our pay as you throw we don't charge our residential customers for recycling And I think that this would harmonize our policy by not charging commercial vendors to recycle either. I Okay, mr. Mayor I need to ask Peter looks to me like the rate for providing cardboard and paper recycling service to Commercial customers is 25% of the equivalent commercial container trash service. That's correct, which would be about five dollars I guess for the 95 gallon carpet considerably more for the eight cubic yards So are you just wanting to do away with the 25% equivalent because of course the code doesn't say anything about five dollars I don't think Yeah, so the good question, Kit, and I can clarify on that just a little bit. So one of the challenges, and we looked long and hard at this. And we evaluated, could we eliminate the cost for providing recycling services to the commercial customers? And one of the challenges we ran into is just there's such a variety of different types of recycling services that we provide to the commercial customers. We have... six and eight yard cardboard and paper dumpsters that we provide to many larger commercial customers. We have glass recycling with the food waste composting, and then we have the small the 18 gallon containers that are similar to the same containers we provide to our residential customers. And so because of that, just a great variety of different, types of recycling services that we can provide we found it difficult to come up with a way to provide all of that at no color no additional cost and wrap that into the existing trash where without it having a significant impact on the rate increase that the commercial class would see and so but one of the things I think that we can do and it's not actually included in the codified language in the code is take a look at our ability to provide for those smaller commercial customers, those customers that have the 95-gallon carts, the gray carts that are similar to our residential trash carts, being able to provide those customers with no-cost additional curbside recycling in the form of those carts. 18-gallon bins, similar to what we're offering to our commercial, excuse me, similar to what we're going to be providing to our multifamily customers. I think that is very doable and wouldn't require any changes to what we have before you here this evening because some of our rates, if you haven't noticed, are not codified in the language that's in code. And so we can make that change, I believe, moving forward with those smaller bins commercial customers. And I think that would be a good, again, a good first step. But, again, it's just difficult to provide no-cost additional recycling service to the entire class of commercial customers because of the large variety that exists. Right. What I have right now is a motion to amend, and I did not receive a second on the motion to amend. So where does that leave us? Are you okay with that? I'll withdraw the motion. Okay. You good? Go ahead. I'm sorry, I have one more comment that I meant to say before. While I liked the study very much, I thought it was really good, what I was disappointed with is that it didn't really talk about, again, reducing our overall trash creation. And so there was nothing in there about providing smaller bins or less frequent pickup. And for those people that really are concerned, are not consuming very much and not having very much trash. Maybe most of it goes to recycling, but I think we should incentivize that where we have even smaller containers and less frequent pickup and have a rate structure that reflects that. So I know the report is finished, but I would hope that any future kind of studies that we do or maybe that can be performed in-house where we really consider that. Okay. Mayor, if I could just make a comment, because I think Council Member Turek brings up a really good point, and that is this rate study was based on evaluating the charges for what we provide today, and you have a master plan, master recycling and diversion plan, which needs to address the items that she brought forward about additional container sizes. You have a diversion goal of increasing that, um, They're kind of two separate things, one being needing to bring new solutions to the table, but the rate study is to say what does it cost us and what revenue do we need to capture to provide the services that we are doing today. It doesn't look at if we add something new until the council actually changes the policies and guidelines to actually add those other services. So in the water and sewer committee, which has solid waste as a part of it, makes sense now while Mayor Jordan asked you to be on that, would be an item to look at those other alternative items. And then if those were adopted by the council, then we would establish a rate. So I just want to be fair to MSW that they were only allowed to look at the services that we currently provide, not new items. The master plan will address that, that you all can bring forward at any time. mr mayor i always think that uh we really ought to change subsection four because it's mandatory where it says the rate for providing cardboard and paper recycling service shall be twine shall be not maybe but shall be 25 percent of the equivalent commercial container trash service you could change that to accomplish what peter's been talking about by saying except this may be waived by the division for 95-gallon cart customers. And that would give the recycling and trash division the right, if they wanted to, not to charge the 25%. But without that, this is pretty clear to me. As I read it, we're going to charge that amount, and we need to follow our ordinances. We can't just willy-nilly not follow them, especially in a rate ordinance. So, yes. If you want that power, Peter, I would suggest we put that change in and give you expressly that power. I think we would be very comfortable with that for that customer class only. The reason being we have to capture the cost of picking up the dumpsters for recyclables, and that's what the 25% discounted rate is doing. Okay. I have Teresa still on the floor. Okay. Sonny. Mayor, I have a question about the motion that Teresa had made. She withdrew that motion. Oh, she withdrew it. Okay. Right. I have a clarification on something that I think I didn't appreciate the study very much. I read it through today in detail, and I thought it was very well done. One of the things that it did recommend in the last part was including the recycling rate to be part of the trash collection. so that there didn't appear to be two different costs. And I think that's maybe what the motion that was set forth before was kind of getting to, so that it doesn't look like it's, the money is still being captured, but it's one cost. And I don't know if that, so that's just my, I wasn't sure if that's what we were getting to in that motion, but I feel like we have to cover the cost. We have to know that we need to pay for this service. But I do think the way we do it is a big part of that. So I guess I'm just in support of whatever the recommendation was, because that was a very clear recommendation at the end of the report. I think Council Member Turk's initial intent and Kit's comment is an amendment that we need. And that is we want the commercial 95-gallon cart back. to not have a recycling charge, the charge to be waived, and that customer class only, which are the small businesses that are actually being treated like residential households in our current collection process. We just don't want any other amendment that affects the large collection of recyclables. So I think if Council Member Tert could amend what the city attorney suggested, I think it would accomplish what We'll make her happy and give us the flexibility the city attorney says we need. Okay. Well, I have Sonia on the floor. Okay. Teresa. Okay. I'm going to try this again. All right. I'll make a motion to amend the proposed ordinance where the 18-gallon bin and the 95-gallon cart for commercial use, those rates are zero instead of $5, and then also... to make the amendment that Kit suggested where it gives the city some flexibility. So is that a may instead of a shall? No, I think the shall is probably needed in there. So my recommendation to accomplish what you were talking about and what Peter said he wanted to accomplish was that you would amend Section 50.40, Rates for Services, Subsection D, Commercial Service, subsection 4 which currently reads the rate for providing cardboard and paper recycling service shall be 25% of the equivalent commercial container service I would simply add to the end of that sentence except that the recycling and trash division may waive that fee for the 95 gallon cart customer second Okay. Okay. What discussion do we have on that? Anything? Everybody good? All right. Kyle? Do we have any public comment on that? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. First we vote on the amendment. All right. Any final discussions on that? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Now this is the amended ordinance as a whole. Any final comments on that? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Under new business, number one. An ordinance to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 18-6465 for approximately 0.26 acres located at 312 East North Street from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas. Section 1. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4 residential single-family four units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner. Good evening, Mayor and Council, and congratulations to the newly elected and re-elected council members and city attorney. And Happy New Year to all of you. This is a one-lot rezoning request. It's located at North Street and Juanita Avenue. It... The adopted plans for this area, this residential area, it's designated in the Future Land Use Plan as a residential neighborhood area. And it recommends appropriate infill and it recommends respecting the traditional town form. So issues are, what are the differences? What are the differences between the two zoning districts, RSF4 and neighborhood conservation? They basically have the same permitted uses, they have different setbacks, they have different minimum lot size and frontage, and they have, a neighborhood conservation district has a broader portfolio of possible conditional uses. So another issue that was discussed at the Planning Commission was the North Street classification. It's presently classified as an arterial from college to mission, but in the recently adopted mobility plan, it's proposed to switch to what's called a neighborhood link. which is closer to our present residential collector street. The reason I bring that up is it does change the setback and the development potential on the lot if that happens. Also at the agenda session, council asked for some diagrams to illustrate the potential development differences. So presently... With this lot size and configuration, it only allows one single family dwelling under its present zoning. The option of a conditional use permit isn't available because the lot is under 12,000 square feet. And the setbacks are illustrated in the dotted line. And the potential building footprint is just that. That building footprint could be anywhere within that dotted line. It has a five-foot side yard, and there are two side yards and two front yards. And the front yard setback is 15 feet. And you'll notice that this dotted line illustrates what might be the setback if the neighborhood link is translated to the Master Street plan, which engineering planning staff are busy working on, which will be coming to you for your consideration in the future. The present setback would actually be an additional 10 feet, because under the arterial street, the minimum right-of-way width is 87 feet, and that is proposed to be reduced to 66 feet, with the neighborhood link because you can accommodate two lanes of traffic, bicycle facilities and pedestrian facilities in 66th Street feet of right of way. So under the neighborhood conservation zoning, you could do two single family dwellings that could either be on one lot or it would be eligible for a lot split. With the conditional use permit approval from the Planning Commission up to three units could be built on the lot under the neighborhood conservation zoning the Planning Commission recommended approval on a vote of 9-0 and the I believe the applicant is here if you have questions for him or I'll be happy to answer your questions also Yes, I am. I have a brief statement. If you would like to hear that, I'd be willing to hear that. Yeah, let's hear it. Okay. You're the applicant. Thank you. I would like to – You might want to introduce yourself even though you're pretty well known. Quinn Thompson. Oh, yes. And address? No? Anyway, this is my property, and I do – respectfully disagree with some of the presentation that Mr. Garner, or excuse me, Mr. Stoll just made. In my experience, which has been, you know, over the last six years, I've never heard of suggesting or providing diagrams that show a proposed or a potential right-of-way as a a guideline for you to make your decision on. I think that's an innovation to me, and it was news to me. And the reason I decided to do this was because I have an existing home That home there is fully within setbacks right now. It is virtually right on the right-of-way line. It is on the right-of-way line, which is 47 feet from the center line. Seventy percent of this lot is taken up by setbacks and by right-of-way currently. There will be some reduction if the new right-of-way is applied, but it will still only reduce 10 feet, and I still would have house within the setback existing house. So I do have the right, as we know, to add a 1,200-foot house to this property and create a duplex. I can buy right, add a duplex on this property, as I wish to do that. I don't intend to do that. But I think that would still force me to build a property or could encourage me to build a property that's not in line with the properties or the other houses that are on North Street. The zoning that I'm requesting would limit me currently to the exact line that meets all of the existing houses on north, which is about 25 feet from the street. I don't consider that close to the street necessarily. The zoning, again, does allow zero to 25, but the right-of-way is always going to stop me from doing that, and I have no intention of it. So I think, you know, generally these statements, if you can either agree with these statements or not, generally about RSF4. But I feel that this property is not a general RSF4 property necessarily. It is on North Street, which is, again, a principal arterial. It has thousands of vehicles passing here per day. And, you know, I understand that I have the right. I'm asking for the flexibility to adjust my footprint just a little bit essentially is what it is. So. I would you know respectfully ask for your consideration if you have any questions about it, please Okay, thank you. All right What public comment do we have same rules apply that we just went over a little bit ago, okay? I'm gonna bring it back to the council and so sir, I move that we spin the rules and go to the second reading I son we have motion second to go to the second reading yes yes yes yes yes yes and nor nits a rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18 dash 6465 for approximately 0.2 six acres located at 312 East North Street from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to nc neighborhood conservation sir move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading okay so would you please call her up yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition, RZN 18-6465, for approximately a quarter acre, located at 312 East North Street, from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre, to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Any final comments from the council? Sloan. Okay. Treason. You know, this is, while I'm sympathetic to the applicant, this is an established RSF4 neighborhood, and this basically is the definition of spot zoning. While this may be a unique case, this would maybe perhaps start a trend in the neighborhood, and so, you know, I ran on neighborhood integrity, and I'm not going to support this change. Okay. Matthew? Yes, thank you, Mayor. Okay. I will support the rezoning. I just wanted to make a couple of brief comments. With all possible respect, this isn't spot zoning. It just doesn't meet the definition of it. We'd have to be very arbitrary to do that. And all the conversations this council has had about neighborhood conservation and RSF4 before, I guess it's to say that this isn't the first time that the council has has made comments about this exact same or very similar proposals with with Rational arguments and people making good arguments on both sides which which eliminates in any claim that it might be spot zoning, because those decisions have been reasonable and debated. But besides that, there was something in the staff report that caught my attention relative to those past conversations and concerns. i was i was surprised uh to see that staff didn't want to issue a determination um i i understand perhaps that it makes people uncomfortable um to do so when somebody's so closely associated with the city it has the application but there there have been those of us on planning commission or even on city council in the past have been in the exact same position as the applicant and we've had staff staff uh opinions about about our projects um what caught my attention was uh the note of the finding about compatibility and there was a blanket finding by the staff that neighborhood conservation is not compatible with the rsf4 that's around it in the matter that rso4 has been built out and there is a distinction made between rsf4 in This location and locations like it and RSF4 and other locations which may have had RSF4 zoning imposed after they were constructed, so some of our oldest neighborhoods. And the distinction was drawn between the relative parcel sizes. But past decisions of the council, and I can't say for sure how this particular one is going to go tonight, but past votes by the council have established a consensus that we think Neighborhood conservation in general is compatible with RSF4, even in our RSF4 neighborhoods with conditions similar to this one. So I don't think that determination was correct. I think it's splitting hairs very finely, much too finely to really make a difference. And I don't think in general that these kinds of development proposals are controversial either I think maybe we're making a little bit of a Expanding the actual controversy In a way that's far bigger than anything that's that's actually there when you look at neighborhood conservation zoning across the city we see that more often than not it results in single-family development and higher than 90% of the time. It almost always results in single family development, and it almost always results in densities that are far lower than the maximum that's allowed under neighborhood conservation. Even whole new platted neighborhoods made from scratch typically do not maximize the density allowed under neighborhood conservation. In fact, they more closely match the density that's allowed under RSF4. So anyway, it was perplexing. I wanted to make a comment about it. I don't know how this vote is going tonight, but at least in the past, the council has generally determined that neighborhood conservation is compatible. Okay, so. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I also ran on appropriate infill, but I, in this particular case, because I know that street so well, it is a major thoroughfare, and I see it potentially having a lot more... possibility for density I think it makes sense there so even though um and I was um also waiting to see if anyone came for public input um and so the between those two things I feel like I it's important to support this for density and infill because it is on a major thoroughfare Okay, thank you. Kyle. Yes, I would also support this, and I want to echo some of what Matthew said, but specifically in the context of this lot, because I've had a lot of time on my hands over vacation, so I've gone out driving around. I've been looking at this on the map, and I think what I found unique about it in the neighborhood is that the existing building sits – clearly to one side of the lot and and we talk about north street in this conversation but if this is split the the portion that's most likely to be to be developed could front juanita and so look down the other uh the other houses on juanita you've got a big variety of sizes big houses small houses the one right across the street is up considerably closer to the street than the others i i have a hard time seeing even some of the worst case scenarios presented not fitting in here because they already have the variety under RSF4 that we don't see in most places that have RSF4 zoning. So I agree, I think NC and RSF4 are almost universally compatible and here I think it even fits. uh more because of the the character of the specific area okay council member marsh Thank you. Sorry, my screen is frozen so I can't refer to the documents. But one of the things that struck me in the application was that the applicant noted that they wanted to redevelop the lot with a small house and they wanted adjustments to their setbacks to preserve the post oaks that were in the middle of the lot. And I think tree preservation is a really valid goal and the scale that they are looking to do is consistent with It just seems like it's very appropriate for this street in this context, so I will be supporting the rezoning. Okay. Council Member Bunch. Yes. I'll be supporting this rezoning as well. I think everybody's already hit on most of the main points, but I do feel that looking at the proximity of this to – College Avenue, which we are trying to revitalize and considering the density of it along a major corridor like that, I think it's appropriate. I don't always support rezoning, and there was another case that was also close to College Avenue that I did not support because it was on a very steep, crooked street. But I don't feel like this is the case with this particular case. location and its proximity to college, its proximity to the commercial area along college and Evelyn Hills, I think it lends itself well. More to higher density. Thank you. Okay Yeah, I just kind of want to make a point on the spot zoning NC's kind of new and so if you make a new zone and your definition of spot zoning is it's not the same zoning as Everything that's around it. Well, then you would never not be spot zoning when you start something new So I think you do have to look at the compatibility And I agree with some of my other Council members that this is compatible. Okay, sure Patrice well, I still will not be voting for this if you've driven by there. It's very steep North Street is extremely busy in this area This presents probably a potential traffic hazard and danger So I think those are really important issues that we need to consider when we rezone properties Thank you Any other final comments? Okay, so would you please call the roll? Oh No, yes Yes, yes Yes, yes, yes, it passes Okay, thank you all number two an ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and authorizing one-year contract with automatic renewals for four additional one-year terms with gulls LLC DBA crews uniforms and equipment and for the purchase of police service weapons, uniforms, equipment, and quartermaster services kit. Whereas Cruz Uniforms and Equipment has served as the police department's contracted provider of uniforms and police equipment since 2008 and is the only authorized distributor of Lauer uniforms and Glock handguns in the state of Arkansas. And whereas cruise uniforms and equipment is the only local distributor that maintains an inventory of the police department's authorized uniform items and offers service, sizing, tracking, and billing of purchased items. Now therefore be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas section one. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby fines the above circumstances, make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore lays requirements of formal competitive bidding, and authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign a one-year contract with automatic renewals for four additional one-year terms with Galls LLC doing business as Cruise Uniforms and Equipment, for the purchase of police service weapons, uniforms, equipment, and quartermaster services for the prices set forth in the pricing sheet attached to the contract. Okay. Mike. Good evening, Mayor, Council. Mike Reynolds, Deputy Chief of Police, as was previously mentioned. Congratulations, KID, Council members, on your re-election and your election to the Council. Police Department looks forward to working with each of you. What you have in front of you is just a continuation, a continuation of a five-year contract, as Kit mentioned, with cruise uniforms and equipment. It's existed for the past 10 years, so we're asking the council to renew that contract. We're also asking that a bid waiver be issued because Cruise Uniform and Equipment is the only brick-and-mortar business in northwest Arkansas that supplies uniforms and equipments for police. And they're also the sole source provider for our uniforms, which is Blower, and our weapons, which are manufactured by Glock. And I'd be happy to answer any questions that you may have. What questions do we have for Mike on this one? Yes, so having a brick and mortar store allows people to go in and try on their uniforms before they buy them, is that correct? Yes, that's correct. So I started like 26 years ago. We ordered out of a magazine The items would come in to the police department you try them on you'd hope they'd fit if they didn't fit you go get them Adjusted or you'd mail them back And so yes the brick-and-mortar store allows the officers to go to that store and try those items on and make sure that they fit Whether it's uniforms boots belts, whatever. Okay. Thank you very much Anything else any public comment on this? See now to bring back to the council I have a motion that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a one-year contract with automatic renewals for four additional one-year terms with Galls LLC doing business as crews, uniforms, and equipment for the purchase of police service weapons, uniforms, equipment, and quartermaster services. And so. Sarah. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Kyle. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a one-year contract with automatic renewals for four additional one-year terms with Galls LLC doing business as crews, uniforms, and equipment for the purchase of police service weapons, uniforms, equipment, and quartermaster services. Any final comments from the council? Am I good? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Sir? Yes. Mayor? Yes. Yes. Mark? Yes. Stephen? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Morgan? Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three, an ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and to approve a memorandum of understanding with... watershed conservation resource center for a term of five years to establish a general framework of Cooperation to seek funding conduct stream restoration projects and to work together on non-point source related issues tip whereas the watershed conservation resource center is a nonprofit organization with regional experts that strives protect conserve and restore natural resources and by utilizing the watershed approach, environmental outreach, and providing planning and technical assistance to landowners, communities, and government. And whereas the City has successfully partnered with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center in the past to receive approximately $3.1 million in federal grants for stream restoration and the Watershed Conservation Resource Center has been instrumental in securing these grant funds due to its relationship with federal grant agencies and a proven track record of successful stream restoration projects. And whereas the purpose of the Memorandum of Understanding is to establish a general framework for cooperation between the Watershed Conservation Resource Center and the City to seek funding and conduct stream restoration projects to achieve the common goal of restoring unstable sections of streams to a morphologically stable form utilizing a natural channel design approach. and to work together on non-point source related issues associated with reducing nutrients and improving riparian and other natural areas. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation that exists which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a memorandum of understanding between the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas and Watershed Conservation Resource Center to establish a general framework for cooperation to seek funding and conduct stream restoration projects and to work together on non point source related issues for the next five years Yeah, Chris Yes, thank you, Mayor. First of all, I'll echo our colleagues tonight in welcoming all of the new council members and saying congratulations. Council Member Turk, you asked a question at the agenda session and I apologize we didn't have that covered. But to answer the question, this is the third iteration of this memorandum of understanding. So for about 10 years, we've been working with WCRC to identify opportunities for members Stream restoration projects and other water quality projects. I think kit covered this pretty well The one thing I'd like to say that all of these projects to date Have resulted in about almost 12,000 tons of sediment removed from our streams on an annual basis So that's every year where we've saved about 12,000 tons of sediment so it's been very successful partnership with WC RC basically they I are on the lookout always for federal aid and other funding opportunities they bring those to the city if it's something that we can can help with and can provide the matching funds uh then we will proceed with the task order and begin working on that project so we've done that successfully on multiple projects over the years But there's no budget impact for this MOU. Again, we bring those task orders forward as they come through, and they're approved either administratively if they're small items or by the city council. I don't answer any questions. Any questions we have for Chris on this? Kyle. I got two questions for you, Chris. After 10 years, are you happy with the work they do? Absolutely. They fill a niche, really, that nobody else does. And again, they are out there looking every day on behalf of the city for opportunities and funding sources to do these kind of projects. I think you filled in my second question. Is there anybody else around that does what they do? Not really. Thanks. Thanks. Mayor, I might just add to Kyle's question. I would say we're not just satisfied. We're extremely satisfied with their performance. reducing lost property from eroding bank sides. It has allowed us to improve water quality. In every case, they've brought matching funds where the city has been able to get these benefits for a much lower cost than if we had to do them ourselves. And in some of these locations, they're in city-owned properties, the airport, our parks, Sweet Bar Park, et cetera. We were essentially losing our parks. due to erosion. And the other reason that this is important to maintain this relationship is they provide maintenance services. So when we have 100-year storms, which we've had three of, it seems like, in the last 10 years, we also do repair and repair. that these are the experts in doing that. And so I can't imagine not having these services. Thank you, Don. I ask that because I've had the privilege of going out and seeing a couple of their projects, and they are impressive. And if you ever get a chance to go out and take a look, I highly encourage it. Okay. Okay. Yes. I also wanted to say that I've also seen some of the projects that they've done, and they really, really are impressive, especially the one that's easiest to see is probably the one down by the airport. And I've gone by, and I've seen that on two different occasions, so I've been able to see the progression of the improvements there. In addition to waiting in the stream when we had environmental action, we went out and had a field trip out there. And it was really, really fascinating what they were doing and how things were anchored to maintain the stream doesn't erode anymore and to keep the property from receding back. But, and I've gone back since then. It's really, really impressive and I'm just real pleased with what they've done. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Do we have any public comment on this? And we'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sonja. We have a motion and a second to go. Sorry. Motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sonja, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Adornance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a memorandum of understanding with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center for a term of five years to establish a general framework of cooperation to seek funding, conduct stream restoration projects, and to work together on non-point source-related issues. Okay. Son. Kyle. Son, sorry. i guess i'll motion this to suspend the rules and go to the third reading sir we'll second that we're going to have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading sundry would you please call the road yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a memorandum of understanding with the watershed conservation resource center for a term of five years to establish a general framework of cooperation To seek funding conduct stream restoration projects and to work together on non point source related issues You found comments to the council. Okay, so please call Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you. All that concludes our business. What announcements do we have tonight? Mayor, a couple of announcements. First, for those individuals who might be wondering why Lake Fayetteville and Lake Sequoia are closed, we close every year between the. the Christmas holiday and mid-January for, if you'll remember, the individuals who take care of these properties live on property and it gives them an opportunity, one, to leave at some point during the year, as well as general maintenance and things that can be done. So currently our lakes are closed from December 23rd through January the 14th. They will reopen at sunrise on Tuesday, January the 15th, and you can resume your fishing for those who have been asking questions about that. On a very important announcement, the city is going to be continuing to seek public input regarding our stormwater management study. And update, we have two public meetings coming forward Wednesday, January the 9th from 2 to 4 p.m. at the Fayetteville Public Library in the Walker Room. And Thursday, January the 10th at 5.30 to 7.30 p.m. at the Arkansas Research and Technology Park. in South Fayetteville. And so in this particular case, will be seeking input from the public as they hear the latest information about the current costs for stormwater management that the city currently expends and the estimated costs for proposed options for possible future management programs that the council has expressed an interest in looking at to manage our stormwater in the future. We'll also have an online survey available on Speak Up Fayetteville and we'll have that posted in. and we'll look forward in getting the public's feedback on that public portal as we move forward with this stormwater study. So I encourage you to get constituents out, those who have experienced flooding what is the city's responsibility what are private property owners what services we're looking at we're looking for feedback as we move forward and the various costs because these things don't come free so public is a very important part of this process so please Mark those dates down and if you can help us get the word out to get public engagement we would appreciate it okay Okay, go ahead, Tracy. So, Don, has that already been posted for the Fayetteville Speak Up? It will be on the site tomorrow morning. Fantastic, thank you. Anything else? All right, thank you all. Good work. We're adjourned.