I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of January the 3rd, 2023. First order of business we have tonight. Welcome, everyone. First order of business tonight that we have is the oaths of office.
 We will have Kit Williams, City Attorney, Sonia Harvey, Councilmember Ward 1, Sarah Moore, Councilmember Ward 2, Scott Burner, Councilmember Ward 3, and Teresa Turk, Councilmember Ward 4. I will turn the officiating over to Judge Casey Jones. Thank you, Judge Jones. All right, let's get this thing started before we can ruin the rest of your year. Kit, why don't you come on up here. Yeah. Yeah.
 You have two new knees. I just take great pleasure in doing this, considering that you gave me a job for so many years. He did a fine job, too. Thank you. Please raise your right hand and repeat after me.
 I, state your name. I, Kit Williams. Do solemnly swear or affirm. Do solemnly swear or affirm. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of Arkansas. And the Constitution of the State of Arkansas. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. And I will faithfully discharge the duties. Of the office of City Attorney, City of Fayetteville.
 of the office of city attorney of the city of Fayetteville. Upon which I am now about to enter. Upon which I am now about to enter. Congratulations, Kit. Thank you, Judge. Appreciate it. All right. Oh, Kit, if you'll do me a favor and sign that. I'll take that back there and sign it. Oh, yeah. Bring it back to you. All right, thank you. All right, Sonia Harvey.
 All right, you ready? Yes. All right, raise your right hand and repeat after me. I, state your name. I, Sonia Harvey. Do solemnly swear or affirm. Do solemnly swear or affirm. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of Arkansas. And the Constitution of the State of Arkansas. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties.
 of the office of council member ward one of the office of council member ward one position one position one city of federa city of Fayetteville Arkansas upon which I am now about to enter upon which now I am about to enter congratulations thank you very much all right thank you okay
 How you doing? Hi. Raise your hand, please. And look after me. I, state your name. I, Theresa Turk. Do solemnly swear or affirm. Do solemnly swear or affirm. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of Arkansas. And the Constitution of the State of Arkansas. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. Of the office of council member, Ward 4.
 of the office of council member ward four position one position one city of fedville city of fayetteville upon which i am now about to enter upon which i am now about to enter thank you very much thank you thank you thank you sarah moore
 All right. I will repeat after me, please. I, state your name. I, Sarah Moore. Do solemnly swear or affirm. Do solemnly swear or affirm. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. The Constitution of the State of Arkansas. The Constitution of the State of Arkansas. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. That I will faithfully discharge the duties. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties.
 And that I will faithfully discharge to the duties Of the office of city council member Of the office of city council member Ward 2 Ward 2 Position 1 Position 1 City of Fayetteville City of Fayetteville Upon which I am now about to enter Upon which I am about to enter All right, thank you very much for this sign right there. All right, Scott Berna. Am I missing one?
 I just raise my hand and repeat after me. I, state your name. I, Scott Burnett. Do solemnly swear or affirm. Do solemnly swear and affirm. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of Arkansas. And the Constitution of the State of Arkansas. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties. And I will faithfully discharge the duties. Of the office of Councilmember Ward 3, of the Office of the Councilmember Ward 3, of the Office of the Councilmember Ward 3, of the Office of the Councilmember Ward 3, of the Office of the Councilmember Ward 3, of the Office of the Councilmember Ward 3, of the Office of the Councilmember Ward 3, of the Office of the Councilmember Ward 3, of the Office of the Councilmember Ward 3, of the Office of the Councilmember Ward 3,
 of the office of council member ward three position one position one city of federal city of favor upon which i am now about to enter upon which i am now about to enter congratulations thank you good luck we'll sign down right there please all right thank you
 All right, Mr. Mayor, they are yours and the city to have fun with. Thank you. Thank you.
 well that was fun okay the next uh order of business would be to call the row care what you please call the row more here we'd occur here erna here bunch turk here erksberg here harvey here
 Jones? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay.
 Under the mayor's announcements proclamation recognition City Council meeting presentations reports and discussion items Next order of business we have a force tonight is the election of the vice mayor Kit would you yes mayor? Thank you. I handed out to each council member a Memo basically quoting your own rules of order procedure that were adopted by the City Council telling you exactly how the vice mayor should be elected and
 It says that any council member may nominate himself or herself or any other member of the city council for vice mayor, and no second of a nomination is required. When everyone has had an opportunity to nominate himself, herself, or another council member, then each council member shall vote by naming his or her choice
 by voice vote if there is more than one nominee for the position. So if there is two nominees for the position, then we'll call the roll and everybody just vote for the nominee of their choice. Is there any questions about that? All right. Okay. At this point in time, I will open the floor for the nominees. Mayor, I'd like to nominate Sarah Bunch for vice mayor. I think she's done an excellent job in the past year. So that is my nomination.
 Okay. Is there any other nominations? Okay. Then I will close the floor to nominations. So, now we... Just call the roll. All right. Sunday. Hart. Bunch. Okay. DeAndre. Sarah Bunch. Okay. Sarah Bunch. Bunch. Sarah Bunch. Sarah Bunch. Okay. And...
 Sarah, would you care to vote? I think I know how you might vote. Sarah, we can't hear you. Speak a little louder. Well, I heard six votes for Sarah. Sarah, your mic is not registering for some reason. We can't hear you. Can you hear me now? No. Del muted.
 So apparently Sarah can be heard on Zoom, but for some reason we can't hear her in chambers. Well, with six positive votes for Sarah Bunch, she is elected vice mayor. Okay, and Sarah, you are willing to do the office? She says yes. Okay. Congratulations and congratulations on all of you and your swearing in ceremonies. Look forward to working with all of you. All right.
 Now the next order of business I have is to have the committee assignments. I will read those and so you will know what committee you're on. I understand that the chief of staff has already contacted you on your assignments and this is I guess more for the public. It's for you all. On the transportation committee I have Sonia Harvey, council member ward one.
 I have Sarah Moore, Councilmember Ward 2. I have Sarah Bunch, Councilmember Ward 3. I have Holly Hirshberg, Councilmember Ward 4. That is the Transportation Committee. The next is the Water and Sewer Committee. I have DeAndre Jones, Councilmember Ward 1. Mike Whitaker, Councilmember Ward 2. Scott Burnett, Councilmember Ward 3. Teresa Turk, Councilmember Ward 4.
 On the nominating committee, I have Sonia Harvey, Councilmember Ward 1, Mike Whitaker, Councilmember Ward 2. I have Sarah Bunch, Councilmember Ward 3. I have Christy Hurt, Councilmember Ward 4. On the ordinance review committee, I have DeAndre Jones, Councilmember Ward 1. I have Sarah Moore, Councilmember Ward 2. I have Scott Burnett, Councilmember Ward 3.
 I have Holly Hurstberg, Councilmember, Ward 4. And on the Equipment Committee, I have Sonia Harvey, Ward 1, Sarah Moore, Ward 2, Scott Burnham, Ward 3, Holly Hurstberg, Ward 4. And that is your assignments, Councilman. Mayor, if I could...
 When you called the roll for the vice mayor, you did not call council member Holly Hertzberg. She is participating by Zoom, even though the vote's been taken. I think she probably should have a chance to vote. Absolutely. Excuse me, Holly, for that error. How would you care to vote? I'd like to vote for Sarah Bunch. Okay. Good choice. Thank you, Ken. All right. Okay. Now, the next thing I have here is...
 is the report of the Fireman's and Policeman's Pension and Relief Fund. Local Pension Fund Report for 2022. In keeping with statutory requirements, I'm presenting this report for 2022 on the local police and fire retirement and relief funds for the City of Federal. Both of these plans were closed by law in 1983, and there are no longer any active working members remaining.
 There are currently 38 police and 39 fire retirees and beneficiaries in the system. As of December 2022, projected expenses from the fire pension fund were approximately $1.3 million as compared to fund revenues of $1.1 million. Projected police pension fund expenses were approximately $1.5 million as compared to fund revenues in excess of $1.3 million.
 This is before adjusting investments to current market value. Actuarial evaluations are the responsibility of the State of Arkansas Fire and Police Pension Review Board. The last evaluations completed were as of May 2022 for the year ending December 31, 2021.
 Based on those evaluations, the total pension liability of the police and fire funds were 15.3 million and 13.8 million respectively. The net pension liabilities for these funds were approximately 8.7 million for police and 11.9 million for fire. In the annual reports issued by the Arkansas Pension Review Board, neither the fire nor police pension fund were found to be axiomarily sound.
 pursuant to established financial tests. The Fire Pension Fund has been classified as projected insolvent since 2009. The Fire Pension Board has been discussing the unstable condition of the fund and the possible alternatives since that time. The Police Pension Fund is also considered actuarially unsound, but not in immediate danger of becoming insolvent.
 The Police Pension Board is aware of the Police Pension Fund's status and has been considering options that would guarantee long-term solvency. I am very concerned about the unstable status of both these funds. I am working on a plan to stabilize payments and make these plans more sustainable. I am especially focused on working to address the Old Fire Pension Plan.
 I will continue to monitor these pension funds in the future and keep you informed of any new developments. So I will be bringing something forward in the near future as soon as we can work some plans out to keep these plans going and solving. So let's see. The next thing I have tonight is the monthly finance report. Paul.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is a report for November. So, the month of November is closed. We'll look at the general fund first. General fund sales tax has been doing very well this year. It's up at this point 14% compared to the prior year. Franchise fees are up in excess of 10%.
 Beverage, alcohol beverage taxes are up as are building permits. Building permits are up about 35% for the year at this point in time. Court fees and fines are starting to level out. Remember we were down compared to the budget and last year for most of the year, but it's starting to cut up and it looks roughly flat. Interest earnings are down compared to last year. That's because
 of the very low interest rates that we were earning early in this year. Overall, the general fund revenue is up 12% now. I based next year's budget on being up 12 to 13%. So we're right on par for revenue for next year at this point in time. So we're very happy with the performance of the general fund. When we look to street funds, street fund is still doing very well.
 Total revenue for the street funds up 15%. Most of that is driven by the half cent sales tax. State half cent sales tax turn back. That's up almost $480,000 at this point in time. Plus the state turn back is also up. That's based on motor fuel taxes.
 So that's doing very well at this point in time. The parking fund, we're starting to see a lot more activity down at the Dixon Street area and the square. So parking fees, they're up about 15% now. Remember that we have been changing out all the meters, and that's moving forward. So our expenses are up too, but the revenue is starting to come back pretty well. And I will say that most of that is for
 fees and not fines to the public. HMR taxes, HMR taxes have been very strong. They're up roughly 19% at this point in time compared to last year.
 We're starting to see many of the hotel, motel venues, as far as eating establishments, etc. They're coming back and they're showing some very, very strong sales at this point in time. That's primary driver right now for the sales tax also. H-MAR taxes again are up 19%.
 For the new members, I'm going to point out that basically HMR taxes, that's used for parks development. And the development for parks, maintenance on those parks.
 So that's very important revenue here for the city. Water and sewer fees are roughly up. The billings are up roughly 8%. Now we have had write offs this year for bad debt. But revenue itself is up 18% at this time. So that's doing very well this year. Trash and recycling.
 That was down a little bit if we remember from the beginning of the year on the revenue side. But that's come back and that's pretty well flat. So we made up some time. The basic thing that recycling and trash collection on the residential side was up. But commercial was down and commercial started to pick up pretty well. Airport itself, sales are up.
 They are up primarily because of the cost of flight fuel. Flights are up and fuel is up roughly 44% compared to last year. So fuel is doing very well. Fuel sales out the airport is doing very well. Their operations are pretty stable at this point in time. So all in all,
 through the month of November. Our revenue expenses have been pretty stable and we're doing well and expect to close out the year well. And the revenue estimates for next year and the next year's budget are holding at this point in time. With that, I'll be happy to answer questions. What questions do we have, Council, on the finance report? Thank you. Thank you, Paul. All right. Next order of business is the consent. Approval of the December 20th, 2022 City Council Meeting Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $20,000 recognizing revenue from the court automation fund to authorize the purchase of 10 court video security cameras, four desktop computers, and one printer for the court operations in the amount of $13,411 for the remaining funds to purchase equipment as needed. Number three,
 resolution to award bid number 22-55 and to approve the purchase of materials for the Civic Plaza water feature from Kuser Granite Works USA, Incorporated DBA, Kuser Fountain Works, any amount of $1,102,434 and approved budget adjustment.
 Number four resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of three hundred and twenty five thousand dollars for the construction materials and bad debt expense accounts within the water and sewer fund a
 Number five a resolution to award bid number 22-27 and to authorize a contract with Tomlinson asphalt company in the amount of $2,178,659.65 for construction of the industrial drive extension project to approve project tendency in the amount of $218,000 and to approve budget just
 Number six, a resolution to approve Amendment number two to the Engineering Services Agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $132,690 for bidding services, construction phase services and materials testing associated with the Industrial Drive Extension Project and to approve budget adjustment. Number seven, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and to authorize a design-build contract
 with structural preservation systems LLC in the amount not to exceed $2,477,644 for engineering and construction services related to emergency trenchless repair of a 48-inch diameter sanitary sewer under Interstate 49 and to approve project tenancy in the amount of $375,000.
 Number eight, a resolution to authorize an EPA solid waste infrastructure for recycling grant program application in the total amount of up to $4 million for improvements to the city's recycling processing facilities.
 Number nine, a resolution to approve a one-year extension of the contract with Kraft Rentals Construction Company in the amount of $590,789 for rehabilitation of sanitary sewer manholes throughout Federal. Number 10, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and to authorize a one-year contract between the City of Federal Arkansas.
 and ozark regional transit incorporated in the amount of 698 830 dollars to provide public transit services for federal residents with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms number 11 a resolution to approve a contract with seven hills homeless center
 to provide funding assistance in the amount of $40,000 for maintenance repairs at the Walker Family Residential Community Complex in 2023.
 Number 12, a resolution to award bid number 22-54 and to authorize contract with EWI Incorporated in the amount of $1,536,980 for construction of the Wilson Park Pavilion restroom facilities to approve a project contingency in the amount of $139,725 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number 13, a resolution to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and to approve a contract with Seven Hills Homeless Center in the amount of $113,400 for services to homeless and needy residents in Fedville in 2023. And number 14, a resolution to approve a lease agreement with the Board of Trustees of the University of Arkansas for the unoccupied
 banquet area in the airport terminal building to be used by the Austin Lifelong Learning Institute to conduct classes from January the first 2023 through December 31st 2023 in the amount of $45 for each day the space is used. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda is read. So moved. Second. Motion is second to accept the consent agenda is read. Karen would you please call the roll.
 Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, let's go to unfinished business. Number one, an ordinance to amend 130.39 graffiti in the federal code to create a graffiti abatement program.
 This was left on the second reading and I've entertained a motion to go to the third and final reading. I move that we go to the third and final reading.
 Okay, there's not a second. So do we read the graffiti ordinance again? The City Council has a couple options here. One I think is might be appropriate as tabling it. I think that Council Member Harvey's committee was going to look at this. That's right. So I wasn't sure.
 sure if you were going to introduce the first before the before you seconded so I would was planning to table it because we we do plan to talk about it our next meeting and I think that would be fine yes thank you yes I think that would be fine to table when would be the next time that we would hear the
 when is your next meeting our next meeting is the 18th of january um but i i have asked the joanna bell um our staff member to make sure that you receive an invitation and the zoom link and everything so um hopefully you can be there we'd love to have you
 If you're not able to attend, we will report back. Okay, I'd be happy to join you. I'm just thinking about when we can hear it next at the council meeting. So anytime after that. So the next city council meeting will be on the 17th and your meeting is on the 18th. So you could not really have a meeting after that until February. Okay. Okay. So you want to table it until February. Sarah, did you have something you want to say?
 I just thank you very much for the Arts Council being willing. I would just ask if we could potentially ask and let the Arts Council have enough time. This, I've had several folks reach out to me in the community with five or six different areas of concern. And so, I think there's some additional complexity.
 And so given that this isn't necessarily pressing in nature, it would be nice for them to do the proper due diligence and come back whenever they're able to look at other best practices across the nation and to come back with their proposal. So I would just I know everyone's schedules have been busy during the holidays. I just want to create that open space for them to do as much diligence as they can before they come back with their recommendations. OK, sure.
 Sonya, you're on. Just one to table the item. Okay. Now is that, are you tabling it indefinitely to a particular date? Yes. So let's see here. After the 18th, the next city council meeting looks like maybe, is that February? It's the 7th of February. Okay. Table to the 7th of February.
 okay so the motion is the title to the 7th of february you know correct we got a second on that second okay uh any other discussion care which please call her up more yes whitaker yes arna yes budge budge you're on mute this time
 well can you work on a thumbs up or something there's a yes i heard that yes yes harvey yes yeah yes okay table to the same let's go on to new business number one a resolution to adopt the rules of order and procedure of the federal city council for 2023
 Mayor, we have to do this every year according to state law, and basically this is just to adopt the rules as they have last been amended. So the current rules of order procedure, there might be further amendments that anybody wants to do in the upcoming year, but this would adopt what we have right now for this meeting and then onward until you change them again.
 Okay, what discussion would you all like to have on this? I did have a question, Kit. Did I miss a memo about if the consent agenda is required to be read at our meetings? It is required by our rules to be read, and there's actually two rules that are in effect on that. One is a rule talking about the consent agenda itself, and the other is the rule where the city says you're going to be open and transparent as much as possible.
 And of course, this is more open and transparent to actually read what's going on. If you listen to the consent agenda tonight, there was more than $10 million authorized in that consent agenda. So it's important stuff, even if it's non-controversial.
 So those two rules would have to be amended, but state law does not speak to this about how you have to pass a resolution. It speaks like an ordinance must be read. It doesn't say that about resolutions. So under state law, you probably could dispense with reading the resolutions, but not according to your own rules. Okay, thanks. I think we'll just stay where we are. Thank you. I don't have any further questions. Okay. Anybody else?
 None? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Do we have anybody that would like to speak on the rules of order and procedure of the city council in the chamber?
 Okay. Susan, do you have anybody on Zoom? No, sir. Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. What's the wishes of the council? I move we pass the resolution. Second. I have a motion to pass the resolution to adopt the rules of order and procedure. Karen, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Yes.
 Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes okay thank you all all right number two an ordinance to amend 51.136 a2 51.136 b2 51.136 c2 and 51.137 a2 and 51.137 b2 and 51.137
 137 E3 of the federal city code to defer water and sewer increases for 2023 until after the adoption of the new rate study and to declare an emergency.
 Paul. Nope, it's me. It's an ordinance. Sorry. Sorry, Paul. I know you're ready to go. I am. Whereas various provisions within Section 51-136 monthly water rates and Section 51-137 monthly sewer rates provide for an automatic 3% cost increase in water and sewer rates at the beginning of each year.
 And whereas the new water and sewer rate study, which is being conducted by Black and Beach consultants, is expected to be brought before the City Council in the spring of 2023, and whereas to avoid the potential of making two financial adjustments on utility system water and sewer customers within a few months, staff recommends that the City Council defer the annual three percent cost adjustment that would take place in January 2023 until the Black and Beach rate study.
 Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends Section 51.136 , 51.136 , 51.136 , 51.137 , 51.37 , and 51.137 by adding the following sentence at the end of each subsection as follows, quote,
 No rate or service charge adjustment shall occur in 2023 until after the completion of a new rate study." In Section 2,
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay because of potential burden rate increases could place on the City's water and sewer customers and to avoid water cut-offs that could occur as a result of rating increases which is necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents. Therefore, the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval.
 As the council will recall, there's a 3% accelerator in the water and sewer rates that annually go into effect the first of January.
 Since we're right in the midst of a sewer and water rate study right now, we have to renegotiate a contract with Farmington. Then we're going to bring new rate suggestions or recommendations from Black & Beach forward to the Water and Sewer Committee. We felt that it would be wise to waive those increases this year until we implement the new rates because we didn't want to increase rates, decrease rates, etc.
 or have multiple changes to the rates for the year. So that's the request at this point in time. Okay. What questions do we have in the council for the staff on this, for Paul on this? Okay. Well, let's get some public comment here.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber? Okay. Susan, do you have anybody on Zoom? No, sir. Okay. Then I'm going to bring this back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? This is an ordinance.
 So I just wanted to mention that the Water and Sewer Committee discussed this and we thought it would be prudent to suspend this 3% rate increase so you don't have rates going up and then they're coming down and they're readjusted once the water and rate sewer study is completed. So we just thought it would be much simpler to suspend that for this year.
 Okay. Anybody else? Unless there's a question, I move we approve the resolution. Second. It's an ordinance. Oh, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay. We have a motion to second go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Fudge? Yes.
 Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes.
 Yes. In order to amend section 51.136A2, 51.136B2, 51.136C2 and section 51.137A2, 51.137B2 and 51.137E3 of the Fayetteville City Code to defer water and sewer rate increases for 2023 until after the adoption of a new rate study and to declare an emergency.
 And will we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Kerwich, please call the roll. Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harding? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 In order to amend sections 51.136A2, 51.136B2, and 51.36C2, and 51.137A2, 51.137B2, and 51.137E3 of the Fayetteville City Code to defer water and sewer rate increases for 2023 until after the adoption of a new rate study and to declare an emergency. Any final comments from the council? Good. Okay. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, number three, an ordinance. And in order to make sure this takes effect immediately, we need a separate vote on the emergency clause. That's true. Do we need to move to add it or just...
 No, I read it. It's part of it where you need a separate vote to pass the emergency clause. Carey, would you please call the vote? We need a first and second also. I move we approve the emergency clause. Second. Okay. Any final comments on that? All right. Carey, would you please call the vote? Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. Terp? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. Now let's go to number three. An ordinance to repeal ordinance number 3696 and to authorize the city to waive any requirement for competitive bidding are more than one quote
 are more than one quote to purchase plumbing pipes, fittings, water meters, fire hydrants, manholes, and other covers, coatings, and hardware needed by the water and sewer department through 2026 kit.
 Whereas the water and sewer department must quickly react to the unforeseen need for many types and sizes of plumbing repair fittings, hardware, and pipes in order to immediately repair water and sewer mains throughout Fayetteville, Farmington, Greenland, Johnson, and certain areas of the county.
 And whereas suppliers for these emergency repair items will not agree to long-term pricing, so competitive bidding is not feasible, and some parts might be available only from a single source, so obtaining more than one quote might be impossible. And whereas supplies of these items in storage can be exhausted by repair, large repair projects, such that their replenishment must be accomplished quickly to be ready for the next required repair project,
 and whereas the Water and Sewer Department has been operating pursuant to Ordinance No. 3696, passed in 1993, which waived competitive bidding for such pipes, fittings, and hardware because suppliers would not provide a reasonable price for such items on an annual basis,
 and whereas ordinance number 3696 did not cover all of the different pipes and pipe fittings and hardware made from numerous materials now needed by the water and sewer department and should be repealed and replaced by this ordinance. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas section one that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeals ordinance number 3696 and section two
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby determined that an exceptional situation exists
 for the emergency purchase of repair products by the Water and Sewer Department for which competitive bidding and or obtaining multiple quotes are deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and or obtaining multiple quotes for pipes, pipe fittings, hardware, coating, water meters, fire hydrants, manholes and their covers, and fittings through December 31st, 2026.
 okay tim thank you mayor tim nyandre utilities director as kids said the water and sewer department we have to quickly react to the unforeseen need to perform many types and sizes of repairs throughout the city and through our sister cities
 We have been operating under Ordinance 3696 since 1993, which waived the competitive bidding for pipes, fittings, hardware, etc. The old ordinance does not cover all the materials that we use today, being that it's quite old. So by repealing that ordinance and putting in this new one that will run through December 31st of 2026,
 We'll be able to get our items quickly, keep our warehouse stocked. As Kit said, when we have a major repair, we replenish our stock rather quickly. So this will get us to get our warehouse back full again. We did bring this item to the Water and Sewer Committee on August the 9th of this year with a three to zero vote to forward to the City Council with the recommendation for approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Tim on this?
 anybody okay well let's take some public comment everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone would like to speak to us in the chamber on this
 Do you have anyone else? No, sir. Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg?
 Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. In order to repeal Ordinance Number 3696 and to authorize the city to waive any requirements for competitive bidding or more than one quote to purchase plumbing, pipes, fittings, water meters, fire hydrants, manholes in their covers, coatings, and hardware needed by the Water and Sewer Department through 2026. Thank you.
 i'm always suspended rules and go to the third and final reading second we have a motion second third and final read care would you please call the roll moore yes wedeker yes verna yes fudge yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes
 In order to repeal ordinance number 3696 and to authorize the city to waive any requirement for competitive bidding or more than one quote, to purchase plumbing pipes, fittings, water meters, fire hydrants, manholes in their covers, coatings, and hardware needed by the Water and Sewer Department through 2026. What final comments do we have on the council on this? Carrie, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Arna? Yes. Fudge? Yes.
 Yes. Church? Yes. Pittsburgh? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number four, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign a subrecipient agreement with Wellcome Health to provide no-cost medical and dental care to low-income federal residents utilizing American Rescue Plan Act funds in the amount of $75,000 and approval budgets just before.
 DEANDRE, I BELIEVE THIS ONE IS YOURS. YES, YES. ACCORDING TO THE 2019 U.S. CENSUS BUREAU REPORT, THERE ARE 60,000 PEOPLE WITHOUT HEALTH INSURANCE AND LIVING IN POVERTY RIGHT HERE IN NORTHWEST ARKANSAS. SO TONIGHT I THINK IT'S I'M EXCITED AND I'M GLAD TO BE ABLE TO HELP PROVIDE RELIEF TO MANY OF THOSE INDIVIDUALS.
 I'M ASKING THE MAYOR AND THE CITY COUNCIL TO AUTHORIZE MAYOR JORDAN TO SIGN A SUBRECIPIENT AGREEMENT WITH WELCOME HEALTH TO PROVIDE NO COST MEDICAL AND DENTAL CARE TO LOW INCOME FAYEVALE RESIDENTS, OF COURSE, UTILIZING AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN AT FUNDS AND THE AMOUNT OF $75,000 AND TO APPROVE A BUDGET ADJUSTMENT. NEW SPEAKER P. IS THERE A DISCUSSION AMONG THE COUNCIL ON THIS?
 Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber?
 GOOD EVENING MAYOR AND COUNCIL AND NEW COUNCIL MEMBERS. KYLE SMITH, 2801 WEST DOVE DRIVE. I THINK THIS IS A FANTASTIC USE OF MONEY.
 BUT TO ECONOMIZE YOUR TIME TONIGHT, I'M GOING TO MAKE ONE COMMENT FOR ITEMS 4, 5, 6, AND 7. BECAUSE WHAT YOU HAVE COMING UP IS FOUR PROPOSALS FROM FOUR DIFFERENT COUNCIL MEMBERS TO USE WHAT'S LEFT OF OUR ARPA FUNDING. AND I BELIEVE COUNCIL MEMBER HERZBERG SAID AT THE AGENDA SESSION THAT SHE HAS ONE IN THE QUEUE FOR THE NEXT MEETING. YOU'VE GOT TWO NEW COUNCIL MEMBERS TONIGHT THAT HAVEN'T HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO ADD ANYTHING TO THE AGENDA FOR DISCUSSION YET.
 ARPA was a big bucket of money, but we've spent a lot of it and the bucket's almost empty. I think it would be prudent to take all of these items and maybe table them for a meeting or two so that you can collect all of the proposals and talk about them in one package so that you don't run out of money before somebody has a chance to submit their ideas.
 Again, I think some of these are small amounts, some of these are big amounts, and I think they're all fantastic uses, but there's only so much money and just out of a concern for equity, I hope you'll hold onto these and see what other ideas may come up to you. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hello, my name is April Backroad and I would highly encourage City Council to please not table these proposals. I know myself, Wellcome Health and the other folks, we have been working diligently to provide much needed services throughout a global pandemic and we have been waiting for these proposals to be approved since we submitted them last April.
 Please do not hold up this important and necessary funding for nonprofits who have a proven track record of doing excellent work in our community. So please move forward on these items. Thank you. You're welcome.
 keep in mind everybody we're going to discuss each one of these items individually so they're not coming as a package yes but I support each of my nonprofit partners in the community even when discussed individually okay thank you
 Hi there, I'm Monica Fisher-Massie with Wellcome Health. Thank you to the mayor and the city council members for the consideration of our grant application. I oppose tabling this decision. We serve uninsured, low-income people, and they don't have time to wait. We need to serve them to provide health care so they can get better.
 SO I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE'LL BE FUNDED AND THE MONEY WILL NOT BE TABLED. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU. ANYONE ELSE? OKAY. I'M GOING TO BRING IT BACK TO THE COUNCIL. WHAT'S THE WISHES OF THE COUNCIL ON THIS FIRST ONE? NEW SPEAKER MAYOR JORDAN AND CITY COUNCIL.
 I totally agree. I don't think that we should move on this tonight because we cannot I don't think that we can afford to go one one more day compromising the health and well-being of our most vulnerable. And it's seventy five thousand dollars. And that's not compared. That's that's we can't compare that to the work that Wellcome Health has done.
 to help change the quality of life of our most vulnerable. So hopefully we can vote on this tonight and provide them with the necessary funding to keep doing what they are doing.
 Mayor, Sarah Bunch has her hand raised because she's trying to... Go ahead, Sarah. Yeah, I have a question here just to help me kind of get my mind around this. I hope you can hear me. I'm still not up to yelling very much. But anyway, if we vote on these tonight...
 Let's just pick this one. If we vote on this one tonight, when does the entity get its funding? I mean, when do they get their funds? How long does that take? That's one thing I did want to make clear to the council when I was listening to the comments. Once we vote on this, we have to get back together with the organization. They have to agree and sign a sub-grantee agreement with us.
 and proceed from there. So it will take a little while for them to pass through and sign the sub-grantee agreement. Once that is done, we have all the signatures, we'll proceed. But it will take a little while to get that done. So the longer we delay a vote, if you're interested in it, the longer time that will take. Does that answer your question?
 Yeah, I think so, but maybe like, I don't know, are we talking like a month or six weeks? You know, what would be a reasonable guess? That would be dependent on the organization. If the organization feels they can sign that and our assessment passes, it shouldn't take that long. We should have it underway, I would say, what, three weeks to a month is a reasonable time. Okay.
 So about there. It wouldn't take months. It should take, we should have it done within a month. Hopefully we'll get it done earlier than that when we complete all of the parts. Okay. Thank you very much, Paul. I appreciate that. Just for clarification, the remaining money that's in the ARPA bucket is what? Paul. Okay. I just got five minutes.
 I'll give you the number if, in fact, we pass the ones on the council tonight, all of them at the amounts that are proposed, and the one that we have for Holly Hershberger at the next meeting, that would leave roughly $354,000 remaining in ARPA funding.
 Okay, on this particular item, not necessarily speaking on all the items connectively, I think this speaks to exactly what those funds are supposed to be used for, helping the community. So I will be supporting this.
 You know, the Whatcom Health has gone through the entire process. They submitted their application quite a long time ago. The funding amount is relatively small. It's going to the low-income folks, and I believe we should pass it tonight without delay. I move we approve the resolution. Second. I have a motion to pass the resolution.
 Any final comments from the council on this? I really appreciate the work of Wellcome Health, what they've been doing pre-pandemic, during pandemic, and even now. Thank you so much for serving Fayetteville. I just want to say thank you to Council Member Jones for bringing this forward. I appreciate your time and investment working with them and for Steve and Paul to work with them as well. We know there's a lot of time there as well. Okay. If there's...
 I do want to make one other thing clear that I probably should have when I spoke before. This is not a check that you cut the check initially. This is a reimbursement since it is a grant, so we reimburse them over time. So for this to get started would be even more critical at this point in time for this particular program.
 Thank you, DeAndre, very much for bringing this forward. I see a little bit of maybe a question on Council Member Berna's face about what that means. Just as being new, I just want to make sure you understand we had two types of nonprofit application buckets. Okay, so that's why they're getting the reimbursement. It's going to take a bit. Thank you.
 everybody good all right care would you please call the roll or yes we'd occur yes verna yes yes yes herdsburg yes harvey yes jones yes okay number five a resolution to authorize mayor jordan assigned a sub-recipient agreement with magdalene's renty house
 corporate to provide supportive recovery housing for formerly incarcerated women utilizing American Rescue Plan Act funds in the amount of $128,789 and to approve the budget adjustment. Mike, this one is yours. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. This is an applicant application.
 that I believe that we should support for three primary reasons. The first is their application was rated highly by staff independent of the City Council. The second is they're leveraging this
 ARPA grant that we would provide in that they've already purchased a property, they've already been fundraising independent of us and that this simply helps close the loop financially on the resources they need to see their project through to completion and
 And the third is that I think they're doing work that so many are not necessarily able or interested in doing. And I think that they're serving a special population that's particularly in need of assistance when it comes to shelter. So I'm quite pleased to bring this forward and would ask our council members to be as supportive as their heart allows. Thank you. Okay, any questions from the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber?
 Hello again, my name is April Backrove and I just want to thank the city and the council for considering the proposal from Magdalene Serenity House. This is a much needed addition to our program. Our women after they finish our two-year program are really struggling to find safe and affordable housing.
 in this community that they want to stay in, that they have flourished in. And this is gonna give them an extra year to save money, build their credit, and get a little further away from their charges and their criminal background, which unfortunately causes a wide number of folks who own properties to not rent to them, especially in the safe areas we want our women to continue their recovery in.
 So we are really excited about being able to renovate this property, add more beds to our program, and give our women the opportunity to continue to heal and recover in this community that has been so generous and welcoming and open to giving second, third, and fourth chances. So thank each of you for considering our proposal tonight and happy to answer any questions if they do come up. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us? All right. Do you have anybody on Zoom? No one on Zoom has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. This is a resolution. What action would the council elect? Mayor Jordan and council, um,
 Thank you, Council Member Whitaker. I've had the opportunity on several occasions to visit Magdalene House, and that's very near and dear to me. And I appreciate our city being able to help as best as we can and as much as we can, because you all are doing incredible work, life changing work right here in Fayetteville. So thank you. I move we approve the resolution.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any other final comments? Thank you, Mike. Okay. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much.
 all right number six a resolution to allocate three million dollars in american rescue plan act funds for arts and culture non-profit organizations operating in federal and to approve budget adjustment in the amount of three million dollars uh sonya this is yours yes thank you mayor um i am uh bringing this forward uh for various reasons but
 The number one reason is that in 2019 to 2020, we saw the difference of a 72% decrease in income for performing arts in Fayetteville. And so what that means is that we have data that shows an impact on a very specific sector in Fayetteville.
 And so we know that that affected specifically performing arts within the creative economy. We did have applications come in, but we really didn't see the arts apply like they could have, they should have, and maybe they should have applied originally. So what we're planning to do is kind of
 reopen where we talk to the Arts Council. I talk to the Arts Council. I'm the person assigned on that Arts Council, the council member, and offer the opportunity for these arts and culture nonprofits to apply in a window, in a time frame, in a
 in a framing that it's kind of arts related. Arts, as you know, is very specific and so it kind of has a different kind of language and a very specific kind of vocabulary as we're talking about grants.
 So therefore we're interested in, we had a really productive meeting with the financial team. They actually recommended this option and I took it back to the Arts Council and the Arts Council came up with the amount. The idea is that we would have a tiered application process to be able to hit a large, a medium, and a small nonprofit.
 So maybe a small nonprofit has a budget of $200,000, so they only apply for a smaller amount. We may have a large nonprofit that could apply for a larger amount. If there's any funds left over, we would definitely want that to be used for other ARPA projects. We wouldn't keep it. My understanding is from Paul is that we would have that available to continue to use for other things. So we're not saying that every penny of it has,
 has to be spent within arts and culture. Um, so we just kind of want to make it available. I was talking to someone earlier today, um, at KNWA and the analogy I use is, you know, we have this $18 million pie, $17 million pie. And, um,
 you know, this sector that was hit so hard, we want to offer them a good slice of that pie. And that's the idea. We don't want to offer them a tiny little sliver and say, good luck. So it's more of a, it's kind of a hospitality thing for us from the city to say, here's 3 million, apply.
 go for it and then see how the applications come out. At the end of the day, the staff will have to approve them. We don't look at the guidelines in terms of the Arts Council, but we would love to give an advisory recommendation to the City Council and the City Council will have the final approval on all funds. So we're looking at about three people maximum because of the
 amount of paperwork and guidelines that it takes to review these as a federally funded grant. And I'll take any questions. What questions do we have from the council on this? Sonja, will that include Theater Squared? Yes, I would say that Theater Squared would count as an arts and culture nonprofit within Fayetteville.
 Yes, Teresa. So, Sonia, you mentioned in your resolution here there's a discussion about the reimbursement versus subrecipient. How would you allocate or discuss or recommend between those two different programs? Yes, thank you. So in the first go-around, we had both of the portals available, so we would just allow them to choose which portal,
 grant process work better for them? Are they better, do they fit better as a reimbursement grant application or a project grant, we're calling it a project grant because we're trying to make the language understandable to the arts and culture organizations but the subrecipient grant. So they kind of choose which one better fits with their needs.
 And I guess one other detail would be the time period, because, you know, I have the next resolution is discussing the time period of application. So in your resolution, would you specify the time period for the reimbursement?
 Because right now, you know, there was only one time period, 2021 to 2022. I am glad that you mentioned that because I think I would like to have that go back to 2020 because I think our new ones began in 2021. So I don't know if I would need to amend that.
 that or because it doesn't state it if we can just do it without I don't it doesn't state it doesn't state from what time period but I I would prefer that we started when the pandemic began um to to match that and I am amenable and I'm sure the arts council is to help work with
 any, you know, timelines that your projects, your proposal would need so that we could have efficiency with the staff and everything. So that is, that's something we could work together.
 I think it would be helpful if we specified that within your resolution. Yeah, so do you think we need to amend that formally Kit or can we just add that Paul to what we have? Well in section, I'll let Paul speak first. Go ahead Paul. You want us, you want to set a specific period in this, in this resolution, I would say you need to amend the resolution to do that. We could do it administratively.
 but that would cause under questions. So the safest way to do it, I would say, if you want to set a time period, is to set it by amending the resolution. Pertinent to the discussion that you're having with Theresa then, would also say that any application for, as a sub-recipient or as a reimbursement
 If it's an arts group or part of the arts economy, that would go through this and we'd channel through this one and not through the one that Teresa has. Now, again, we can do that administratively, but I think you're better setting it specifically by amending the resolution to do that. Okay. Okay.
 So being new to council, I just want to bring up one other potential thing for consideration. There was a public comment earlier about, you know, there's been these additional agenda items that whenever Paul was asked, you know, we'll consume the rest of the ARPA monies and
 ARPA has been generally very confusing. I mean, we were in a pandemic, nothing you could plan for, and we had interim rules that came out in August of 21, and most folks have probably not read those.
 But I know there are a couple of us council members that are getting fully up to speed on conversations now being a part of council. And ARPA is so broad of what we can spend the monies on. Now that Paul has confirmed that we're down to those last millions, it would be great to have that spreadsheet and to look at that total bank account and to talk about all that's possible.
 My proposal would be to table until early February when we're back in council chambers where we can do our diligence over this next month to see all the possible projects. There's food insecurity projects. There's housing projects.
 There's home repair projects. We've heard about the possibility that Yolanda might need additional funds for child care. And so I'm just concerned that we maybe haven't fully heard all those possibilities and would love to see them all in one place so that we could all prioritize where we'd want to put that
 I think the arts is definitely someplace that's been hard hit and we need to figure that out. They need housing and they need ongoing support to rebuild because we know the seats are not back. And so we're built on that. And that's incredibly important. We we also recognize and know that we have a growing unhoused population and that's not OK for us. And so I would really like to put a friendly proposal forward that we.
 uh tabled us until our early february meeting we have a conversation about how we spend the remainder of these dollars please i really appreciate that because you said something that made a lot of sense to me
 PRIORITIZING. AND I THINK THAT WE SHOULD, MOVING FORWARD, I WOULD LIKE TO SEE US LOOK AT THE NEEDS. AND AS COUNCILMEMBER MOORE SAID, IT'S BEEN A VERY CONFUSING PROCESS FOR MANY OF FAY VILLE RESIDENTS. SO I THINK THAT WE HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY RIGHT NOW TO PRIORITIZE AND I THINK IF WE DO WHAT YOU SAID DO AND WAIT UNTIL FEBRUARY, THEN WE'LL GET A BETTER OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE THE MOST OF WHAT WE HAVE LEFT.
 Well, I just want to add, I want everybody to remember that we've had a lot of people apply for child care vouchers. I'm going to tell you, I'm going to need some more money for child care vouchers. I don't know how much, but what we put in there, come on up. We put about a half million dollars, but it wasn't enough.
 I'm going to need more because there's a lot of need out there, Paul. Would you agree? Yeah, I'll speak for, I think Yolanda's available, but I got the latest numbers from her today and I believe that so far she has 38 specific applications she's passed out
 150 applications of prospective people. Just a rough estimate if the one she has right now would fully fund those children as an estimate through the end of the year, we'd be talking about over $300,000 to $350,000 being committed right now with the applications filed if in fact they're approved. So that program is going to be, if you want it continued,
 And it's a priority, which certainly the administration believes it is. We're going to run short of money. We're going to have to look at that. And Lionel, I've discussed roughly half a million dollars I think would be needed just to address the basic needs. So that's kind of information I wanted to share with everyone. So I just wanted to put that out there for you.
 Mr. Mayor? Yes. If I may, I've got, I appreciate Sonia and the Arts Council bringing this forward. I think the two concerns I have are one is just the size of the request
 given the additional applicants that have yet to have their applications resolved definitively one way or the other. And so I'm looking at applicants that complied with our deadlines, our rules, their applications have not received an appropriation at this point, but
 they're still valid and they still deserve a final outcome and to be notified of that. So that's the first concern. And the second regarding the volume of the ask is simply that I do think we're going to end up appropriating some serious money for the arts, but that there's too many other pressing life needs, whether it's food insecurity or things of those nature. And
 I'm looking at the remainder of the applicants this past week and I know at this point staff are relying upon council to bring forward applications and I'm not sure that we all really realized that we were in that scenario at this point that no additional things will be brought to council to vote on. And so I feel compelled to bring at least
 several of the additional existing applicants forward for their potential funding consideration and so I would ask us also to consider tabling this until we can get closer to the bottom line of the the final ARPA funding available. Thank you. Okay Scott. Mayor I would I would agree with
 Council Warren, more about requesting to table this because I think earlier we were asked to table all the requests. And while I disagree with that, because the first two clearly fall within the emergency needs and they needed funding.
 I don't see that this is what I would call an emergency need. Now, the arts absolutely were affected by COVID and they need some assistance. I don't know that they have to have it right now without some discussions to determine exactly how best to go forward with that, especially considering we have COVID.
 you know, multiple, multiple people requesting assistance. And I think we need to give them adequate review
 And I think the $3 million is too big of the pie to agree to release. Because the childcare, I think everybody in this room will acknowledge that it's a significant assistance to the public. And I think that's what one of the jobs of the city is, is to assist our citizens. And we've had a tremendous response to that.
 So we have to identify that and acknowledge that and we have to be prepared to assist further. You know, that's just, I just think we have to. And although I respect your request and I respect the Arts Council's request, I just think it's too big at this time. And certainly we'll be open to review anything you want to come back with. I just think this particular proposal is too high. Okay.
 Mayor, I have one comment. Unless Councilmember Bunch is trying to make a comment, I'll defer to her. Go ahead, Theresa. I'll just wait my turn. Okay. I want to make sure that the Council kind of, that we all kind of connect the dots because we have allocated quite a bit of ARPA money to workforce training.
 But if we have people that need childcare, and that's the make or break it item for them, they may not be able to take advantage of that workforce training. So I think these are all really interconnected and that we need to really be considering how that process will work. So I just wanted to jump in and say that. Thank you. Thank you.
 Yeah, I would just like to reiterate what a lot of other people have already said. I think it's okay to take a little more time as we get close to the end of our funding to figure out how we want to spend the money. And I agree with everyone about, you know, child care is the foundation of being able to function in society and have a job and
 and do all the things that you want families and single mothers to be able to do. But I do want to recognize the importance of the creative economy in our city, and we value that very heavily in our economic development plan for the city.
 And so when we talk about, you know, we're not just giving money to the arts, we're giving money to organizations that help employ people and give school programs and, you know, things like that. So it's not just.
 you know, just the arts, it is part of our economy, too. So I would like to look into that a little bit more. I don't feel comfortable tonight voting on that volume for, you know, Sonia's request, but I do think it's important that we look at it and consider it. And I'm in favor of
 of tabling these items. So we have more time to really look at how we're going to spend the last of the money. Just as a comment, thank you everybody for your input and feedback. And I guess really I would say what Councilmember Bunch was saying is that when we say arts, it sounds like a painting or a song, but we're talking about people's jobs.
 and people who are employed, and people who don't want to become homeless, and don't want to go stand in line at the pantry line. And so I need you guys to think very broadly that this is people. These are jobs. This isn't something that is a very ethereal thing.
 And so I definitely respect that everyone would like to hold off and kind of see where everything's falling. And I'm here also hearing that the amount is very, you know, you want to kind of look at them out. So, you know, a concern I have is that, you know, which is why I'm bringing it now is that we will get down to the end and then we'll just give whatever's left over.
 And so is that how we evaluate the creative economy? And that's my question. But this is what I'm hearing, so I'm going to go with the majority, and that's what we do here in the democratic process. Could you help educate me a little bit on what you would envision 
 or what the Arts Council would envision the $3 million to be used for specifically. I mean, not necessarily specifically, but in a broad view,
 view, what would you say the best use of those funds would be for? I think the best use would be to employ anybody who has a job that is within one of those organizations. So it might employ a musician to get back on the stage that they couldn't be on the stage for three years, a theater person who couldn't be on the stage, a stage director, a stage manager, a dancer, etc.
 So any performer or somebody who works with performers, organizing performers, could be any of that. That's just a tiny sliver of the creative economy. Thank you. Anything else? Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members.
 stay on topic, please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address the Sonia's? Hello, I'm Brittany Gulley, and Sonia, I love the arts just as much as others. My biggest concern is, as a nonprofit member,
 you know, we were told there were specific guidelines as far as application process and stuff like that. And as April mentioned earlier, we submitted those applications in April. So I guess my question would be,
 you know, this is kind of like a pass-through grant that you're almost talking about, you know, like the council would get the money and then Theater Squared or whoever would be able to apply. So how are those applications accepted now when they weren't early on? And then, you know, when we were talking to Steve Dodson about our funding and it being passed through or being reimbursed,
 You know, my concern then was, well, we applied for this in April. So we submitted a budget for 2022 and now it's 2023 and our budget is more, you know, and as Mr. Jones mentioned, 60,000 people as of 2019 living in poverty and without insurance.
 The new numbers from 2021, not even 2022, but 2021 shows 62,000. So those numbers are just increasing. And so I guess, you know, just everyone mentioned about the amount of money requested and just like y'all to keep that in mind. And for those that you have approved tonight, thank you. But you know, we could have asked for more. We would have loved to have amended our ask from 75,000
 to meet our current budget and the the current need but we applied back in april and now we're listening to possible arts applicants that could apply now so that's just my only concern thank you
 Hello, my name is Jayden Atkins. I'm a staff attorney with Legal Aid of Arkansas working out of our Northwest Arkansas office. I'm here tonight not because I oppose the arts or arts funding, but because Legal Aid of Arkansas is one of many nonprofits that applied through the process
 in the time lines requested. We worked with Yolanda Fields to create our budget request. And we designed a project that unfortunately now, because of the long time that we've been waiting, is now in very dire need. I am the only attorney in Northwest Arkansas that is currently working on public benefits, employment law and special education work with Legal Aid of Arkansas. That's not just Fayetteville, that's all of Northwest Arkansas, it's just me.
 We are about to experience, at the end of March, the end of the public health emergency for the federal government. And the result of that is going to be, according to the state of Arkansas, 376,000 Arkansans suddenly being cut off of Medicaid. This is because the public health emergency, the federal government said you can't cut people off Medicaid, you can't cut their services during this time.
 While the federal government is giving the state an entire year to make these terminations and cuts, the state has decided to do it in six months. The result of that, because in our experience, the state has been ill-equipped and ill-prepared to do these terminations under normal circumstances, is that many people are going to be wrongfully cut off of Medicaid services.
 And, you know, that's not just as simple as someone who needs to go to the doctor for a regular appointment not being able to go that month. Some of these people need life-saving prescriptions, some of these people need in-home care, and some of these people need nursing home care that they all currently receive through Medicaid programs. Again, we originally made this application back last year.
 Unfortunately, now it is extremely urgent. People are going to be cut off of Medicaid. 12,000 Fayavilians are currently on Medicaid. And so thousands of Fayavilians are going to be cut off of Medicaid services very suddenly. And I need help. I need help to help.
 make sure that people continue to receive life-saving services. So I ask you to deeply consider how you are choosing to use the remainder of the ARPA funding, and please consider the other nonprofits, including Legal Aid of Arkansas, that went through the proper channels and have not yet had consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mayor Jordan, City Council members, my name is Bryce Briscoe, 505 West Spring Street. I'm here representing the Community Creative Center. We're an arts education non-profit, as well as the arts in northwest Arkansas. I would ask the city to remember that while this is arts funding, it does affect community members directly. I have a staff of seven full-time employees. I have two part-time employees and I employ 40 artists.
 who work at the center. Last year we served 7,110 adults in Fayetteville. We served 3,959 children and 3,408 seniors. A lot of this
 was geared towards socialization and expression after being in lockdown during COVID. So arts education has a real life impact, not only in jobs, which I think is particularly important, but as in socializing and letting people express themselves, get back in public after being in lockdown. Thank you very much. Thank you. May I come in?
 Council members, my name is Susan Hall. I live at 675 North Oliver Avenue. I think that's Ward 4, Teresa's and Holly's ward. I want to speak in support of Councilmember Harvey's proposal. I really think that it needs to be considered deeply.
 We need a path for relief for arts and cultural organizations. And those that have already applied have not been considered, and they applied by all the rules that existed at that time. When you're talking about the arts, you're not just talking about
 as the councilwoman said, pretty pictures are happy stuff. You're talking in the terms of Theatre Squared. I'm a member of the board of Theatre Squared, so I can speak directly to this. We support, we have 100 employees, and if we don't, if something doesn't help us, we will have to do something about that. We won't have as many employees.
 It's not just the people you see on stage. It's the carpenters and stagehands and people who paint the sets and all of these other people behind the scenes that you never see and don't even probably recognize as the artists that they are. But it requires all those people to put on a play and to make life worth living.
 It also impacts tens of thousands of students. We do an educational tour every year of the state where we take plays and workshops to schools throughout the state in the Delta, in the south part of the state, in southern Missouri.
 Those kids are profoundly impacted, as the last gentleman mentioned, by the isolation they have felt. This is a really important activity for them. It's hard to just overstate how impacted performing arts have been all over the country.
 I mean, your donors, well, actually, our donors have been very kind, but no ticket sales. And it's hard to fill those seats again because people are accustomed to staying at home and they're worried about COVID. Still, it's not over. I just I wish that the city process had led to Theater Squared's request being considered before this council, before this time. Right.
 But if this is an avenue that will provide some of that much needed funding for us, I urge you wholeheartedly to support it. Tabling it sounds delightful, right? You've got time to think it over. But I'm not sure it helps us. I appreciate your time and attention. Thank you, Susan.
 Hi, my name is Jessica Dabari. I'm a member of the Fayetteville Arts Council and I'd like to speak in support of Council Member Harvey's resolution. When we helped have this conversation towards this resolution, we really did just base the amount requested on the amount we were told was still unallocated. So I think it's completely reasonable to have a discussion about
 a resolution with a smaller amount if a smaller amount is what is actually available. But I think that it could be problematic to table and wait and only give funding to arts and cultural organizations.
 Nobody else has taken it. So far the council has not approved any of the requests for arts and cultural organizations in the city of Fayetteville. And having worked with many, many different arts and cultural nonprofits in Fayetteville myself, I know many individuals who have said they did not apply for this ARPA funding because
 the wording really didn't make it seem like they would qualify as an arts and culture organization. So we are hopeful that if you approve this resolution and we can create a application process that the arts organizations in Fayetteville feel that they are welcome to apply for, they will have the opportunity to create programming that will support
 the people of Fayetteville. The people who run arts and cultural organizations like FRIES, the CCC, they provide after school care. They provide adult education. They provide an incredible amount of services to the people of Fayetteville. They don't just paint things. It's much, much more than that. So I'm not sure if
 there's a possibility for discussion of the resolution at this time or if it has to be tabled but i would prefer it if it were possible to have a discussion thank you thank you hello mayor hello city council uh thank you for considering uh everything this evening um i'm bob stafford ward 1 527 south sherman uh i'm i'm also on the fayette barge council
 I know this is a big ask. It's a big chunk of money, but I can assure you the amount of money lost by the arts community and the arts organizations in the last three years has been much greater than this three million. And as other people have brought up, we are talking about jobs. We are talking about people's livelihoods. You know, Walton Arts Center and Theatre Square basically had to shut down or really scale back during this time.
 And that affects people's livelihoods. It affects other businesses, not just TheatreSquared, not just Walton Arts Center, just not the Community Creative Center. When people come to see a show, they also go out to eat. They also stay in hotels. I think there's a big issue, and I brought this up before, because the arts always seem to be the last consideration. People see it as a cost. The arts is not a cost. The arts is an economic driver.
 And we need to start seeing it as that. For every dollar you invest in the arch, you get more than that back. I've seen studies that say fourfold. I've seen studies that say more than that.
 You know, why do people go to New York? They go to New York. I would say one of the main reasons they go to New York is for Broadway. They go to New York for the Met. They go to New York for the Guggenheim. And they spend money and they create an economy that puts money back in the community, back into the coffers of the government so that money can be spent for politics.
 all sorts of great causes. A dollar spent in the arts pays back and allows you to spend that money where it is needed. I don't want to see this, and I hate to see this as the arts versus all these great organizations. And again, I know it's a big ask if it needs to be scaled down a little bit as a
 Jessica mentioned, you know, what we were given is this is how much is left. We know our organizations lost more than that and didn't have a chance to access that, so let's ask for that. But let's not put the arts last. Let's see it for the economic driver it is. Let's see the people that it affects. And again, it doesn't just affect the arts organizations itself. It affects our restaurants, it affects our bars, it affects our hotels.
 It's, you know, why do people go to Bentonville now? They don't go to go to the Walmart Museum. They go to go to Crystal Bridges, arguably the best collection of American art in the world. And we have some of those great art organizations here and we need to foster them. We need to foster the creative economy. And it is just that, it's an economy and it's an economy that benefits our whole city. And I just want us to start
 thinking about it in those terms and not seeing it as like, well, that sure is a big cost for a play or a big cost for a show or a big cost for a painting. It's an economic driver. Invest in it, it'll pay you back. You'll have more money to spend on everything else. And I think that's all I can add. So thank you. Thank you, Bob. Good evening, Mayor, Council. Good evening, I'm Orson Weems. I'm with the Music Education Initiative.
 and to hear some of the things that are said. I think we need to clarify and explain the creative economy. The Northwest Arkansas Council has a report, I don't know if a lot of you all have seen it, you all may have. It's a music ecosystem report.
 that needs to be shared for those that haven't seen it to describe some of the things that are the creatives, which is not just a sliver. As the last speaker just said, that economy affects the hotels, the Razorback Games. Some of the things that we do in our nonprofit, and I'll tell you our mission so that you'll understand, I'm a businessman that happens to own or operate a nonprofit.
 And I have brought this back to Northwest Arkansas to share my expertise, my experience in our relationships in the music and entertainment industry.
 So that we wanted to bring it here because over from a self-funded feasibility study that was done, we identified and we feel that we can have this done from Northwest Arkansas, where people don't have to depend on Nashville. They don't have to depend on L.A. They don't have to depend on New York. With everything that's here in Northwest Arkansas, people are coming here because of the Fortune 1, the Fortune 500 or 100 companies that exist here.
 I have brought my nonprofit here to engage, educate, elevate, and prepare the next generations
 of participants in the business of music and entertainment and live events. Live events, all the cycling around here, that's entertainment, that's part of creative. These are things that are created to entertain and to give a community things that they should do and talk about. When we have the things like the world-class cycling here, we have the Razorbacks that come here. I have an exhibit here in Fayetteville at the Pryor Center, just a couple hundred yards away.
 of a Delta juke joint, a replica of a juke joint. I brought that here. I got it from the Clinton Presidential Center. My nonprofit owns it.
 I've brought it here to share a cultural and community education about what that actually meant in the Black community for a juke joint. As of right now, we've had over 7,000 people to visit this exhibit since May of this year. So what we want to do is to work with other organizations to let people understand what
 what the creative economy really does and impacts. That's from the seamstresses that make outfits. That's the cleaners. That's the restaurants, the hotels. I'm available if you have any questions for me to help explain further and the impact of that. Please reach out. Orson Williams, the Music Education Initiative. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Mayor, Council. My name is Kara Paxton, 1166 South General Valley Drive, Fayetteville.
 as you know i've spoken about child care before and i really appreciate council member harvey bringing side and fork because why is why is it this or that why can't it be both why can't it be a yes and you know we have people that are out there in these fields that do have children why can't it be both you know i sit here at council meeting
 every week, and I listen to the public comments. I have them route through my office, and I see every single one of them that come through. You know, we put the agenda together. And then I come here, and I hear the attorney from Legal Aid of Arkansas talk about the need that she has in her office. I can't even begin to tell you, over my 10 years in public service in an income-based profession,
 program how many referrals I sent, personally, just me, not my other co-workers, including me, that I sent to Legal Aid of Arkansas. A lot of them were issues regarding rental agreements, landlords kicking them out for unfair reasons or reasons that aren't allowed to be done, evictions happening. It's sad to me that
 We sit here with all this money. I mean, we've had access to all of this money. You know, why? And I know that you can't go back, right? And I know I've mentioned this to several of y'all when you've come through my office. I wish we could go back and say, okay, up front, let's go ahead and earmark it for this, this, and this. And if we need to adjust later, we can. And to start with those initial numbers.
 However, you know, we are where we are. It's kind of like when Mayor Jordan gave his address regarding the old pension plans earlier tonight. You know, we are where we are because of things that have happened previously. I've listened to wonderful, wonderful public comments just now. The gentleman that spoke before me.
 I really appreciate the fact that he recognized those that are behind the scenes doing the work right because not all of those people are always recognized. You know, I think back to when the pandemic first happened and our facilities maintenance crew had to start cleaning double. So they did one round and cleaned our facilities twice.
 like always, but then because of how dangerous the virus was, in order for us to continue to come in, because a policy had been set in place to maintain core and essential services, we had to be here.
 They had to clean double. They had to be exposed double. Those people also have children. You know, why are we at the point of saying, OK, no, the arts can't have anything. Yes, this program can have some or vice versa. Like I said, why can't it be both? Maybe I'm just an optimistic person. I don't know. You know, sometimes I have to tell myself, OK, Kara, you're too excited, you
 You know, you're being too optimistic regarding the situation. But I also know Councilmember Harvey brings everything from the heart, and she listens to everyone. I know that because she's my Board 1 representative, and so is Councilmember Jones. So I always appreciate them listening to me and listening to my concerns, even before I set in this role. One thing that was mentioned earlier that I can't get out of my mind is,
 Let's stop putting out fires. Why can't we work on preventing? Why is it the fact that we have organizations that applied so long ago that are still here coming before us, that they still haven't received any money or had any additional consideration made? I understand a certain amount of money was allocated for the nonprofits, and we said if there needed to be more later, it would be there. But it's not.
 And last comment before I finish. During the pandemic, we all know if you had a child, school closed, guess what your children were at home. What do you do? Well, I can tell you what you do. You keep going to work because you have to and you hire a sitter. During the pandemic, I paid on average about four hundred and fifty dollars a week for myself to have home care for my two children since I came into work every day and so did my spouse.
 That's hard. Now, I know that I'm very fortunate and was able to take care of that. My husband and I have been very frugal over the years to do that. But there's a lot of people who have not had that opportunity. So thank you. Thank you, Kara. Who else would like to address us? OK, who do you have on Zoom, Susan? I have Chloe Bell.
 Hi, my name is Chloe Bell, 1589 West Dean Street. See if I can get the camera, but I'm also a member of the Fayetteville Arts Council and I support this resolution. We all know how important our arts and culture scene is to Fayetteville. It is one of the biggest things that is notable and always has been about our social fabric.
 Both here and nationwide arts and cultural organizations were some of the most impacted by the pandemic, but have seen very little relief from our American Rescue Plan Act funds. I really ask that you consider this quantitatively when looking back at what we have funded already and what the remaining funding requests are. If referencing the
 approved projects listed on the city website as of December 20th. I can see that of the allocated 12.6 million, you can add up all of the organizations that would fall under arts and culture, totaling to around 50,723.55. That is 0.4% of how much we have allocated so far.
 As those have said before me, these are people, they have children, they have families, they have needs too. We really should not be pitting these things against each other because it would be very, you know, it would be considered inappropriate to have pitted any of the prior projects to each other before this. So...
 Please consider the great impact that these organizations have been experiencing and are still experiencing and have been waiting for. Most felt that they were ineligible or they did apply and they did not receive funds. It is not an us versus them situation.
 I also want you to consider that at the time of the applications, we did not yet have an arts and culture staff member dedicated to advocating for their needs, evaluating the applications, or assisting them through the application process to assure, yes, you can apply for this, I can help you through it. If it is determined that the sticker shock of the three million is too much,
 Also consider that if all of the projects on this sheet on the website, if they were all funded, there's still a remaining balance of $343,699.54. If that is too much, I strongly consider, I ask you to strongly consider dedicating a lesser amount.
 And while doing so, consider the very vast needs of these organizations, the scale of these organizations, and how many people that makes up in our town. Thank you. Thank you. Martin Miller. Hey, go ahead. Hi there. Well, it's hard to follow the dedicated members of the Fable Arts Council, not to mention...
 person who for my money may well be the state's best city clerk um so some some pretty impressive testimony there i want to thank council member harvey for sponsoring this resolution to provide covet 19 relief for fable's creative economy um
 When I spoke to the Fayetteville City Council last summer, joined at that time by I think 17 supportive community members who all spoke that night, I shared that while Theatre Squared had weathered the pandemic, our upcoming ARPA funding request would be crucial to carry us forward. At that time, City Attorney Williams echoed in his memo that ARPA was the most appropriate path in the short term.
 For context, across the country right now, theaters are seeing slow-to-recover ticket sales. Last year, even Broadway's attendance was down by 50%. Our institutions were the first to close, and as we're learning, they've been the slowest to fully recover. The same is held true here, as the city's own research showed, the performing arts were the hardest-hit sector in Fayetteville.
 So I will admit that I was surprised that the city's initial ARPA funding process didn't seem to recognize this need. The dates selected to demonstrate revenue loss began a full year after the pandemic shutdown. So that avenue didn't seem to make sense. The subrecipient evaluation criteria didn't seem to take COVID impact into account and the staff review process
 didn't seem to recognize the profound impact of the pandemic on cultural institutions or the importance of those institutions to Fayetteville's economy. And indeed, after staff review, as others have pointed out, less than 1% of the funds were recommended to be allocated to arts and culture. And Theatre Squared's critical request, though deemed fully eligible, wasn't above the staff's cutoff for the list. So I just would ask
 everyone to consider what message we want to be sending about how Fayetteville values its creative workforce. And also to say, it is absolutely not too late. I think the Council made a very wise choice to move more than $3 million of additional ARPA funding into the nonprofit support category, which to my understanding remains available to you to allocate.
 For our company, we had considered there to be several paths forward with ARPA, hopefully to help us keep our team intact and the economic engine of our performances humming for downtown Fayetteville. One is just simply considering the initial request we've already made as a council to the council and hoping that you'll vote to support it.
 A second path would be reopening a window for revenue loss demonstration with dates that actually align with the pandemic as Teresa has proposed, although I imagine the city likely receive applications that exceed the amount that are proposed in that separate resolution.
 But Councilmember Harvey, who is a tireless champion of the creative economy, has found a third path that recognizes the broad and deep impact of COVID on Fayetteville's creative economy and the importance of this sector for Fayetteville's future.
 I'm grateful to hear the city staff have supported a form of this avenue as well. And I want to emphasize that this is a very timely conversation. This is relief support that was first appropriated in early 2021. This resolution not only creates a path forward for Theater Squared, potentially, it also supports the broader amazing arts ecosystem that makes our city such a great place to live today.
 if appropriately funded. So thank you for considering it. I know it's hard and there are a lot of needs and they're all very deserving and very important. And I would just position as others have tonight that this one is also important and say, yes and. I love that metaphor. We can say this and that, all of these things are important together. Thank you all, really appreciate it. Thank you.
 Who else? Cody Ford. Go ahead. Good evening, everyone. My name is Cody Ford, and I'm with the Arkansas Cinema Society, as well as the Idol Class Magazine and Arkansans for the Arts, which is an organization that promotes a creative economy here in the state. And I just wanted to say I am very sympathetic to the organizations that have spoken earlier that are dealing with social services. I worked for Youth Bridge and for Peace Corps.
 family shelter for years so I understand the importance that they play in this community and how hard it is for money so I really do appreciate what people are saying why not both and so it's against each other and just over real quick I've learned a couple at
 currently at 505 Southwest Avenue here just downtown, right down from Theater Squared and our great public library within our arts district. So I've seen the way things have changed over the last few years. I've seen how Fayetteville has really stepped up to once again promote ourselves as the arts town.
 2005, that is a murder. It seemed that our brand alongside of the university itself, that was a unique identity that we had. So it's been great watching the ramble develop, but just going back to the importance of the creative economy
 Yeah, it is a huge thing. There have been a lot of great statistics thrown out there tonight and no need for me to repeat them, but there are people like myself who, you know, this is how I make a living. This is how I get to live in our arts district. And so we didn't, ACS, Arkansas Cinema Society did not have ARPA funding. So I have no skin in the game on that, but I do support the people who put in the applications for that. And I really do hope that, you know, the city council recognizes the importance because
 if we're going to compete with Bentonville and bring in those tax dollars for arts-related programming,
 then, you know, we really have to support the arts because it's hard to have an arts district without the arts. And I love living in the arts district, but, you know, my rent just went up by 10 percent this week, you know. And so it's one of those things like funding is necessary. So people like myself and all those others that are at Theater Squared and all these other arts organizations are able to stay here in town and continue creating the unique culture that Fable has had in the two decades that I've been here.
 year. So I appreciate council member Harvey's proposal fully supported and you know definitely it's hard to have an arts district artists so I hope that city council support the resolution and move quickly on it. Thank you thank you you know when else on zoom mayor. Okay right back to the council and so.
 MAYOR JORDAN AND CITY COUNCIL, I REMEMBER IN JUNE I BROUGHT FORTH A RESOLUTION ON BEHALF OF THEATER SQUARED FOR THE I BELIEVE IT WAS CONCERNING THE LEASE RESOLUTION. I REMEMBER THE CONVERSATION THAT THEY WERE REALLY ENCOURAGED TO APPLY FOR ARPA FUNDING. HERE WE ARE TONIGHT HEARING THAT THEY.
 that may not be possible, that there's a possibility that they, you know, may not receive funding. I feel as if that this isn't... We do need a longer conversation, a broader conversation, but I do believe that for myself, I'm certainly a supporter of the arts, and I would like for us to...
 And I think someone else mentioned it tonight, outlining and making sure that we are specific in this ask, but also with the city.
 I believe that Theatre Squared is an anchor in our community and Theatre Squared has done a lot of, I mean they've done everything that they has, whatever their mission to do the work in Fayetteville, they've certainly done that with diversity, equity and inclusion and they've also
 They also make sure that those who may not be able to afford to attend a show, that they're able to do that. And so I do believe that tonight we as council members, I think that we need to take a closer look at Theater Squared because I remember that conversation back in June. And we did. We did not support the lease agreement, but I felt like.
 that they were told, well, I remember them being told that ARPA was the best route. And so what has happened? Why is that? What's changed? I mean, that concerns me because I'm very supportive of the arts and I'm very supportive of Theater Squared. And I want us to be true to our word and making sure that we are intentional and deliberate as it relates to helping those communities
 those nonprofits. And so I'm wanting to make sure that we are looking closely at doing what we can to come close to that or definitely making sure that we support Theodore Squared as best as we can. Yes.
 I really appreciate all of the conversation and comments from all of the public. And one of the benefits when you campaign is that you knock on thousands of doors and talk to everyone at farmers markets. Additionally, my work in the community is actually in the nonprofit world doing social justice work. And so I believe the pandemic very closely with individuals.
 And I agree so much with what's been brought forward, and I really respect what Councilperson Harvey has brought forward, and many of those that are in our creative economy that are so integral to what the culture, the reason for being in Fayetteville, why folks come to Fayetteville, want to live here, how we attract individuals.
 I just really ask for your grace right now because we are faced with this very hard task that these monies, again, you've heard from Legal Aid. We have other nonprofits, and I agree. This is not a pitting against us.
 But this is that these monies are finite. This doesn't mean this conversation ends after ARPA, but this is just saying, let's have an additional timeframe that we really can outline some of those things that were so well brought up around, what is the appropriate amount? What should the parameters and boundaries be for those that participate? Is there a way that we can structure a program that could be equitable across the entire community? I know that it has a lot of challenges,
 but I think that there are a lot of well-meaning council members here that want to do that work and make sure that we invest this money in the way that gets us able to assist the most organizations and individuals in Fayetteville. And so I agree with you. The arts are incredibly special and unique here in Fayetteville, you know, and alongside that are all the other basic services that are so incredibly important.
 through many nonprofit sectors and other services that are needed in our community. So I just would reiterate, again, being new to the council and just knowing the constraints of this money is limited at this time, that we really take all of the feedback from the community, and we all get together, and we really make some of those decisions about those parameters that folks are asking us so we can make sure to take care of as many Fayetteville folks as we can. Thank you.
 Yeah, I was just making sure someone else was. In listening to the comments, a couple early on said that they felt like that their request
 Legal aid, I think, was one that had been on the table for a while and still had no resolution. And they kind of gave the impression, at least to myself, that they felt like the arts was jumping to the front of the line ahead of them, even though their proposal was on the table for a while. Can someone explain to us why that?
 that scenario might be happening in their eyes or, because I'm a little confused in that regard, because they, did I hear that? Did you all hear the same thing I did in that regard? Yes. Well, essentially what we're looking at are the organizations that are talking about that made a proposal. These are not organizations that made a proposal for a reimbursement or a loss of revenue. They applied as a sub-grantee
 to offer additional services if the city council felt that they were necessary. So it's not like those were organizations that said they lost money and they had a provable method of saying they lost money. They were proposing a grant agreement to do some additional services for the city.
 So they're kind of in a different proposal. So it's an apples to orange comparison. It kind of is when you're talking about losses and revenue losses and a proposal to do a new function.
 For example, since we're on the topic of Theater Squared, Theater Squared, we discussed they did not have revenue losses, but they proposed to do tickets to lower income individuals in the city. That was the proposal.
 So you have to look at these and then evaluate the use of those proposals of what they intend to do to serve the citizens and then evaluate what you feel is most important. So I think the one thing we have to get clear is there's a method for people who lost money, organizations, excuse me, that lost money that...
 expenses were greatly increased because of the pandemic and all of this should be tied somehow to the pandemic. And what additional services could they provide to address the what happened to individuals through the pandemic. So I hope that explains a little bit about it.
 I think one question though that did come up as well, Paul, I have a quick question for you. Is that, did I hear somewhere, and I don't remember where it was because we've been listening very intently, that maybe council members were supposed to bring forward individual applications? Well, we talked about this many, many months ago. We talked about the proposals and the subrecipient applications.
 which were, there were roughly 33 of them. We looked at those applications, we discussed it, and there was a review group in the administration that ranked how they felt that those particular requests or proposals to supply, to meet the needs of the public
 were ranked according to the administration. From that, we discussed and talked about what the administration intended to bring forward and we brought those forward. Those were the things such as the ambulance authority, such as the child care vouchers, et cetera. And it was up to the council to review the rest because the council wanted to see all those proposals and review the rest and bring those proposals that they felt
 most important or ranked high enough to meet the needs of the citizens. So that was done and that was discussed months ago.
 I would say I failed to understand that completely because I think I might have possibly gone back and looked at some of those and happily sponsored those. My understanding was that we were bringing them in batches from the staff perspective in the way, the capacity that the staff could handle. And that is totally my misunderstanding of.
 Because I definitely thought that the ones that ranked highly were all going to eventually be brought forward to us. But I, you know, I hate that that was a misunderstanding. And that is completely my misunderstanding, unless someone else thought differently. I thought the same thing. Okay, I did the best of my time to make that perfectly clear. Okay.
 Okay, I don't know what to say. We felt that it was up to the council to make the decision what was the most important. Now, we brought forward to the council what the administration thought were the most relevant sub-grant applications and waited for the council to bring forward those that they felt they wanted to support, which the council has, in fact, done subsequent to that.
 So that's kind of where we are. So going forward, we probably need to go, especially myself, I would like to go back and see those applications that are ranked the highest and make sure that we are in agreement that there's something that we absolutely need, which we do, because they were basically food, food, shelter, shelter,
 childcare, some very basic needs, which I completely agree that we need to fund them, go back to those organizations or go back to you and then bring that amount forward to the council as a resolution? That's how we should... Well, all of those proposals are still out there. They're out there on the website to be reviewed for which we rank what the administration felt the highest rankings were.
 some of those were brought forward. There still weren't all of the top ten. Now the one thing about the sub-grantee, you're actually having a contract with a sub-grantee that then has to meet the terms and conditions of the ARPA funding. We have to review them, make sure that we have every reasonable belief through audit that they can in fact
 apply with the terms and conditions of ARPA funding, bring it forward. So those are on the website, they're out there at this point in time.
 Yeah, so I will definitely be reviewing that and looking forward to bringing something forward, especially those people who have waited and gone through the process. Now if you remember, we did take the other ones who had revenue losses, those came forward. We bundled those in groups and brought those forward in three different groups for suggested reimbursement based on the documentation. Right, okay. I don't have any further questions.
 Can I just add one? I'm sorry, Mike. Please. The staff was whispering in my ear, reminding me too, Sonia, of the list that was originally crafted through the review process. And so what we originally brought you all was that ranking of our suggestions.
 and there were, we thought we could handle 10, 11 subrecipients. We suggested we could handle 10 subrecipients. That's because there's a lot of ongoing reporting to the federal government. We also have to audit them to make sure that they're complying with the grant. So some of them were actually, y'all already approved, and some of them sat over here to the side while you worked on other things.
 And, but just for example, Legal Aid of Arkansas was in staff reviews top five. So I encourage you to go back and look at the rankings that staff gave. We'll send that back again and make sure you have it. Absolutely. Now we sent, we sent the council recently.
 The 33 proposals, try to highlight the ones that have currently been funding and what the ranking had been at that point in time. So you should have them and the status of whether they are approved or not. So that was a recent spreadsheet that we sent the council. Council members Turk and Whitaker asked for that. We have supplied that.
 So if you're interested, what should be done is go back, review, see if any of those are ranked higher. That was the ranking of the administration. The decision-making was really on the council's member. We brought it forward to the council for consideration, but we had expected that the council would come forward what they thought the most relevant or necessary proposals were.
 and sonia i want to assure you that that you're not alone all of us misunderstood that and it's not paul's fault it's not staff's fault we were passing a budget we were dealing with a million other things and we simply didn't grasp the communication and and i'm right in there with you and so i think um the the two comments i want to make are
 No one up here has spoken in opposition to the arts or the it's part of Fayetteville's DNA. It's a part of our identity. It makes us distinctive and we all get that. I think we're someone used the term sticker shock and I think that it was the surprise that the dollar amount arrived at was what someone thought was the total remaining dollar amount and I was looking at
 the exact thing that you mentioned. Wait a second, we have some highly rated applicants that we've yet to resolve. My understanding is that anyone that would be applying in the future from the creative economy already had that initial opportunity to apply. And so I think we're wanting to show discretion and sensitivity to people who did apply originally. We're not interested in denying someone
 But I do think that in all fairness, if everyone had the opportunity as a nonprofit to apply, that we have a sense of responsibility to those that have been waiting. And so I think your motion, your resolution is an appropriate one to identify an industry that is significantly impacted. I'm a seasoned subscriber to two theaters in town. Mrs. Whittaker and I have donated...
 significantly for the performing arts. It's just a part of what we value. So no discussion tonight is in any way undervaluing that contribution of that industry to our community. So even though we say it's a both and, until the mayor gets permission to print money, however, we can only spend a dollar once. And so I think that we simply are trying to
 be as discerning and wise as we can possibly be and that doesn't devalue or denigrate any applicant
 current or future, I think it just says that we're wrestling with trying to be good stewards of this resource. It's and I hate to say it, but having read every ARPA application, having responded with pages and pages of questions to staff, it's still a pleasant problem to have.
 gosh, we got a rebate from the federal government of $17.9 million. What do we do with it? We've paid our taxes. What a pleasant problem to have that we have an opportunity to invest this resource in our community. So I hope that you're not discouraged. I hope that
 The conversation has clued us all into the fact that staff are awaiting for us to take some initiative and bring items forward. And I think we all fully intend to do that. So thank you. I did want to point out that we did fund some of the creative economy at the Symphony of Northwest Arkansas we did a reimbursement for.
 Northwest Arkansas Jazz Society. I think we put them out, the Sequoia Center Incorporated, into the creative community too. So as those applications did come in from that sector, we did in fact evaluate them.
 I'M SORRY, ANDREA, DID YOU HAVE A QUESTION FOR ME? I JUST WANTED TO ADD THAT FOR ME, BECAUSE WE AS COUNCIL MEMBERS, WE WEREN'T INVOLVED ENOUGH IN THE APPLICATION PROCESS FROM THE GET GO, SO IT'S KIND OF DIFFICULT TO ADVOCATE. SO WHEN THINGS GO UNFUNDED, FOR ME IT WAS REALLY DIFFICULT TO ADVOCATE BECAUSE IT WAS HARD TO AFTER
 STAFF HAD, AFTER THE PROCESS, IT WAS JUST A LITTLE DIFFICULT FOR ME. THERE WAS A LOT OF DETAILS WERE UNCLEAR. SO FROM WHAT I UNDERSTAND, THAT'S THE SAME CASE WITH THE NONPROFITS. SO MOVING FORWARD, I'M HOPING THAT WE CAN BE MORE TRANSPARENT AND, AGAIN, HAVING MORE COMMUNICATION. NEW SPEAKER PORTER.
 At the council's request, we had all of them posted to the website. So they've been posted to the website quite a bit of all the applications and all the data. I will say, DeAndre, there's a lot of information there and a lot of data there. Yes, and I appreciate that. But my initial comment was the council members being involved from the very get-go.
 And of course we can't change that, but that is something that I wish we could have. And always remember when we had these 33 applications alone were over $20 million. We could have never funded fully all of them. So it's a case where we have to make a decision of what we feel the best use of that money, what the council feels, excuse me, the best use of that money.
 The administration did make certain recommendations to the council, which we appreciate that you approved, but the council is going to have to decide what of these remaining they feel is the most important to the community. Absolutely. And I will say this again, I do regret the council members were not involved in the very, very initial discussion of how this process should be played out.
 So one more question for you, Paul. Sure. Okay, so I'm very concerned about these outstanding nonprofits because one of the other things that I believed in that was, again, a misunderstanding on my part, some of those organizations, we were waiting for documents. We weren't sure if they were fully qualified. We weren't sure if they were going to,
 you know, there were questions and details. So I really was leaning on the staff for them being brought forward in batches. So I will need to get with you or I don't know if there's a way that you can tell us that these are marked the organizations that are all 33 up there which ones do in fact qualify under the ARPA guidelines
 and if there's any that don't, then we just need to pull them off or something because I would love to bring all of them forward. I mean, I don't think...
 We can do 20 million, but can we do a partial funding of most of them, especially if they qualify? So if there's any, I can get with you and meet with you and go through the list and see what's left and who's left to be funded. Because I absolutely think that's the fair thing to do is to fund the people who already applied. That is the absolute fair thing to do. Well, we sent a group together. We sent the rankings, and when certain of them were not recommended, we felt, in fact...
 were not qualified. So we had done that at a point in time. Now as far as partially funding, we have to go back and discuss... Can I
 Can I interject? I echo that you're incredibly concerned, and I think we've expressed that across the council, those pending applications. But a pending application didn't mean approved. I think we've kind of demonstrated one of the things about there's a lot of misunderstanding, kind of chaos around this program. It was just part of it. It came out with interim rules and the final rules. We had a lot to navigate. And so I think we can wipe the slate clean,
 by deciding going forward what our process is. And that's where I think we have a big opportunity to really again look and see how much money is remaining. Let's look at outstanding applications. Let's consider our creative economy and where we could fund the creative economy. Let's look at any additional things that might have been coming up over the months since we did those applications.
 I mean, there's housing and food insecurity, there's child care. Getting into the room together specifically talking about that I think is a great way for us to move forward from. But I would really like to caution us about piece milling any more of this because I think it just adds to the confusion. And so I strongly would urge us to really address this money in one conversation when we go forward.
 Mayor, I have a comment or suggestion. You know, we had a very productive workshop several months ago, and I'm wondering if now is the time to have another one of those to maybe sort some of this out, to go back and review. We have two new council members here with us, and maybe just to put a hold on several of these items and have a workshop to 
 clear that up yes i would be amenable to that i think i think it helps to reset for everyone um and we can help fill in any gaps and get everyone up to speed i just want to make sure that we make it perfectly clear and i think we have that we absolutely think the arts is an economic driver but we correct me if i'm wrong but the proposal we have before us
 today is for three million dollar ARPA fund request and I think all the questions that have come forward the concerns
 I think it's very prudent in this particular situation to table this to get more discussion about how do we move forward with, you know, the bucket is the bucket. We can't expand it. And so we have to be prudent about what we're doing. And I think this has brought forward that fact. So although it's a little frustrating.
 Iron sharpens iron and we have to be able to figure this out and do what's best for the citizens of Fayetteville.
 I do believe there was a tabling motion. Is that correct, Kara? Yes, you need to have a motion to table and it sounds like uh they're going to have some more meetings and stuff so you might want to actually table it indefinitely which is not necessarily a killing motion. It's just when you're not sure you'll be ready to take it off the table and consider it again and it seems like that might be the best thing to do in this particular case because there is a little bit more work to do especially if you have another
 a meeting like you had before where you work with Paul about which one of these groups are actually qualified and which ones you want to go forward with. So that's what I would recommend, be a motion to table indefinitely just so that you have enough time to do what you need to do. I would like to go ahead and make that motion to table indefinitely. Second.
 Okay. Are you all going to table the other one, Teresa, that you're bringing? Let's do one at a time, Mayor. All right. But I'm curious. I'm asking a question here. Yes. Okay. All right. Karen, let's call the roll. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Butch? Yes.
 Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. Now let's go on to another... Well, before we leave this, the council mentioned that they were interested in a workshop. Thank you, Paul. Certainly that that would be... I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 We'd certainly be amenable to that. We need to set a date. I think we'll send some recommended times out to the council members tomorrow that you can respond to what works for it. I'm going to suggest that we look at this probably in February, if that was as soon as February as we could, to give certainly the new council members a chance to review.
 All of this stuff is on the website if the council members want to go out and look at this a little bit before and see what in fact has been proposed before that. So I'll send out some dates and we'll schedule a three hour meeting or so by itself to do a workshop if that is what everybody wants. And that's the impression I'm getting. Yes, that would be helpful.
 Well, let's go on to number seven. Did we vote? We did, didn't we? Thank you. All right, number seven, a resolution to allow nonprofit organizations operating in federal to submit an application for reimbursement of lost revenue from American Rescue Plan Act funds from March 15, 2020 to March 2, 2021, and to approve the budget amendment.
 of $1 million for these qualified applications. Tracy. Thank you, Mayor. This proposal, I do believe, needs to be tabled given the conversation we've had tonight. But I want to make it clear what my intent was. My intent was that
 Businesses, organizations suffered losses initially when the COVID pandemic hit, which is around March of 2020. So we were kind of missing a whole year of potential reimbursements for those losses. So this was proposed to fill in that gap. But again, given our conversation tonight, I would like to table this.
 And unless there's any conversation or discussion, I'll move to table it right now. Second. Is that tabling indefinitely? Thank you, Kit. It's tabling indefinitely. Okay. We have a motion to table indefinitely. Any final comments? Now, counsel, I want to remind you all of something. Paul Becker took the time to have a workshop, and everybody was there.
 Now, I thought he was very clear on how we needed to move forward with this. And I'm cool with however you want to do this, but staff worked real hard on what we thought that you all would want. And I was hearing from council members that we wanted to move forward with something. So the administration brought something forward. Now, I'm sorry about whatever confusion. Obviously, I didn't, you know, I probably was confused.
 If you feel that we were not clear, I do apologize for that. But Stephen and Paul did the time, and we even went back at Mike's request and Teresa's request and sent everybody what we had left. So, and at the end of the day, you all could have spent it on whatever you wanted to. Really, honestly, you couldn't.
 But we were trying to give some direction because we felt like we were given some direction to come up with some of the things and we brought some of the items forward on a list that was there and we all discussed it. Everybody seemed to be okay. Now, if you weren't okay, then I don't know, but the material was there and available to read and look at. So I just want to make that point clear.
 Staff worked real hard on the list they brought forward all I want to thank you all for the work that you did do Okay, let's vote mayor. I'm sorry public comment on this item. We it tabled. I'm sorry. Oh I do it. I thought it was table. You're right. I'm sorry mayor. Didn't mean to mess up So I need to take public comment here I
 It requires a city council to approve. Usually a motion to table does not have public comment. My mistake. Is everybody good with that? Oral. Let's vote. Moore. Yes. Whittaker. Yes. Arno. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turf. Yes. Erdsberg. Yes.
 Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. And Mayor, I just want to point out for the record, this does not affect your approval of the other specific grants that
 here, or nor should it affect the one that Holly is going to bring at the next meeting. Those are specific programs that have already been run through, the administration approved, and so Holly can bring that one forward to you for your vote and it's not affected by these
 larger ones, the $3 million one and the $1 million one, which are much more general and not specific print plans. So I just want to make sure you're aware of that. The ones that were approved tonight remain approved and Holly can still bring hers forward at the next meeting. Okay. And what I'm hearing right now, we need to establish a workshop again, right? Okay. We need to put... Paul said that he had that covered. You got that covered, Paul? All right.
 The ones you approved tonight, what Kit is saying, the ones you approved tonight, we're going forward with them on. Then we're going to schedule a workshop. I will send out some preliminary dates for everybody. I'll schedule about three hours. We'll see how long it goes and if we can supply any documentation,
 that you may want that we haven't supplied already, please let us know. We'll be happy to do that. And we've got about 5 million left, I believe, thereabouts. Give me a number here. Pretty close to 5 million dollars, Lionel. Very close to 5 million. There you go. There's what you can work with. All right, everybody clear on that? All right, okay. Well, let's take a break. Okay, let's go ahead and get started.
 Okay. You're welcome. I certainly needed it too, as you'll never know. All right, number eight. Resolution to approve the vacation of 16,552.8 square foot portion of a tree preservation easement located along West Mitchell.
 STREET CONTINGENT ON DEDICATION OF TOOL REPLACEMENT TREE PRESERVATION TO EASEMENTS TOTALING APPROXIMATELY 37,519 SQUARE FEET. JONATHAN. SORRY. YEAH. JONATHAN. THANK YOU, MAYOR. JONATHAN KURTZ WITH THE DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT. MELISSA EVANS AND JOHN SCOTT ARE PRESENT AS THE URBAN FORESTERS AND WILL BE PRESENTING THIS ITEM THIS EVENING.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council Members. I'm Melissa Evans, one of the urban foresters for the city, and John Scott, our other urban foresters, joining me tonight. He's familiar with this tree preservation easement and vacation request as well.
 The tree preservation easement requested to be vacated, as you can see in the image at the top right and bottom of the screen, was dedicated as part of the JD China restaurant large-scale development when it was built in 2001. The trees were placed in a tree preservation easement to meet the development requirements to build the restaurant on the 1.76 acre lot. Thank you.
 Per Chapter 167.04 of the Code, continued preservation and protection under approved tree preservation plans and tree preservation easements states that in order to ensure that an applicant's heirs, successors, assigns, or any subsequent purchasers of the subject property are put on notice as to the existence and extent of approved tree preservation easements,
 which shall be clearly depicted on the easement plats for large-scale developments and the final plats for non-residential subdivisions. This was part of JD China's large-scale development requirements and was depicted on their plat. The images from 2003 and 2015 on the screen show this.
 The restaurant closed and Raising Cane's proposed to purchase and split the lot. In 2016, the lot split was submitted and approved. The lot split created an isolated tree preservation lot of 0.67 acres as you can see in the 2019 and 2022 images on the screen. The remaining 1.09 acres were sold to Raising Cane's to develop a new restaurant.
 The resulting split created a lot, almost entirely covered in a tree preservation area, to meet the requirements of their previous project for JD China.
 City Council received a vacation request from the previous property owner in 2019 and it was tabled indefinitely with additional input requested from the applicant which was not provided. You can see in the three images at the top of the screen how the tree canopy has been thinned over the years by the previous property owner. Planning and urban forestry staff received inquiries about this property from a realtor and the prospective buyers in the last few months and informed them of the tree preservation easement.
 The applicant wishes to vacate the tree preservation easement, which is actually 0.38 acres of the 0.67 acre parcel to facilitate developing the property. According to UDC code 167.04 L2, the geographic extent and location of tree preservation easements once recorded may only be modified or abolished with the express approval of city council.
 Applicants requesting such action shall bear the burden of proving to the City Council's satisfaction that such modification or abolition is in the best interest in the City of Fayetteville. If you could go to the next slide, please. The applicant wants to vacate the Mitchell Street tree preservation easement and place two parcels totaling .8 acres into tree preservation easements.
 These two parcels are not near the current tree preservation easement and are on opposite sides of the city from each other, as you can see in the image. Next slide, please.
 One parcel is near Harmony Point Park on the west side of the city and is 0.2 acres, as you can see in the image on the left. The other property is near South Ray Avenue on the east side of Fayetteville and is 0.6 acres, as shown in the image on the right. They're both largely in the streamside protection and flood zone areas, which means much of their land area is protected from tree removal and development. Next slide, please. Staff recommends denial of the vacation request for several reasons.
 First, if this tree preservation easement is vacated, the precedent created could create a loophole in our tree preservation code. This precedent does not benefit the city or its citizens. Second, the canopy being offered is not the same as the canopy proposed to be vacated in that it is an upland forest and the proposed parcels are streamside riparian forests with different tree species.
 Much of the property of the two sites offered as an exchange cannot be developed due to their locations within the streamside protection zone. It does not benefit the City to have the two offered parcels and tree preservation easements. They are already in protected streamside and flood zones. Third, the new development proposal for the Mitchell site may not preserve the required canopy percentage amount.
 Many developments do not preserve the required percentage of existing canopy, as they are allowed to mitigate or plant new trees per code. While they may preserve some trees and plant new trees, or plant evergreens for screening, that will not equal the large oaks that were removed. We welcome small trees to be planted, but it takes 20 plus years for new trees to provide ecosystem services that established mature trees provide, such as mitigating the urban heat island effect from pavement.
 Fourth, this area of Fayetteville has lost significant canopy in the last 12 or more years as you will see in the next images. Next slide, please. Again, this increases rather than reduces urban heat island impacts. The immediate area of this part of Fayetteville, northeast of MLK Boulevard and Interstate 49, has gone from having tree canopy coverage of 25 percent to 7 percent in the last 12
 Approval of this vacation results in more canopy removal in this area. This neighborhood has been developed predominantly as student housing and needs the tree canopy and ecosystem services that trees provide. Equitable access to nature and tree canopy is an issue that urban forestry staff works on continually. The vacation would allow more tree canopy removal in the student housing and low income
 area. Lewis Plaza is across the street and is a public housing complex. Urban Forestry does not believe this vacation is in the best interest of the city and its residents.
 This tree preservation easement is important for the future of our city. Tree preservation easements were put into code for a reason, which is for the future of Fayetteville. Some of the objectives of our tree preservation and protection ordinance are to preserve existing canopy, to create a healthful environment for Fayetteville residents, businesses, and
 to buffer noise, air, and visual pollution, to reduce stormwater runoff and the potential damage it may create, and to protect and enhance property values. The first principle listed in Chapter 167 of Code is preservation shall be the first, best, and standard approach.
 I watched an agenda session last week and heard Councilmember Turk's question about what kind of trees are on these sites and how they compare with carbon sequestration
 John Scott and I talked about it and the trees are not comparable. The trees that are on the two pieces of property being offered are more water loving species like willows with a lot of miscellaneous lower quality canopy. The trees that are on the Mitchell property were predominantly good quality oaks, hickories and persimmon until recent years. Detailed tree surveys were not something we could produce by today.
 It would take more effort than we can currently expend. The sites are difficult to access and it takes time to do tree surveys. I do not know how to specify or specifically quantify carbon sequestration between the sites. We need to research that more. Perhaps that's something the applicant could help with or provide if needed.
 This may not seem like a large property or a lot of tree canopy. However, if this tree preservation easement is vacated, it will create an issue with the tree preservation easements precedent. We have a city with a tree preservation and protection ordinance that was citizen driven. And every survey Fayetteville has produced that ask about trees protection is consistently a top priority for our residents. We recommend that this be denied and that we continue to protect tree canopy.
 Thank you for your time. John and I are available to answer any questions you may have. And the applicant, Mr. Payton Sims, is here as well. Okay. Is the applicant here? Did you say? Yes, sir. Just come ahead. You have 10 minutes. Good evening, Mayor. Good evening, Council. I've got a couple of things I'd like to pass out to you if I could.
 So I appreciate you guys letting us come forward today to speak about this. It's a growing concern with the housing situation in Fayetteville. And I believe that removing this tree preservation would serve better justice for the city and for the citizens that call this city home. The the tree preservation would add, as she said, three times the amount of canopy.
 And with that, it would also add the water source the trees need. The trees are not in good shape where they're at today. The trash on the property is not in great shape today. And we also, after thinking it through and speaking with some of you, we had kind of thought that we would also like to pledge, and I don't know exactly how we'd go about that, but we'd like to pledge 20% of this project to affordable housing.
 That's kind of something that after discussing back and forth with the partners, which I'm one of, we thought that it would help bring in for the community. After listening to you guys tonight, we've heard multiple times people speaking of the need for affordable housing. I think this reaches it. We'd love to do more, obviously, but feasibility-wise and trying to make this project make sense,
 It doesn't work if we just threw it all out there, but we can all together chip in a way at this one step at a time. So I appreciate you guys listening to me tonight, and if I can answer any questions you guys may have. Okay. What questions does the council have for the applicant or staff? Thank you for coming forward, and sorry I didn't get a chance to meet with you earlier. Yes, ma'am. So I just...
 I'm not great at reading diagrams, so I just want to make sure I understand this. So are there 10 units on here that you're proposing? Yes, ma'am. So obviously I just want to make sure everybody understands this is not 100% set in stone. There's still the fire marshal to take into account. There's still green spaces to take into account. This was just a rough drawing that we kind of laid out. This is what we would like. Per the zoning, if vacated, we are allowed to have 16 units, I believe, is what we'd be allowed to have.
 We're not obviously trying to fit everything in at once. There's still got to be green space for dogs. There's still got to be places where they can use the bathroom. There's still got to be places where guests can park, where the residents can park themselves. So with that being said, this is not exactly set in stone, but this is something that we kind of thought of last minute that, you know, for the affordable housing to go in the back back there for 20 percent of that project to be that way.
 So the four units to the south would be the affordable housing. Is that correct? Well, 20% of the project. So if we got more, obviously, as developers, we'd love to have more to try to make it more feasible. But as it sits right now with 10 units would be two of them affordable housing. Either two in the back would be ideal. Again, I don't know exactly how we would show which ones it was going to be, but that's kind of our goal. Thank you. Yes, ma'am.
 What else? Peyton, I really appreciate your presentation tonight. And I've had the opportunity of visiting the property with you. Yes, sir. And so thank you so much for what you said about your commitment to affordable housing. Thank you. Sir, thank you. Okay. Any other questions? Yes.
 I have one. Sure. So I did have the opportunity to meet with you on the property, and I appreciate you letting me ask a lot of questions, and we really got into some interesting discussions. Sure.
 And 20% affordable housing is a start. However, we are talking about doing something, you know, it's very counter to what Fayetteville would do by lifting a tree preservation. You know, it's not incumbent upon, you know, the council or city staff to make sure that you as a developer, you know, prosper or make
 profit, right? And so one of the discussions that we did have was about making sure that there's a win-win situation because we want local developers to continue to look at projects like this in the future because we have a crisis on our hands for affordable housing.
 And 20% again is a start, but what I really want to understand with you is how open and movable are you on the possibility that more of these units would potentially be in more of a rent controlled environment, potentially tied in with one of our city programs that assist some of our very vulnerable community members.
 So, yeah, so I'm very interested. You know, one thing I'd like to add is, you know, a good deal is where everybody wins in the situation. My father always says so. If I win and you guys don't win, it's not really a very good deal. So the citizens have to win. Fable has to win. We've got to win. Affordable housing has to win. So taking all those into account, you know, we look back at it and as we studied it and went through the process,
 You know, there's some stuff that, DeAndre, we talked about, and it kind of came back to if we could shape a little bit of the zoning or not zoning, sorry, if we could shape a little bit of the layout and the fire code and we could work together, there's a possibility to fit 16 units, which would also get more than what we have today that we're presenting today. But it's definitely something that we're interested in talking about, not just locked arm and not willing to talk about it.
 Well, and I also am new to having to interpret a drawing, you know, placed in front of me, right as we start the conversation. So bear with me. Whenever we were on the property, and I know these specifics can change, there was the talk and conversation about the addition of trees, which is incredibly important for the council to consider what types of trees and quality of trees.
 um is that listed anywhere on your drawing it's not no ma'am so we did not uh obviously throwing this together didn't exactly have time but our goal was i think when we've met most of you guys out there the trees on the right side of the property as you come up that drive right there that's where the majority of the trees are especially the majority of the trees that are in good shape and we were we were trying to by doing what we've done here keep the majority of those i think that we were able to keep 11
 is exactly what we were able to keep. And then as well as speaking with some of you guys on the property, behind this property where Kane's is, we would like to plant a barrier. One of the biggest issues, and I know as we're the property owner, we're responsible for the trash.
 it's all of our city at this point. And the trash is coming everywhere. And I'm not gonna say that it's all blown out of canes, but I would say that a lot of it is. I'd say some of it comes from people that just walk by and dump their trash. I'd say it comes from some people that just throw their trash out. And that's not necessarily the city's problem or this council's problem, but I would like to add that it would help if we could plant a barrier trees in the back back there. Definitely keep the property a lot cleaner and it would add to the trees for sure.
 Peyton, I have some questions and comments. My first question is, have you applied for a bill of assurance as it relates to affordable housing? We have not. Okay. And I wrote some things down and the other
 comment or question. Will this be apartments or will this be homes that individuals can buy? So we are going to keep these as one large development. It would not be individual sales or anything like that. This was one of the goals, and I don't know if you can see very well, if you're looking at the paper, there's a section on the paper that's an L.
 That was another apartment complex that lies right beside the property. That was another goal of being able to reach 16 units. And our engineers think that if we put that on there, we would reach 16 units and be able to keep a lot of the trees up front. So that was another goal that we had by getting more units would also add more to affordable housing for you guys on that side of things. So in another essence, a win win for everybody. But we have not talked to anybody going forward on that at all.
 Okay, and I think we talked about this, but just to make sure, what definition do we have as it relates to affordable housing? So you know, Miss Moore and I kind of talked about that and I had the exact same questions and I know that there's certain city organizations that I believe that we can put this into that fall in this. And I know that the gentleman that owned this property did not take care of the trees.
 He probably came to this council and promised things and it didn't happen. And I apologize for that. I don't know if it really helps. But at the end of the day, that lot is not best use for the city where it is today. And it would definitely be way better used if we could have housing there. So thank you, Peyton. Thank you.
 I have a question for Jonathan. Jonathan, the drawing that we received, is that something that is in fact potentially doable or is this very pie in the sky or can you not answer it and I understand if you can't?
 That's a very good question. Based on what I see and taking only some of the zoning considerations into mind, I think it is feasible given the size of the property and the underlying zoning district appears they could do, I think, like the applicant noted, about 16 units on the property.
 I do have concerns similar to the forestry staff that they would be unable to meet the underlying zoning district's tree preservation requirements. This is assuming granting of the tree preservation vacation. A lot of the canopy does appear to be central to the site and along that western property line and appears to be the area most clear of canopy today is the one to be left clearest in this design if you look along that southern property line.
 But otherwise, it's hard to ascertain whether it would be meeting our parking requirements or detention requirements. It does look like all the necessary elements are there. The applicant has employed an engineer that works frequently in Fayetteville to draw this concept. It would suggest familiarity with our ordinances. Thank you. Thanks. I have a question for Jonathan also.
 This is Sarah over here. My question is this came to, kind of, if you can kind of fill us in on, we got a little bit of the track record of this property from Urban Forester, but how many times did this come to the council for, how many times has this shown up at council or planning commission trying to rework this property?
 I'D HAVE TO LEAN ON THE FORESTERS TO CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG, BUT I BELIEVE IT'S ONLY BEEN TO COUNCIL ONE TIME DESPITE THE MANY YEARS OF CONVERSATIONS ABOUT IT. AND I THINK THAT WAS IN 2019 WHEN IT WAS BROUGHT TO COUNCIL TABLED INDEFINITELY AT THE REQUEST OR FROM THE COUNCIL REQUESTING ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FROM THE APPLICANT WHICH NEVER WAS FORTHCOMING. AND SO IT REMAINED TABLED INDEFINITELY.
 Prior to that, when it went to the Planning Commission in the early 2000s would have been the last or the only time at a public hearing. That's in association with that large scale development for Jade China. Does that sound correct? And it also came before the Council for a lot split. Yep. The lot split came to Council? Yes. Okay. Thank you for that addition. Was that anything else? That was in 2016.
 Okay, because I am thinking that I saw this when I was on planning commission. I know there's been a lot of discussion about this lot. And I think, you know, I'm thinking maybe it's the lots way that I'm thinking of and then the last proposal. So it's been to council a couple of times, I know. It's not just the one time. And...
 You know, I've thought a lot about this over the weekend, you know, when I was looking over my packet and everything. And if you haven't seen this lot, this, you know, those pictures of that lot, it used to have a lot of trees on it. And the previous owner, I think, went in and just, you know, cut a bunch of them down and nobody caught him or something. But I feel like this has been brought forward.
 before, it's not been, you know, for whatever every incarnation it was brought forward as, but it's basically trying to take the tree preservation area off of this land. And I'm not, you know, I've decided I'm not in favor of that because we put this on there and it was on there when people bought the land, they knew it was on there. Easements go with the property. It's very clear
 And it's not like it's not a regular rezoning. It's just an easement that was put on there. And when they're talking about the trees on the side of the property, if you've looked at this property, there are also some sizable oak trees at the very front of the property that will have to be removed to develop the property. There's some of the better trees. The best trees are along one side, but there's also some good ones at the front of the property.
 And I am just not really in favor of taking this tree preservation easement off of this property. I think, and I think when we talk about, you know, I think affordable housing is like waving a little carrot in front of everybody. It sounds good, but what do we give up in order to get two or three apartments that are supposed to be affordable housing? And the replacement properties are
 are not the same. It's not, you know, they're not equated to this because they don't have oak trees on them. They have, you know, willows and scrub, and I've kind of looked at some of the other areas. It's not really the same. And, you know, so I would challenge everybody on council to look at
 at what we're giving away and what, when we say we're going to put an easement on something, that's a big deal to just take it off the table, just so someone can build some apartments. And I know about affordable housing and I understand we have a shortage of homes. I understand that completely.
 And I'm usually not the person that's going to say that I'm not going to support something that's going to allow more housing. But I'm really seriously not in favor of this. Thanks. Any other questions before we take public comment? I do, Mayor. Thank you, Councilperson Bunch, because you do have the history and this property has come up before in public.
 I'm wrestling with this as well because we have competing priorities and I agree that it's really compelling how the treescape in that particular part of Fayetteville has continued to diminish over time. I think we have to really understand too about pockets of population and we do have Lewis Plaza there that are residents that...
 have very limited options about where they live. And so I would really like to ask a couple of questions too, though, to our urban foresters about our policies and what would have to happen with the property to get it back to...
 So, you know, this, this, you know, is currently covered, you know, under being tree preservation. But at this time, you know, the canopy, we've all, you know, looked at the pictures and some of us have gone in person and it's obvious it's been incredibly cleared. There's there aren't that many trees remaining and some of them are very questionable quality. And so what would actually with currently the way things are written and what's agreed upon with this land, what would have to happen for this to get back to the way it should look?
 There is a paragraph in 167.04L under the ones that I read previously, I don't have it in front of me right now, that states if the property owner wants to remove trees, they should work with the urban foresters to do that. That, you know, if trees are naturally growing back up in place and the trees died from natural damage,
 reasons, you know, that that's fine. But if not, that they need to replace trees. So there's a caveat to you know, to replant to reforest to get it back. I mean, what it should you have a ballpark? I mean, it says two trees or is this 200 trees?
 I don't think it's 200 trees. You know, if council denies this, we will be asking with kit. If council denies this, we will be talking with kit on what to do moving forward because we do have strong feelings about the reforestation and degradation that this property has experienced over the last years.
 There are visible stumps, you know, so we can obviously count those. We have aerial photography. We have a previous tree inventory that John did in 2019. We have some information to work from to determine what that number would be. It wouldn't be 200. I don't see it being that high, but 20, 30, I'm not sure. That's just a total guess right now.
 While urban forestry is up at the podium, I have a question about, and I think it would be beneficial for some of the new council members in particular, when we talk about replanting trees, we're talking about taking down a possibly, even if it's a small, some small trees on that lot that were pretty beat up, I would say were 25 years old at least trees.
 When we're talking about replanting a tree, what is the caliber of tree that is required to be replanted or in mediation? And how long does the owner of the property have to maintain that tree to get it started and that sort of thing? Okay.
 They have to plant two inch caliper trees which are not very big. They have to maintain those for three years and most importantly those trees take about 20 years to start providing ecosystem services such as combating the heat island impact which would be enormous in this area. It already is. This is one of the last little pockets of woods that's left there so it would be
 crucial for that and there are other ecosystem services that would be providing but it takes 20 years for those trees to start providing those. And again, they provide a bond or you know in three years we check those trees to make sure that 90% or more are alive. If they are they get their bond or surety back for those trees. But also if it remains a tree preservation easement that should have trees in it,
 If we see at some point in the future that the trees have died again or there are problems, that's when it is our responsibility to reach out to the applicant and work with them to get it reforested. A lot of times our issue is we can't be everywhere all the time in the city, so some of these we just aren't on top of or miss. Luckily, a lot of our citizens are watching out for the trees and call us all the time with their friends.
 issues but I hope that helps answer it. We also haven't had a situation where people have removed trees in a tree preservation easement without getting with us and having discussions with us. This is new so we don't have a policy on it because it never happened. Is there a penalty? Now you know what we've got this we've seen the degradation that's very visible. What penalties or recourses does the
 I mean because obviously the new owner didn't necessarily do the damage. How does that potentially get dealt with? Is it the responsibility of the new owner kit or? Well, we've got great difficulties with proof and so
 This might, if you, if the City Council decided because a tree preservation area has been somewhat denuded of its trees, not taken care of, and even maybe actually had trees cut down, and then comes to the City Council and says, well, we don't have very good trees here, so now let me put affordable housing there. If we fall for that, then we're going to probably endanger many, many tree preservation areas all over town.
 where they could be developed with new housing because then the tree preservation area for some reason that it's very difficult for us to prove no longer has a lot of good trees in it. That those trees somehow just died or fell down or got cut down. So that's one thing that makes me very concerned about this and this is one of the reasons I was opposed to the lot split
 Because when we did the lot split, then we created a lot that was unbuildable. When it was still part of the other restaurant lot, which it was originally, then it was fine because we had a buildable lot there. But when the city council finally approved the lot split, then I was afraid it was going to lead to a situation like this because it's right by a street. So it's a real cheap place to develop a lot.
 and all you got to do is get rid of the tree preservation easement, and then you can put a bunch of houses on it or apartments. And so that is the problem that we partially created by allowing a lot split to occur
 But it still means, I think you still need to look at it very carefully like Sarah Bunch was talking about in this particular case because this has been a problem for the city where we cut the original developer a break by not forcing them to have trees up by the road, allowing them to really clear that out and not maintain any trees up near the front because they gave us all this big tree preservation area in the back.
 And that was good as long as that tree preservation area remained as a safe and secure place for trees. And as you see now, it's under danger. This is the second time that a developer has come forward and said, you know, this is wasted land now. Let me develop this and I'll give you some trees on the outlying parts of the town. And the first time it came back, the city council said,
 know, basically, when they tabled it indefinitely, that one was to kill it if the developer didn't bring back the information the city council wanted, which they did not. So this is kind of a unique situation, and it's been going on for a lot of years, and it's kind of a cautionary tale that maybe in the future you better not give them the first break. Okay.
 where you, you know, allow them not to have trees up by the road if we got more trees in the back because over time, the council changes. Nobody remembers. And so when somebody can bring up a proposal that is attractive in some ways, like promising affordable housing, which I don't know what that means, and we would have to have a very, very strict definition. We'd have to have rent control basically
 And the state law doesn't allow us to impose rent control in Arkansas. That's one of the things we cannot do by regulation. We might be able to do that by contract. I'm still not really sure if we can, but that would be the only way that we could actually really ensure that there would be some rent control. And how long would that last? You can't do it forever. And how would you administer that and check on that?
 That's a very difficult thing to do for the city, just like it is difficult to watch all the tree preservation areas. And so generally, we rely upon the good faith of the property owners. And generally, they've done that and haven't destroyed tree preservation areas.
 So I hope that continues. And I think it will because Fayetteville likes trees. We have many, many trees that are not in tree preservation areas because trees add value and they're necessary. But every now and then we have a controversy or an issue like this coming before the city council. Now it's up for you all to decide what is in the best interest of the city and its citizens. Thank you, Kent. That actually answered a lot of other of my questions. Oh, Sarah, did you have something? No.
 Yeah, I was going to ask, you know, for urban forestry. So the trees are, if they replant trees, they're checked on, you know, three years, right? Three years. But what if they die? What if every tree dies in year four? We don't ask them to go back and plant anymore, right? Or year five or something? Right.
 We can per that Chapter 167 portion that says, you know, that tree preservation easement shall be maintained. If you need to remove trees, you need to work with the urban forester and you need to replant trees as necessary to keep that canopy. But somebody has to catch it. Correct. And the same thing that we had happen with this lot
 before could happen again with the new trees we plant. And I just, I mean, maybe we made a mistake when we split this lot to begin with, but I don't think we should keep making the same, you know, making mistakes over and over again. And, you know, I think we ought to stand by.
 our tree preservation area. And I'd like to remind you, I'm holding this lip balm here. This is two inches around. This is the size of a tree that you're going to say is you're going to cut down a large oak tree. Maybe it's not in the best shape, but you're going to cut down a tree that is 20 years or more old and replace it with a stick. And
 hope that everybody will maintain that tree and love that tree and see that it gets, you know, reaches its full potential and creates the habitat and the, uh, you know, uh, reduces heat and that sort of thing that we want it to, but it's up to us to keep an eye on it and make sure that it does happen. So it's kind of, I'm just, I'm not in favor of this. And I think Kit hit on some really important, important, um,
 and facts about this property and I just would encourage the council to think about if we have pre-preservation in other areas, are we going to just reduce that to just to put some apartments on it? Thank you. That's it.
 I have a question. So Kit, I don't think you answered Sonia's original question about was there a penalty for the pre- so the previous property owner probably cut those trees down or thinned them, most likely. Is there a penalty if somebody caught them? How does that work? Well, if there was a penalty,
 It would be almost impossible to prove the facts that would justify giving the penalty if we haven't seen don't have evidence that they actually cut it down besides the fact that they're old stumps there who do who cut them down maybe it wasn't the owner maybe it was somebody out looking for firewood or something.
 And so even though that might not be plausible, it's not proof beyond a reasonable doubt that the owner did it. So there are some potential penalties, but the enforcement and the proof is extremely difficult in these cases unless we just catch somebody in the act, which is potentially possible. We do have, you know, we look sometimes when somebody is going to do development about whether the owner
 trees have been cut down, whether it's in a tree preservation area or not, and if they're cut down below the limit of the tree preservation
 requirements for that lot, then we can require more planting and stuff. But here it's even worse because it's a tree preservation area where no one's supposed to cut anything down. And so potentially our urban foresters could look back and see that, boy, it was fully forested. Now it's not. And so now we're going to penalize the owner by requiring them to plant more trees than the tree ordinance normally requires, increase the amount. But here they're saying,
 And if you listen to Jonathan, they can't even meet the tree preservation ordinance with their particular design that would be required without this additional penalty. So, yeah, there are some penalties in here. The criminal penalties are almost impossible to enforce. Now these other penalties are not. And so if we could establish
 that the trees were denuded from that area within the last five years, I think it is, then we could put, say they would have to have more trees on there than they would have to if it was just a blank lot.
 That's an increase of how much? What kind of increase is that? You all know? 10% of the land area. Okay, so there would have to be more trees put on it just because the trees were removed, but here we have trees disappearing from a tree preservation area, which is, that is illegal. The difficulty is proof.
 I would like to add that with the proposal as well it would come through I think is a large-scale development which requires a new tree preservation easement as well or a large-scale site improvement so they would still have to provide a new easement. If there are any preserved trees. If there are any trees to preserve.
 one more question for the foresters um thank you all so much for your work and thanks for the visuals because that that was that was really nice um and and this is this is just a general question not necessarily about this specific project but do we have a way to to monitor canopy like are we can we monitor canopy um that's something that where we could potentially have it as evidence for kit
 And I don't know if that could be used as evidence, but if we have images going to the future and we have a monthly canopy report, for example, or a quarterly monthly quarterly canopy report and we see and it's sort of citizen people see that the trees are gone. Here's the picture from this month and now here's the picture from that month. And we have it kind of like how we do complaint based.
 Do we have something like that already in place or would that be a totally new project?
 We do have something like that in place. We have several things. We were monitoring all the development review for how much tree preservation is and we planned to start that back up. We had to tweak some information and data that we were collecting on that. And our GIS department gets an aerial imagery every two years from this one national program. And it kind of gives us an idea of our whole city canopy and where that's at and they've,
 They're very brilliant. So they've figured out formulas and ways to tell us what our canopy percentage is about every two years. We're also in the middle of an urban forestry master plan that's also gonna have some information and data for us.
 Yeah, that's what I was wondering, kind of leading into if we need to shore that up or look at some funding methods so that we can, you know, kind of keep up with the canopy more frequently and use it as visual evidence, then maybe we need to start investing in something like that. And that's just conversation. So that's all I have. Thank you.
 I guess in this situation as a business guy, I'm always one that applauds responsible development. However, I've got on this concern on this particular item, also as a business person, I always try to stay away from precedence and creating precedence. And we've told a developer no once and what's changed to now go back and tell someone else yes.
 I don't think we can include any conversation, quite honestly, with affordable housing, using it as a carrot to
 uh take away the preservation issue because we don't know what affordable housing is we can't i mean sitting here we can't give you a definition of what affordable housing is so how can we hold a developer to create affordable housing to get his tree tree preservation through i don't think that's fair to anybody it's not fair to the citizens of fable it's not fair to developers certainly not fair to staff because who's going to monitor that so i think we've got to look at that and um
 In this situation, I just don't think it's a good thing. Although I'd love to approve it because I think a property owner has the right to develop it as long as it's prudent. And I just, this one's a challenge because, you know, as Sarah said, the city must have screwed up back however many years ago they did the lot split and created a bad situation. So, you know, that's kind of my thoughts.
 Well, shall we take some public comment? Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address and those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first.
 and those participating by zoom will speak after that yes my name is nain gingers 1651 east rockwood trail and i'm not just a member of the public i'm actually one of the partners on this project and i guess i don't think of myself as a developer it's like one of those mean horrible people that come in and cut down everybody's trees i've lived in this town for 50 years
 and I personally like trees and I have them, I live on two acres and have lots of trees up there. I think that Councilman Berna made a mention that this proposal had been turned down once or denied
 I thought it had been tabled, so had it been denied or tabled? Tabled indefinitely. Yeah, sometimes the council, rather than actually voting it down, tables it indefinitely. That's kind of a polite way. Okay, well great. That's just, I'm trying to get... To end it because it... This, I'm not real well versed in this. I'm like, okay, I didn't think it was turned down. I thought that it was tabled. And I know that for, I mean, for a fact that since
 We have owned the property, which really hasn't been that long. We have done nothing to the trees that are there. I do know on my own property, I just had to have a tree taken down because it died and was already falling over, and now there's a stump there. So did I take a tree down on my property trying to build something else there? No. I did it because the tree...
 was kind of falling over and had died, and so I had to remove it. I can't speak, you know, to the former owner or what he's done or what he's promised or, you know, what sort of relationship you've had with him, but for some reason I feel like
 We are getting some of the backlash from prior feelings from his being here. I think that's a little unfair. As I said, I've lived here for 50 years. I'm not going anywhere. I don't think I'll be here the next 50, but hopefully another 20 or 30 anyway. So I understand the issue about wanting to keep trees and
 and urban forestry, I appreciate what they do, but it's like when they present it, it's like, oh yeah, they're trying to give us this, you know, these trees that are no good. Well, I don't know who determines what's a good tree and what's not a good tree. And we're not trying to pull the wool over anyone's eyes and try to, you know, give you apples for oranges. We're just trying to,
 develop a piece of property in an area where housing is still needed and yes if it was going to be more palatable palatable to do something from the standpoint of affordable housing and mr ginger called the federal housing authority
 to ask them what um what affordable housing was so I think that somewhere in this town there is a definition of affordable housing it's not something that I get to to determine or you all have to determine but the housing Authority itself has one and then I think Jonathan did you say that you weren't sure whether we could preserve I mean whether we would have enough
 I think you said, Mr. Williams, you said that there wasn't going to be enough room to even do the canopy or the tree preservation that needed to be done for the project, even without the preservation. But I didn't, is that what you said, or you said you didn't think that? Mary, would you like me to answer? Sure.
 Yes, you have five minutes, so you're running out of time. Go ahead. Okay, certainly. I mean, it's difficult to tell based on the drawing we have here, but the underlying zoning district requires 20% of the canopy on the property to be preserved and based on the layout of what I'm looking at, as was shared, it doesn't appear that that could be accommodated. I wasn't sure if yeah, I wasn't sure where we were. Well, no, I just had some comments to make and I don't really need a whole lot more time. I just wanted to kind of bring that.
 to your attention and thank you for your time thank you good evening again i didn't think it was going to be this late when we got to this one it feels kind of like the last time this came up i would love to take a hard line on the tree preservation on this property also because i've been an advocate for strengthening our tree preservation requirements um and it
 annoys me whenever our rules aren't followed and the public gets screwed. I mean, that's not a good way to do business. The trade that's proposed is not, it's crap trade. It was bad in 2019 when it was proposed.
 The trees are not comparable. They're in an area where they're basically unbuildable anyway, so they don't need to be preserved on paper. They're preserved by the reality of their situation. But this is, I think, Kent said this was a unique situation. The foresters have said that they've never seen this happen on a property before, and so I think,
 we do need to treat this one like it's unique. Because what we have is preservation on paper without the trees in the ground. I'm not sure what value that is to the citizens of Fayetteville. It feels good. There's a certain righteous vindication to hold onto that right on paper and prevent the building.
 But y'all do have to weigh competing and sometimes conflicting priorities. Tree preservation is important. Housing is important. There's got to be a tug of war here and you're going to have to make some decisions on whether the paper preservation is worth more.
 without trees actually on the property than having houses actually on the property would be. Unless there are tools at our disposal to replant the trees, but it sounds like there's a lot of, we work with the property owner, we ask them to. It doesn't sound like there's a whole lot of likelihood that those trees are really going to come back. Certainly not in the next 20 years. Yeah.
 So no, this should not become a precedent. Please avoid it being a precedent. We've done that before. It sounds like there are some loopholes in the tree preservation ordinance that this is bringing to light. We had some trees cut down on Weddington. We discovered some loopholes there and you were real quick to seal those up and make sure that didn't happen again.
 Kits highlighted some of the mistakes. Shouldn't have let them cut trees on the front of the lot and push all of the preservation to the back. Shouldn't have let them do a lot split. Probably shouldn't have let them push all of their tree preservation on a through lot up against another street because then you've got an unbuildable section of a block that we weren't even ever talking about when we were thinking about JD China on MLK.
 These are all things that we can learn from. It's okay to admit that over the course of 20 years on this property, the city might have made some mistakes. And how we react to the mistakes and how we make the best out of the situation going forward, that's what's important more than hanging on to the rights on paper if they're not doing us any real good.
 So, I love that the conversation is happening, that there's, we're weighing housing and different qualities of housing. I don't think that the plan that's on paper tonight is the right one, and I hope that you're not going to take that as it is, but I hope that this conversation continues past tonight and that something, some greater good comes out of this parcel.
 When you talk about affordable housing, you do have to define affordable for who. HUD has guidelines. The public policy rule of thumb is your housing expenses shouldn't exceed 30% of your income. We know what our median incomes are and HUD has classifications of low, moderate, moderate, low, extremely, extremely low income. Pick your group. There's a threshold, 30% of that divided by 12. That's what housing ought to cost a month or less.
 So that those are numbers we can put on paper in an agreement if we need to. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hello, Council. Mayor, my name is Will Ginger for 602 Westcroft Drive. I'm also the third partner in this project and I'm the one with that does most of the numbers. So when to answer Mr. Bernard's question, when it comes to affordable housing, we had gone and contacted the housing authority. They sent us a number basically.
 A one bedroom house can exceed $917 a month and that must include utilities and that's an assumed utility expenditure of $150. So that roughly puts that unit at $750. If it's two bedroom, the number is $1118 assuming a $200 in utilities so that puts that number not to exceed $918 in rent.
 We're able to petition every year for a cost of living adjustment or rent increase. We have to give a 60 day window but that's voted on by the Fayetteville Housing Authority. So for the definition of affordable housing and what we're proposing was the guidelines that Fayetteville Housing Authority provided and is on their website and sent to us and
 We came up with the 20% number because we pretty much lose $100 a month on those two units. And with the rate of interest of where you're having to borrow money nowadays at 7.5% to 8%, we would potentially make it up with the eight other units by renting them out at premiums to students. If we were able to get 16 units, we could feasibly do four units in the
 at that $750 range for a one bedroom and make up for it on our 12 other units. A second thing I want to address is the two lots that we're willing to deed over to the city as however they see fit. One lot is 100% not buildable. The second lot we can definitely build on. It'll be half the lot is
 Basically in this creek side ordinance where you can't build on it, but that doesn't mean we can't put two units in the back of that So there's some truth to that that it's not a hundred percent buildable on but it is definitely Has some buildability that we could do But like I said, we'd like to give those lots away. So there's a
 No way for us or anyone else to come back and ask for those to be vacated unless you sell them off at your leisure because we'll deed them to the city or Parks and Rec, however you guys see fit. No, I just wanted to clear that up. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, Mayor. Okay, then I will bring it back to the council.
 what discussion would you all like to have or what action would you like to take mr mayor um i would first of all like to say we don't think that developers are evil um second of all
 I don't think this proposal, I commend the applicants for inviting counsel out there. Teresa, you only missed the coldest and windiest week short of last week. You were a wise woman to be unavailable. So I commend the applicants. They're not trying to do anything devious. They're not being sneaky. They're being above board. They contacted us. I commend them for doing business that way. They're going to be in business a long time by continuing to operate that way.
 I think the third thing that I would say is that while they're not bad guys, neither are we. Capitalism works this way. They bought a parcel and title revealed that there was a tree preservation easement and that the lot was undevelopable and we have to assume that they got an amazing price for purchasing an undevelopable lot.
 And so that's not a transaction that we enter into. We hope that they're able to work it out in their total portfolio and to absorb that. But they, like all capitalists, took a gamble, took a risk, and it does not obligate us to participate in that. So the last thing that I'll say is that we have two urban foresters,
 If they were able to recite the code numbers and the code, that would not be a sign of mental health. So I'm glad they had to refer to paper and to estimate what they thought the code sections were. Trees are in Fayetteville's DNA. They're an important part of our preservation of our grandchildren, let alone our children. And if for no other reason, all things being equal, I would be siding with our urban foresters
 who work day in and day out to not just protect trees, but they're protecting our future and the DNA of the community of Fayetteville. And trees are a part of our view corridor, they're a part of who we are as a community. And that's a challenging, difficult job and I want to commend them both for taking time to be here with us and helping us tonight.
 So I'm commending everyone and then telling you that it's not something that I can support. Thank you. Thanks, Mike. I have a few comments. I get a lot of calls about people wanting more tree preservation, not less. They want to strengthen the tree preservation ordinance significantly more.
 And so I'm really not interested in undermining that or creating a precedent for that. And I know you all are good people. I appreciate you coming forward and thinking creatively about swapping some other properties for this one. So thank you. Like Mike said, we're not bad people up here either.
 But if you actually broadened that look, that map, if you'd extended it out further, you would have seen that in the last year we've lost seven additional acres of full forest to an apartment complex that's just to the southeast of that area.
 So the amount of tree canopy, and I would say carbon sequestration, because I think that's really what we need to be looking at with climate change. And the tree canopy is just a proxy for that.
 But the amount of carbon sequestration that we are losing is phenomenal because these little saplings, they don't really take carbon up for at least another 20 years. So and usually it takes much longer. So I hope that with some of the new information that's coming out about our climate change. I mean, we just saw it two weeks ago about these really.
 severe cold temperatures. We had warm weather this last week. So we're experiencing that right now. And we need to take a bigger picture and think about, is this planet going to be inhabitable in 30 or 40 years for us? And a city like Fayetteville,
 We're on the cutting edge in Arkansas, but we're not in the U.S. And we need to be pushing forward with more preservation, not less. So thank you. I will not be supporting this measure. Okay. Did we get a motion and a second? This is a resolution. It's a resolution. I move we vote on the resolution.
 Second. You need to either... We need a motion to approve the resolution. It takes five affirming votes to pass it. I need to say I need to move to approve the resolution. Second. All right. That's okay. You can vote no. We have a motion to approve. Any final comments? Well, I have a little history with this piece of property myself.
 I remember back, and Kit can tell you this, and I will be very brief. He remembers that this was set up while he was on the council, this tree preservation area. Isn't that correct, Kit? I thought that was correct, but I've been corrected by the foresters. I guess I was already the city attorney. I was a baby city attorney at the time, and you were on the council. I thought that's the way it worked because I remember us setting this up. Now, we went a few years.
 And there was some sort of lot split, I think, or something else. Because, Teresa, you were there. And, Sarah, you were there. I remember you all being on that tour. And they went in where this tree preservation was and sawed down trees. Now, these folks didn't do that. You did not do that. But the previous owners did. And it created this area where you could build something, sort of, kind of.
 but the stumps were still there. They should have been a little more imaginative, I would think, because it was pretty obvious. We also ran into a similar situation. We had a tree preservation of 20%. Jonathan, you remember that on Weddington, right? So we got left with all the scrub trees on the backside and some of the oldest growth trees in this city was bulldozed down
 and then burnt in the middle of the anybody remember that i sure do and so i took something to the council i said we're never going to have that again so we call actually remember that because he was on the council that passed that he's probably were too now there's also the thing about the city gave their word that that would be a tree preservation and i hold people's word accountable
 I'm accountable for my word. So this was established as a tree canopy that wouldn't be touched, basically. Now, we're talking about tree plantings, but Sarah was right. You're not going to take, and Teresa, you're not going to take two-inch sapwins and replace an oak tree. It's single work. And so the canopy begins to get smaller and smaller and smaller.
 Now, there's nobody in this room wants to see housing more than I do. It's a need. It's a crisis. We have a housing crisis. That's the reality. But you can't break your word. And folks, you can't sell off your tree counter with those old growth trees. I couldn't do it. If this ends up dying, I know I won't support it. I just won't. Because our word, we gave our word years ago.
 And that still means something to me. I know things change, councils change, but I haven't. I remember we gave our word and I intend to keep it if I have to. So with that, I suppose we're ready to vote. Chair, would you please call the roll? Moore? No. Lederker? No. Berna? No. Bunch? No. Turk? No. Hertzberg? No.
 Yes. Harvey? No. Jones? Yes. Okay, the resolution failed. All right. All right, let's go on to number nine. In order to amend subsection B of 157.05 Conditional Use Permit,
 in Chapter 157, Notification and Public Hearings of Unified Development Code to require public notification when the denial of a conditional use permit by the Planning Commission is appealed to the City Council. Jonathan. Oh, written. Good evening, Mayor. Thank you, and good evening, Council. Hold it. This is now an ordinance, so I have to read it. We have to.
 Whereas both city staff and the Planning Commission recommend the adoption of an amendment to require public notification when a city council holds a public hearing on the appeal of a not denied conditional use permit application.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 15705B by enacting Subsection B3 as follows, quote, B3, Appeal of Planning Commission Denial of Conditional Use Permit Request.
 Applicants for a conditional use permit denied by the Planning Commission must give both the written and posted notice of the appeal to the City Council as specified in this section at least 15 days prior to the City Council meeting. Proof of notice shall be provided as required by this chapter.
 So I'm Britton Bostick with Long Range Planning. And so I want to give a bit of a recap on how we got here this evening. So during a September discussion on administrative item to address notification requirements for administrative items and also variances, those go generally to the planning commission and not to the council. The council in reviewing those notification requirements did express an interest in notifications for appeals.
 It does happen that applications that go to the Planning Commission that might be finally decided by the Planning Commission do get appealed, sometimes by the applicant if there's a denial, and then sometimes by our community if there is an approval and they would like for the council to reconsider. Actually, the appeal has to be by one of the council members.
 for the public yes sir absolutely uh and so the council members would have to sign on to that and agree to put it on the agenda and so you don't see a lot of the applications that go to the planning commission but sometimes you do and so that discussion and an interest in notifications for appeals
 Also, staff has noted during our discussions on short-term rentals that we have a lot more conditional use permits than we used to now that conditional use permits are required for Type 2 short-term rentals. And we've seen more appeals for CUPs regarding those as well come to the council when the council chooses to add those to the agenda.
 When our current policy is that if a conditional use permit is denied by the planning commission and application being appealed by the applicant does not require public notification, neighbors would not have the same notice, the sign and the letters that they would get when that goes to the planning commission. And they may or may not be aware that that's coming to the council for another consideration. In 2021, the council addressed this fact.
 for rezonings that get appealed. The Planning Commission does have the opportunity to deny a rezoning request, but that can be requested to be appealed to the council. And so those require signs posted 15 days prior to the meeting and letters sent out to property owners within 200 feet in Fayetteville. We also send those out to residents 15 days prior to the meeting.
 So this would mean the same requirement we have for an appeal that comes to the city council would be applied to a conditional use permit. They are a type of zoning entitlement. They often provide additional uses that may not be allowed by right.
 And so the current ordinance is fairly short, says here's what is required for conditional use permits that go to the city planning commission for notification. This would add a notification if there is an appeal of that denial to the planning commission, and that would really mean that an applicant who is required,
 requesting that appeal would be responsible for meeting those notification requirements. We had another little bit of discussion about process improvements that staff could make, so I wanted to provide you with an update on what we've done administratively. So notification signs have been updated with the following information, trying to make sure that folks know that there may be two steps
 steps for the rezoning piece. Just because we want to make sure that council does do final approval for rezoning, we wanted to make sure that there was notice for those rezoning. That's an update we've made. Then also the planning commission chair has been noting if an application would then go to the city council for the benefit of the members of our community who are attending that planning commission meeting and may have come to hear what the planning commission's decision on an item is.
 So with that, staff and planning commission are both recommending approval. That approval was a 7-0-0 vote from the planning commission in their meeting last month. We have not received any public comment on this item so far. I am happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Okay. Do we have any questions for Britton on this? I just have a comment. I want to thank you all for improving the transparency and communication of this process. So thank you for moving this forward, Britton. Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
 Anything else? Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or a council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who do we have in the chamber that would like to speak to this? Oh, no one? Susan, do you have... No one. No one. No one.
 We're starting to beat the bedtime crowd. Have we lost our audience or what? They're sleepy tard. All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take? Besides going home, that is not an option for you. If there's no further discussion, I'd like to suspend the rules and move this to the second reading. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Hurd? Yes. Hertzberg? Hertzberg? Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. In Ordinance of Amendment Subsection B of Section 15705, Conditional Use Permit, in Chapter 157, Notification of Public Hearings,
 the Unified Development Code to require public notification when the denial of a conditional use permit by the Planning Commission is appealed to the City Council. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Kerr, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Wiedefurth? Yes. Varner? Yes. Dye? Yes. Turf? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 and nornery cement subsection b of section 157.05 conditional use permit in chapter 157 notification and public hearings of the unified development code to require public notification when the denial of a conditional use permit by the planning commission is appealed to the city council is there any final comments from the council no all right karen would you please call her up moore yes weed occur yes verna yes budge
 Yes. Burke? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. Zipping along to number 10.
 An ordinance to rezone that property, described in the zoning petition RZN 22-051, located at 1030 South Hollywood Avenue in Ward 1, for approximately 0.61 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre and P1 institutional to CS community services. Jonathan. Thank you.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4, residential single-family, four units per acre, and P-1, institutional, to CS, community services. In Section 2...
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend its official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, now John. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, this property is in southwest Fayetteville. Excuse me, in Ward 1. It's just south of the intersection of Hollywood and MLK, more specifically south of Fire Station No. 6 and west of the University of Arkansas's Lot No. 99.
 It includes two parcels totaling about two thirds of an acre. Now the northernmost of those two parcels was recently purchased from the city earlier in 2022, and the southern one is developed with a single family home that was built in 1993. The applicant is requesting, oops, excuse me, is requesting that the property be rezoned from RSF4, residential single family four units per acre, and P1 institutional to CS community services.
 When reviewing the request, staff does find it to be compatible with the surrounding area. There's a wide mix of land uses for anyone who's familiar or not familiar with the area. There's multifamily housing scattered throughout the area, along with a range of other residential housing types. Single family across the street duplexes a few lots to the northwest. There's also quite a substantial range of retail and office uses as you get along the MLK corridor as well.
 With that in mind, and the allowances in CS, which permits the full range of residential housing types and most non-residential land uses, again, staff finds the request to be compatible. From a long-range planning perspective, staff similarly found the request to be consistent with our long-range goals. This is designated on our future land use map as an urban center area, our most intense and densely, area of anticipated intense and dense development.
 It has an infill score that, or infill rating that is pretty high on the most standards, including access to transit, water, sewer, a trail runs immediately to the east as well.
 The property, one thing of note on the property is with the request, and it relates back to a couple items ago, this will reduce the tree preservation requirement. RSF4 and P1 both do require 25% canopy, whereas CS requires 15%.
 Getting on to the recommendation, staff does recommend and favor the request. Again, found it to be compatible with surrounding land uses and consistent with our long-range planning goals. The Planning Commission felt similarly and forwarded it to City Council unanimously. There was very limited comment from the Commission and there was no comment so far from the public either. With that, I'm happy to take any questions from the Council and I believe Payne Phillips is online as the applicant for the item, Mayor.
 Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Mr. Phillips, if you're there, it's your turn. Good evening, council. I'm just here to answer any questions you guys might have. Thank you. Okay. What questions does the council have for the staff or the applicant? Have you all had any comment? I have not. Public comment? No public comment. Okay. All right. Well, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber on this topic? No one. Anybody? Yes. Okay. All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 This is an ordinance. What discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 22-51 located at 10 30 south hollywood avenue in ward 1 for approximately 0.61 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre and p1 institutional to cs community services i'm going to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second okay we have a motion second to go to the third to get care okay um
 we have a motion second go to the third and final reading would you please call the right moore yes whittaker yes erna yes bunch yes turk yes harvey yes jones yes
 In your ordinance to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 22-51, located at 1030 South Hollywood Avenue in Ward 1 for approximately 0.61 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre, and P1 institutional to CS community services. Do we have any final comments from the council? Karen, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Fudge? Yes.
 Yes. Ter? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Thank you all. Number 11, an ordinance to approve Vacation 22-026, property located at 4267 West Fiery Lane in Ward 4, to vacate a portion of a general utility easement kit.
 whereas the city council has the authority under aca section 1454-104 to vacate public grounds for portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the city council has determined the following described portion of the general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes now therefore it being ordained by the city council the city of fayetteville arkansas section 1 that the city council the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a general utility easement as described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached to its exhibit A to the planning department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense.
 And two, easements over any existing telephone lines shall remain in place or the applicant must dedicate new easements for use by AT&T. Thank you, Mayor. This is a fairly straightforward request. It's located in Northwest Fayetteville in Ward 4. It's on a property that's developed with a single family home. It's lot 60 of the Lyrely Lane subdivision. The property has the dubious honor of being encumbered almost 50% by general utility easements.
 As a reminder, the council and new council members, general utilities are those that are open to all franchises. And as a result, whenever somebody wants to vacate them, they have to get consent from all the franchises, whether it's a city one, water and sewer, or a private one like AT&T or Sweatco.
 In this instance, the applicant's requesting to take what is a significant encumbrance to their property in the tan orange color you see here and vacate the southernmost portion so that they can add a back porch to their property.
 So far, we've seen no issues with the request. All the utility companies have consented to the proposal. The only exception is the one noted by Mr. Williams. The AT&T did note that they do want to retain any easements for any of their facilities in the area, although they have not identified any to date.
 WITH THAT IN MIND, WE ARE RECOMMENDING THE ITEM BE APPROVED BY COUNCIL. AND AS AN EASEMENT VACATION REQUEST, IT DOES NOT GO TO PLANNING COMMISSION, DOES NOT HAVE A PUBLIC NOTIFICATION ELEMENT TO IT. AND MAYOR AND COUNCIL, THE APPLICANT DID NOTIFY US JUST TODAY THAT THEY
 had some unforeseen circumstances and they're not able to join us tonight. If they felt if they asked that if council was comfortable with the request, that it be approved, but otherwise, please leave it on a reading so that they can attend the future meeting.
 Thank you. So they want to table it or what do they want to do? They don't want it tabled. They feel it is a very straightforward request. But if council has any heartburn about it, they ask that it be left for future consideration. Okay. So what questions does the council have? What do you want to do?
 I'm ready to go on. I mean, this looks straightforward to me. Did me too. You know, I think let's go ahead and vote on it, you know. Let me take some public comment. I know they're raring to go. It's good, Sarah. All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration.
 Don't engage any anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that. Who would like to speak on this topic in the chamber? Yeah, yes, sir. All right. All right. I'll bring it back to the council. What would the council like to do?
 If there's no discussion, I'd like to move this to the second reading. Second. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turch? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 And in order to approve VAC 22-26, we're properly located at 4267 West Lyrely Lane, inward 4, to vacate a portion of the general utility easement. I'd like to suspend the rules and move this to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to move to the third and final reading. Care to please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. Terp? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. In order to approve VAC 22-26, we're properly located at 4267 West Lyra Lane in Ward 4 to vacate a portion of the general utility easement. Any final comments from the council? I care which one you call the roll. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Turner? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, let's move on to number 12. An ordinance to approve vacation 22-025 properly located east of North Stora Avenue in Ward 2 to vacate a portion of the utilities kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes.
 And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of the utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of the utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, a 10-foot wide utility easement requested by AEP Swepco shall be planted as shown and as attached in Exhibit C. Number 2, an 11-foot
 Water sewer easement shall be dedicated as shown in the attached Exhibit D. 3. A 20-foot easement centered on the existing north-south sanitary sewer line along the east property line is dedicated. 4. Any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is about two blocks north of the main University of Arkansas campus in Central Fayetteville, Ward 2. It is one lot southeast of the corner of Cleveland and Storer. The request is currently undeveloped, despite what you see in the aerial here, immediately north of the subject property notation on there. The building that is or was on the property was demolished earlier in 2022, and it is undeveloped as it stands today.
 The request before council is to vacate an approximately 2,200 square feet general utility easement that bisects the property from east to west.
 The as you may have picked up on from the conditions that Mr. Williams noted, this one's a little bit more complex than the last item. There is a city public city sanitary main that runs along the east side of the property, which you can see here in green. So two of those conditions that you see described in the packet are to one is to retain a portion of the existing easement where it's currently overlapping with that sewer main and the other pieces to have easement dedicated.
 over that line to protect it and allow the city to access it and maintain it in perpetuity. The remaining easement is a reflection of the property owner's due diligence in working with the SWEPCO to make sure electricity is provided to a future project. And so that's intended to be dedicated along the store side of the property on the west side. With that in mind, staff has received consent from all franchise utilities. Those are the only conditions of note.
 There is an unusual piece to this project. If you did see it in the applicant's request letter, one of the main reasons they're wanting to vacate this easement is so that they can actually try to preserve more trees on the southern end of the property. They have an agreement, not contractually with the city, but with a nearby religious institution to preserve one or more of the mature trees on the property. And they assert that this will help afford them the ability to do that. Thank you.
 With that said, staff recommends in favor of the vacation request with the conditions Mr. Williams noted, including dedication of that swept co-easement along store, retention of the easement for the sanitary line, and dedication of new easement for the part of the sanitary line not in easement.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And I have Casey Curley as the applicant for this item, but I'm not sure if they're present or not, Mayor. I wasn't able to get a hold of them between the holiday break. So he's not there now? I don't see them online, no, sir. Well, okay.
 Well, then does the council have any questions for the staff? I do. Jonathan, could you go back to the slide where you have the easements overlapping? I just want to make sure I understand what's being vacated. So is it just the orange portion that's the request for the vacation and then the blue and the green still stand?
 That's correct. That portion where the blue and the orange overlap will be retained, so it actually won't be vacated. And then the intent is to dedicate enough to give, as the utility department calls it, coverage so that they can get a backhoe or other vehicles. It's not currently in an easement, which is a primary concern for them. Great. Thank you. Just there's a lot going on there. Yeah, there is. Any other questions? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Okay.
 everybody gets one turn to speak as you know uh they have a five minute duration don't engage anyone to public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone in the chamber that'd like to address us on this issue nope you got anybody no sir all right
 i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what um of y'all what action would you all like to i'm going to suspend the rules and go to the second reading second i think we have motion second to go to the second week karen would you please call the rob more yes leader yes arnold yes bunch
 Yes. Chair? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. In order to approve the AC22-25, the property located east of North Storer Avenue in Ward 2 to vacate a portion of the utility easement. Chair, did you or Mike, anybody, hadn't heard anybody? Okay. Hear from anybody? Okay.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. No, we're going to the third reading. Thank you. Second. Second. Stay in the loop. She's second to third. It'll work. We'll fill in the blanks. Don't worry. We got it. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Edwards, please call the roll. Now I'm forgetting stuff. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Vernon? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 Turke? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. And in order to approve VAC 22-25 for property located east of North Storer Avenue and Ward 2 to vacate a portion of the utility easement. Any final comments from the council? Caravans, please call the roll. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turke? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones?
 An ordinance to approve Vacation 22-0274 property located at 103 North Plainview Avenue, Inward 3 to vacate a portion of a water and sewer easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454.104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of the water and sewer easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of the water and sewer easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed into the offices of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in North Fayetteville in Ward 3. It's between Fire Station 4 further north along Plainview Avenue and Fiesta Square immediately to the south. That light blue you see on the aerial image there is the floodplain associated with an unnamed tributary to Mud Creek where it flows into that further north of the I-540 interchange.
 The property is currently undeveloped. There you can see some remnants of a structure that was either demolished or not completed further east on the property.
 and the request before council today as you can see in the applicant's exhibit here is to vacate a remnant easement on the northwest corner of the site it was dedicated in 1953 for an 18-inch water main that has since been abandoned by the city uh and uh and planning out future intent for the property the applicant wanted to clear that from uh the deed or from encumbering the property
 uh given it's a water and sewer easement only one franchise needed to sign off on it that was our utility department and they did so without proposing any conditions of approval accordingly staff doesn't have any issues and we're recommending it be approved with the single standard condition of approval that any damage or relocation to any facilities will need to be done at the applicant's expense with that i'm available for any questions and tim mcmahon is the applicant for the item thank you okay
 Okay, would the applicant like to speak before the council? Mr. Mayor and members of the council, my name is Tim McMahon. And you're still awake. I'm still awake, sir. Happy to answer any questions that you may have. What questions does council have for the applicant or staff? Everybody good? Thank you. All right. Sir, you haven't heard anything? You're Scott. You haven't heard anything? Okay. Okay.
 All right. Let's take some public comment. Then everybody has one turn to speak. You have five minutes of duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Do we have anybody in the chamber? Okay. Do you have anybody on Zoom? Yes. Okay. I'm going to bring back the council. This is an ordinance. What action would you like to take?
 will we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second you have a motion saying to go to the second week here would you please call the row more yes whittaker yes bernard yes but yes yes harvey yes jones yes and enter an order to approve the ac 22-27 property located at 103 north plainview avenue ward 3 to vacate a portion of the water and sewer easement
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jem? Yes. In order to approve VAC 22-27, we're properly located at 103 North Plainview Avenue, Ward 3, to vacate a portion of the water and sewer easement.
 Any final comments from the council? Yes, I think you were trying to ask me if I'd gotten any, received any comments on this and I was having trouble with my computer at the time. I have not received any or emails or comments or calls about this at all, so. Okay, thanks Sarah. Kara, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch?
 Yes. Nurse? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. All right. And so there's number 14. An ordinance to approve Vacation 22-024 for property located along Razorback Road, Maple Street, Garland Avenue, Cleveland Street, Hill Avenue, Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, and Lieutenant Colonel Leroy Pond Avenue in Wards 1 and 2.
 to vacate portions of street rights of way. Kip. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined the following scribe portions of street rights of way is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portions of street rights-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk along with the map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1,
 EASEMENT SHALL BE DEDICATED FOR ANY EXISTING FACILITIES ASSOCIATED WITH THIS RIDE-AWAY VACATION REQUEST, WITH REVIEW AND COORDINATION BY THE APPLICANT AND THE UTILITY PROVIDER, INCLUDING PROPERLY IDENTIFIED UTILITIES IN THE FIELD BY MEANS OF SURVEYING, POTHOLING, AND COORDINATING WITH REPRESENTATIVES. NUMBER TWO. ADEQUATE ACCOMMODATION FOR PEDESTRIAN ACCESS MUST BE MAINTAINED, WHETHER THROUGH EASEMENT OR AGREEMENT.
 3. The applicant must dedicate right-of-way to the back of curve in any areas where right-of-way does not currently exist. 4. The applicant must dedicate a pedestrian access easement to the existing back of the sidewalk or Master Street plan right-of-way in areas where sidewalk does not currently exist.
 Number five, signal poles and appurtenances must remain in the right of way or an easement be dedicated over the areas where the poles and the appurtenances are located. Number six, drainage easements must be dedicated in areas of existing drainage facilities.
 7. An agreement will need to be developed establishing responsibility for repairs of non-typical features behind the curb due to maintenance, insulation, and repair of any city facilities located within the vacated rights-of-way, including drainage facilities and water sewer lines. The city will not be responsible for maintenance or repair of anything except a standard sidewalk. 8. Any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner-developer's expense.
 number nine all easements and agreements required as a condition of this vacation will shall be reviewed by the city and signed by the mayor and i personally want to thank jonathan for allowing our meeting to end with four straight vacations sadly the most complicated one is left for last um
 I'll jump right in. Right. This property is, I don't have an aerial image to show for you because it's a pretty widespread number of properties as the title suggests to you. So just to highlight exactly where we're going to be looking at for this item, it's broken into two areas for the most part. The first of which you can see here with the arrow surrounds the new arts district south of MLK between Hill to the west and Leroy Pond to the east.
 A little bit more detailed view of that on the survey that the applicant submitted. You can see several areas in light yellow behind the back of sidewalk that are proposed in this request.
 The other section of this proposal is much larger in its extent, but it's largely contiguous. This runs along Razorback Road and Maple Street and Garland as well as Cleveland and the northernmost extent, basically in the northeastern and western extents of the main University of Arkansas campus.
 In total, it includes about six and a half acres of right-of-way along seven public streets. All areas are behind the curb and beyond the paved street. Additionally, this request does include an added nuance that about one and a half acres of right-of-way is proposed to be dedicated to the city and portions of some of those streets that are oddly not within our public right-of-way as it stands today. That brings us to the request itself.
 This, again, is a highlighted view of the portion near campus. The request is to vacate those right-of-ways I was just describing. Again, behind the back of the curb, totaling about six and a half acres to the University of Arkansas, which is the adjoining property owner in all instances, with the express interest of having that property to be able to develop a
 to the design parameters of the university, whether that's landscaping or whether for the legacy intents when it comes to things like the senior walk, having enough linear footage of sidewalk to ensure that future graduates have enough space for their names to be inscribed. This request is long in the making. It was being worked through, especially our engineering and public works department in the university initially.
 It came to the Planning Commission in late 2019 and was ultimately tabled there when some concerns arose, primarily through the city attorney's office, but also about making sure certain details are being worked out.
 which given the complexity, perhaps it's unsurprising that there are a few issues that I want to highlight as a part of this. I think the most important one to recognize is this is really an initial step. A lot of vacations that the council sees are the final step. The council's approving a vacation, they're abandoning a right away and maybe getting an easement back in exchange, something to that effect. Because of the scope of what's proposed and the breadth of the work that's necessary as a part of this project,
 The university needs some level of assurance that the city is willing to part with these rights away before they begin working with all the utilities, all the franchise utilities that draft easements to provide adequate coverage, to work on developing a legal agreement with the city to ensure that we're not on the hook for any excess or over-the-top maintenance.
 And also ensuring that there's adequate pedestrian or assurance of pedestrian access in these areas adjacent to our streets where currently it's assured by it being within city public right away. Staff hopes and aspired to capture these and all the conditions of approval. That's why there are so many of them. If council is to approve or were to approve this vacation, it would set into motion drafting these agreements, which again were subject to the mayor's approval.
 approval and drafting all these easements which are subject to the associated franchise utility fees approvals. Which brings me to an item from agenda session that Council Member Turk brought up that I was unable to answer at the time. And that was a justified concern that whether we're protecting our franchise utilities as a part of this, whether they're a part of the city like our water sewer department or not like Swepco and Ozarks, we have a responsibility to them.
 And we feel that we've captured that with this document that is reflected in all the consent agreements that the applicant had to provide for every single franchise utility going into this. Not only that, but they had to reaffirm those consents. We asked that the applicant go back to all their utilities between the last submittal and this one to confirm that nothing had changed because a lot could within a year.
 Those were all provided, so we've received those consents in all instances, including several conditions of approval, again, which we feel like we've captured in these conditions of approval. And beyond that, we've been discussing this with the Public Works Director since the agenda session. This would effectively be creating a situation for the franchise utilities, like with the city, and any other instance where...
 we would the outside of the right of way where easements are dedicated. If you need additional ground, you need to go acquire those easements. It's it's just standard standard operating procedure when you need to install new infrastructure.
 SO WITH THAT IN MIND, WITHOUT READING ALL THE CONDITIONS AGAIN, STAFF IS RECOMMENDING APPROVAL. I IMAGINE THERE ARE QUITE A FEW QUESTIONS. IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THIS IS ON THE AGENDA FOR A TOWN AND GAL MEETING HERE IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF WEEKS. SO I'M HAPPY TO FIELD THOSE. MR. BROWN, THE PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
 Still here in case you have questions that go beyond my scope of knowledge. And Jay Young is here as the representative for the university as well, if you'd like to hear from him. Thank you. Yes, I would. Yes, we did.
 MR. MAYOR, COUNCIL MEMBERS, APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY. JAY YOUNG WITH DEVELOPMENT CONSULTANTS REPRESENTING UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS. JONATHAN HAS DONE A VERY GOOD JOB OF DESCRIBING SOME OF THE HISTORY OF HOW WE'VE GOTTEN HERE. AND THE EFFORTS AT THE UNIVERSITY AND WE HAVE DONE WITH THE CITY TO GET A DRAFT ORDINANCE IN FRONT OF YOU THAT HAS CONDITIONS THAT ARE INTENDED TO PROTECT THE INTERESTS OF THE CITY, THE PUBLIC, AND THE INDIVIDUAL FRANCHISE UTILITIES.
 This project had started a couple years ago. Mike Johnson and Scott Turley had talked to us about what it would take to help what they referred to as clean up the right of way through the campus.
 Much of this is the old Highway 112 right-of-way. And when the highway widens their roads and they take additional right-of-way, they take right-of-way out to the full extent of any grading that's associated. And it goes well beyond the backs of the sidewalks and is quite extensive. The university had always intended to come back at some point and request that those right-of-ways be vacated and cleaned up.
 When Highway 112 was delisted and transferred to the city, it became an opportunity for the university to work directly with the city of Fayetteville to come to this draft that we currently have in front of you for approval.
 With the coordination we've done with the city engineering department, city planning department, that the university legal team has had with the city legal department, we feel that this is at a good position now for you guys to review and approve. I am very happy to answer any questions if you have any. Thank you.
 Mayor, I'm sorry, I was remiss in excluding a couple pieces of information. As a right-of-way vacation, this did go to the Planning Commission, and so they were able to consider it with the conditions as drafted here, and they did forward it to the council feeling it had addressed the concerns from last year. The second piece is we've received numbers, a large amount of public inquiries on this item, not a single one expressed support or opposition.
 And you all probably saw we did have concerns about this being a big issue and making sure it's adequately notified. So I think something in the range of 10 signs were ultimately posted, which I think is more than we've done for any other item before. So I wanted to make sure that was known. Thank you. Okay. More questions? Yes, Trace. Hi. Just so I live very close to where that sidewalk is going in right there by Reed Hall.
 Yes, ma'am. Okay, so there's a lot of construction going on right now and I'm getting a lot of complaints. And now I see this vacation coming forward and what consideration is the university having in terms of noise and those kinds of things that may affect the citizens that are right there that abut or adjacent to the university?
 I actually am not a part of the project you're talking about. That was a different consulting firm. It's a separate project from this one. So I can't directly answer your question. I would say, you know, in all the years I've worked on the university, facilities management is very good at keeping the contractors
 in good operating procedures and that if there is ever a concern by city or a private citizen, if they would contact FAMA, I'm sure that they would be happy to address your concern and answer your question.
 Okay, I just wanted to put that out there tonight, and I know we'll be talking about it at the town and gown meeting later this month, but that may be an ongoing issue, and hopefully the university will be sensitive to it. So, thank you. Yes, ma'am. Any other questions? My only question would be if the city has any conduit under the land being vacated for fiber optic, or if...
 in our negotiations if we would ensure if the university does install new sidewalk that we would have the right to install the conduit for our own use. Thank you. And that's not a deal breaker on tonight's vote as maybe as much a note to the file for the future.
 I can do my best to answer that. I don't believe there's any component of this agreement that includes adding conduit under what would be vacated. If our current computer or GIS maps are accurate, we do not have any conduit in that area. The nearest is in the Ramble to the east of campus. That's a good question though. I forgot about that. That's a good one.
 Can I go now? No, no, that's not an option for you. Yeah, that's right, because we try to put conduit in for future broadband in our stuff. We want to do affordable broadband, we've got to have everything. That's a good question, Mike. Yeah, we need to look into that. Okay. All right, is there anything else on questions I may ask?
 I assume we're going to leave this somewhere on, I'll get public comment and then we'll leave it somewhere on some reading for two weeks. Have you enough time, Tracy? All right. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member.
 Stay on top. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. I assume we don't have anybody. Unless you'd like to make a return voyage to the podium. Do you have anybody on Zoom? All right.
 Mayor, you know our Public Works Director, Chris Brown, got to shepherd through this work with the university people and has enjoyed our meeting. I wonder if he has any comments about this. I know what Chris is thinking. So do you all want to advance it one more reading? Do you want to?
 Well, I would like to table it, you know, not advance it tonight. I mean, it's been late, and Mike brought up a really good question, I think, that maybe needs to have some further thought on or consideration. You're right. Do you just want to leave it on the first reading and be okay? That would be great with me. We might want to ask the university what their plans are, especially if I hear construction is already underway. You know what the construction time is?
 I don't believe that the construction effort has much to do with this in particular. They're two separate items. The construction is ongoing. That's already, I believe, gone through city review and they're underway working. But as far as this particular item goes, as was stated earlier, we're kind of doing the ordinance first. We're going to be following that up with all of the conditions that need to be met.
 One of those conditions that needs to be met is the maintenance agreement. That maintenance agreement is going to be a comprehensive draft. It's going to discuss what the universities and the city's obligations are for work within the area behind the, within the vacated right of way.
 That area does include what is now senior walks and what's going to be future senior walks, trees, signage, boulders, lights, landscaping, irrigation. There's a lot that the university has in there, which is the main focus of why they're wanting to do this vacation at this time.
 With that, if this were to be advanced through all three readings and approved tonight, it is just the kickoff. We have already prepared the pedestrian easements. Those easements have been submitted to the university and are going through their legal review now to be submitted back to the city. So that can be advanced and we kind of check that condition off.
 We have reached out to the individual franchise utilities and we've discussed with them where their existing utilities are, where their existing easements are, and what they're going to require when we do write their easements for them, what their standards are going to be. So individual franchise utilities will be worked through.
 We do have mapping and we're getting ready to call for meetings with city departments for water, sewer, for transportation and for engineering to review the stormwater, water and sewer and traffic signalization so that we can get those easements drafted to their
 requirements and on this one there's an item number seven which is that maintenance agreement that maintenance agreement is the opportunity before the u of a and the city to outline all of the requirements for the use of the land that is roughly from the back of the sidewalk to the curb line and so in that it will outline
 existing water and sewer, if a line needs to get worked on, if a line needs to be added, if there's a removal of the sidewalk, whose responsibility is it to put back the sidewalk, put back the boulders? What obligation does the city have in general? As Kit had mentioned during the agenda session, you know, it is that the city would typically just put back a standard sidewalk and therefore the university would take that.
 compensation and then they would do the rest themselves. Something in this manner is being drafted up. Facilities management is working with their legal department to put this, the nuts and bolts of this together. It's going to come back and it's going to be reviewed by engineering, by planning and by legal. It's going to go to the mayor for approval and until all conditions of approval are satisfied by all parties.
 the vacation doesn't execute. It doesn't become legal and valid until all nine conditions are approved. So with that, I think you have opportunities for the city staff and the legal department to protect your interests. And I don't think it's detrimental to have this approved on all three readings tonight. And I would ask that it go forward. It's been, it got started over a year ago.
 It got put on hold at Planning Commission when a legal question had come up. It's now been over a year that all of this has been working out and all the discussions and meetings we've had to get up to this point. I don't know that waiting another couple of weeks to come back for another reading
 really helps anything. Yeah, obviously your staff and the university worked on this for a long time and I know that I was part of the hold up when it came here from the Planning Commission, but the City Council has just seen this. This is seven acres of right-of-way vacation, so
 You don't really need it approved tonight, right? As long as they're, you know, I know you'd like to get it approved tonight, but it's really not going to throw your schedule off if they go ahead and delay it and wait for a later meeting. No, that is true. That is true. The end result is still going to be different.
 probably a few months from now when all these conditions have been met, all the documents have been reviewed, commented on, revised, submitted and final approved. So it really doesn't delay the end result. It would just allow this to move forward at this point. So, but I do understand.
 Thank you for that explanation. On the good side for you, if you come back in two weeks, you're probably going to be the first item on unfinished business, or second, so you won't have to stay here until 10, 15. It was only because of Chris that you went last. So if we could, I would like to hold it for a couple of weeks. And thank you. I know it's been a long process. Very good. Thank you. Okay. So we'll just let it sit right here for a couple of weeks. When does the next town and gown...
 January 23rd. Sorry, Jonathan. Jonathan was ready. Good. That should be exciting. Well, that concludes our business tonight. Susan, do you have any announcements? No, sir. No announcements. Any announcements from the council?
 Well, aren't you all glad that you came tonight? Welcome to the fun. Yeah. Welcome to the family. Of course, this was a fast meeting. Yeah. I predicted 11 o'clock. I missed it a little.