I would like to call to order the January 2nd, 2024 City Council meeting. Karen, would you please call the roll? Whedeker? Here. Burnham? Here. Fudge? Here. Kirk? Here. Ertsberg? Here. Stafford? Here. Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Mayor, would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. First order of business we have tonight, we have the Fire and Police Pension and Relief Fund report done by Mayor Jordan. All right. The local pension fund...
 Report. In keeping with statutory requirements, I am presenting this report for 2023 on the local police and fire retirement and relief funds for the City of Federal. Both of these plans were closed by law in 1983 and there was no longer any active working members remaining.
 On August 15, 2023, the City Council voted to consolidate the Local Fire Retirement and Relief Fund with lofty based on a request from the Local Fire Pension Board of Trustees and recommendation of the City Administration. Therefore, this report will focus on the Local Police Retirement and Relief Fund.
 At the end of December 2023, projected expenses from the local police pension fund will be approximately $1.5 million as compared to fund revenues of $1.4 million. This is before adjusting investments to current market value. At this time, there are 38 police retirees and beneficiaries.
 currently receiving payments from this fund. Actuarial evaluations are the responsibility of the State of Arkansas Fire and Police Pension Review Board. The last evaluations completed, whereas of May
 2023 for the year ending December 31st, 2022. Based on those evaluations, the total pension liability of the police local pension fund was $14 million.
 The net pension liabilities for this fund were approximately $8.3 million. In the annual reports issued by the Arkansas Pension Review Board, the police pension fund was not considered actionarily sound pursuant to the established financial test.
 Key valuation indicators were mixed and current assets and income were projected to be enough to pay promised benefits at this time. However, that could change based on future accrual evaluations, which are currently done on a yearly basis. The local and police pension board of trustees did not request consolidation with Lofton
 I will continue to monitor this pension fund in the future and keep you apprised of any new developments necessary. Is there any questions on the report? Am I good? All right. Now, I want to announce we're going to be moving item 24 on the consent. Hang on. We have the monthly finance report from Paul. Go ahead, Paul.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is for November of 2023, so we have one more report coming forward after this. As we discussed at the agenda session, sales tax for this month was up 1.69% compared to last year. Year-to-date basis sales tax is up 5.76%.
 Franchise fees are up roughly 7%, beverage taxes are up roughly 10%, building permits were 12% over budget. Charges for services and reimbursements from 94911 were down a bit at this point in time. Court fees and fines were up and interest income was up.
 The total revenue for the general fund is up about 5.6%. So we should not have any problems covering the salary increases that we brought forward to you and you approved last April. So the general fund, actually, this has been a good year. It started off much stronger than it was.
 than it has been at the end of the year. So things look like they may be leveling off a little bit, as we discussed at the agenda session. When I'm looking at the street fund, the street fund on a year-to-date basis is up about 1%. That's normally driven by the state sales tax
 committed to roads and also motor fuel tax. But again, remember that that was up substantially earlier in this year. So right about now, it's pretty level. It's up 1% on a year-to-date basis. When all revenues looked at for the street fund for the year, at the year-to-date basis, it'll be up about 3%. Parking, parking is down 8% compared to budget.
 Actually, the downtown parking area is up a bit. The Dixon Street area is soft at this point in time.
 The Parks Development Fund, again, that's HMR taxes allocated to the maintenance of parks. That's up on a year-to-date basis of 7% compared to last year, roughly 9% compared to the budget. Now, that's started to level off in the last approximately three months.
 They've been a little down, actually pretty flat at this point in time. Remember, those were up substantially earlier this year.
 When we looked at the water and sewer fund, the water and sewer fund actually on a year-to-date basis is down about 1%. It's really pretty flat. So we're going to be up about 0.5% in total revenue for the water and sewer fund for the year as it closes. Recycling trash collections, down 3% on a year-to-date basis. Remember that the transfer station was down for several months early in the year.
 When I look at the airport, when I'm looking at sales, the actual fuel sales are down 25%. However, when I look at the markup, and that's the markup between what the cost of the fuel is compared to the revenue, it's down about 18% to prior year. But expenditures are down a bit too, so I'm not concerned about that. This point in time, report's still positive. We're seeing stuff.
 slowly being cut back at this point in time. We're going to have to keep an eye on things in the future as we talked about at the agenda session. And with that, I'll be happy to take questions. What questions do we have, Paul, on this report? Anybody good? Thank you.
 All right. Now if you need to go out and get some supper or get a haircut or whatever you need to do I'm about to start the consent agenda, which take me a little while get through tonight We are you From the consent agenda. Yes item 24. I think needs to be removed the consent agenda There have been some item issues about that that we can explain once it gets to be heard right at the consent agenda. I
 i don't think we need to do it no no motion the mayor just moved it like that any of you can we'll add it to here in a little bit everybody good all right well let's go to the consent agenda number one approval of the december 19th 2023 city council meeting minutes number two a resolution to approve an agreement between the city of federal and the city of springdale
 and the Arkansas and Missouri Railroad for the administration of a railroad crossing elimination grant. A resolution to approve Amendment 2 to the Memorandum of Agreement with the Genesis Church of Federal for continuation of the litter abatement program through 2024 in an amount not to exceed $100,000.
 4. A resolution to waive the requirements of former competitive big end to approve a contract for Seven Hills Homeless Center any amount of $119,400 for services to homeless and needy residents in federal in 2024. 5. A resolution to change the assigned fire pension fund number in the 2024 budget to authorize the mayor to
 or the Mayor's designee to loan cash from the General Fund to the Fire Pension Fund for monthly benefit payments and to authorize the Mayor or the Mayor's designee to reimburse the General Fund when the Fire Pension taxes are received. Number six, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and to authorize the purchase of utility locating services from Arkansas One Call System Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $50,000 per year
 all city departments on an as-needed basis through December 31st, 2029. Number seven, a resolution to approve Amendment Number One to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Cleland Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the amount not to exceed $48,000 for additional services associated with the Greenland sewer cost share project.
 8. A resolution to approve a cost-share agreement with the City of Greenland in an amount not to exceed $954,000 for upsizing a portion of a 12-inch sanitary sewer line to 18-inch to approve a project tendency in the amount of $100,000 and to approve budget adjustments. 9. 10.
 resolution to approve amendment number two to the professional engineering services agreement with Hawkins where engineers incorporated in the mount not to exceed two hundred ninety four thousand eight hundred dollars professional services associated with utility relocations along Martin Luther King jr. Boulevard and I 49 highway 62 interchange number 10
 A resolution to award bid number 23-44 an authorized contract with Brothers Construction Incorporated in the amount of $3,963,291 for construction of utility relocation associated with the Interstate 49 and Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard Interchange project to approve project contingency in the amount of $250,000 and to approve budget adjustment.
 11. A resolution to authorize the City Attorney to seek condemnation in possession of certain lands owned by individuals needed for the Highway 16 Utility Relocations Project. 12. A resolution to award Bid No. 24-01 and authorize purchase of pavement marking installation from AF&G LLC in variable amounts and for varying unit prices.
 That's needed through the end of 2024. Number 13, a resolution to award bid number 24-03 and to authorize the purchase of tree planting services from Building Exteriors Incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices needed through the end of 2024.
 14. A resolution to award bid number 24-04 and authorize the purchase of asphalt paving services from Emory, Sapp, & Sons in variable amounts and preparing the unit prices needed through the end of 2024. 15. A resolution to award bid number 24-05 and authorize the purchase of concrete materials from Toon Concrete.
 as primary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2024. Number 16, a resolution to award bid number 24-06 and authorize the purchase of aggregate materials from Green Dream International LLC as primary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices
 and authorized use of other bidders based on price and availability is needed through the end of 2024 number 17 a resolution authorized purchase of asphalt materials used by the transportation division on as needed basis through the end 2024 number 18 a resolution to award bid number 24-08 and authorize the purchase of drainage pipe from northwest arkansas wind water as primary supplier for
 and for varying unit prices and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability through the end of 2024 number 19 a resolution to award bid number 24-09 and authorize the purchase of precast range pipe and structures from sherlock industries of federal and variable amounts and for varying unit prices need through the end 2024. number 20
 a resolution to award bid number 24-10 an authorized purchase precast monster block retaining wall units from the industrial precast incorporated primary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices and to authorize use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2024.
 number 21 a resolution to award bid number 24-11 and to authorize the purchase of high performance coal mix from emory sap and sons incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices need through the end 2024 number 22 a resolution to award bid number
 24-13, and to authorize the purchase of preformed thermoplastic pavement markings from Geveco Markings Incorporated's primary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices, and to authorize other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2024. Number 23, a resolution to award bid number 24-14, and to authorize the purchase of light...
 Lights, fixtures, and poles from Premier Lighting Group in variable amounts and for varying unit price need through the end of 2024. Number 24 has been pulled. Number 25, resolution to award bid number 24-16 and the authorized purchase of delivered screened topsoil from Blue Ribbon.
 side services and the purchase of picked up screen topsoil from Keith Austin Construction Company LLC and variable amounts and for varying unit prices need through the end 2024 number 26 a
 A resolution to award bid number 24-18, the authorized purchase of unscreened topsoil from Blue Ribbon Site Services in variable amounts and as needed through the end of 2024. And number 27, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a Project Safe Neighborhood Grant award in the amount of $2,862 for the police department and to approve budget adjustments.
 i'll entertain a motion except the consent agenda as read i'll make a motion we accept the consent agenda as read second second care would you please call the roll wedeker yes bernard yes yes yes yes yes stafford yes jones yes more yes okay we have uh pulled
 We'll be pulling item 24, and it reads, Resolution to award bid number 24-15, and authorize the purchase of truck hauling services from just E1 Transport LLC in variable amounts and from varying unit price needed through the end of 2024. And it will be replaced with a new resolution
 item 24 I suppose a resolution to award bid number 24-15 the authorized purchase truck hauling services from MDM trucking LLC and variable amounts and varying unit prices need through the end of 2024 that will replace item
 24 with a new item 24 so we need a motion in the second for i guess remove the first one or uh no let's let's discuss this for just a second about why this has to be done all right uh the actual rfp uh for this project ends with bidders shall be qualified to do business and license in accordance with all africa laws of the state and local government
 And it was discovered after the selection of the low bidder was made by the purchasing department, they were the low bidder, the just you and low bidder. However, after that it was discovered that they had not registered with the state. They were not licensed to do business with the state. And so they were notified of that problem back in November.
 Well, we just contacted them again recently, and they still hadn't got it done. We think they're an out-of-state group, but, you know, it's still not very difficult to register with the Secretary of State. You can do it all online, I think, as Councilmember Stafford can tell you, as he's had to do that. And so we can't award a contract to a business that can't do business in Arkansas. Right.
 We need to have them do that, not only for that reason, but also so that if something happened, we'd have somebody to sue. You have to have someone that is willing to accept service of process for them if they don't have a local organization, which evidently they do not.
 And so we then drafted a resolution that would, as the mayor said, would have the second place bidder. The other bidder, who actually is licensed to do business in Arkansas, and is a Washington County business as opposed to an out-of-state business, but most important, they are licensed and able to do business in Arkansas and the other company is not.
 So what I would like you all to do is do an amendment to the second resolution the mayor read to you that I handed out to you. And on the back of what I handed out and highlighted in yellow at the bottom is the requirement that they must be licensed to do business in Arkansas. So they are obviously not a qualified bidder, and therefore we can't award a contract to them.
 okay so we need to place it on the agenda correct no they just it's already on the agenda right now it's just before them for an amendment all right make a motion we amend the resolution to read as authorized MDM is that correct yes
 and remove just you and transport and switch it to MDM as presented by the city attorney. Second. Second. Okay. All right. Any discussion on that? All right. Well, let's take some public comments as we are adding it to the agenda. Everybody gets one turn to speak, and right now you have five-minute duration. Okay.
 We don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic and please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating in Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone that would like to address this that's in the chamber right now? Nope. Anybody on Zoom? No, sir. Okay. So I'll bring it back to the council. I move we approve the resolution. Well, first we need to approve the amendment. I don't think we voted on that, have we? I move we approve the amendment. Okay.
 Okay. Second. We have a motion and second to approve the amendment. I just wanted to stop for a second. Okay. So the motion to amend was made by Council Member Bunch, then seconded by Berna, and we have not taken a vote on that motion yet. That's what needs to be done first. Thank you. All right.
 Carriage please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Now we have a motion to pass the amended resolution in a second I'm sure somewhere. You have that down. Okay let's do the motion again for that. I move we approve the resolution.
 Second. All right. We have a motion and a second to pass the amended resolution. Any final comments on that? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore?
 All right, on unfinished business we have none. Then on new business, number one, a resolution to adopt the rules of order and procedure of the federal, city,
 the federal city council for 2024. kit you have to start off with well our office uh is primarily responsible to make sure we're following state law and according to the attorney general but state law requires us to pass a new rules of order procedure of the city council at the start of each year so what my office did is just said okay we're going to recommend that you just do what is currently uh being your rules of order procedure with no changes
 But then later on, there was a proposed amendment by Councilmember Berna. So the first thing you really need to take up is whether or not you want to amend the rules of order, and if so, how so. And then eventually we'll get either to the current resolution unamended or the amended resolution as the council sees fit.
 Well, let's start off with, Scott, you had some amendments. You want to take the floor here and let's... Yes, a couple were just little cleanup items. One was in Section H2D, the link for public comment was...
 the title was incorrect the link worked but the title was incorrect so just basically clean that up from access fable.org to fayetteville-ar.gov and secondly is the in the public comments section it mentioned that people wishing to uh
 enter into public comment needed to sign in. That's not something that we have been, the rules we've been following, so I felt like it was necessary to or advisable to clean that up and strike that from the from the section. The portion I'd like for you to consider to amend is the amount of time given for public comment. From
 Five minutes to three minutes. If you recall back, I believe it was March when we were having a both an SRO vote. I believe the ARPA fund conversation with New Beginnings
 Councilmember Turk made a recommendation that we proposed an ideal to limit public comment from five minutes to three. At that time, everyone on the council, presently on the council except Councilmember Stafford, voted to approve that. And that worked pretty well. Two weeks later, or three weeks, two weeks later, I proposed changing the rule going
 and it was asked that we bring that forward at the time when we amend our rules. So that's what I'm doing. I think I'm not trying to affect public comment. I think anybody can say what needs to be said in three minutes. We do have the opportunity to amend the time if we need to,
 But I think it keeps people on point, helps move the meeting along. And I don't know if anybody remembers it like I do, but it was, I believe, 1.30 in the morning when we got done with that meeting. And I don't know that anybody can function really well at that time of day, or time in the morning, and make really good decisions.
 i think this could help us move things along just a little bit so that's what i'm proposing okay now kit these are amendments to the rules so these are amendments we're talking about here yeah these are in fact they're found on the additional information there in the in the computer there it talks about mainly the public comments and of course the housekeeping one just changing access fable.org to fable-ar.gov for the title of our web page
 But you do have, as Councilmember Berner told you, three other changes. One, and you probably want to maybe consider one at a time if you want to, or however you all want to do it, you ought to consider what, if anything, you want to do to amend the time limit and whether or not you want a time-in sheet, a sign-in sheet rather. So that's really going to be up to the council for them to decide what they want to do.
 Well, let's open it up for a little discussion. Council Member Jones has his hand raised. Okay, go ahead, DeAndre. Excuse me. Good evening, Mayor and City Council. Can I have a question? Is it possible to allow public comment during this time, or do we normally do that when there is an amendment? Yes. Actually, at this point, we don't have an amendment right on the floor.
 We have a description of what Councilmember Berner has suggested, but it's not been as an amendment with a second yet. So probably, and I don't know how you want to do it, Councilmember Berner, if you want to break it up and do it one at a time or what. And then once we have an amendment on the floor, it's up to the council whether or not they want to allow public comment at that time by unanimous consent or majority vote.
 Thank you, Ted. I'm fine with splitting it up. I think for me, going in the order of cleaning up the language and then doing the sign-up sheet and then talking about the time limit would be most efficient. So I would make a motion that we amend to, number one, clean up the language in the resolution. Second. Why don't we have a motion and a second to clean up the language in the... Just to fix the website. Oh, the webpage. All right. What discussion do we have on that one?
 Okay, if we don't have any discussion, we have a motion and a second, correct? All right. Chair, would you please call the roll? Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 Okay. Now, I guess the sign-in sheet would be next. Yeah, I make a motion that we don't require the sign-up sheet for public comment anymore. Second. I have a motion and a second to end the time sheet signatures signing. What discussion do we have on that one? Senator, do you have? Oh, okay. I'm sorry. No, I'm just checking. All right. Care which police call the roll?
 Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Hurd? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay. Now we have changed the time from five minutes public comment to three. I move we amend from five minutes to three minutes.
 If this gets a second, I guess I just want to see procedurally kind of a point of information kit. If this gets a second and we go to vote, what does it take from council to be able to get public comment on the amendment? Do I just need to make a motion, or what's our current procedure? Once the amendment is on the floor, and I don't think it's been seconded yet, but once it's been seconded and it's on the floor,
 you all were initially were discussing it that nobody wants to discuss it and the councilman wants to hear and they would indicate that they would like to have public comment if no council member objects to the unanimous consent there will be public comment and it's still three minutes that will change if some council member objects to public comment then it will require the majority of the city council so if i vote you know where to have it thank you kate
 second we have them what discussion would we like to have on the well I think the first discussion I have is I think it's important to take public comment when we're going to be discussing changing the length of public comment so I would like us to allow public comment on this issue on this amendment personally I
 i understand i think that anybody should be able to make their point in three minutes um i have heard from some passionate constituents that they feel like maybe they're trying to be silenced i don't see that i think there's other avenues if you have more to say there's email there's personal phone calls um but there is concern out there that people feel that this is some uh
 effort to silence the public. I don't see that. I think three minutes is plenty. I understand that people coming up are professional speakers. A lot of us aren't, and so sometimes it's hard to be succinct. I do wonder, has this, you know, we do have those passionate issues, the SRO issue, some of the other big issues that come up once in a while, a couple times a year. Is the public comment, you know, this is a question for you all because you guys have been here longer than me,
 Has it been an issue on a regular basis of it being too long, of it going on too long, where we feel we need to bring it in? Or is it just an instance in these special cases that maybe people are really passionate about that that's when we feel it's too long? And if that's the case, I mean, personally, we're going to have those issues. And I think we, in those cases, we need to hear out the public.
 So I got kind of just a question for you and those are my comments. May I respond to that? Yeah. One of the reasons I brought this forward was that night when we moved it from five minutes to three, one of the ladies that were speaking made mention of the fact she came prepared to speak for five minutes and we only allowed her three minutes. So I felt like at that point.
 we need to be consistent. If we are going to do five minutes, do five minutes. If we're going to do three, so the public can come prepared. So that's the reason I brought it forward at that time and, again, bring it forward for consistency's sake. If I remember correctly, it had gone on a while, and so I said we need to...
 maybe get this more manageable. I mean we were getting to the midnight hour by the time we had, we might have been earlier than that, I'd lost track of time by that time. So we had put everybody, let's wind it up at three minutes apiece. And so it still took us till, however long it took us, Sarah.
 Well, I appreciate you bringing this forward for us to talk about. And I've really tried to think about it since you brought it forward to us. I know we had kind of a shortened timeframe, so I've heard from a few folks, but it's kind of hard this time of year. You know, there's a lot going on.
 But what I guess I really reflect on is I kind of center back to, like, what are our Fayetteville ideals. And ultimately, oftentimes, we are a little different than what others are doing. I look at Washington County. They have a three-minute public comment period. In Fayetteville, it kind of makes us unique that we have five minutes. You know, sometimes we do get into very technical things that folks are bringing forward, different information, you know, scientific-type research.
 And so I think about ongoing what the efficiency is on those times where we're gonna have to expand the time for those instances versus those longer meetings. So for me, as I wrestled kind of back and forth with it, I really thought that keeping it at five is our standard, again, setting the standard that Fayetteville is different than others, and that we do wanna hear from the public.
 and making those times where we do get into a deeper discussion to, you know, we always have the avenue that we can shorten it. So that's kind of where I settled. And I also, I think you should always acknowledge when you do something that maybe you're –
 regretful of or you've made a mistake. And so the other night I actually did vote to limit public comment on an item, a council session ago and I think we do need to hear from the public and so I erred on that and so I want to make sure that when I have the opportunity that I'm giving the public as much leeway as possible to be able to have the avenues at their disposal. I have a question and you know maybe
 Bob might know the answer to this, but the last time I was, I haven't been to the quorum court in a long time, but the last time I was there, they didn't allow public comment for each item. Is that correct? They do now? Yeah. Because they gave everybody, everybody just bum-rushed the microphone, and it was like, it's on, you know. Yeah, and then they have a three-limit time for public comment, and then they have a five-minute time
 Even as a court member as a JP, you only have five minutes. They don't enforce it very much, but you technically have five minutes and you can speak twice, I think. Okay, you know, on this issue,
 I'm not, I mean we always have the option of shortening the time at the meeting or lengthening the time. We can go either way. We don't just go one way on that. We can go either direction on that. And I honestly think that people, I mean I think that there is the opportunity there. They can come in and speak in five minutes or three minutes.
 They can also email, they can call us directly, they can text us, they can contact the clerk's office and it sends out the notification to everybody. So I think we have plenty of avenues there. I'm not super invested in whether it's three minutes or five minutes because I think we're very generous with our time and letting people speak. Although I have seen people that start off and they're very nervous and it takes them a while to get going.
 But the flip side of that is when we have, and I'm just going to say this, is that sometimes we have people that come up and they say the same thing over and over and over and over again. And I don't really feel like three minutes or five minutes of that is I'm really getting anything right.
 new out of it. And I may be the only person on this council that feels that way. And if I am, I will own that. But I always try to listen to everyone and, you know, ask questions and be receptive. And I think all the council members do. So I'm not
 I'm just kind of like we could do three minutes, we could do five. We can always change it at the meeting. So I'm not super invested in either way on that. But I do see kind of possibly a need to narrow it down on certain meetings. Thank you. Council Member Jones has his hand raised. Go ahead. Yes, I too totally understand and see the need
 Being on the council for the past three years, it's hard to make a decision when it's late. And so sometimes meetings can be drawn out and we have a lot of passionate citizens. However, I just I want to say that I feel as if that giving I just don't want to ever run the risk.
 of limiting the public and we do have various avenues and again I've communicated this with citizens texting email and showing up but again there are those individuals who may not be able to do that so giving them those five minutes I think that that's very valuable for them so I'm
 And I would also like to hear from the public again, because I think that since this is a public issue as it relates to speaking out, I hope that members of the public are here tonight so we can hear and digest what they have to say. But I do see both sides, but again, I just don't want to run the risk of ever limiting
 input from our citizens. Thank you, Mayor. I just have one comment. I think that it would actually encourage more people to come and comment if they didn't have to wait as long. So I would be in favor of shortening the time frame just for that reason. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, you know
 There's nothing moral about this discussion. There's not a single right or a single wrong. I work for communities where three minutes had been the standard for 100 years.
 There's nothing superior about five, there's nothing superior about three. I do like the idea of people being more focused in their comments as a courtesy to their fellow citizens. And at the same time, I realize that we are probably the biggest offenders on people speaking perhaps too long or repetitively. And this makes us mindful of our need to be courteous to people in the audience as well.
 I believe that it's not limiting people's ability to speak to us to go from five to three. Limiting their speech would be to eliminate public comment at all.
 I have no problem in going from five to three minutes, and I don't view it as any way limiting the public's ability to have input to us. We all value them. We all hear from the public, and there's nothing wrong with people being a bit more focused. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I think the item on the floor right here before us now is whether to allow the public to comment on this item. So maybe we could refocus on whether we want them, or we're going to grant that allowance on this item or not.
 So I would be in favor of allowing them, since we're going to change or potentially change the length of their comment period. I'll second. I think that sounds fair. Well, if you all are unanimously agreed, we don't even have to. Unless there's an objection, then that will happen. I would comment that the comments by the public should be only on this amendment, which is limiting it from five minutes to three minutes, not any other potential amendment.
 OK, it seems like everybody seems to be in agreement with that, unless you don't. And then you need to say something, because I'm about to take some public comment. All right, everybody has one turn speaking. Right now, you have five minutes. Mayor, this is an amendment that you have three minutes.
 Oh. Oh. If it's an amendment to a resolution, it's three minutes. So I can't give them the five minutes to talk about the three minutes? Well, once this comes up for a final decision, then they have another public comment whether or not to pass the resolution. And that would be a five minute time. Well, how much time do I give them if they're going to? Three minutes for the amendment. All right. Well, that's all right. I got this.
 Everybody gets three minutes duration to speak. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Very good. We've already got the old clock set up. All right. Who would like to address us that's in the chamber?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. I didn't realize that this was going to be on the agenda until the last minute because it's listed as rules and procedures, not as shortened public comment. So I suspect a lot of folks would not know that they needed to come talk about this. Shortening meetings is a great goal. If you want shortened meetings, though, this is not the way to do it. I've shared with you talk time numbers in the past.
 I won't subject you to those again tonight. I do hope that you will keep the public comment time at five minutes. A prepared speaker absolutely should be able to get their message across in three minutes. I acknowledge that frequently I don't because I'm trying to cover way too much ground when I get up here and that's a completely different oratory failure than lack of preparedness.
 Personally, I could accept being given a three-minute limit because of that. I should be better at this now. In fact, Mayor, if you want to cut me to three minutes anytime you want, I'll take it. I'll take it. But I don't think that that's in the spirit of public engagement to tell a first-timer that comes to City Hall with an issue that's important to them that they should go practice more before they come up here to be heard by their elected government.
 If they were able to get up and not be intimidated by the fancy room and all the confusing rules and procedures that we have and just conversationally say what they want to say, that would be one thing. That would be fantastic. But the reality is that we create a lot of pomp and circumstance here, and we use these confusing procedures that make a lot of people feel like they have to stand up and give a formal presentation. I mean, here I am even reading off my screen so I can hit the time limit today.
 And then once they're here we record them and we post that video on the internet for all eternity so that they can watch themselves stumble and stutter through it. And that's terrifying. A lot of folks just aren't comfortable public speakers. They don't want to come stand up here when they find the courage or the overwhelming need to do that. Don't rush and stress them more. I don't think you get better public comment that way. You'll certainly get less.
 I'll try harder to say less when I'm up here making my comments if you're serious about shortening your meetings y'all can do the same if you Anyway, I hope you vote no on the amendment and yes on the rules and give the public the grace that is heard from the government Thank you. Thank you. We also like to press in the chamber Mayor I got a message from a constituent that says they registered to be I think a
 If media services can check the invite request, they said they requested to be at the meeting at 2 p.m. and they never got their invite. I don't have any idea. I don't run that. Susan, what do you have? We got a request at 6.07. And you just let them in? And you just let them in. So they're in. Okay. And they...
 not yet have any hands raised if we're on to zoom I don't know if that's the same are you they said that they tried it to the person that contacted me so they tried it 2 p.m. media services didn't have anybody and currently you just let in who did you just let in well
 Well that's not, that's my wife. There is nobody else waiting to be let in. You know that woman? She knows that woman. So at any rate, there's nobody else, and there's nobody on Zoom with their hand raised.
 And Mayor, if I might, we talked about this in your office just a few moments ago. When it comes to when people get let in to be able to come in, after the item has, when the Mayor has closed the item for public comment. No, I mean they just registered to attend the meeting or I don't know how that works, but you have to fill out a form to, and you're supposed to get an invite. I guess they never got their invite. I don't have any idea, Bob. I can help you with that. I'm sorry, Bob. I'm sorry.
 So we don't have anybody on Zoom with their hand raised. So we don't have anybody on Zoom with their hand raised. Okay. Well, then I'm going to bring it back to the council. And what discussion would you all like to have more? Mayor, I'd like to make a few comments. Sure. Sure.
 So, you know, I've been up here, I can't believe it's been five years now. It's been an incredible experience, and I really value and appreciate the public's comments, even when it's at 1 o'clock in the morning. But I think that if we tried three minutes this year,
 and see how that worked out. If we really are, if the public is really saying, hey, I didn't have enough time to get my message across, I'm too nervous, this is too intimidating. You know, you all did not grant me extra time when I was only halfway through my presentation.
 then maybe we could revisit this. But I'd like to try the three-minute. I would be in support of that right now, trying the three-minute public presentation that will give the public an idea of what to shoot for if they prepare for three minutes rather than five minutes. And we could just see how it goes. But I would be very open into amending that if it doesn't work out well. And Council Member Jones has his hand raised, Mayor. Go ahead, DeAndre.
 I just have a question, and please help me remember. When we've had items with a lot of discussion, have we ever told the public, due to having so many people speak, we're going to limit the time to three opposed to five?
 Yes, it's occurred. It occurred as Councilmember Berner said just recently, but the first time that I remember that we ever limited public comment was when we were discussing the Arkansas Civil Rights Act and the Fayetteville Protection of Civil Rights Act and Sarah, Munch was there. I think were you in there or I guess it was only the mayor. The mayor and me. Now you missed a wonderful meeting, let me tell you.
 Yeah, when we started into discussing finally and getting close to where it would be a vote, so it was a discussion on the final vote, we had people lined out all the way outside, hundreds of people. And after the first three speakers took an hour, I mentioned to the mayor that it's unfair to the people that want to address us to be filibustered out.
 And so I thought that we needed to set a time limit at that point in time. I was thinking five minutes, but the city council said three. And so they passed a time limit of three minutes at that point in time. And even so, that meeting lasted to after 4 a.m. 4.30. Yeah, if we had not. We started at 5.30 and we were done at 4.30.
 So one thing you need to think about is not only the speakers that want to speak, but who wants to speak afterwards? Who's waiting to speak? And if it's a very emotional issue, you're probably going to get a lot of people here, and they shouldn't have to wait until midnight to talk.
 And so I think that's one thing you need to think about in this three-minute rule. If it gets to be too short, then certainly you can look at it again. And the only other item I would say is that I've not seen the city council member refuse to give a speaker more time when they've asked for it. So I'm not quite through. I have more to say. Every time the city council said, okay, we'll give you another minute. We'll give you another two minutes. In fact, usually you ask, how much time do you want?
 And the city council has been very receptive. So I think that that should ease people's minds, that this is not trying to suppress speech. It's taking everybody's interests at heart, including people that are waiting to speak. But obviously, it's your decision. Well, we started at 10 o'clock that night. And it went to 4.30 at 3 minutes.
 here. Mr. Mayor, if I remember correctly, we also take comment, we also take public comment from people who are not citizens of Fayetteville, and that issue in particular, there were a lot of people, you know, commenting that we're not actual citizens, but we hear them anyway. Well, that's really the Fayetteville way. We're willing to listen to anybody, give them a chance, and
 to speak. And at that time we didn't have time limits. One gentleman took 40 minutes. He really did. Mayor, was that the first meeting I was at back in 2014, 15? Yeah, it was the first meeting.
 And I will say, I came here, I was not on council, but I came here to speak to an item that was before that and got here two and a half hours early and could not get in the building. So my voice was not heard that night.
 I think I'm with it you know what Sarah expressed earlier when you're talking about this three minutes five minutes I think like Kit said and others have said we're always very reasonable about giving people more time when they need it there's multiple channels of people aren't comfortable emails phone calls texting so I I really don't have a horse in this game and I understand both sides
 Three minutes is plenty. If people need more, they say, I need more time. And as long as we're all willing to grant that, and I think we always are, this seems quite reasonable to me. OK. Well, I'm fixing to get a vote here as soon as we get done. Do we have any time for ? Have anyone? I'm sorry, Mr. Mayor. Did we have anybody online? OK. Oh, we already checked. We already done that. Check again. That's OK.
 If you just turn that light on, I'll get to you eventually. All right. Is there any other final discussion on three, from five minutes to three minutes? All right. Everybody got that? Okay. Care which police call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Dirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? No. Moore? No. No.
 So the amended the amendment passed but now we have the amended resolution that was handed out And well, it's discussed and it's also in your in your agenda session here and then gender packet under I guess additional Information so you could open it up there and you can see exactly what it says. It does incorporate all the changes that are
 all the amendments that have been proposed by council member vernon okay but now the council can put other amendments here if they want to there can be a further amendment if if if the council member makes it y'all won't do anything else
 I just have a clarifying point with the city attorney in the language. I looked through the initial procedures and so just want to clarify now that we're changing to three minutes. What does the vote have to be or if we want to give additional time, what would be the procedure to increase the amount of public comment time based on these procedures? It is the same as allowing public comment for an amendment. It's either by unanimous consent, which is normally what happens.
 Or if someone doesn't want to give more time, it has to be a majority vote. And usually if somebody sits at the microphone and they'll say, I need more time, I'll say, does the council wish to give them more time? And somebody's going to say another minute or two minutes. We do this all the time. It's not like we don't give them more time if they want more time. They're not bound to give time, but I don't remember a single vote on that. It's always been unanimous consent up to this time. It doesn't have to be that way.
 But that's what the city council's in the past, and this city council has done. Well, does anybody got anything else? No, you don't want to make any other changes. We're all solid. All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? We need a motion and a second to approve the resolution. I move we approve the resolution. Second.
 And this is to pass the amended resolution? Yes. So we get public comment on that, Mayor. All right. And this time it's five minutes. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Now, everybody keep in mind, we have...
 passed all the amendments, but this is on the amended resolution. All right, who would like to address this in the chamber? All right, Susan, who do you have on Zoom? No one. Okay, well so much for that. Did we get a motion and a second to pass? All right, any final comments from the council?
 Care what you please call them, Rob? Bledeker? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Funch? Yes. Thur? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. All right. I'm scratching out my five-minute thing. All right. Let's go on to number two.
 An ordinance to rezone that property, inscribe in the rezoning petition 2023-033 for approximately 3.23 acres located north of 3420 West Mount Comfort Road in Ward 4 from RA, Residential Agricultural, to CS Community Services. Kip? Be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to CS, Community Services. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Jonathan. Thank you mayor. Good evening council Jonathan Kerth with the development services department The property in consideration tonight is in Northwest Fayetteville. It's in Ward 4 It is about two or three point two three acres on the west side of Salem Road One lot north of Mount Comfort Road just north of the Goddard school if you're familiar with that childcare building located on the northwest corner of Salem and Mount Comfort and
 As you can see in the aerial here, the property is undeveloped. It's outside of any designated floodplain, streamside protection zone, or the hillside hilltop overlay district. It does have direct access to public water, and it is in close proximity to sanitary sewer to the north and south, but I'll touch on that in a little bit more detail here in a moment.
 Currently a city project is underway along the property's frontage. If you happen to visit it this week or recently, you notice that there is quite a bit of work going there. This is part of the city's 2022-2023 sidewalk project, and that's to close a 500-foot gap of sidewalk curb and gutter and stormwater between Mount Comfort Road and Clearwood Drive to the north. But as with the last item, I'll touch on that more in a little bit as well.
 That brings us to the request before council tonight, which is to rezone the property, again, about 3.23 acres, from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. When evaluating the request for land use compatibility, planning staff does find it to be so. The area is a mix of uses, as some of you may or may not know. To the north is a platted subdivision. To the east are larger lot single family homes. To the west is undeveloped.
 largely agricultural property but along Mount Comfort Road there's a wide variety of uses ranging from single-family homes to a church further south the child care I noted before a gas station to the southwest ultimately the CS zoning district which allows a wide variety of uses including everything from single-family to multifamily and medium-scale non-residential uses is something that planning staff finds will be compatible with the area at large
 Considering the request from a long-range plan standpoint, we do find it to be complementary and consistent with those adopted plans. This property is designated in our future land use map as a city neighborhood area. That designation envisions a wide variety of uses from single family to multi-family and having complementary non-residential uses near residential uses to serve them better.
 This is part and parcel and staff size what the CS zoning district does, allowing all the uses that I noted under the previous slide. Looking at it from our growth concept map through that lens, this property is within a Tier 2 center area. Similarly, it has several infill elements that contribute to it being a possibly appropriate infill site, including fairly good fire response from the station on Ruple to the south,
 The aforementioned access to water and sewer, nearby parks and trail, a public school to the northwest, and of course that future land use map designation I noted.
 Some other items worth noting. This will have an effect on the required tree canopy for the property. As always, our residential agricultural zoning district has the highest tree canopy requirement in the city. Rezoning it to almost any other zoning district will naturally reduce it, in this case from 25% to 20%. As I noted, this is a largely agricultural property as it is today. Perhaps unsurprisingly, if you saw it as well, it's largely clear as well. There's not a significant amount of canopy on the site.
 Moving on to infrastructure questions that came up at agenda session, it sounded like they most specifically pertained to the sanitary sewer access and sidewalk in the area. You can see the locations here. I called those out. There is an accessible public sanitary sewer line to the north, closer to Clearwood, and to the south along Mount Comfort Road.
 Any development is likely required accordingly to extend that sewer line. I'm not sure how familiar the Council is with what that would look like if the city was to have a role with it. Those on the Water and Sewer Committee are likely the most familiar, but ultimately it's something the Council has a say in.
 But as a brief primary, what that looks like either before or during development review during staff's evaluation of a project, we have the opportunity to review instances where water or sewer lines are being extended to see if they would serve a wider public benefit. Can they increase the population in an area? Can they upsize a line that needs to be upsized?
 Can they create a loop that would create a more secure water or sewer system in an area? And if those qualifications are met, the developer can be charged with seeking estimates from contractors to bring forward to the Water and Sewer Committee. After those are evaluated, they ultimately come back to Council. But either way you cut it, it's something that typically comes after a rezoning discussion when there's a much higher degree of development detail available to consider.
 That brings us to the sidewalk. As I noted, this section is part of the 2022-2023 sidewalk program. This 500-foot gap will close a length of 6,000 feet of sidewalk. It's the only missing gap if you've been along Salem. It's kind of remarkable in that regard and why it rose to the top among the priorities of sidewalk construction in this area. Ultimately, however, as it relates to this rezoning,
 depending on council's action will help dictate the level of potential coordination that staff can have with a development coming in behind it or concurrently with it again if you visited the site this week or last week you probably noticed that we are very close to actually pouring concrete and actually having the sidewalk forms put in and so as a piece of that it could be if.
 The Council takes action tonight that can allow a more immediate level of coordination where the project could be put on pause and allow coordination with the potential developer to identify where a curb cut may need to go. Things like that that can potentially reduce the potential for having to remove concrete to accommodate anything in that area.
 Conversely, we have had several projects in the City that have developed immediately after a public improvement project, and we have been able to retroactively require a fee-in-loop payment to accommodate that. So I don't want the Council to feel that there's necessarily a pressure to take action tonight solely for the reason of ensuring that the sidewalk project is completed in the most expeditious and fiscally responsible manner possible.
 but that said hopefully that addresses those two concerns i think the main other item i wanted to touch on for the council was there has been public comment on this item leading up to the planning commission there were concerns expressed by residents of the east of this property in opposition the the fear is that development of this property would result in additional traffic issues in particular but there was not any public comment at the planning commission meeting itself
 with all that said staff is recommending approval of the request the planning commission forwarded the city council unanimously with no commission or comment and i'm available to take any questions and mayor ellen hillis is the applicant for the item but i did not i have the opportunity to speak directly with them before the meeting so i'm not sure if they were are attending or not and that's all i have thank you okay is the applicant here by zoom or
 In the chamber? Not on Zoom, Mayor. Do what? Not on Zoom. I'm a little concerned about doing something where the applicant is not here to speak for them. Do what? Oh, are you the applicant? Yeah, I'm on. Yeah, why don't you come up and speak here? I'm sitting here. I'll take one.
 I want to stay close to the door. Oh. My name's Darrell Weiss, and I'm the owner of the property. The Goddard School is the one that filled the rezoning out because they're wanting to purchase the south half to expand their school. And I own the north half. I still own it, but I have no plans for it. Okay.
 Okay. That's really about all I can tell you unless you've got something you want to ask me. No, I just hated to pass something with you not being here, but you're here. Yeah, I'm here. But you're here. Yeah, I'm here. Good. I'm glad you're here. All right. Thank you all. Hope you have a good time.
 All right. What questions do we have? Yes, Tracy. Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, I have a few questions for you, Jonathan. Could you put the slides back up? Just there's – I have three or four for you. So the one that shows the – how it's zoned now –
 If you could go back maybe to your first, this one right here. So just to clarify, it seems like there's a gap between the proposed zoning and what's already been rezoned to the south. Is that like a utility or easement or something right away?
 It is not an easement or right of way. That is the location of the detention pond for Goddard School and I believe a shared driveway as well. Maybe Ariel can pick it up a little bit better. You see where I'm indicating here? Here's the detention pond for Goddard School and here's a shared driveway they installed with the intent of having both these properties access Salem from that location.
 So that's kind of interesting. So it just seems like it's kind of no man's land right there. Can the Goddard School, if they expand, use that detention pond as well?
 They could. I don't I'm not familiar enough with its design to know whether it was master plan for additional capacity. Detention and retention ponds can certainly be redesigned and expanded. The zoning would not impact that you can you can build those ponds in any zoning district necessarily and serve a use not in the same zoning district.
 I think the biggest concern is if they wanted to use that for parking. We do have some development codes that don't allow parking for commercial uses and residential zoning districts, but I've not seen any development plans that suggest they're moving that pond or the driveway today.
 Okay, next question building height. Is that the same RSF 4 versus CS now RSF 4 allows three stories CS allows five. Okay, so there could be a mismatch between the existing RSF 4 neighborhood further to the north in terms of building height Okay
 Then I think some of the concerns that I have are that, is that, you know, I've seen in the past it has happened infrequently where we've had to tear out and rebuild something because something new came in or another project. And I certainly would hope that if we approve this tonight that we don't have to redo the sidewalk, that there is a time limit where
 all the construction that would be necessary would be able to be done without impacting all the work that's already been done and certainly if are moving forward Could you kind of address that? I mean you you sort of did and and I
 But just maybe a little bit more. That really can't be part of a rezoning to try to put limits or requirements on them to do a building or something. This is just a zoning decision here so it's really not a development decision and we can't. Once you get it rezoned and that's it, it doesn't lose its zoning because somebody builds a building later rather than sooner. So that's just really not a proper concern for us to consider. Okay. Thank you, Kit.
 Thank you very much for that. That explains a whole lot of other things. And then you also mentioned this retroactive fee-in-lieu payment. So how would that work exactly?
 That occurs during development review. If a project comes in during construction of something like this, or if it's within an area that has an assessment area established around it for a particular public project, the city has the ability, the codified ability to require a development to pay a portion of that project that is determined by its proportional impact to that system.
 I think the most recent example I can think of was a contractor built their facility in
 i think it was on 15th street in association with the rdot improvements that were being made and all those those improvements i believe either wrapped up or were wrapping up an assessment was made paying for some of the the area along their frontage not necessarily other portions of the work done on 15th street so it depends on the project again we're getting into development details which make it very hard to to be able to speak to that to any degree of specificity can you
 Okay, thank you. That answers a lot for me. I appreciate it. So Jonathan, I have a question for you. Can you bring up the slide with the sewer lines? So right now everything between those two points, those properties on the east, are those on septic or currently? I don't know for certain but that's likely. Okay, well we'd hope that if they're not on sewer they're on septic, right? Okay, and if that line was put in,
 Would those people, could they stay on septic or would they be required to tie into the sewer line? They would not be required to tie in. There's certainly a benefit to doing that to both the city and those property owners. I'm not aware of, at one point there was a state program that sought to, or maybe it was a county program that sought to get people off septic on the public sanitary, but I'm not sure if that's still active. Typically, we see those projects done as those septic systems reach their end of life. Okay. Okay.
 cool thank you anything else okay let's take some public comment mayor as you well know resolutions are effective immediately as opposed to ordinances so for the rest of this meeting the three minute time limit is in effect i got it i've already scratched out my fire all right everybody has one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us that's in the chamber? Thank you, Mayor. This is actually the one I came to talk about tonight. This is less than half a mile from my house down Mount Comfort.
 The Goddard School has been great neighbors. This will contribute to expanding child care access, which is an issue y'all have experience with and will further that goal. The zoning is consistent with the development trajectory in the area including the immediately adjacent parcels to the south. We're already moving this direction on Mount Comfort.
 It's on the corner of a major four lane arterial, that's Mount Comfort. We've already invested in the infrastructure to handle traffic and building heights in this area. We don't have a lot of things that are more than two stories but that's how transition works as we move towards the road that's to be expected.
 to that sidewalk. My very first council meeting in November of 2017, this exact stretch of sidewalk was something I came to talk about. And so it's exciting to see that we're finally building it. I'll tell you if
 We've waited this long. We can wait a little longer if that's what it takes to coordinate to get it right so that we're not doing tear out and wasted effort. I hope that you will support this and I hope you'll move it through all three readings tonight to do so. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address in the chamber?
 who do you have on zane no one has their hand raised mayor okay well i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what discussion would you all like to have or what action would you all like to take scott i'd like to uh propose we suspend the rules move the second reading second motion second to go to the second here would you please call the row we'd occur yes yes
 Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 2023-33 for approximately 3.23 acres located north of 3420 West Mount Comfort Road in Ward 4 from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services.
 Mayor, I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. I have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Wiedeker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 2023-33 for approximately 3.23 acres located north of 3420 west mount comfort road in ward 4 from ra residential agricultural to cs community services what final comments i have one comment yes um i just wanted to disclose that i do have a family member with a financial interest so i'll have to recuse myself from the item okay anybody else care which please call the roll
 fletaker yes arna yes punch yes third yes stafford yes jones yes more yes okay let's go on to number three a resolution to approve the per capita jail fee agreement with washington county for jail services in 2024 in the amount of seventy six thousand four hundred twenty one dollars and forty cents um sarah
 up
 Thank you, Mayor. And so obviously we can't have a discussion without, and this item was originally during agenda session was brought forward to be on consent. I just wanted to make sure that all council members were in the loop on some different goings on within the county in regard to many times voters from November of this last year, 2022, I guess previous year, voted against the agenda.
 There was a resounding vote of Washington County to not expand the jail. But there has been additional activity with Washington County moving forward with some ARPA monies of almost $20 million to continue expansion of the jail. We don't know what those implications are as far as additional jail beds and additional operations monies.
 I am not in disagreement with what was stated by Chief Reynolds in regard to in the past we were doing a daily or sorry a booking fee and recently in this new agreement with the MOU there has been some cost savings.
 I just really want to point out also in caution, it's a per capita agreement, which basically says any overage over the quarter cent sales tax that we already as Washington County residents and taxpayers are already funding in 2024, the jail operations are actually going to be $24 million overage.
 The maintenance is going to be $2.7 million, and those were both increases over the previous year. And so with looking at additional expansion, there are some pretty substantial possible increases that we could see to the tune of millions of dollars that could be unaccounted for. Today, our tax bill liability that they're showing us is this $200,000 that they're stating has been this estimate of what the...
 Overage outside of the quarter cent, but to me that's additional taxation that voters, you know go to a ballot oftentimes our city attorney Cautions us and says, you know You need to go to voters and talk to them about whether or not they'd like to you know Pay for this additional and this kind of works around the voter whenever we do this MOU and does an additional taxation So I have some concerns just because in the past we've been lucky that the 70%
 I think is around, give me some rounding error potentially, but somewhere in there is how it's come in the last couple of years. But currently, by doing a per capita agreement, there is no incentive for there to be any efficiencies created in the system. And also
 August of 2020, the National Center for State Courts was paid $60,000 of taxpayer funds to look at how to decarcerate, how to get folks out of the jail that wouldn't pose safety concerns. Most of those items have continued to not be put in place, and those are outside of our control. And so I just want to bring forward... You know, there are many moving parts when we look at this. I also...
 understand that we have an agreement in place. And so today, council members may not feel that they could say no to this because it's an agreement that we've all held hands and said that we'd go forward with. So at the very least, I'd hope that there'd be consideration about looking at whether or not
 per capita without some additional stipulations make sense? You know, where is the incentive to potentially look at diversions, other things that are evidence-based that we know when we invest in those, they actually return multiple fold dollars into our communities. These have been things that have been, you know, discussed but have yet to be invested in.
 And this seems like a limited amount of money when we talk about 70,000 or 100,000 or 200,000. But think about as well, Seven Hills we voted on tonight to give $119,000. And whenever I looked at the numbers in October, we had 81 folks that were in the jail that showed a homeless address. And about 23% of those.
 We're arrested, unfortunately, from Fayetteville. You know, a lot of times there's a lot of feeling that there aren't a lot of options. Additionally, you know, those additional intangible dollars, we're not thinking about too. Whenever you think about the $300,000 that is in our budget that we do end up paying
 for things like cleaning up trash and things like that. So just trying to think about the additional ways that we can spend these types of funds. Are there alternatives that get us to the solutions that we ultimately want to create greater public safety? And I appreciate you listening to me and hearing me out. At the very least, I hope it's food for thought to continue to think about.
 These other ways and the things that we can potentially be investing in that again are evidence-backed We are the number five Incarcerator in Arkansas in the nation according to prison policy initiative in Washington County Is over incarcerating per capita versus the state of Arkansas? So I mean we have a lot of room when we say we can't arrest her away or incarcerate her way out there's just a lot of leeway to think about when we have a
 Finite money, we talk about our sales taxes getting slimmer in trying to make these decisions for next year and going forward, but I really want to think about ways that we can maybe take these funds and really pour them into the community. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Well, Mayor, we have an applicant who is the chief of police. This is his item, so he would have 10 minutes as the applicant. Would you like to take 10 minutes, Chief?
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Council. Ten minutes or three minutes? I like to say three, but it's ten according to our rules.
 I don't know that I have much more to add since the agenda session. The only thing that I would really say is that this resolution that's before you and the 20 years that we've entered into a contract with Washington County since the closure of our city jail in 2004 is the lowest amount that we've had to pay as a city at the $76,000 and some change.
 So, you know, for me as the police chief, I would say that this is a really good deal in comparison to what we're seeing throughout the state and other municipalities. The other thing that I would mention is there's always this discussion about double taxation and what we've seen is this being challenged and Kit can certainly elaborate. He's the attorney, not me.
 But we could talk about Mississippi County versus Blyville, and that's where Blyville, basically the city of Blyville disputed the taxes or disputed the amount of jail fees that were being imposed on them and refused to pay them. And the Arkansas Supreme Court came in and said that the county, Mississippi County, can charge reasonable fees for the jail.
 Reasonable fees for anyone that's jailed on city ordinances anybody that's jailed on misdemeanors and anybody that's jailed on felonies up until they're formally charged and
 For us in the city of Fayetteville and looking at the county, we arrest approximately 2,500 folks per year. We're a little bit above that this year. We're probably trending somewhere around the 2,800 mark. If you take that times the amount of billable booking days, which is 10 billable booking days, that comes out to about $25,950.
 30 days and if you multiply that times the 6312, that's where I come up with the $1.6 million if the city chose not to enter into this annual contract with Washington County. So today I would say that it's a great deal, it's a really good deal. I don't know what the future holds with expansion and all that. The fees could go up, I feel like Washington County has been a really good partner as it
 pertains to us, the city of Fayetteville, using their jail. Certainly a lot cheaper than what it was for the city of Fayetteville to operate its own jail where we were incarcerating, if you will, 10,000 people back in 2004. So I feel like as a city, we've done a really good job of trying to look at alternatives to arrest.
 I certainly agree, Councilmember Moore, there's options out there that could be explored. And as the police chief, I'm open to whatever those resources may be, whether it's a CSU or whether it's a drug court or mental health court or certainly a sobering center. I'm open to all those options. Just tell me what those are and I'll be happy to utilize them. With that, Mayor, I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have, Mr. Chief? Councilmember Jones has his hand raised. I go ahead.
 uh chief reynolds i appreciate you uh uh drawing our attention to mississippi county um and uh you're absolutely right my question for you would be uh lodorak what with the city of lorong in pulaski county uh how much are they paying
 Well, I talked to the chief at Little Rock a couple of times right before Christmas, and he couldn't give me the exact amount this year, but they paid $2.7 million last year to use Pulaski County's jail.
 And how much are we currently paying? I think I missed that part. I believe this year is the same as the last two years. So this would be the third year where the county has projected a $200,000 shortfall. And I believe I mentioned last week that we own 38% of that population, if I remember correctly. And so that comes out to approximately $76,000, which is what the contract is asking for in this resolution.
 Wow. So compared to other cities in the region and even probably throughout the country, it sounds like we have a better financial partnership, correct? Yeah, that's correct. I certainly am very happy and very satisfied with the partnership that we have with Washington County compared to some of these other cities throughout Arkansas.
 Absolutely. And I do appreciate, you know, your openness and your willingness to always look at the social challenges and what we can do. But right now, this is what we have before us. And so your department has continued to work with partner with different nonprofits and do what you can. But however, your job is policing. And so we have to make sure that we that that
 We have the necessary resources and partnerships to help you do the work that you do. So thank you, Chief Reynolds. Thank you. One clarification. I know the answer, but I want to make sure I have the numbers correct. We can agree to this tonight, and we're looking at approximately $76,000, $78,000, $80,000.
 Or we cannot agree to do this and we have a potential cost of 1.6 million. Yeah, that's correct. $76,421 is what the ask is from Washington County for their shortfall as far as the city of Fayetteville. Now there's 13 other cities that have to pay into that $200,000 and that does include Washington County as well and it's based upon the population. So to answer your question in short, yes.
 My projection is that you can agree to this and pay the $76,000 for 2024, or you could vote this down, and my estimation would be that you're looking at somewhere between $1 million and $1.5 million conservatively. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Chief. It's more of a curiosity question.
 Where do U of A students or the U of A campus, where do they fall? Do they come in under our estimated number of people per year or are they just kind of – I mean, I would anticipate it wouldn't be that many people, but how does that work? Are you asking me what does the University of Arkansas pay for folks that they arrest? Is that correct? That's correct. I'm not sure. I noticed that they're not included in that. We're not paying for the University of Arkansas, so I don't know since maybe they have such a small number.
 folks that they arrest which I'm just making an assumption there councilmember Turk That the county has chosen not to impose any fees for the University of Arkansas. Okay. Thank you Would you happen to know what is Springdale paying Springdale and Fable paying basically the same thing and
 If we look at our packet, I think it's in the very back of the packet, you can see where it's divided down and what the estimated shortfall is. And so if you look in that and you see the 14 cities which include Washington County and the city of Fayetteville, I think Springdale is about a third of the way from the very bottom or say the very bottom. And it shows that they would be
 the the estimate for them would be 61 075 and 14 cents and that's based upon their population of approximately 75 000 residents i thank you uh because i don't have that in front of me but i really appreciate each area thank you thank you anything else just a quick comment i think uh council member moore is correct about over incarceration in our nation and in the state of
 And yet at the same time I can say that I fully support this resolution simply because the cost of operating your own jail is exponentially, I mean light years beyond the cost of the county doing it. The last thing I want to see is privatized incarceration in the state which fully incentivizes
 the holding of individuals. So I applaud her for her work on reduced bail and on espunging records, and I think that that's remarkable work. And at the same time, I fully support this and view this as a rational move for the city of Fayetteville, and we'll be supporting this. Thank you. Anything else? All right. Thanks, Chief. Thank you, Mayor. Now let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by them will speak after that who would like to address this that's in the chamber who do you have on zoom susan no one has their hand raised mayor okay i'm going to bring it back to the council what's the wishes the council this is a resolution mayor i move we approve the resolution as presented
 Second. Motion is second to pass the resolution. What final comments do we have from the council? Second.
 I do have a final comment. Thank you again for just hearing, you know, concerns that I have going forward. And I understand, you know, reasons of support given there aren't alternatives potentially today. I just continue to say, and I recognize and do agree, there is unfortunately state statute that does support that counties can charge municipalities. I think that's an unfortunate truth that does exist. But really wanting there to be
 the option to look at this MOU in the future, to look at carving out incentives at the very least for whenever we do reduce arrests, when we are putting less people in a facility, that we have some kind of...
 incentive and some kind of reward for that versus us just subsidizing because we're at a per capita So I think that that's that's hopefully something that we can continue to discuss with Washington County going forward So thank you again for hearing me tonight Okay, anything else we got to begin a motion in the second to pass resolution here We do okay any other final comments from council all right care which please call the roll. I
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Okay.
 All right that concludes our business tonight what announcements do we have just one from its the administration reminds everyone that Because of the holiday yesterday Monday our recycling and trash services are one day delayed So just like we were last week. That's all I have mayor. Okay anything else I had one announcement that
 The statement of financial interest that are due each year have recently gone out to you. Also, the real estate holdings form, those are due by the end of January, so please get those to our office. We're more than happy to notarize the document for you. Also, just to let the...
 Policemen, Pension Board know that their affidavits are also currently due as well at the end of January. Okay. And also, I think tonight we were supposed to elect the Vice Mayor. Is that right? Yes. I think tonight was the night we were supposed to elect the Vice Mayor. Oh, you're absolutely correct.
 Is that something that could be added to the agenda? We will do it. We just do it. Two weeks. Yeah, normally it is on the agenda. Somehow it did not get on the agenda, so if you all want to suspend the rules and place that on the agenda for tonight. If you don't do it tonight, you can always do it in two weeks if you'd rather do that. Okay. What's your pleasure? Two weeks. All right. We're adjourned. Thank you.