They had some storms down there. They did. I would like to call the City Council meeting for January 5, 2016 to order. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer. Latour. Present. Long. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Petty. Here. Tenant. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in? Pledge of Allegiance. Pledge of Allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 for which it stands, one and only, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, good evening, everyone. First order of business we have tonight are the mayor's announcements, proclamation, recognition, city council meeting presentations, reports, and discussion items. The first item we have tonight is the election of the vice mayor. I will open that up for the floor for nominations. Yes, Matthew. I'd like to nominate Sarah Marsh. Is there any other nominations? No.
 Okay, I will close the four denominations. When you call the roll, everyone just would say the name. Okay, very good. Would say the name? Yes. The name of our nominee? Yes, or? If we have one. If you have one, or? Okay, we'll just close the four denominations. Okay. Did we just close it? That's not what our rules of procedure says. Our rules of procedure say that upon the vote, everyone will say the name of the person that they support.
 Oh, so it just goes like that. That's what our rules procedure say so we don't have to open it up for nominations in no We just but we do need a vote. Okay, very good. All right, very well. All right, Lisa, would you please call the roll? We voting this on this vote. I'll just say who I want to be vice mayor. That is correct. All right Okay, very good. All right, Lisa, would you please call the roll shot my Motor Justin Tennant
 Gray. Marsh. Marsh. Marsh. Petty. Alderman Marsh. Okay. Ms. Marsh has been elected. All right, congratulations. Thank you. All right, number two is the Fireman's Police and Pension Report that I give every year. And so, and keeping with the statutory requirements, I'm presenting this report for 2015 on the local police and fire retirement and relief funds
 for the City of Federal. Both of these plans were closed by law in 1983, and there are no longer any active working members remaining. There are currently 42 police and 55 retirees and beneficiaries in the system. At December 2015, projected expenses from the Fire Pension Fund were approximately $1.4 million as compared to fund revenues of $1.2 million.
 Rejected police pension fund expenses were approximately 1.6 million as compared to fund revenues in excess of 1.3 million. This is before adjusting investments to market value. However, on a cash flow basis, contributions are not covering expenses. Accelerated evaluations are the responsibility of the State of Arkansas Fire and Police Pension Review Board.
 The last evaluations completed were as of May 2015 for the year ending December 31, 2014. Based on those evaluations, the total liability of the police and fire funds were $19.7 million and $18.3 million respectively and have grown considerably from prior years.
 The unfunded actuarially-accurred liabilities for these funds were approximately $13 million for police and $14.3 million for fire. In the annual reports issued by the Arkansas Pension Review Board, neither the fire nor police pension fund were found to be actuarially found sound pursuant to established financial tests. The fire pension fund has been classified as projected insolvent since 2009.
 The Fire Pension Board has been discussing the unstable condition of the fund and possible alternatives since that time, but only recently brought forward a resolution to the City Council requesting the City agree to consolidate with Lofty. On October 2015, Lofty representatives came to Federal to discuss the condition of and possible solutions to resolve the Fire Pension Fund financial situation.
 As you are aware, these presentations were made at special council meetings. However, the issue is complex and solutions discussed all had possible negative consequences to the city. The city attorney also advised the council that consolidation might be unconstitutional under state law. The council administration agreed to further study and discuss the issue again in the spring of 2016.
 The financial conditions of the Fire and Police Fund have been relatively the same since those meetings, so no change has occurred to make the situation better or worse. However, the asset value of the fund continues to be under $5 million, which makes it subject to further investment restrictions. These restrictions no longer allow investments in individual securities.
 Investments will be limited to cash, cash equivalents, government bonds, and no-load mutual funds. This means overall returns in the future are likely to be less than previously experienced, which could bring about depletion of the fund earlier than expected. The police pension fund is also considered actuarially unsound.
 but not in immediate danger of becoming insolvent. The Police Pension Board is also aware of the police pension fund status and has been considering options that would guarantee long-term solvency. I will continue to monitor these pension funds in the future and keep you apprised of any new developments if necessary. Okay, that's it. That's what we have. I think you all are pretty aware of the situation we have with pension funds, and as we have meetings later on in the spring, I will keep you...
 price of what we've got going on there right now I just got to figure out what we need to do I think they do too okay number three we have the Federal Housing Authority appointment yes the Fayetteville Housing Authority board has nominated Mike Emery for re-election to serve an additional five-year term the nominating committee did meet and interview Mr Emery and agreed with their
 With their appointment, his new term will expire on December 28th of 2020 if approved by the council. Okay. Do we need a motion? We need a motion. I move we approve Mike Emery's appointment to the Fayetteville Housing Authority Board. I second it. Second. All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? No. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay.
 Okay, good enough. All right, next is the consent agenda. All right, number one, a resolution to approve the purchase of a non-motor pool replacement vehicle from Vail Chevrolet in the amount of $37,242 with options pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the police department. Number two, a resolution to approve an amendment to the Jail Services Interlocal Agreement with the Washington County
 Arkansas continuing fees at $60 per booked prisoner for 2016. Number three, a resolution authorizing acceptance of an Arkansas Firewise Grant from the Arkansas Forestry Commission in the amount of $500 for use by the Fire Department and to approve a budget adjustment. Number four, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,000 representing donation revenue from the Bank of Federal to the Federal Fire Department for the annual Employee Service Awards banquet.
 Number five, a resolution to authorize an application for a 90-10 assistance to firefighters grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the amount of $675,000 for the purchase of a mobile live fire training simulator for the fire department.
 Number six, a resolution of Ward Bid Number 16-01 and to authorize the purchase of reflectorized paint markings from Asphalt Striping Service LLC in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2016 for the use by the Transportation Services Department.
 7. A resolution to award bin number 16-02 and to authorize the purchase of curb and gutter construction from Faulkner Enterprises, Inc. as a primary supplier and Thomson Asphalt as a secondary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2016.
 8. A resolution to award bid number 16-04 and authorize the purchase of truck hauling services from S&R Trucking for variable unit prices and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2016.
 number nine a resolution award bid number 16-05 and authorized the purchase of concrete from toon concrete company as primary supplier and gcc ready mixes secondary supplier in variable amounts and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price availability as needed through the end of 2016. number 10 a resolution award bid number 16-06 and authorize the purchase of aggregate
 unit prices from various vendors as needed through the end of 2016. Number 11, a resolution to award bid number 16-08 and to authorize the purchase of hillside gravel from Les Rogers Incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2016. Number 12, a resolution to award bid number 16-09 and to authorize the purchase of plastic drainage pipe for varying unit prices from various vendors as needed through the end of 2016.
 Number 13, a resolution to award bid number 16-10 and to authorize the purchase of concrete drains pipe from Surlock Industries as primary supplier and for tear up pipe and precast as secondary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2016.
 Number 14, a resolution to award bid number 16-11 to authorize the purchase of topsoil from Les Rogers Incorporated. Any amount of $12.40 per cubic yard delivered and $8.50 per cubic yard picked up in variable amounts and needed through the end of 2016.
 Number 15, a resolution to award bid number 16-12 and authorize the purchase of preformed thermal plastic pavement markings from Flint Trading Incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices needed through the end of 2016.
 Number 16, a resolution to award bid number 16-13 that authorized the purchase of retaining wall blocks from Arrowhead Precast LLC as primary supplier and Industrial Precast Incorporated as secondary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2016.
 Number 17, a resolution to award bid number 16-14 and authorize the purchase of cold asphalt concrete from APAC Central in variable amounts for a unit price of $95 per ton as needed to the end of 2016. Number 18, a resolution to award bid number 16-15 and authorize the purchase of waste disposal services for construction debris from SNR Trucking, Winslow LLC, and Holtz Claw Inc.
 excavating incorporated, an amount of $10 per load as needed through the end of 2016. Number 19, a resolution to approve the purchase of two Chevrolet Tahoe 4x4 special service vehicles from Superior Automotive Group of Siloam Springs in a total amount of $72,264, pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the fire department.
 Number 20, a resolution to approve the purchase of three police-packaged Chevrolet Tahoe's from Superior Automotive Group of Siloam Springs in a total amount of $99,867 pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the police department and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number 21, a resolution to approve the purchase of three police package Chevrolet Tahoe's from Superior Automotive Group of Siloam Springs in the total amount of $99,867 pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the police department. Number 22, a resolution to approve the purchase of a 2016 Chevrolet Traverse from...
 Superior Automotive Group of Siloam Springs, any amount of $23,329.85 pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the police department.
 number 23 a resolution to approve the purchase of a volvo mc-135c skid steer from hug and hall equipment of springdale in the amount of 47 000 221 dollars pursuant to a houston galveston area council cooperative purchasing contract fused by the west side wastewater treatment facility number 24 a resolution to prove one-year contract with automatic renewals for four additional one-year terms
 with the Bicycle Coalition of the Ozarks for Bicycle Programs Coordinator Services at an hourly rate of $16.67. Number 25, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $8,914,867 to appropriate proceeds from the 2015 sales and use tax bonds for street projects.
 And number 26 a resolution to allow the city attorney. It's all others see employees to have attained their tap top salary range receive a one-time service. We accept the consent agenda is right that can have a motion a second to accept its agenda is read. We see which please call the roll. Shot my yes, look to know right. Yes, March, yes, he did it. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Under unfinished business, number one, an artist rezone that property describing its only petition RZN 15-194 for approximately 53.03 acres located at east of Riverwalk Subdivision on Dead Horse Mountain Road from RPCD 06-2170 Vellison Stonebridge to RA Residential Agricultural. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading.
 So moved. Second. Motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenet? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5194 for approximately 53.03 acres located at the east of Riverwalk subdivision on Dead Horse Mountain Road.
 from rpzd 6-2170 villas at stonebridge to ra residential agricultural chair you may remember at the last council meeting several rezoning items came through before you for expired planned zoning districts all of those except this one were approved so this is our last expired planned zoning district that we're aware of in the city this particular project is called the villas at stonebridge it contained about 50 acres
 on the southeast side of town off of Dead Horse Mountain Road. The original project consisted of single family and multi family dwellings within a planned zoning district. There's open space, community services as well.
 Staff is recommending the project or the property return back to its original zoning of residential agricultural The Planning Commission also voted six to one in favor of that request We felt that RA was a more appropriate zone for this particular area being located on the outskirts of the city in a predominantly rural area suburban densities we felt would be out of character generally with the undeveloped nature of most of the surrounding land and our city plan 2030 future Laney's plan Designates this site as a rural residential area
 The applicant is present tonight, and I believe has also offered a bill of assurance that was emailed out to you earlier yesterday, and I'd like Mr. Rhodes to be able to present that item. Sure. Robert? Good evening, Mayor, Council, the rest of the folks. May I introduce Mitchell Massey? He is the owner of the property, and he has also brought someone who I've just met today, his very astute business partner, Maggie. Thank you.
 I think I'm going to need some help procedurally because what I think we would like to do is we would ask that a motion be made that our request to turn this into an RSF4, because I think right now what's before the council is to rezone it to RA.
 I think eventually the City Council should have an opportunity to amend it to RSF4 with subject to the bill of assurance. I would suggest really that that probably be done at the next meeting. We only have six aldermen here as you're well aware. It takes five affirmative votes.
 to get this rezoned i certainly want it rezone something because right now it's zoned to an expired pzd which means there are no development rights on this property and so at the very least it should be zoned ra but i think that the applicant should have an opportunity to request an amendment to rsf4 subject to his bill of assurance with the city council's approval i will have prepared such an ordinance for the next meeting
 so that it can you can get an up and down vote at that point in time about whether or not you wish to rezone it as applicant requests or as the planning department has suggested. I don't think we need to do the amendment tonight. I think probably ought to have a full council here when that is done because that's going to be probably the biggest issue to be decided and that will require five votes.
 So I would think that you could present whatever you want to tonight and you can discuss obviously your bill of assurance that has been sent to the Clerk and myself and furnished to the City Council, but I think the actual formal amendment might be done better at the second meeting in January when you have hopefully the full Council will be here then. I'm not sure, but hopefully we'll have everybody here for that.
 As I said, to make the final decision, it will require five affirmative votes one way or the other. If I may ask, after I give some of the comments that would, I think, bode well for the rezoning that we're asking for, I see there's six aldermen, alderpersons here, and perhaps five might want to vote tonight. That is a possibility if,
 things turned out that way, is it not, Mr. Williams? Yes, that's certainly correct. If you're the applicant or the, actually the applicant, I guess, is Jeremy Pate with the City, but you certainly as a representative of the property owner have every right to request an amendment. Okay. Justin, you had a question. Actually it's for Kit. So if we do that.
 that doesn't change there's no public notification no anything that changes any time frames other than just putting it on the agenda and the public can see it then and things like that that that is correct we have in the past in fact changed uh a zoning a city council i should say has in the fact uh changed the zoning request at a council meeting
 The public was notified prior to the initial request by the city as the applicant before it went to the planning commission. As long as it continues forward, then that notice continues, and so there's not a re-notification requirement. And I'll ask Jeremy, is that not what we've done in the past, Jeremy? That's correct.
 So there's no reset. That was just my question. I'm fine with that. I just want to make sure. Thank you. So if the amendment is for RSF-4 and that passes, then it goes from RA to RSF-4, or is that something that just gets— No, the—well, initially, to get it to the RSF-4 ordinance, we would need a motion to amend the ordinance that's before the City Council—
 to RSF4 subject to a bill of assurance instead of the RA. Then you would vote it up or down? The amendment, yes. The first would be the amendment. At that point then, if it is amended, then that would be the ordinance before the city council. All right. Then you'd vote that up or down? Yes. Okey-doke. Yes, Rob. Thank you for that explanation. I'd like to remind you that this was a PZD at 6.6 units per acre.
 As you can tell now, we've reduced that quite a bit to the RSF-4. With the bill of assurance, it takes it down even a good bit more. I'll also remind you that the prior owners that my client purchased the property from were part of the coalition that paid for the structural improvements that went under the
 I guess the reason I bring that up is I look at this piece of property and in my opinion that ought to give this piece of property, at least in your mind, a little bit of entitlement that the prior owners put good money that the citizens of Fayetteville are now enjoying.
 I'd also ask you to look, and I don't know if these have been sent to you, but I brought some copies and we can hand them out real quick here. But I've got two maps and it'll give you a good idea of this property. I think I've got enough. The reason I bring these maps and ask you to look at them is it sort of gives you a good feel for this piece of property, which as you can see,
 is in light blue and it's called the site right in the middle of both of these maps. If you know, there is a good bit, a lot of RSF4, if you look at the first one, all around this property. And then what isn't RSF4 is golf course and if you look at the second map, it's all flood zone. And so with that in mind, I think that this...
 This council, I think, can look at this and say, well, it doesn't necessarily need to have, it doesn't have to be RA. There is a lot of property, so you're still being, still holding true to what the rest of the property around it is.
 And then if you kind of remember back, I think Alderman at the last meeting, I think Alderman Kenyon, he was either at the last meeting or maybe it was at an agenda session, when Alderman Lutour said, well, can't we just make this RSF-4 like the applicant's asking and do that now?
 Mr. Kenyon said, well, if they would bring a plan. That caused the applicant to bring forth the bill of assurance. I dare say that's a plan. It goes from what was asked for initially and what was granted in the PZD. That has expired. I understand that. It takes it to 2.5%.
 Also, if you take into consideration that anybody that builds in Fayetteville, if they build pursuant to a zoning designation that we're asking for and they build pursuant to a bill of assurance,
 They not only have to follow that, but they also have to follow the ordinances and the regulations and the rules of this city, of the county, and of the state as far as drainage regulations and what have you.
 No, the applicant doesn't have a specific plan as far as what they plan on building exactly, but I think at this stage, what you consider when you're trying to determine whether you ought to be rezoning this is will this be compatible with the surrounding land, and I dare say that I think it will be. I would also ask you further to keep in mind that...
 If you look at your guiding principles and compare, the guiding principles that talk about rural agriculture talks about historically agricultural. Well, I don't think this property has been historically agricultural for quite some time.
 It has been adjacent to a golf course, and the people that originally built the golf course, originally Dash Goff and the other folks, they had envisioned that this piece of property, this site, this 53 acres, would be part of a residential development. Historically, not for the last 20 years has this been agriculture.
 Another guiding principle for RA says foster compatibility in the surrounding rural area. Well, the golf course is going to stay the golf course, and the surrounding area, as you can see by these maps, isn't necessarily rural. It is a lot of RA and a lot of other uses around it. Also, the reason to have RA, one of the guiding principles is local food production.
 Again, this has not been used for food production. I don't know when it's been used for food production. Perhaps many, many, many, many years ago, someone raised cattle on it or something of that nature. But again, not for the last 20 years or so. And the last thing is to protect agriculture, such as orchards, berry farms, et cetera. It hasn't been a berry farm or an orchard. I bring all that up to say that this council has the authority to...
 And I'm not asking you to disregard these guiding principles. I'm just asking you to kind of think about them and realize that the request for an RSF-4, you wouldn't be violating the guiding principle. I think you can easily take that vote, especially with the Bill of Assurance at 2.5%.
 I'd also tell you that the property already has water and sewer right to it, and it's ready to develop. I'd entertain any questions, or I'd come back if you want me to. What questions do we have for Mr. Rhodes on this? Yes, John. Mr. Rhodes, you'd like to have an up or down vote on your proposal tonight?
 Even though two of our members are missing and you might have better odds two weeks from now? Well, I don't know about odds. I mean, I look around and I see there's six people. I mean, I'm guessing I'm betting I'll get six votes in some form or fashion. That's a good option. You'll get six votes all right. We don't know what they're going to be, though. I guess I'd like it.
 I think I have the option to ask for that vote. If you don't mind, I'd like to hear some discussion amongst the council members. I'd also like to hear if anyone from the public is going to speak up. I'd like to keep the option in the back of my pocket tonight, but I'll let you know pretty soon.
 Well, I support the application and I think bringing this back to rural agriculture food production is counterproductive to our city. I think development is a good thing. I think we have plenty of regulations in place to make sure that development takes place in an orderly fashion that will comply with state law and local law and we have a lot
 So I'm not worried about unrestrained or unabated construction like we're so afraid of here. So I support the applicant's application and his zoning preference. I think the applicant himself or herself in Maggie's case are in the best position to determine what should be done with the property. I've repeated ad nauseum.
 The applicant is the one that has the funds at risk. The applicant is the one who defends the lawsuits. The applicant is the one who pays the taxes. The applicant has the most to lose if the applicant guesses badly. We sit here in our sterile governmental capacity and try to second guess the market. I would much prefer to see the applicant make this decision instead of us. But he has my vote and I'd encourage my colleagues to vote.
 Grant the applicant what he needs to develop this property Yes, Matthew just have a couple of questions I'm not really too concerned with the request other than it might send an unusual precedent And the reason I bring that up is because typically, you know these administrative items we just wave them through When we're talking about restoring development rights to expire PCDs. I'm not sure we've ever actually amended one
 Normally, rezoning requests from applicants have to go through a usual process of staff issuing some findings and the Planning Commission considering it. I'm wondering, was this request presented to the Planning Commission? Yes, it was. Was there any motion? Did they consider it or did they just decide not to? That's why the Planning Commission divided it. I think my recollection is the Planning Commission
 kicked ours off separate from the other expired PZDs. That's correct. So this was the only one out of those seven or eight that was in contention, so the Planning Commission actually ended up pulling this one out separately and voting on it separately as part of their application or recommendation to you all. The recommendation was still to go to RA? That's correct. It's a six to one vote, I believe. Was there an affirmative motion or anything like that to make it ours F4? I don't believe so. Let's see if that's in here.
 I think the application was simply they discussed the RSF-4 at the meeting, heard public comment, and ended up voting to recommend to RA. What do you think their—what was their principal reason for doing so? Is it a concern with density or something else? I believe so. I think there was also concern from a local level.
 from at least one neighbor present who's also here tonight there's also many times in discussion in this area as we all saw with the recent flooding access issues to this area where the roads are closed for sometimes significant amount of time so that's obviously a concern the biggest change between what mr rhodes referred to is the planned zoning district approved at six units per acre and now as we have an entirely different land use plan before when that plan zoning district was approved
 approved and now it was shown as a residential area to be developed at that time. Now it's shown as more rural residential, so larger lot or maintaining in its open space until such time as there is adequate infrastructure to support the area. Does the offered bill of assurance change your determination at all? Yes. Okay. Well, then I have one more question. We just saw the bill of assurance recently. I'm wondering, Kit, if you had time to review it, if you think it's enforceable.
 Yes, I do think it's enforceable. It appears to be from the form I have left with the planning department to be used. So I think it has all the proper requirements to be enforceable. Okay, thanks. Okay. Anything else? Yes, John. From Matthew and Jeremy's discussion, I'm getting the idea that the planning commission thinks it's best left as a cow pasture.
 I don't know how many millions of dollars or hundreds of thousands of dollars the owner has invested in this property, but to say it has to be left to the cow pasture seems awfully restrictive. Surely we could agree that they can do something more than just have an agricultural field or pasture.
 I mean, yes, I mean, streets do flood when it rains. I mean, that's part of living. That's part of urban living. We live in a city. If you don't want that, move to Madison County. If you don't like traffic, move to Madison County. We're going to have traffic. We're going to have flooding because we have rooftops. We have water runoffs. That's part of it when it rains heavily. So I hope that we wouldn't divest the owner of his ability to develop property.
 based on those reasons. I mean, there's livelihood, there's a family at stake here. Let's not betray their trust in us as a city, and let's give them the ability to develop their property in one way or another. Surely we can do better than a cow pasture.
 Okay. Chair, did you? I'd like to hear if there is any public comment before I ... Okay. I think Justin has a question. Well, it's not really a question. It's just a comment. I agree with John in what he says about the flooding piece. I mean, if you move out there, you know what you're going to have and what you're not going to have. And with the bill of assurance, I'm not concerned really with this property at all. Going out there several times like I have, 2.5 an acre, that for Fayetteville, that's
 That's a pretty good-sized piece of land. We're not putting a house right next to another house in this situation, and so I would be in support of this. Okay. What public comment do we have? Okay.
 I'm sorry, Adela. Yes, that's okay. Sorry, Adela. I just wanted to say that I have not had any negative, not one negative phone call or email about this proposal, unlike many of the others that have come before us in Ward 1. So I take that to be a very positive move and I will be supporting this.
 Okay. Go ahead, Marilyn. I apologize. I'm Marilyn Hefner and I own the property that's adjacent to this. I'm the one at the Planning Commission that spoke against it. I think that the PZD at 6.6 was way too dense for that. Probably I was asleep at the wheel when that came through or I would have spoken for it. I do not have a problem with the bill of assurance at 2.5. I would welcome that
 My neighbor. Okay. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Mayor. I'm sorry. Yes, Sarah. My concern on this is the same concern I had on the other Stonebridge properties, and that's the river. We have...
 a watershed that is a danger of impairment. We have a lot of sedimentation that's coming into this watershed that we are tasked with removing.
 That can be a very expensive venture. And so what seems like a simple rezoning is really not when you zoom out and look at the watershed issues and how the runoff from this will impact the West Fork of the White River. And 2.5 units an acre, essentially what we're building there is sprawl. And if you look at our 2030 city plan goals, number two is that we will discourage suburban sprawl.
 And, you know, in looking at this plan, you know, while residential agriculture may not seem like the most appropriate zoning because this isn't necessarily an agricultural piece of land.
 It is not a place to be building new neighborhoods. So I will not support rezoning it to RSF4 with the Bill of Assurance. Although, you know, if the applicant were to look at some neighborhood conservation or a small cluster of development, I think that there is some room to work there to allow them to recoup some of their investment. But I think that the proposal on the table is not appropriate for this parcel. Okay. Okay.
 Chairman, could you remind us the allowable density in RA? Sure. Residential agricultural, I think a lot of people just think it's only agricultural. It actually allows several residential uses as well. And the density is one unit per two acres. For residential agricultural, it includes, of course, agricultural, animal husbandry, single family and two family dwellings, accessory dwellings, animal boarding and training. So all those are permitted uses by right.
 If I'm to read that right, the delta between RA and the proposal is it would allow about 26 units, and the proposal would bump that up by 100. Correct. I think the proposal before you would allow 133 units on the property. John had one then, sir. Mayor, I don't think I'm going to change Alderwoman Marsh's mind, but I'd point out that we do have a stream site protection ordinance in this city.
 And that, I think, offers adequate protection for the White River. And I don't think that should be used as a reason to deny the applicant their desired zoning. Sarah.
 well perhaps well actually um alderman latour was not present at the water and sewer meeting where we discussed the implications of uh sediment in the white river and the potential multi-million dollar cost to this municipality that we could incur if we don't curb that
 But I think that, you know, the difference between 133 units and 26 units is significant. And one of the reasons we may not have heard from more neighbors on this is due to the holidays. You know, that was the last meeting of the year. This is the first meeting of the year. So I would like to see this held on, I guess we're on the second reading now, and to give the other neighbors an opportunity to become aware of what's going on and weigh in, as well as to give our other aldermen a chance to weigh in.
 Anybody else? I'm ready to vote for it. Second. I mean, as it's presented to us. Okay. Robert? We do believe we'd like to ask for a vote. Okay. So, it's on second reading right now. Well, the first vote ought to be to amend. To amend it to an R4. To an R4. And even though I haven't drafted it, I could read what it would be if you want me to.
 It would be an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the rezone petition RZN 15-5194 for approximately 53 acres, located at the east of River Works subdivision on Dead Horse Mountain Road, from RPZD 06-2170, Villas at Stonebridge, to RSF 4, subject to the submitted bill of assurance. Now, question. We needed a minute to that.
 If it does not get amended, then it would come back in two weeks then? Well, at this point, if it wouldn't get amended, or if it does get amended, there would have to be a suspension of the rules to go to a third and final reading if they wanted to be a vote tonight. Otherwise, it would be two weeks before either one would be subject to final approval. I guess my question is, if the rezoning amendment fails tonight, it could be resubmitted in two weeks with full counsel here, though, could it not?
 That's right. Unless the rules are suspended by two-thirds vote, there will not be a final vote tonight. Okay. Okay. Mr. Mayor, I move that we amend the proposal before us to do exactly what Mr. Rhodes would like to do, move this to an RSF-4 zoning classification. And I would second that. Okay. We have a motion and a second to amend it to an RSF-4. What discussion do we have on the amendment? Anything? Any public comment on the amendment?
 Bring it back to the council. Any final comments on this? Okay. Lisa, would you call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes. Latorre? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? No. Petty? No. Tenet? Yes. Okay, that is four votes, and to amend an ordinance, like passing an ordinance, requires five affirmative votes. So, Mayor, you may vote if you please to. I'm not going to vote. Okay, then the amendment has failed, and we still have the original ordinance before you.
 Now, I would recommend to the council, as I said, the attorney did hold this for two weeks and let the full council weigh in on this, or not. If we don't hear a motion to suspend the rules, then we'll need to move on to the next item. Okay. Let's move on to the next item. New business. Number one, an ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding during calendar year 2016.
 for the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the transportation division but to require informal quarterly bids or quotes kept
 Whereas the crude oil market continues to experience price volatility, and whereas the volatility makes normal competitive bidding procedures unworkable, impractical, and not feasible, and whereas the Transportation Division proposes to solicit and accept bids on a quarterly basis without the need for further approval of the City Council through calendar year 2016. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1,
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby finds that such circumstances constitute an exceptional situation where annual competitive bidding is not feasible or practical, and therefore through calendar year 2016 waives requirements of formal competitive bidding for the purchase of asphalt materials and authorizes the Transportation Division to solicit informal bids or quotes on a quarterly basis without the need for further approval by the City Council.
 Yes, Mayor, Council. This is an item that we started several years ago when the volatility of the oil prices was the companies would not guarantee their bid for the course of the entire year. So we came up with this through purchasing to bring this forward on a quarterly basis. We actually bid it more often rather than less. It also has the possibility of prices like they have been going down giving us a better price.
 Quarterly rather than just but it also protects the companies that are bidding To if the oil prices go up it allows them to not be Bought into a bid that they have to honor for the entire year. This has worked real well in the past It gives us I think the most flexibility we could have with this situation And we and we've done this for several years and it's worked out well, so we're just asking for a bid waiver to prove that I
 Okay, we have questions we have in the council on this. All right? Any public comment on this? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Shot Myers. Yes. Mature. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenant. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding during calendar year 2016 for the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the Transportation Division, but to require informal quarterly bids or quotes. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding during calendar year 2016 for the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the Transportation Division, but to require informal quarterly bids or quotes. What final comments do we have in the council on this? Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. LaTour? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay. Number 2, resolution to amend the Master Street Plan by reclassifying Gregg Avenue between Center Street and Meadow Street as an alley.
 This is a portion of Gregg Avenue located at the northeast corner of Center Street and Gregg Avenue, which is near the trail crossing, Frisco Trail crossing just west of downtown area. The site is developed with warehouse type buildings that have been converted into a number of commercial spaces. Frisco Trail runs actually on this property on the east side. The applicant granted the city easements for that purpose back when Frisco Trail was constructed several years ago.
 In 2004, there was a project approved on this site which never did occur, and at that time, the city council actually vacated some right-of-way along Gregg Avenue and also reclassified it as a public alley. In 2005, the following year, we also began implementing many of the recommendations of our downtown master plan. One of those was to reclassify all of the streets within the downtown master plan area.
 that was completed in august of 2005. that action reclassified this alley back to a street section which was inadvertent and the applicant has probably owner brought that to our attention we're simply requesting this to be returned back to an alley section the reasons then and now are still the same it's a very narrow property the city did give up our city did request and the applicant granted us property for our trail
 We believe the street section functions much more as an alley than it ever would a street. So we're recommending approval of this resolution
 What questions do we have, Chairman? Yes, John. Chairman, is there any vehicular traffic on this portion of the street right now? I'm sorry? Any vehicles drive here? There are. It's a very low-volume street. Meadow Street actually intersects near where the trail crosses, but it's a very low-volume street. So who do you think uses this street now? Residents that live back in this area? It's likely the property owner themselves and then anyone potentially involved.
 leasing space out within the Quonset huts that are located on the property. Are there alternative routes they can take when we close this downtown alley? The primary parking area is located off of Center Street and there's also access from Meadows Street. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Any public comment on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. I move we pass the resolution. Second. Motion and second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Shawmeyer, Lature, Gray, Marsh, Heady, Tenet. Yes. Okay, number three, a resolution to grant Community by Design Incorporated
 request to dedicate a lesser right-of-way of 33 feet instead of the normal 50 feet to place the sidewalk adjacent to the curb without the normal six feet of green space and tree planting area by finding that Otherwise this development would suffer undue hardship or practical difficulties
 Who has that? Chairman? This application is part of a larger development proposal called Willow Bend, which you all are aware of. It's a little less than eight acres located in the Walker Park neighborhood, due east of Walker Park. It's located south of Seventh Street and west of Wood Avenue. The property is currently undeveloped and zoned to neighborhood conservation. That's also an item on your agenda tonight is to rezone the property.
 For several years now it's been planned for an attainable housing project. The city has been in discussion and and has committed at least informally to assisting with the development of streets within the area up to a million dollars for construction of street network fable partners for better housing is the nonprofit leading this venture in the city of Fayetteville and
 is certainly supportive of the attainable housing addition within the city. This particular item is a code variant request. Chapter 166 requires all new streets within a subdivision or neighborhood to be constructed in accordance with the master street plan standards.
 The applicant is proposing new streets as part of their development project, and those do not meet the specific standards that we have for a local street. Local streets are generally those low volume, low speed streets that we have within neighborhoods. Those types of streets are being developed here in terms of their size and capacity. However, there's a bit different.
 view on this particular project. One, there's significant tree canopy the applicants would like to preserve as much as possible within the neighborhood. And so they're proposing 33 foot rights of way as opposed to 50 foot rights of way. What that does essentially is gets all of the elements of our local street section simply within a smaller street cross section. What you would see is a cross section that's shown within your packet where you would have still two
 travel lanes, parallel parking. Sidewalks would be actually adjacent to the curb, much like you see in some of our downtown residential neighborhoods and some of those in Walker Park as well. And then the green space would actually be on the outside of the sidewalks as opposed to between the curb and sidewalk. There have been some questions raised about is that a safer condition or a less safe condition? Because of the slow speed of the traffic and the design of the neighborhood, we believe that this will be perfectly fine.
 Again, much like our downtown neighborhoods were developed historically. So staff is supportive of the request and we do believe it meet all our minimum fire code requirements and general traffic safety requirements. Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this?
 Mr. Mayor, I just want to say I want to make sure that the council realize that we are not partners with this development in a legal sense, and that they still must meet the requirement that you have placed for them in the code, that this lessening of dedication must be in the event of an undue hardship or practical difficulties.
 Undue hardship is most likely not being able to be met because of costs because otherwise every developer coming through town Would say it cost me more to dedicate 50 50 feet and it does 33 feet so The practical difficulties are is because this land is in fact flood prone Very low land a lot of the houses. I guess are gonna be built on stilts or whatever so because of the
 Flood prone nature of this land and that could be a practical difficulty if you see fit But that's the kind of thing that you would have to look at and not just simply be to save this developer Money unless you're gonna save every developer money The applicant here would you Johnny Anderson with Anderson Kim the development consultants to the applicant? Excuse me. I
 I'm always a little choked up to speak to such an august body. I would agree with Kit's point that it's not really a question of practical difficulty over cost. It's more a condition of the land as we find it, which is because there's a tremendous amount of stormwater that comes from a the drainage basin is about 50 acres and it all heads into that eight acre piece and then leaves out of one little ditch by the head start.
 So and the city's been quite progressive in their tree preservation ordinance which has a lot to do with trying to minimize flooding and and runoff and like particularly for Something that's already got 50 acres worth of water coming up to it So looking hard at being able to preserve as many of the mature trees that are on the site the hold water reduce runoff and the like the
 There's a lot of constraint that comes from that, and I would say that that's probably the principal practical difficulty. So if we're going to manage the tree canopy well, if we're going to manage the connections in the streets and the like, still providing the pedestrian circulation that comes from the two sidewalks, still providing the on-street parking,
 The functional requirements for safety and welfare are being met, and I think that this is really a practical way to solve a condition that you meet on the ground with this piece of ground. My understanding is there's also a similar street section allowed in the hillside section where there's more slope, so you have less cut when you have a narrower section and you're allowed to put the sidewalk directly in the back of the ...
 I would feel that it's a similar condition, kind of driven by what Mother Nature has left on the ground for us to contend with, rather than it's a flat piece of ground and we'd like to skinny up a right-of-way by seven feet. That's not the case at all. So if you have questions, I'd be happy to entertain them. What questions do we have, Mr. Saban? Anything? All right. Thank you. Is there any public comment on this?
 Okay, right back to the council. Yes, Matthew. I'd like to add that. I hope we can find a way. I think it might even be better if staff was able to grant these kinds of requests administratively, you know, to be able to consider the circumstances and do this. I suspect there are many sites in the city that are subject to similar constraints.
 In any case, I move we pass the resolution. Second. Motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? I'm sorry, Sarah. Yes. I just want to say thank you to the developers for all your hard work to build some affordable housing that meets our 2030 city plan goals. I think this is a really good compromise. It helps reduce the impervious surface area, which is critical in this flood-prone area, as well as improving the tree preservation. It's great to see this.
 this kind of development come forward and hopefully will also create a safer neighborhood with these narrower street lanes it'll help people slow down and pay attention and uh be a beautiful neighborhood so thank you i will support this proposal okay any other final comments from the council okay lisa would you please call the row sean meyer yes litter yes gray yes marsh yes petty yes tenant yes okay number four
 In Orders for Rezoning that property is described in the rezoning petition RZN 15-5254 for approximately 7.74 acres located north of 1016 South Washington Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre. Kip? Be it ordained by the City Council the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 You may all recall a few weeks ago the City Council approved our newest zoning district option, RSF 18, which is a residential single family, 18 units per acre. It allows for single family uses in a more dense fashion, so smaller lots, more compact development pattern. This is the first request for rezoning to that zoning district and we're happy to present this same project site.
 in the Walker Park area for the Willow Bend project. We believe the request to rezone the project from neighborhood conservation, which is also a single family to RSF 18 is compatible with surrounding land uses. If you remember the Walker Park neighborhood master plan, there are a number of lots already platted within this neighborhood that are quite compact in a more traditional development pattern.
 with some alley loaded, some are not, but all around Walker Park and our downtown. Some of our historic neighborhoods are much like what is planned here. We believe it's compatible with the surrounding mix of single family detached residential properties to the north, east, and west, and there's also low density multi-family properties directly to the south of this project. So we believe this is a good transitional area for a higher density single family residential product that will contribute to the housing mix within the neighborhood.
 That being said, staff and the Planning Commission are recommending approval of this with a vote of 8 to 0. Okay. Well, questions we have for Jeremy on this. Okay. All right. Any public comment on this? I'm Dan Wagner. I'm at 1150 South Washington, so very close to the southwest corner of the development, which I'm in support of. The one thing I would ask, Mayor, that you consider and the council consider—
 in this rezoning is the amount of traffic that this is set to add to South Washington Street. And the reason is, as far as I know, and this may have changed since some of the initial meetings about this development, was that there was going to be one access from Washington to, you know, 75 homes, which, you know, the density right now is, you know, there's about,
 0.17 acres per lot down there, and you're talking about going to more than twice that density with single-family units. So you figure at least two vehicles per single-family unit typically, maybe three.
 each making two plus trips a day in and out. So South Washington's already, as many of you may know, fairly narrow, receives a fair amount of traffic, even through traffic, as people are using it as a way to cut from MLK down to 15th Street. It's a very nice grade, city to redone it, say 2006 or 2007.
 around the time that i i moved in there and so people use it as a nice cut through and get to going 40 50 miles an hour down the street there's a lot of kids on that live on that street mine included and i would just ask that something ought to be considered in this is multiple access points of access in and out of an area that's going to have so many residents
 To think that you're going to add all that traffic to just Washington Street seems a little bit excessive. With that said, I think this is going to be a good development for this part of town. I think it's going to be good for mine and everyone else's property values in that area. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Mr. Mayor, members of the council, our
 Just so you understand our basic thinking and asking for the rezone on this is that once the new zoning category was created, it presented an opportunity to basically submit our preliminary plat under a much more straightforward kind of approach. The current zoning of neighborhood conservation with the conceptual plans we've been working with and trying to sort out issues of the drainage and the tree canopy and the like,
 and how to establish additional access. As we look at all those things, coming up with a preliminary plat, you probably would have either put us in a position to be asking for kind of a bundle of variances, or probably more likely a PCD-type application. So the new, the rezone would allow us to basically make an application as of right with the only exception that we would anticipate at this point was the one you guys just voted for, which was the different street sections.
 So we're trying to approach this in a comprehensive way and we want to be mindful of any of the issues of traffic, for instance. My understanding is that we're going to need to provide at least a second point of access and several stubs to, kind of in all directions so that there are opportunities to connect, I believe, up to Seventh and to Wood Avenue as well. But my understanding is that we're going to have to come up with two points of access
 put a responsible proposal forward on the preliminary plat. The access issue, there's the more straightforward approach and basically an as of right under current zoning once we sorted out the right of way issue. So that was our intent and our thinking and I think that we'll certainly, as that preliminary plat comes forward, we'll be meeting with folks in the neighborhood to make sure that they have good background on it so that all the discussion doesn't happen to happen
 the Dias when when the action comes forward for the Commission so we thank you for your time I'll take any questions you have any okay thank you and you have public comment okay I'm gonna bring back to the council second most insane you know the second reason would you please call the roll shot Meyer yes what sir yes great yes Mars yes Eddie yes tenant yes
 In ordinance to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 15-5254 for approximately seven and three quarter acres located north of 1016 South Washington Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. Okay. I move we suspend the rules, go to the third and final reading. Second. I have a motion to second, go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes.
 Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. In ordinance to rezone that property described in the re-zoning petition RZN 15-5254 for approximately 7 3 quarter acres located north of 1016 South Washington Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. And I think Jeremy, correct me if I'm wrong, but the fire codes would require
 a subdivision with 70 homes or so to have at least two access points right that is correct and we've been discussing with the applicant that proposal anything over 30 units 30 residential homes actually I think requires a secondary point of access and so that's something they're working on trying to provide with the proposal that they submit any final comments from the council on this good mayor I just like to say that this is another reason that I love living in this city we have a number of
 of citizens who've stepped forward to say, we need some low-cost housing, and this is, that's what we have. And I'm delighted that we're able to provide this situation. Thank you, Della. Mayor. Yes. I'll add my two cents. I'm delighted that we're getting some low-cost housing, but let me add, I'd like to see medium-cost housing and high-cost housing. I like markets that have varieties, so people can pick and choose for themselves what they can afford, what they can, what they like.
 What meets their needs the best. One size fits all seldom fits any. So congratulations on bringing more variety to our town. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? Lisa, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay. Number five.
 An ordinance to amend 172.04, parking lot design standards allow the curb radius for parking lot entrances to be based on an effective curb radius.
 Whereas modifying Section 172.04 parking lot design standards to allow curb radius for parking lot entrances to be based on an effective radius rather than requiring an actual built radius would ensure functional vehicle turning movements while allowing more flexibility and customization in parking lot driveway design. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the city council of the city of fail arcs are hereby repeal section 172-04 f3a 4 of the fable code and enact a replacement section 172-04 f3a4 as follows effective curb radius
 All driveway entrances serving eight or less parking spaces shall have a minimum effective curb radius of 10 feet and a maximum of 20 feet, section two. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeal section 17204 F4A4 of the Fayetteville Code and act to replace section 17204 F4A4 as follows. Effective curb radius, all driveways serving nine,
 or more parking spaces shall have an effective curb radius of 15 feet for curb cuts on local streets, an effective curb radius of 20 feet for collector, minor arterial, and arterial streets.
 And section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Ark saw hereby amends the tables located at the end of section 172.04.F.3 and 172.04.F.4 to change each occurrence of curb radiance to effective curb radius. Thank you, Mayor. It's a very simple ordinance. I think it involves the addition of less than half a dozen words or so.
 Sometime in the last year we made a major update to our minimum street standards. When we did that we relied on guidance from many groups, but two in particular, the National Association of City Transportation Officials and the Institute for Transportation Engineers. One of the things we missed when we did the minimum street standards was driveway and parking lot entrances. The minimum street standards technically only deal with street on street intersections.
 And so this was just a piece that got overlooked and this ordinance would bring those intersections into parity with the street standards that we have already adopted. Anybody got any questions on that? Yes. Matthew, I appreciate your comment. That's a very few of the 12 words, but it sounded like more than 12 that Mr. Williams read. Yeah.
 Just a question are we giving developers more authority to decide what's best for them? Are we making? Authority away from them saying do it our way More flexibility to developers. Okay. Well, that's the answer. I was looking for of course Thank you Questions any public comment on this? Okay, I'm gonna bring back to the council. I
 We go to the second reading. Second. Motion is seconded to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes. Lutcher? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. An ordinance amends section 17204 parking lot design standards to allow the curb radius for parking lot entrances to be based on an effective curb radius. May we go to the third and final reading? Second. Motion is seconded to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Schottmeyer? Yes. Matur? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. In order to amend Section 17204, parking lot design standards to allow the curb radius for parking lot entrances to be based on an effective curb radius. Any final comments from the council? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 All right, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Shawmeyer? Yes. Lutcher? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenet? Yes. Okay, number six, resolution to grant the appeal of a conditional of PPL 15-5253 to require the developer to build a connection to Fox Trail. Now, you all have received a letter from
 the developer asking us to table this for two weeks to the next City Council meeting. Everybody good? Yes. All right a motion is seconded to table. Second. Motion. Whoever. I move we table it.
 Second. Okay. All right. They're fighting up there. Got to follow the rules. We're tabling for two weeks, right? Yes. All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Yes. Lature? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Okay. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have?
 Mayor, a couple of announcements. The city is currently accepting curbside Christmas trees, live Christmas trees that citizens need to dispose of. We're picking those up through the month of January, or you can bring them to 1708 South Armstrong on Tuesdays and Thursdays between 8 to 3 p.m. for no additional charge. The city is also giving away mulch for free during the month of January. It's normally $10 per scoop, so if you need some mulch,
 handle your muddy paths, this is a good time to get it because it's free. January 18th, all city offices that are open to the public will be closed for the Martin Luther King Jr. birthday holiday. I also want to remind citizens who live in and around Hill Street and University Avenue that the railroad is closing those streets beginning tomorrow.
 One day each for the railroad crossing construction on South Hill. It will be closed from MLK to Stone Street. So you'll need to find a detour route for that. It's closed tomorrow from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. And then the following day, on Thursday the 7th,
 University Avenue where there's another railroad crossing will be closed from Putnam to South Gregg Avenue. So if you're in in that area or live in that area, you need to plan for those detours while the railroad repairs the crossings.
 Okay. Anything else? Mayor, I'd like to thank our transportation department. We had an amazing amount of rain, and I expected flooding everywhere, and instead, except for my basement, I think we really didn't have much flooding in town. The streets, I think, remained open. The culverts were cleaned out by transportation division, and so I want to thank them for their hard work during the holiday season to keep us from flooding. Amen. Anything else? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.