here would you join me in the pledge of allegiance I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the election of the vice mayor. I will now open up the floor for nominations. Sarah. Thank you. In light of his excellent attendance record, his... consistency in reading the agenda packets and all of the reports and contracts, I would like to nominate Mark Kenyon for this position. I think he's been an excellent council member and we can count on him to be here regularly. Okay. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Because of his good reasoning ability, because of his desire to see the city develop in a smart way, because of his articulate skills, I nominate Matthew Petty. Okay. I appreciate that. I think I'll turn down the nomination this time since we just did this about a month ago. Okay. And is there any other nominations? Okay. I will close the floor to nominations. When the roll call is had, you just vote for the name that you want to be as vice mayor. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Batch. Kenyon. Butcher. Smith. Kenyon. Gray. Kenyon. Marsh. Kenyon. Kenyon. Kenyon. Petty. Petty. Kenyon. Kenneth. Kenyon. All right, thank you all very much. Congratulations, Mark, again. Well, it's a tough job because you're never absent, Mayor. How many years? Never absent. Well, thank you. But congratulations. Thank you. All right. The next order of business, we have the monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'll start out by saying conditions haven't changed much since last month, but let me go over a few facts with you. Sales tax was a little down in general fund this time, but we're still 4.2% over prior year, which is good. The total general fund revenue is up about 3% this year. We should be up about $1.3 million in revenue by the end of the year, which is good. That should offset what we had projected for the pay plan, which was approved at the end of the first quarter. Street Fund will have about $300,000 additional in revenue for the Street Fund. Street Fund is under a little pressure. As turn back hasn't been as strong as we had expected, this extra $300,000 will come from the gallon tax. And it's welcome, but it's still a little behind what the projections were when it was originally passed. However, we're in good shape for the street fund parking. The parking fee itself is up about 8%. compared to last year and we'll end up with about $100,000 over revenue estimates in the parking fund. Parks development fund, again, that's up about 3%. That's HMR taxes, HMR taxes are up. We still have some capital work that's unexpended. We've still got about a million dollars out there in the parks development fund and capital probably roll over into next year, but we're in good shape there. Water and sewer. Revenue's up about 7% this year. 3% of that should be from our increases. We have a lot of capital work yet continuing in the water and sewer fund. About $14 million worth of capital expenditure still out there, or expended a large amount of the capital program at that point in time. Recycling, recycling, the revenues are up about 9%. Again, we have a lot of capital coming forward. You see tonight you're going to have some new... trucks for the recycling trash collection division. But there we are on pretty fair shape. Again, airport will have a loss of about $170,000 in the airport even though the gasoline sales are up almost 12% compared to last year. That's because capital programs we've been having there. Again, we're holding our own at the airport. Again, I'll remind you that we do look for federal grants to replace capital and do infrastructure out there. It's very expensive, but we've been very, very successful in obtaining grants for infrastructure there. So all in all, we're about the same position we were last month. We're doing pretty well. As far as the general fund, I expect revenue to be up about 3% there, probably $1.3 million in that range for the general fund. All the other funds look solid at this point in time. And I'll be happy to answer any questions. This report is for November, so we have one month left in the fiscal year. We'll have any questions from Paul on this. All right, thank you, Paul. The next order of business we have tonight is the local pension fund, for Fire and Police 2017 report, which I will now read. In keeping with statutory requirements, I am presenting this report for 2017 on the local police and fire retirement and relief funds for the city of Federal. Both of these plans were closed by law in 1983 and were no longer any active working members remaining. There are currently 37 police and 46 fire retirees and beneficiaries in the system. At December 2017, projected expenses from the fire pension fund were approximately $1.3 million as compared to fund revenues of $1 million. Projected police pension fund expenses were approximately $1.5 million as compared to fund revenues in excess of $1.2 million. This is before adjusting investments to current market value. Actuarial evaluations are the responsibility of the State of Arkansas Fire and Police Pension Review. The last evaluations completed was as of May 2017 for the year ending December 31st, 2016. Based on those evaluations, the total pension liability of fire and police funds were $17.8 million and $17.3 million, respectively. The net pension liabilities for these funds were approximately $11.8 million for police and $13.9 million for fire. In the annual reports issued by the Arkansas Pension Review Board, neither the fire nor police pension funds were found to be actually sound pursuant to establish financial tests. The fire pension fund has been classified as projected insolvent since 2009. The fire pension board has been discussing the unstable condition of the fund and possible alternatives since that time. In 2015, the fire pension board brought forward a resolution to the city council requesting the city agree to consolidate the fund lock-in. In October 2015, LOPPE representatives came to federal to discuss the condition of and possible solutions to resolve the fire pension fund financial situation. These presentations were made at a special council special council meetings by LOPPE representatives. In July 2017, representatives of the PRB board again prepared a special report on the status of the fire pension fund and came to federal to present that report. to the pension board and city council in an open meeting. At that meeting, it was reported that based on current revenue and expenditure estimates, the fund will be depleted in approximately 10 to 20 years depending on investment returns. To resolve this funding issue, two possible solutions were suggested. One, the city could subsidize the fund with annual contributions of between $80,000 and $115,000 per year if the investment returns meet estimates. Second, the city could subsidize send the fund to Lofty for administration. However, both of these suggested solutions have negative ramifications. Any subsidy amount would require funds currently used for operations and the amounts per year needed could vary dramatically because of fluctuations in investment earnings or losses. The second suggestion of sending the fund to Lofty for administration would require the city to give irrevocable control of the fund to the Lofty board. This would mean This would mean that neither the local fire pension board nor the city of Federalwoods have a say in administering the fund, and all funding requirements would be determined by Lofty. The city would be told what the contributions each year would be, and the city would be legally required to pay it no matter how high it might be. As you can see, the issue is complex and solutions discussed all could have negative consequences to the city. The city attorney has also advised the council in the past that consolidation might be unconstitutional under state law. No specific request has been made by the fire pension board of the city council in 2017. The police pension fund is also considered actually unsound, but not in the immediate nature of becoming insolvent. The police pension board is also aware of the police pension fund status and has been considering options that would guarantee long-term solvency. I will continue to monitor these pension funds in the future and keep you apprised of any new developments if necessary. So that is the report. Not exactly cheery news, but we are looking to address that. in the future. So do we have any questions or anything or? All right, the next order of business is the consent agenda. And so number one approval of the December 19 2017 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve an agreement of understanding with the Arkansas Department of Transportation for the acceptance of an 80-20 Arkansas Transportation Alternatives Program federal aid grant in the amount of $280,000 for the installation of lighting along the Cato Springs Trail and to approve the budget adjustment. Number three. A resolution to award bid number 17-49 and authorize the purchase of three international 7,300 4x2 recycling trucks with canned bodies in the total amount of $507,300 from Summit Truck Group of Lowell, Arkansas for use by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division. Number four, a resolution to award bid number 17-64 and authorize the purchase of a Bobcat S-595 skid steer and 84 inch angled broom and the total amount of $46,298 from Williams Tractor of Federal Arkansas for use by the Recycling Trash Collection Division. Number five, a resolution to award bid number 17-59 and to authorize the purchase of bulk crushed rock salt from Central Salt LLC for $73 per ton. for materials picked up in 75 65 75 dollars and 65 cents per ton for materials delivered as needed through the 2018 winter season number six a resolution to award bid number 18-01 is to authorize the purchase of reflectorized paint markings from custom pavement maintenance and safety llc in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2018. Number seven, a resolution to award bid number 18-02 and to authorize the purchase of curb and government construction from Faulkman Enterprises Incorporated as primary supplier in variable amounts and authorizing the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2018. Number eight, a resolution to award bid number 18-03 and to authorize the purchase of truck hauling services. from B&B Roofing and Construction of Arkansas LLC as primary supplier and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2018. Number nine, a resolution to award bid number 18-04 and to authorize the purchase of concrete from Toon Trucking Incorporated, DBA, Toon Concrete Company as primary supplier in variable amounts and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2018. Number 10. A resolution to award bid number 18-05 and authorize the purchase of aggregate materials from Hunt Rogers Materials LLC as primary supplier and authorize the use of various secondary vendors as needed through the end of 2018. Number 11, a resolution to award bid number 18-07 and to authorize the purchase of hillside gravel from West Rogers Incorporated in varying amounts and for variable unit prices needed through the end of 2018. Number 12, a resolution to award bid number 18-08 and to authorize the purchase of plastic drainage pipe from Ferguson Water Works as the primary supplier and authorizing use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2018. Number 13, a resolution to award bid number 18-09 and to authorize the purchase of concrete drainage pipe from Sherlock Industries incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices needed through the end of 2018. Number 14, a resolution to award bid number 18-10 and to authorize the purchase of screened topsoils from Les Rogers Incorporated as primary supplier and Schweitzer Construction Incorporated as secondary supplier in variable amounts and varying unit prices needed through the end of 2018. Number 15, a resolution to award bid number 18-11 to authorize the purchase of retaining wall blocks from various vendors for varying unit prices needed through the end of 2018. Number 16, a resolution to award bid number 18-12 to authorize the purchase of high-performance cold mix asphalt from Hudson Construction Company as primary supplier and Atlas Asphalt Incorporated as secondary supplier in the variable amounts and for varying unit prices needed through the end of 2018. Okay. number 17 a resolution to award bid number 18-13 and authorized purchase of construction debris waste disposal services from holtz call excavation incorporated in the amount of 10 per load as needed through the end of 2018. number 18 a resolution to award bid number 18-15 that authorized purchase of decorative fencing from thomas fence as primary supplier and ronson fences secondary supplier and authorizing the use of other bidders based on price and availability is new through the end of 2018 number 19 a resolution to award tea hangar lease agreements at 2018 in 2018 at the current rental rate or as suggested upward by the airport board for all tea hangers rented at the federal executive airport number 20 A resolution to approve a professional engineering service agreement with Goodwin Williamson Yates Incorporated in the amount of $573,309 for engineering design of the East Federal Water System Improvements and Township Tank Project and approving a contingency in the amount of $57,331. Number 21. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $174,135 recognizing... revenue from the sale of the fire prevention of the fire prevention bureau at 833 north crossover road number 22 A resolution to approve the purchase of a 2018 Pierce-Arrell XT fire apparatus from G&W Diesel Service Incorporated in the amount of $893,472 plus a performance and payment bond at a cost of $3,000 pursuant to the Houston-Galveston Area Council's property purchasing contract to approve project contingency in the amount of $15,000 and approve budget adjustment. Number 23, a resolution to approve the conveyance of right-of-way An easement to Black Hills Energy Arkansas incorporated cost portion of the West Side of wastewater treatment facility property and other city owned property along Broyles Road. Number 24 resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of 1,600 dollars, recognizing revenue from the Arkansas Fire and Police pension. Review board for the future supplemental benefits paid to pensioners. and number 25 resolution approved the ninth amended interlocal agreement for jail services with washington county artisal continuing the booking fee at 62 for prisoner in 2018. i will entertain a motion to accept consent agenda's red sir still moved mark i'll second that all right thank you all we have a motion second to accept consent agenda's red sondra would you please call the roll Unch. Yes. Latere. Yes. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Indian. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Yes. Okay. Getting over a little cold here, folks, if you didn't notice. All right. Under unfinished business, number one. A resolution to accept and adopt an energy action plan for the city of Fayetteville. Peter. Mayor, council, good evening. If you will recall at your last city council meeting on December 19th, I presented the highlights of Fayetteville's first energy action plan that provides a framework, vision, scope, goals, and actions for limiting Fayetteville's impact on climate change. The plan calls for an ambitious 80% greenhouse gas emission reduction by 2050, which aligns with the goals of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol and the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement. Emission reductions in the plan are identified in five key areas, natural gas, electricity, vehicle fuels, landfill waste, and wastewater treatment across the community of Fayetteville. The plan includes community cross-sector goals to reduce average housing and transportation costs to 45% or less of the area median income. It proposes to develop and expand Fayetteville's reputation as a hub for socially, economically responsible businesses, entrepreneurship, and green jobs. and it builds support for national carbon emission reduction and carbon capture strategies. Energy efficient building goals included in the plan are to complete periodic feasibility analysis of building energy efficiency code updates, to achieve 3% annual energy use reduction in buildings in Fayetteville, and to improve the health distribution and effectiveness of Fayetteville's urban forest. In the clean energy sector, the goals in the plan include achieving 50% community-wide clean energy by the year 2030 and 100% community-wide clean energy by the year 2050. Transportation sector goals include reducing per capita vehicle miles traveled back to 2010 levels by the year 2030, and achieving a 25% bike walk transit combined commute mode share by the year 2030. And the final community goal is a waste reduction goal of diverting 40% of total landfill waste from our landfills by 2027, and that goal aligns with the recycling master plan that you all adopted last year. The city, of course, wants to lead by example, and so included in the plan are city government operational goals that include achieving 80% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, achieving 100% clean energy supply for city government operations by the year 2030, and achieving 3% annual energy use reduction in city facilities. These goals are supported by 26 strategies and over 100 specific actions in the plan. And again, these goals all feed into the overarching community-wide goal of 80% greenhouse gas emission reduction by the year 2050. The overall vision of the Energy Action Plan is to encourage energy efficient homes and businesses in Fayetteville, to move Fayetteville forward towards energy independence, to promote a culture of innovation, to improve our public health, to achieve cleaner air and water and soil, to encourage resilient local businesses, to promote a collective understanding of climate change and our impacts on climate change, and to leave a legacy of stewardship for future generations of Fayetteville residents. I would also like to note that if this plan is approved, Fayetteville will become the 54th city in the United States to adopt 100 percent clean energy goals. Before I move on to any specific questions you might have this evening, I did want to address a couple of questions that we received at the last meeting and since the last meeting. First, a question from Alderman – excuse me, Councilmember Latour on the cost of green roofs as compared to traditional roofs. We did some research and found a 2017 EPA and General Services Administration report that noted that green roofs on average cost two and a half to six times more than a traditional low slope commercial roof. That report noted significant life cycle savings associated with green roofs and an estimated payback of 6.2 years for green roofs on commercial and public buildings. They noted that the primary benefits of green roofs fell into three categories, economic, environmental, and social benefits. Green roofs require less frequent replacement than traditional roofs and can easily last up to 50 years. They can reduce the heating and cooling bills of the buildings due to the greater insulating ability of the roofs because of the thickness of the roof. And then, of course, can reduce stormwater and reduce any stormwater management costs associated with the development. Green roofs can also be a location for native plants and pollinator gardens. They can provide air quality improvements, and can reduce summertime heat island impacts, particularly in urbanized areas. They also have sound dampening qualities and can be used as educational tools in places for public gatherings. The General Services Administration estimates that for a 20 000 square foot building 130 000 of savings can be achieved over 25 years with installation of a green roof second question we received was through from council member petty who was curious to know a little bit more about the 100 percent citywide operational goal of being powered by clean energy by the year 2030 how realistic is that a goal So just to put that 100% goal in context, currently the city government operations is powered by 21% clean energy through a combination of clean energy received from our two electric utilities, Sweppco and Ozarks Electric. We do have a small amount of rooftop solar on a couple city buildings, and then in 2016 the city purchased 100 panels in the Ozarks Electric solar array in Springdale. So all of that combined together totals that 21% that we're at currently for our baseline. You may also be aware of a recent announcement by Swepco. Swepco provides electricity to roughly 70% of the businesses and residents in Fayetteville. They are currently in the development of building the largest wind farm in the United States in the panhandle of Oklahoma. It will be, when constructed, the second largest wind farm. the second largest wind farm in the world. It also includes a 350 mile transmission line that will bring 2000 megawatts of wind power to their service territory in Arkansas, Oklahoma, Louisiana and Texas. And that 2000 megawatts of wind power is four times larger than the coal fire power plant in Gentry, Arkansas. If you haven't heard about the project, I encourage you to check it out at windcatcher.com. Additionally, there's some representatives from SWEPCO here this evening that could answer specific questions about that particular project that is very exciting. Additionally, with the project, SWEPCO will offer what are called renewable energy credits that will allow customers of theirs to offset their electricity consumption with 100% wind power. The purchase of the renewable energy credits along with the increase in renewable energy that will be in our grid would put Fayetteville's operations, city operations at 43% clean energy by the year 2021, which is when that project will come online. So that, again, just to recap, 21% right now would go to 43% by the year 2021 with renewable energy credits from that particular project. So that still leaves 57% that's unanswered. The majority of that 57% electricity consumption comes from the city's two wastewater treatment plants that are supplied electricity from Ozarks Electric Cooperative, the other electric utility in our area. Those two wastewater treatment plants do have a couple of possibilities that we are looking at. They are not yet defined, but there are ample land resources at both wastewater treatment plants. So solar may be a possibility at those facilities. Another possibility could be a methane capture from anaerobic sludge digestion that could be used to power a combined heat and power system at the wastewater treatment plant that could provide electricity and heat for sludge drying. Alternatively, renewable energy credits may also come available through Ozarks Electric. Adoption of this plan certainly sends that signal to Ozarks and other utility companies. With those answers provided, I'm happy to answer any other questions that you all might have on the Energy Action Plan. Okay, what questions do we have, Peter, on this? John. Hi, Peter. In a court of law, we have devices that we use to ensure that there's no element of surprise when you're trying a case. And our city attorney can certainly describe those to you. I'm gonna ask you a question, I'm sure it comes as no surprise to you. Apparently part of our framework for action, on page 48 of the plan, we make the statement, we'll make appropriate infill and revalidation our highest priority. Explain to me how that would impact a developer say, coming on the edge of town with a 20-acre tract and wants to build $300,000 homes. What would that mean to him or her? So that goal comes directly from City Plan 2030, which is on the board behind you all, and it relates to the transportation efficiency associated with development and encouraging development in a location and at an appropriate density that allows for transportation options other than single occupant vehicles to. to increase the efficiency of the transportation component of the energy action plan. So if I were going to be that developer, I would think I'm probably out of luck because the city probably won't approve my development because you can't walk to it or you can't ride a bike to it? I think that... There are certainly high-level goals that guide city policy. There's also a myriad of ordinances and development regulations that fit under those high-level goals. And over time, the objective is to try to align those so that they do – they do complement one another and are in alignment with one another and without knowing the specifics of that particular project I can't answer whether or not that developer would be out of luck or not but I can certainly say that the high-level goal of city plan 2030 along with the energy action plan is to move towards more efficient transportation options and obviously appropriate infill in the right location is part of that component did you know that I'm wearing a t-shirt tonight You didn't know that, did you? I didn't know. Let me go ahead and admit it, everybody. I'm wearing a t-shirt tonight. What color is it, John? It is white, Mayor. And it was dried via solar energy. I have a solar clothes dryer at my house. You might know it as a clothesline. Okay? We still use a clothesline. Now, all of you who fancy yourselves being green people, do you have a clothesline? I bet I'm more green than most people. Okay? I just gave photocells, to people for Christmas. I like solar energy. I like the idea of getting energy for free from the sun. But let me tell you, photocells are not free. And they wear out. In five years you have to replace a photocell. That is all to say, I like energy. I like cheap energy. If we can do it with photocells better, great. Let's use photocells. If we can do it with wind turbines, great. Let's do it with wind turbines. There are people who work at AEP Sweat Co. who can put a pencil to all that and decide which is the best way, most efficient way to produce energy. Now, if they've decided that wind turbines in Oklahoma or northwest Arkansas, wherever they're putting them, are good and efficient, great. That's above my pay scale. I can't make that calculation. They can't. That's what we pay them to do. But I don't want this to inhibit the development of our city. We want good-paying jobs here. We want a good tax base in order to fund our schools at an appropriate level of funding. Springdale is growing to beat the band. They will soon be larger than Fayetteville, probably. I'm afraid if we adopt further regulations on business saying we won't, you know, if we're going to cite our new energy efficient code as reasons why we can't approve a development plan in West Fayetteville or East Fayetteville, It's going to slow that development. It's going to kill that development. We need more tax base in this city I implore my colleagues. We're underpaying our city employees We're making headway on that and I applaud that effort mayor But to get more sales tax dollars if you haven't looked at your electric bill lately look at it There's a sales tax line that charges you sales tax on every charge there is the base charge the fuel charge whatever charge Every time we don't build a house in Fayetteville, we're giving up sales tax dollars, and somebody else is going to get those sales tax dollars. We need to have an energy policy that doesn't inhibit the development of our city. If we've already stated that our purpose is to encourage appropriate infill and revitalization in our 2030 plan, why do we have to restate it in the energy plan? It's already there, right? How do you respond to that? It is, and I think the answer is, again, because part of the scope of the Energy Action Plan is to include that transportation sector and reductions in carbon emissions in that transportation sector. That land-use-transportation nexus is absolutely appropriate. And one of the... I guess, for lack of a better word, that we're trying to do as staff in terms of presenting plans for adoption at the council level is creating a nexus between our various plans. So you'll notice in this plan there very much is nexus between the Energy Action Plan and the Transportation Plan that's currently under development. recycling reduction master plan that was adopted last year, city plan, the active transportation plan. Many of those goals align and overlap. And so it is appropriate, in my opinion, to... to restate those goals to add specificity to them where they apply in an energy context as opposed to a land use context or transportation context so that's why they're they're in this plan as well as in the city plan document so from your perspective a good plan will encourage people not to drive cars single occupant vehicles uh From your way of thinking, then, we need to transform our way of thinking for our citizens to think you have to carpool and have at least three or four appropriate number of people in a vehicle, or maybe not have any vehicle at all. From what you're telling me is we want to tie our development with our transportation, and because we don't like single-occupant vehicles, i.e., the cars we drive every day, then we need to encourage just development where you don't have to drive a car. I don't think this plan says anywhere that we don't like single occupancy vehicles, but what the plan does note, and you'll find it in the detail of the – the greenhouse gas emission inventory that is in there is that the transportation sector emissions for Fayetteville have been on an upward trajectory and the primary reason for that is increase in vehicle miles traveled, particularly those vehicle miles that are single occupancy driven vehicles. So it's not that we don't like them and we're going to tell people not to do that. We're not going to do that. What we want to do is provide options for people so that they can do something other than that if they choose to do so. And this plan lays out through a myriad of different transportation strategies, options for doing that, strategies for doing that, goals for doing that, because we know that our carbon emissions in our transportation sector are going up and we've got to bring those down and we know from looking at peer communities across the country that we're One of the most effective strategies for doing that is by reducing, eliminating the single occupancy vehicles. So not every single occupant vehicle trip is going to be ended or stopped or eliminated, but we're going to provide options where people can do something other than that if they choose to do so. So in your opinion, if I'm that developer on the west side of town and I have 20 acres I want to develop, because it is not infill and because it's not... connected closely to our transportation goals, would that be reason enough to deny the developer the authority to build that development? Again, I don't think I can provide judgment on that. That level of detail, there may be other factors. It may be located close to frequent transit access. It may have great connectivity to bicycle trailers. Many factors that go into it. And so I don't believe a plan, a 50,000 foot view plan can answer a 100 foot view elevation question such as that one that you're asking. Thank you, Peter. Okay. Sarah. Thank you, Mayor. First, I would like to clarify, we received an information packet. Who is this from? I'd like to know what citizen I'm considering input from. Do we know? Anybody know? Oh, I see this gentleman. What is your name, sir? Okay, thank you. Okay, I... read through this plan several times and is a fantastic plan thank you so much Peter and your team for putting it together um and I would like to remind the council that a recent study by the Center for neighborhood technology in found that for every dollar we spend on energy 97 cents leaves our state So when we waste energy, we waste money. And that is why it is important, one of the many reasons it's important that we implement this energy action plan. And I would also like to note that sustainability was a key focus sector that was identified in the Fayetteville First Economic Vitality Plan. And I really appreciate the cross-sector goals in this plan, specifically the goal to reduce housing and transportation costs to less than 45% of median income. That's an important goal for our economy, especially for those of us that are struggling. And I like the focus on growing green jobs and the green economy. This is an economic development plan. It's about saving energy, wise use of resources, and growing our economy. Something that I did have a question about was on the LED streetlights. I'll just say there are several of the goals I felt were not quite ambitious enough. And we have a goal of 100% LED streetlights by 2030. When we have a lot of data that shows that lighting retrofits have some of the fastest payback periods, And they replacing these on a quicker timeline would help us improve our neighborhoods and safety as well as address some of our dark skies issues. What was the thinking in setting that at 2030 instead of 2020? Okay. Primarily, the rationale for that date was just the scope of replacing, retrofitting all the streetlights in the city of Fayetteville. There's many thousands of streetlights. Very few of those are LED at this point. But we are seeing some strong progress in that area. We recently completed a pilot project with Ozarks Electric in West Fava where we retrofitted 16 existing streetlights with new bulbs that used half the amount of electricity as the existing streetlights. lights provided the same amount of light quality. We did pre and post surveys of the citizens, the residents that lived in that area, and saw astronomical levels of appreciation and satisfaction with the retrofit. So we're continuing to have dialogue with Ozarks on what additional retrofits could look like. Ozarks is also offering LEDs for new installations on many of their streetlight installation applications. We're also having conversations with SWEPCO on what those retrofits could look like. Okay, so this is primarily just the rate of movement we're seeing from utility companies is what might be the holdup there? Yeah, and it's just the sheer magnitude and scope and number of streetlights. I mean, it takes a lot of time. a lot of time and resources to do those change outs. And ideally, as the old lights burn out, over time we can replace them with LEDs as a strategy for not creating additional work and additional demand for resources to get that replacement done. Thank you. And then I'm glad you talked about the clean energy for the local government. I was thinking that goal wasn't quite ambitious enough. I see us. We if we worked hard at it, we could probably hit that by 2025. But the other thing I was wondering, do we have the ability to report on energy consumption and expenditure each month with our monthly sales tax report? That is a question you're talking about in terms of community-wide? No, at least – well, maybe for the community, at least for the municipal energy use. Oh, you want to report to council? Yeah, report to council. Okay. Just like we get our monthly sales tax report, could we include energy consumption on that as well? I think we could probably do that. And you're talking about – city government operations? Sure. Yeah. Yeah. And I'd love to see us challenge our neighbors in the region, um, so that we can compare just like we do with sales tax as to how we're doing with energy. I think that might be an innovative way. We could encourage others to participate. Um, Then I guess the last comment I had was I noted that in the action items you had assigned each one to a city department, but I'd like to see us go further and assign them to boards and committees so that we have an amazing wealth of knowledge on our boards and committees. If people were to sit in or watch those interviews, it's really impressive and I would like to engage those people in helping us implement this plan. And then furthermore, I hope that once this is passed, that staff will move quickly to bring forward all the proposed policy changes for action items with any savings potential or that are revenue neutral immediately. But thank you so much for your work. I think this is a great plan. Absolutely, thank you. Kyle. So Peter, I was, particularly impressed with the plan's emphasis not just on reduction of numbers but also on how it contributes to social and equity issues as well um can you can you highlight a couple of the things in there that you think draw that out as far as whether it's creating jobs and How does this help us besides just the bottom line? Sure, Seth, great question. Energy, the burden of energy efficiency often or energy inefficiency often falls on lower income members of the community, particularly in cold weather scenarios like we have right now, a lot of older, less well-efficient homes that heat with electric resistance heat. can see electric bills I've heard as high as $400 per month to keep a home not even reasonably warm in the wintertime. So some of the focuses in the plan that specifically relate to... collaborations with community resources and leveraging CDBG funds and also leveraging existing incentives that are available through the utility companies to target some of those low-income sectors to do a better job reaching those folks that need a lot more assistance and maybe need a little additional hand-holding in terms of working their way through the process of retrofitting their home is absolutely a component of this plan because we have We firmly believe that energy security, energy independence, energy efficiency should not just be available to those with means, but should be available broadly to every citizen in Fayetteville. And there's, like you said, there's 100 plus action items in here. Some of them look familiar. How many are already in progress? Yeah. Roughly 32, 34 are ongoing or in progress. Another dozen or so are ready to be started rather quickly. Any other questions? Okay. Let's open it up for public comment. Thank you, Peter. Everybody gets five minutes at the microphone. and keep your comments to me. Whatever questions you got, we'll answer those the best we can. And then if we can't get them answered, we'll wait till you're completely done. Then we'll try and answer those questions. Don't engage any of the council members. Anybody out in the public stay on topic. We're talking about the energy action plan, name and address and you get one turn at the microphone less council member brings you back up. and ask you questions. You get the five minutes, but if they want to give you more time, it will take a motion and a second from a council member and the majority of the council to allow you more time. Then we'll decide how much more time that is. All right. Everybody clear? All right. Thank you. My name is Scott Collins. I live in Ward Number 1. I provided a small handout of notes that I would talk from. I'd like to start off by saying that the Energy Action Plan is an excellent plan. It sets clear goals, establishes metrics to measure progress, and identifies actions to be taken if we don't meet the goals or the progress. except for the one item, okay? And the one item has already been talked about, item on page 48. We will make appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priority. Infill and revitalization I think are excellent, I think appropriate, leaves a lot of area to cover. The energy action plan goes on to say that infill is inherently more sustainable. I think that if you take a 3,000-square-foot house and you set it down in a new development where the infrastructure is newly developed and sized for the house and the other houses in the area, you have a very sustainable infrastructure. If you take the exact same 3,000 square foot house and you plop it down in an area that has 30 to 50 year old infrastructure and has infrastructure that was originally designed for one and two bedroom homes, I think you don't have a sustainable structure. It says infill and revitalization is often driven by local government investments. This is also very true. If you plop that 3,000 square foot house down in a 30 to 50 year old infrastructure, the city has a lot of investment to do to bring the infrastructure up to where it will support the house. So yes, it's driven by local government investment. The city can spend a lot of money. uh, on infrastructure for infill. And lastly, it says, uh, in infill also helps to strengthen the core of the city by placing people's homes near the places they work and shop. This is true. We get a really nice reduction in energy by having people close to where they work, where they shop, uh, and where they play because you, you lose the, uh, driving all the time you know the long trips but that doesn't make it appropriate to infill an area and in my notes I talked about Markham Hill Markham Hill is already majorly owned by a developer and we could have infill which divided that up into 48 foot Lots and build to 16 foot 50 foot units on each lot and we would supply the needs of Fayetteville for a long time it would be infilled people wouldn't have to drive very far but yet it's not really what we want in a community so what I'm trying to get at is the appropriate needs to be worked on okay appropriate kovati and pornography it's on my next slide and what I'm trying to say here is those three terms are real similar because they don't have a metric that measures, that tells us when we are appropriate, when we are kvaffi or when we've got pornography. You know, is pornography bad? That's been beat up by the courts for years. We don't know because no one has defined what bad pornography is. Is appropriate infield good or bad? We don't know because nobody's defining what appropriate is. If you take a different term like exploitation, Exploitation is clearly defined. The action or fact of treating someone unfairly in order to benefit. So we need a better term. In closing, I will just simply say that we need to remove that from the Energy Action Plan before we implement it because we have not defined appropriate. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? I'M GARY KAHANIK. MY ADDRESS IS 952 SOUTH WASHINGTON AVENUE. I'D LIKE TO THANK THE CITY STAFF, THE MAYOR, FOR PUTTING THIS PLAN TOGETHER. IT BRINGS THE ISSUE OF CLIMATE MITIGATION UP FRONT AND CENTER WHERE IT NEEDS TO BE. THE PUBLIC NEEDS TO HEAR THIS. ALSO THE PLAN IS GREAT IN THAT IT HAS A LOT OF SPECIFIC ACTION ITEMS. WORD OF CAUTION ABOUT ENERGY EFFICIENCY. There are many great things about energy efficiency programs, all good reasons to do, but climate mitigation and emissions reduction is not at the top of that list. And this is because of Jevons paradox. This is a principle that's been shown for over 150 years that when you have an efficiency measure, the savings get used in some other area. So. funds get used for something else, the energy gets used for something else, more widgets are purchased, and in the end, energy use may stay flat or even increase. So, the percent reductions don't necessarily translate to a reduction in overall emissions. The economy goes up because of the savings. But still, efficiency measures, lots of benefits for the people and for local communities. I'm pleased about taking the word renewable out of the plan and substituting it with clean energy. Renewable is a brand, it's a marketing term, and it does not state clearly anything relating to emissions properties that energy source. Clean has its own issues. For example, biomass has copious carbon emissions. Nuclear power has zero emissions. It's not classified as renewable, even though the ocean and the Earth's crust has, you know, an infinite supply essentially. So I like to focus on clean. The ambitious targets of 80% and 100% reductions, that's great, but taking that to state and country level in terms of our entire energy system, there's no evidence that going 100% wind and solar even remotely feasible and there is much evidence that says it is not feasible. So we need to keep this in mind and again when we think about clean energy, renewable energy, for many of us we think about wind and solar but those produce electricity and we have other energy sectors of transportation, industrial process, building heating, And those are non-electric sources and they're a significant part of our overall budget. So if we're serious about climate, we need to deal with those other energy sectors as well. So if wind and solar have limitations, what's left? Nuclear power is the only other major scalable source of energy that's clean and that's zero emissions. I know that there's concerns about this. I think the media has misrepresented it. But this needs to be looked at in terms of our, we need to do some risk assessment. And that is that yes, nuclear may have some problems, but they pale in insignificance in comparison to the risk of failing to mitigate climate change. So that's the framework that we need to look at that in. Also in terms of, if we're gonna decarbonize our energy supply, How has this been done in the past worldwide? The only regions and countries that have rapidly and successfully decarbonized their electricity supply have done it with nuclear or a combination of nuclear and hydro. The countries that have aggressively deployed wind and solar technologies have seen their emissions flat or even increase. huge increases in cost of electricity. So I'm not saying that wind and solar are bad, but if we're really serious about this, we need to keep the dialogue going and really do the math. And by the way, it's basically the consensus of the scientific community that we cannot meaningfully mitigate climate change without nuclear being a part of the mix. So thank you. Thank you, Gary. John, you had a question? No question, Mayor. All right. All right. Who'd like to address us next? Good evening, Mr. Mayor and council members. My name is Joyce Hale. I live at 285 West Cleburne near Wilson Park in what I think is one of the finest neighborhoods in Fayetteville. As president of the League of Women Voters of Washington County, I would like to express our support. for the energy action plan that has been developed by the City of Fayetteville. In studying public policy issues at local, state, and national levels, the League advocates for protection and sustainability of ecosystems. We believe that requires an informed and participating electorate. Issues that have become part of the local League's ongoing plan of action include diversity in housing, public transportation, solid waste management, trees and landscape provisions, hillside development, solid waste management, trees and landscape parks and management. All of these have important relationships to energy and they have been well demonstrated within the plan. Most encouraging about this plan is its long-term view. In an age of instant gratification, short attention spans, and pressure for quarterly profits. It is reassuring to see that leaders commit to the future. But we have no longer the luxury of time for another study or another change in leadership. This is the moment. Even if we were to ignore what science is showing regarding man's impact on climate, how could we justify contributing more CO2 to the severe weather-related incidents that we are experiencing now. For those who question the economic justification for acting now, we should consider how much less expensive things would have been if we had started 20 years ago. Finally, I need to take off my league hat and speak as Joyce Hale, resident of Fayetteville. I hope that you will continue to build on the clean curbside separation system that has evolved from the city's first recycling efforts that were started by Marianne Orton. Marianne's importance as a leader in the League of Women Voters and to the city of Fayetteville cannot be overstated. In an effort to maintain clean, marketable recyclables, Fayetteville rises above those now experiencing China's rejection of U.S. contaminated recyclable materials. This fact and many others makes us proud of Fayetteville and its forward thinking and the standards that it sets. While we must see an increase in recycling participation, To meet the goals that you have generously set in this plan, we should not sacrifice quality for quantity. Thank you for providing this plan. It's a tremendous effort, and I am very proud to see that it's being done. Thank you. Thank you, Joyce. Who else would like to address? I'm Cyrus Young, 210 North Lucas. Adopting this action plan will not demonstrate leadership. Leadership can only be demonstrated by doing something specifically. I submitted some comments on this plan, and one of the things I suggested was that the city enact something to require residential construction to have aluminum foil put on the outside walls and on the roofs. outside walls right underneath the, just before they put the outside siding on. Right now, and the reason I suggested that is because it's really straightforward. Right now, the builders are putting plastic on the outsides of the walls. You can see that when you drive around and see any new construction. The plastic is there to keep the wind from blowing through the building, and it'll do that until the sun's rays break it down into powder. Aluminum foil will not be broken down by the sun. As a matter of fact, that's what it's there for, is to block the sunlight. You want to talk about reducing your air conditioning cost in the summertime, put that aluminum foil on the outside of the walls. If enough people did that, maybe SWPCO wouldn't have to build any more wind farms in the future. But the, as I say, it's straightforward. The builders are putting the plastic up right now. That means the labor cost is already built into the project. Any difference in cost between the plastic and aluminum should be insignificant compared to the total cost of the project. But it will significantly reduce the amount of energy required in residential construction. And you're talking about reducing energy. That's where it's at. And that is a simple, straightforward thing you can do. You can help the people of Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you, Cyrus. Anybody else like to address us on this? Okay. Good evening. Keaton Smith, Ward 2, 8080s, 4th Street. Just wanted to speak in support of the plan and commend the staff, Peter and Sarah, and rachel and and then the mayor and council for your leadership and and looking at these important issues appreciate the broad scope and commitment to transparency and the specific actions that are listed so thank you thank you anyone else okay i'm going right back to the council all right sarah i move we approve the resolution okay mark i second that all right All right, we have a motion and a second to pass a resolution. What comments do we have? Are we okay? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Mitch? Yes. LeChair? No. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. All right. Okay, let me get back to my. All right, the next order of business we have tonight is a public hearing that I will open A resolution over the raising and removal of the lap-dead and unsafe structure on property owned by Paul Brickman located at 171 East Meadow Street in the City of Federal Arkansas and to approve a budget adjustment of $4,715. Thank you, Mayor, Council, David Carver, Code Compliance Administrator. This address consists of a single story, 520 square foot family, single family dwelling. The property has been highly problematic for code compliance, receiving 18 requests for service in the past five years. The Fabless Police Department has also experienced issues with transient and vagrant activity, and they've received 12 calls in the past five years between the subject structure and the adjacent vacant structure. The property owner has been inconsistent with communication and for the most part unresponsive as to any intentions for abatement. to this date no building permits have been issued or applied for and if we can flip the monitor i've got some photos to illustrate what we're looking at so this is the structure i'm sorry since then we have secured the structure so it's no longer unsecure sorry on this photo you can see the foundation sliding down the hill The building is also lifting off of the foundation. That's just another really bad sign of settling. You can see the inadequate ground wire coming from the main power. Sorry, this is flipping on me. And then again, you have a failing foundation lifting for Joyce. Here you see a completely failed foundation along with another settling. There you can still see the building lifting off the foundation again. not a good thing for a building to be doing. Here you see a completely failed foundation. This has since been covered over with a parge coat, which is highly inconsistent with any kind of adequate repair. Here's the inside. You have exposed insulation, incomplete or inadequate plumbing or non-existent plumbing, incorrect framing, incorrect blocking, exposed wiring, obvious vagrant activity going on. here's the breaker box completely inadequate for any kind of service again exposed wiring right at the front entrance of the building and then if you zoom out again more exposed wiring and you know if there were to ever be service there this could be a huge safety concern so that's what we're looking at um i'll field any questions that you may have okay what questions do we have nothing all right is the applicant here oh sir i see that you thank you I received a an email from the property owner stating that they were making improvements and requested that we hold this or table it and give them an opportunity to demonstrate that to a code official so I'll just make that note right now I think we probably need to hear public comment I'm gonna do that let me get the public call yeah and then I'll move the applicant here the property owner lives in maryland he's been absentee i believe he stayed the last time he saw his 2008s all right is there any uh public comment on this okay i'm gonna bring it back to the council all right so all right justin yeah i actually have a question for um council member marsh what do you have a time frame in mind as far as um let me take the email here for them to demonstrate anything I would say we give them 30 days to demonstrate some significant improvements. If they can't do that, then I would feel ... But it's an older structure in a neighborhood where we've seen a lot of loss of older structures, and so I'm hesitant to just tear it down at the first try. But if he can demonstrate, let's say in 30 days, that he's making the needed improvements, then I think that we should hold off. So you want to move to the first meeting in February then? Yes, the first meeting in February, please. Do we have a second on that? Did you second that, Justin or John? I have a motion. All righty, John. All right, we have a motion and a second to table this item for 30 days, correct, the first meeting in February. Correct? Anybody good? All right. Any comments on that? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Hutch? Yes. LeTourne? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Moving on to new business. Number one, a resolution to approve the agreements for assignment of two leases for cell tower sites from Smith Communications LLC to American Tower LLC as requested by Smith Communications LLC. All right. Who has that? Well, I think Council Member Petty asked me to draft this up, but if you have any introductory comments. No, go ahead. Okay. Okay. We have cell towers sometimes located at water tower sites. We like to do that for two reasons. First is that there's already been some visual problems at the site because of the water tower. I apologize to our water department, but they're not the most beautiful structures we have. And so we'd rather have a cell tower share that site with them than put a cell tower somewhere else where it might visually impair a different neighborhood. The second thing is that we get rent from them and that's helpful to our citizens. And so there's a couple towers that were built by Smith Communications LLC. They're not a cell phone company. They're a tower company. They build towers and rent out the space to other cell phone companies. And one of them is on the township site which is at the top of the Hill 1 township A little bit off the road. There are some trees around it, but obviously these are tall towers just like the water tank, and so you can't see it. That one and another one that was built near the edge of the city on Ivy Lane have both been offered for sale, and the sale has been accepted by another company. And when we had our lease agreements, there were provisions in there that said that they could assign these to an outside entity with the consent of the city council. And therefore, to get consent of the city council, it has to be a resolution. And that's what we've suggested here. As you all can see, I created a couple agreements for assignments of these two leases to ensure that the new company would follow all the terms and conditions of the original lease. And we continue to get our rents. And they would continue to comply with all the terms, including removing the tower, if they ever decide that they're no longer needed. They have 90 days, I think, to take them down. So because of that, I think that – and we have now got a signed agreement from the tower – other tower company, American Tower, LLC. Mr. Reynolds supplied that to my office today, the actual hard copy, which I've given to the city clerk because she's our fictional custodian. So we have those in hand. And at this point, I think I'll answer any questions you might have, or Mr. Reynolds might be able to respond to any questions you might have. I don't know if you have a presentation, David, you want to do? MR. Do you want to say something? MR. No, I just want to thank the Council for this and for bringing this forward on the agenda. This is – these two sites will be part of a larger sale of the company of about 49 other sites. But just want to let you know, we're not out of business or anything like that. It's just a sale of some assets through the company. That's really all it is. Like Mr. Williams said, the agreements will all remain the same. It will just be a different owner of the structure. Okay. Is there any questions for Mr. Reynolds, Kit, or anybody good? All right. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. So you know I'll bring it back to the council. Matthew you want to say anything or? Yep. Um just wanted to move that we approve the resolution. All right. John? Second the motion, Mayor. All right we have motion second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from council? John you have something else? Oh okay. All right. Sandra would you please call the roll? Hutch? Yes. LeTourne? Yes. Smith? Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. all right number two an ordinance to weigh competitive bending and septum repair quota 208 198 plus any applicable tax from automatic engineering to repair seven area gearboxes for the nolan wastewater facilities kit Whereas formal sealed bidding is not necessary for the repair of quote hidden or unknown damages unquote and whereas automatic engineering is taken apart and examined seven aerator gearboxes and determined that repair of these gearboxes would cost $208,198. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that because of the Arkansas Procurement Law R6, colon 19-11-203, subsection 14, ee, repair of quote hidden or unknown damages does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore weighs competitive bidding and accepts automatic engineer repair quote of two hundred and eight thousand one hundred and ninety eight dollars plus any taxes and authorizes a payment of that amount. Okay, Tim. Thank you, Mayor. The Nolan wastewater treatment plant has two basins that contain 16 of these mixers. What we're asking for is to improve the rebuilding of 70s aerators. These are large units and what it's shown is if you rebuild them rather than replace them, you'll still get practically the same life out of them as Biden did. And like Kidd said, they were taken to a certified repair facility and taken apart to see what the damage was. And the damage is $208,198. This project was taken to the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee on November the 14th and was voted 3-0 to submit to the council for approval. Do we have to answer any questions? Okay, what questions do we have for Tim on this? Any public comment on this? Okay, then we'll let you all in on this. Mark? I move that we accept the resolution. It's an ordinance. Well, an ordinance. I move we make forward with the ordinance. Second. Second. Adele? I second that motion. We have a motion to say we can go to the second reading. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Hutch. Yes. LeTierre. Yes. Smith. Yes. Wright. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Kinnett. Yes. Yes. ordinance away competitive bidding and to accept a repair quote of two hundred eight thousand one hundred ninety eight dollars plus any applicable tax with automatic engineering to repair seven aerator gearboxes for the Nolan wastewater facility okay Adele I'm a we go the third and final reading mark I second that we have a motion and second go to the third and final reading Sondra would you please call the roll Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you. All number three, an ordinance awaits the requirements for competitive bidding during 2018 for the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the Transportation Division but to require informal quarterly bids and closures. Okay. Whereas the crude oil market continues to experience price volatility. And whereas this volatility makes normal competitive bidding procedures unworkable, impractical, and not feasible. And whereas the Transportation Division proposes to solicit and accept bids on a quarterly basis without need for further approval of the City Council through 2018. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. that the city council the city of favor largely hereby finds that such circumstances constitute an exceptional situation where formal competitive bidding is not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding for the purchase of asphalt materials through calendar year 2018 and authorizes the transportation division solicit informal bids or quotes on a quarterly basis without the need for further approval by the city council okay Yes, Mayor, Council. This is the same thing we've done for the last several years due to the volatility of the oil prices. This ensures that we get the best competitive price by bidding it four times throughout the year. Missed ordinance just to weigh the bringing that back to you for approval four times this year. We will do the bids. We will take the low bidders and we'll proceed on with your permission. Did this go through the Transportation Committee? No. It's just the same type of thing we do every year. It's essentially like our bids we approved in that, but due to an ordinance. This was done with our bidding that you passed on the consent agenda. Terry, when I buy gasoline from my single occupancy car, I buy Shell, I buy Walmart, I buy Mobil, I buy... I cannot tell the difference between gasoline from one of those suppliers to another. Is the same true about asphalt? Yes, because they have engineered specifications they must meet, either whether it's type 3 asphalt, which is used mostly on city streets, or if it's super paved, used by the highway department. They have to meet those specifics when they bid that. How many providers of asphalt do we have here in northwest Arkansas? We normally have two bidders. Okay. And we usually take the lower bid? We always take the lower bid. Thank you, Terry. Any other questions for Terry? All right. Any public comment on this? Then I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Adele? I move that we vote on this ordinance, pass this ordinance. Go to the second reading. Go to the second reading. All right. Justin? Second. We have a motion to second. We go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? French? Yes. Latour? Yes. Neff? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. In ordinance away the requirements of formal competitive bidding during 2018 for the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the transportation division, but to require informal quarterly bids or quotes. Maybe we suspend the rules and go to the third and final meeting. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final meeting. I'm going to put you, please call the roll. Fudge? Yes. Latour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding during 2018 for the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the Transportation Division, but to require informal quarterly bids or quotes. Is there any final comments from the council on that? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Chair? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. All right. Number 4, resolution to approve the Transportation Division Overlay and Sidewalk Projects List for 2018. Terry? Yes. This is a spring forward to you all for your consideration. The sidewalk and overlay plan for 2018, these have both been through the I'll turn to the Transportation Committee and the Transportation Committee, and we're forwarded for your consideration. So we have a list of the streets and for both the sidewalks and the overlays and the packet, and just I'm here to answer any questions you might have about that. What questions do we have for Terry on this? committee meeting it was my first official topic to talk about You mentioned that there were some concerns then. We've been saying a lot of the work that has come into play since then, and I suspect we're gonna hear some of them talked about tonight. The rationale that I keep hearing on the Paulson and Oliver pair for Ward 4 is that they've been on the list for a long time. Can you tell us a little bit more about the process? Well, the request for that has been on the list since 2014. It has floated around or near the top since then this year. Both the Active Transportation Committee forwarded on with it being on the list. We, as staff, looked at it, and one of the things that we saw and hoped to get out of this was to also – to manage traffic on Razorback football game days because it's an area that's very high traffic. Also, it gives an alternative route from the steepness of trying to go up Cleveland Street to get up in that Cleveland or Razorback area where you can then turn to grass on to the campus and move around that. But the other route that there is, a couple of years ago, we put in a connection across Cross Street and West, connecting to Markham Avenue and connected that sidewalk to Maple. That does get you to the stadium and help on game days, however it's not really conducive to moving people that might be walking through the neighborhood or someone that might live in the area that are moving towards either working or attending school on campus because the the problem with that Route is it puts you right on the south end of the stadium on Razorback and there is no direct Easterly route from there You either have to go back up to Maple To transgress on to the east or you have to go further south to meadow And move up in more the middle of the campus on Stadium Drive. I So that's one of the reasons we recommended this. We felt like there was enough of a need there, and there was natural barriers, kind of like we have with roads going across some of the mountains, the stadium, and some of the football, especially since they built the new football office complex and the new practice fields that kind of limited access directly to the east. So that's kind of the history behind it. Any other questions? Okay. Sorry, I was a little late to get to that. Sarah, go ahead. Yes, I received quite a few emails about this, and one of the complaints was that this was going to, putting in the sidewalk was going to have to take out a lot of sizable trees. Do you have any idea how many? Well, I drove through there today. I mean, there's... There's a few large oaks there, I would say, somewhere in the neighborhood, five to seven. One of the issues with this street and sidewalk and right-of-way is that most of... There's a 40-foot of right-of-way there. It's approximately a 20, 22-foot road at most. However, that lays almost exclusively, especially the closer you get to the east end, on the south side of the right-of-way. The city actually owns the right of way, probably close to 15 to 20 foot onto what most people would consider their property on the north side. But it's actually city on property. So it kind of skews that street to the south as it goes further to the east. So there's actually a lot of right of way there. It's going to clean out several fence rows and things like that. There are a few Oaks that are close to the street. It seems like there's more towards the east end than there is on the west end. Thank you very much. Okay. Kyle. We talked about the right-of-way placement issue and I know that the City has the the right to use the way. Has there been any work done with the neighbors there that would be affected by this on the design of the sidewalk and how to minimize those impacts? Well, that's usually something. Once we get that it's approved and it is going there, when we go in to start work there, my supervisor, Keith Shreve, he will meet with each of the property owners and discuss possible ways to minimize the disruption to them. If there's options to... go around, even put a curve in the sidewalk. I mean, we want to try and get some green space there because of the narrowness of the street, but we will work in every way possible to minimize the disruption to the best of our ability. You know, we'll do what we can, but we can't avoid everything. But we do go into that process prior. We will meet with everybody prior to turning a shovel full of dirt over there. Okay. Any other questions? All right. Let's take some public comment. Everybody knows the rules by now. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Unless the council member brings you back up, you get five minutes. Keep your comments directly to me. I don't engage anybody on the council, anybody out in the public. Stay on topic. give us your name and address and council members if the council decides to give you more time it takes a motion and a second from the council and majority of the council and then we'll decide how much time that is my name is Ethel Simpson even when I don't have a cold and I live at the corner of Oliver and Halsall Road so I'm intensely interested in this project and vehemently opposed to it There are three main points for my opposition and that of many of my neighbors. The point of neighborhood character, which we think will be irreparably damaged by the building of the sidewalk here. The point of resource allocation. We think that the money that would be spent for this walk could much more... benefit other parts of our ward. And the third part of my objection is to the overstatement of need in the area. To return to the character of our neighborhood, The topography of the neighborhood and what we might call the sociology of the neighborhood are unsuited to walkability. Even though walkability is an extremely positive thing in my mind, I grew up in a walkable town, but there's nowhere to walk to in our neighborhood. Walkability implies a destination. And except for those few Saturdays in the fall of the year, when people are walking to the football game, there are no destinations, really. The ones that are there are for dog walkers and people who take the shortcut to a neighborhood yard to get to the university to go to classes. But there are no shops. There are no doctor's offices. There are no fast food places if you'd walk to a fast food place. So... That part of it, the sociology is unsuited to walkability. Therefore we think a sidewalk is not necessary. Also the topography of our neighborhood is very hilly. I think the hill from Sang up to Oliver is every bit as steep as that of Cleveland from Sang up to say Garland. It's not suitable for people to walk there recreationally or in terms of a destination. In terms of resource allocation, there are areas of our ward where there is new construction of condominiums, townhouses, apartments, where sidewalks would be much more needed and appropriate. There are schools in our ward where children need sidewalks for safe access to the schools and to recreational opportunities. There are neighborhoods where people could walk to, say, Oak Plaza, if there were walkability in those neighborhoods. The third thing is the overstatement of need. It is very true that on maybe fewer than 10 days in a year, there are hundreds of people passing my house on the way to the ballgame, on the way to businesses that operate in our neighborhood with... what do you call those tailgate parties people who walk up the hill from wherever they've parked their car in another parking lot that's operated as a business they walk up the hill and on to the stadium on those seven saturdays a year or whatever it will be when little rock gets out of the game so for seven days a year we don't think it's appropriate to to change our neighborhood irrevocably. We think other measures of traffic safety, pedestrian safety, could be equally effective as a permanent sidewalk. We think that things like pinchers or maybe a one-way street or maybe just traffic officials along that street would be a very effective way of controlling the traffic. So for those reasons, I repeat that as a representative of a family that's lived for three generations in that house, representative of Marion Orton, the saint of our neighborhood, and her family, many of whom still live there, for other people who have lived in old houses, who've cultivated beautiful gardens, there are many trees that are large even though they aren't oak trees. that we think are valuable enough to be cared for. For all those reasons, I oppose that proposition. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello, I'm Rob Karras. I live on 1666 North Hall Cell there. And out of the seven houses on the north side, we have five of them represented here that are going to speak I got a text from one of the landowners of one of the rentals on the north side. He said he preferred on the south side because it's dangerous during game day. I walked that street, or my kids walk that street more than any other kids, and I walk that street. There's a few people that walk more than me, but I walk it frequently. with the kids and I find it dangerous on game day, seven days a year and that's it. I'm not sure what considered the large tree, but I probably have 300 years worth of trees in my yard and almost all the neighbors on the street have the same or maybe not as many as me, but there's trees up and down that street. When I moved in there, it was a perfect fit for me and my wife because I wanted country and she wanted city. And so we do walk to the university. As far as like students or somebody walking to the university, the only way you would walk up our street, same to wholesale is if you live in Lawrence Circle and you're a student. Otherwise, if you're closer to Cleveland, you'd go straight up Cleveland to go to the university. So the only option for a few walkers is Lawrence Circle there and a few houses right on Sang and wholesale. But I don't know of any students... that I've seen walking to school that way. So I do agree that on game day it's dangerous. I think there's other options for game day. But then again, still in 10 years, no one's been hit. There's been no injuries that I know of on game day, but there is a lot of traffic and there's a lot of drinking that just goes on, which is what you expect. And we all accepted that knowing that when we moved there. and um yeah my kids and I and my wife and our family and our my brother and sister all across the street walk frequently we walk to the university we walk to Dixon Street walk to church Episcopal Church frequently and um If we want, if sometimes we could, we could go down through the gas lines, we could go through the neighbor's yard, we could walk cross street, we can walk the south side wholesale sidewalks to cross street if we wanted to go that way down to those games. There's a nice sidewalks there and they, they could put them in there and there was room for them where they didn't affect the neighborhood. And that's it. Great. Who else would like to address this? Steve Gwynn. Little to Hulsa Road, 1844 West Hulsa. My concern is it will completely change the dynamic of the neighborhood. Though the city may own 15 or 20 feet on both sides of the highway, it's an older neighborhood. A lot of the homes are right on the edge or close to the street. And it would absolutely put the sidewalk right on their front yards or right on their front doorstep. So there is the cost of putting a sidewalk, I don't know, probably $100,000 maybe, it's gonna be some major construction. I think you could solve the same problem with the traffic by putting a $2,000 speed bump, it'd be a lot cheaper than changing the entire dynamic of the street. But okay, thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? My name is Barbara Fraley, and I live at 1624 West Hossel, and I just don't want to be left out because everybody else on our side of the street with that sidewalk has spoken against it, and I would like to speak against it as well. I'm one of the pieces of property that we found out the city owns a large chunk in my front yard. I've talked to planning and found that that's, unusual situation and we're looking into why that's there and maybe remediate that but I have also lived in my house for 30 years I've watched lots of Razorback traffic and I think that there are solutions to the game day traffic that don't involve tearing up all of our yards on a street where nobody wants a sidewalk And I'm more than willing to work with the Fayetteville Police Department, people with the city, to come up with ideas on that. But I would really encourage the money to be spent in another part of Ward 4 where there's children that do need to be able to walk to school and to parks and to be safe. So thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Thank you, Senator. Well, my name is Bill Currington. I live at 1611 West Hossel. My neighbors have been very eloquent in stating the arguments of our opposition to the sidewalk. It can be built, but should it be built? It would change the character of our neighborhood. It's not the best use of city resources. The cost, if you, the direct cost plus the indirect cost that had been expressed, the damage to our neighborhood, the character of our neighborhood, you add all of those costs into the benefits, which have been stated as controlling traffic for seven or eight days a year. There are other alternatives for controlling that traffic and there are other areas in Ward 4 where a sidewalk would have greater benefits relative to the cost. So I urge to reconsider. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Hi, good evening. I'm Theresa Turk. I don't live on Hossel or Oliver Street, but I walk my dog on those streets. And just like my other neighbors have stated, only during football traffic is that a really dangerous area there are lots of other situations that other solutions that can resolve this that they have talked about and i just echo their concerns i think this is a waste of city city funds and can be used in a much better area than where you all are considering all right thank you who else would like to address this on this okay we'll bring it back to the council I think that they have made the case for why they're not big fans of the sidewalk in their neighborhood. When this came in front of the committee, there weren't other options presented. Since then I've had time to go back and look at other areas of ward 4 that might still have a sidewalk. that we could meet in place of this one. And so this time I'd like to make a motion to amend the project, the project plan I guess, to remove the hostel and all of her sidewalks and replace them with a segment of Salem and a segment of Devil Springs Road. And I have a proposal distributed around, I think, for the clerk. Salem and Devil Springs. Yeah, the Salem from Mount Comfort to Clearwood and then Double Springs from Abilene to Green's Chapel. And the Salem section would connect Mount Comfort neighborhoods to... to holcomb and the trails and and gary hampton park the other one connects the neighborhood that's in active development back up to the wide paths at weddington okay so you'd like to make an amendment to remove the hostileman oliver sidewalk and move it to a segment of salem and double springs road correct all right sarah do we have a second I was hoping that we could send this back to the Active Transportation Advisory Committee for consideration. We do meet tomorrow night, and I think that Kyle's suggestion is a good one, but we have a lot of requests in Work4, and I think it would just be good to approach it holistically in determining where we might reallocate this money. So you just want to hold it? I would like to hold this and send it to Active Transportation. I'm not opposed to that. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. Dr. Rob Karras is my primary care physician. Dr. Ethel Simpson, her father and my father built bridges in South Louisiana before World War II. When her mother died, she owned a bevel glass mirror that my father gave her parents as a wedding gift. These are old family relationships, so I'm in an awkward position. With all due respect and candor and love for my neighbors, which I do, And Rob, don't kill me tomorrow. I have to address some of the concerns issued. Please bear with me. That's the background. The character of the neighborhood. If anything, a sidewalk would improve the character of the neighborhood. Everyone has alluded to the fact that it is dangerous on game day. Sean Volendorf testified before our city council in 2015 that he literally saw a woman bumped by a car. Because on game days, Dr. Simpson said she thought hundreds of people walked down Hossel Road. I would estimate the number to be around 1,500 to 2,000 people walk down Hossel Road, and they're walking in and amongst the cars that are trying to drive on Hossel Road. It is extremely dangerous on game days. But that's not the only time it's dangerous. Anybody can stand up and say, I walk and I feel perfectly safe. Well, you probably are. We have regular people from the university on their lunch break walk through our neighborhood, walking down Oliver, down Hossel, down Sang, up Cleveland, just making a big block. There doesn't have to be a shop or a business or anything or destination for them to go to. They're just walking the neighborhood because they want to walk during their lunch break. When a car comes, they have to get on the opposite side of the road. There's no place on Hossel or on Oliver for them to be safe. And if two cars are coming at the same time, they'll be in a ditch, trying to avoid being hit by a car. A sidewalk would improve the character of our neighborhood. It would tell people, we want you to be here. We welcome you. We facilitate the walkability of our neighborhood. Beverly Schaefer, who's very active in our Ward 4 meetings, routinely during good weather days walks in front of my house. She is a regular, and if you're going a little too fast, she'll shake her finger at you. And you'll get called down, as I have. Okay. Care to the neighborhood, I don't think that's a very good strong argument. I mean, I think it would actually improve the care to the neighborhood. Do we have to take out a few trees? Probably. But as Rob testified, as Dr. Karis testified, He has a lot of trees in his yard. The whole neighborhood has a lot of trees. It's not like the six or seven trees we have to take out are going to make the place look bare. It won't make it look bare. We have a lot of trees in our neighborhood. Resource allocation, we could argue that one all day long. There's always a better place to spend the money. I can't really argue about that. I argue about how we're spending money all the time on this City Council, but We don't always agree and sometimes we do sometimes we don't Overstatement of the need Was one of the arguments if we if we just operated those two streets seven days a year on game days that would be enough to build those sidewalks to get people out of harm's way and Just because no one's been seriously injured doesn't mean we shouldn't build a sidewalk. Let's not wait until somebody gets killed or seriously injured before we decide, oh, we need a sidewalk there. Let's be proactive and let's stop it before it happens. That would be my argument there. So I don't think we're overstating the need. Game day would be enough, but there's a lot of foot traffic at other times every day of the year. people walk through my yard. There's a public easement through my driveway to get from Hossel and Oliver to Razorback Stadium. And students all the time are walking through my yard. I say all the time. You know, today I think the high was 19 or 27. There weren't many people walking today. You have to understand what I say all the time, weather permitting. But during the spring and the summer months, I'm always meeting people coming up Hossel, coming down my driveway to get to the university. And I meet people, just families, walking down Oliver, walking their dogs, families with four or five people in them, and there's no place for them to walk. We have built sidewalks in places that don't nearly have the foot traffic that we have. I would implore you, don't change this again. I've been trying to get this built since 2014 and each year it gets removed. I suspect for nefarious purposes but I can't prove that. Please, please, please don't wait for somebody to be seriously injured or killed before we build a sidewalk on Hossel Road. The other objection, I mean, those are basically the three objections that I heard. So I'm hoping to address those concerns. And Terry Gulley, our street superintendent, told us that his foreman will work with the neighborhood to mitigate any damage to your property. And I believe he's sincere when he says that. So we should be able to have a walkable, hostile road in Oliver without deleteriously affecting the character of the neighborhood or the individual properties involved. i would encourage our city to pass this resolution and not bring it back to transportation it's passed once there let's get some finality let's vote on it let's move on thank you okay before everybody gets all over the place here tonight i want to talk a little bit about the powers that the mayor now Every year I sit down with the staff and we listen to what a lot of the council members want to put in On the list we listen from cons. We listen to constituents We look I talk to the planning staff to see what they think is uh places they would like to see the sidewalk So we send a list to the transportation committee To get them to for them to weigh in to advise the mayor on what they think is proper now And that includes the alternative transportation. Now, I think the city attorney has sent out a memo, and he's correct. Really, at the end of the day, as long as I don't bring a contract back to this council, I don't have to listen to anybody. Now, that may put at ease some folks, and it may spook some folks here tonight. But at the end of the day, you're looking at the guy that ultimately makes the final decisions on the sidewalks and the overlay program, and that's me. Now, the reason I don't utilize that power, I like getting input from the council members. That doesn't mean I have to, but I want to hear what you've got to say, particularly in your awards. But before we get off on all this, we're going to decide this and decide that. At the end of the day, unless I contract the project out and I do it in-house, the staff works for the mayor, and they'll build the sidewalks where I tell them to build the sidewalks. whether it be hostel or not hostel or double springs. So I want to hear your advice. I want it to go back to the alternative transportation or back to the transportation. But at the end of the day, folks, I make the call, and I can assure you one thing. I don't have any problems with being decisive when I need to. So having said that, let us continue the conversation now. I believe, Don, you had something you wanted to say. My point to the council and the committees, if you choose to go that route, is... The discussion needs to make sure it takes into account the time allocation and the dollar allocation. I know that council member Smith has looked at that because I've had that discussion with him. But if the alternative transportation committee changed recommendations to give additional advice to the committee, I do want them to understand that this plan is at staffing capacity and at dollar capacity to our budget. So any options must fit within a replacement schedule of these dollars and time. And at the end of the day, the mayor will make the call. The reason this has been on there is this has been discussed. And this is not just I do want to thank Councilmember Latour a little bit because this is not just Councilmember Latour's idea. This project was very first put on the council all the way from Seng to this location by Councilmember Shirley Lucas. And so. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I had a question for Terry before I shared my thoughts. What's the urgency with getting this work plan adopted? When do you need it adopted to start it? I'd love to say it's this cold. I've got plenty of time. But... Essentially, we don't have any approved place to go. Once the weather breaks, we will be wanting to move on something on this list. It doesn't have to be the first project that we're going to do, but none of them are getting approved if we don't move forward. In answer to your question, Council Member Petty, I'm sure the mayor will give us a project to start with. to make sure that we're utilizing staff time and resources. So it's town-sensitive in the sense that we need work, but there's a lot of items on this list that could be done to start with. Well, while I have a lot of respect for the mayor's statutory authority here, I'd love to get something passed so we were all in agreement about something before the mayor had to make that kind of call without us having to wait in. So to that end, if we are going to pull this project off for consideration, I would hope that we consider passing the remainder of it tonight. And again, I'm not sure how I would vote on the motion to remove this project at any rate. So I have some more ‑‑ one other question about that for you, Terri. So I know that then Alderman Lucas suggested this originally and that a few years ago, council member Latour brought it back up and I'll confess um the first time you brought that up council member Latour I did not think that you were as earnest as I believe that you are now um you've absolutely convinced me that I think that you you think this is um the best project and frankly I think make make some compelling points But my question is this, because there have been so many aldermen who have requested this in the past, if you take the politics out of it, where does this fall in terms of the number of people this can help in the community? Is this at the top of the list for Ward 4? We went back through... Today, staff and I are looking for other alternative projects within the ward, not just limiting ourselves to what was on the list that's either been requested by a citizen, an alderman, or anyone else. We have that master list that we've kind of gone off of. But I mean, we literally pulled up the maps, looked at population densities, closeness to schools. anything and everything I mean and it's it's hard to find a lot of projects and more forward compared to going some of the other wards throughout town the some of the others that we identified was a section on Mount Comfort where the cemetery is there We filled in three gaps on Mount Comfort this year. That's the only gap left between the city limits and I-49. Everything else is connected. There's about 900 feet there. If we go across that, we have quite a bit of right-of-way in that area also. We looked at, and it's actually closer to the schools than the section on Salem is. The section on Salem... Well, we don't always wait for that. When the Ruppel Road gets built on the south side, I believe that's going to, because the northern part is not yet built, I think that traffic's going to veer over and go up Salem and around Howard-Nickel. So I think it's going to be a lot more traffic. The corner there that this gap is on is not developed at this time. Part of it is community services. The rest of it's RA. I think there's a great possibility we might get that done. And then if we put that sidewalk there and build it for essentially residential, is that what's going to actually occur there? So is it going to fit the needs of what later comes in there? Center Street down is right on the border of Ward 1 and Ward 4. It's an area that probably could use a connection. There's a connection off of Meadowlands to Weddington that does not actually connect to a sidewalk. The other section of Oliver has a little higher density when you look at the density map, but I think that would be something we would be looking at in the future to make that connection over to there. There's a small section of Dean Solomon kind of connecting south of the golf course down to near the Subaru dealer. and then possibly an area out on Persimmon across Ozark Electric Land to kind of connect towards the Boys Club south of the Walmart neighborhood market. But those are the areas that we found that kind of fit the need of higher density, gap filling, any proximity to school. Proximity to school is we have hit those areas so hard. There's hardly anything around Asbell. There's very little and more than four left in the elaborate area, elementary. And everything around Holcomb and all, it's all new. We've all had our sidewalk ordinance in and everything is built there. There are no gaps with the additions we've done on Salem in the past few years. So that's kind of an overview of where we looked at Ward 4. So that's my best advice to you as far as you know where I feel like there's issues that need addressing. So I appreciate the list and I want to I want to make sure that I ask this question as maybe as clear as I can. Out of all those projects that you just listed in terms of if I measure the bottom line of what we do up here it's how many people's lives are we improving with the dollars that we're spending. So in terms of just that technical consideration, just the answer to that question, just based on your look at the maps and where people are living and where we've got missing connections, are any of those projects more impactful than this one? Well, I put that question to my two supervisors who have both worked here for nearly 35 years each doing this. for probably 40-some of those in this division. They all have some, but we did not really come up with there was any other. We felt like the ability to bypass Cleveland if you couldn't quite do that challenge, Cleveland's at the uppermost point is 17% grade at the very top of that. So we feel like this is an alternative looking at it to Markham like I stated earlier. It does not take you out on Razorback in an area that makes it very fashionable and easy to walk on to the east if you were going towards the campus. Doesn't really matter if you're heading for 6th Street or something, but we felt like it's kind of a detour to take Markham. So bottom line, when we looked at it and I said, what do we put as number one priority, we still came back with Halsall and that, and we came back with the Mount Comfort Cemetery connection as our second choice if we had to go elsewhere. Thank you. So this highlights for me something that I've been – I'm talking about for a couple years and I appreciate the answers because I think that's exactly what Would help me make my decision I mean, I trust staff so much to analyze these things and it's really only the last couple of years that we started doing that And this process may seem like anybody watching Still very much political I think that's obvious to anybody watching this, it's still very much political, but it shouldn't be. I think it should really just be about that bottom line question, how many people's lives are we making better? And if what I'm hearing from staff is in terms of a technical analysis that this project impacts most people's lives, that's one I'm going to support. Now, if it goes back through committees, if that's the wishes of this council, to send it back through committees to reevaluate that decision, I'll defer to the consensus of the council. But it raises this specter of politics in these discussions, and I think we need to decide... soon if not with this cycle with the next cycle whether or not we're going to continue to allow that to be a part of this decision process yeah mayor if you ask me i might come down on the side of don't ask us I don't think that we should divide up the number of dollars being spent by Ward. I think we should divide it up by the number of people's lives that are being impacted. And I think that those dollars and these work plans should go in those locations, first and foremost, year after year. And it really shouldn't be about being able to go back, me as a council member, go back to my constituents and say, well, I fought hard for Ward 2, sorry other people had a bigger need. you know that's exactly what i should say as somebody who tries to make the whole city better for everybody so um i'm going to support what staff's recommendation was but again i'll defer to to the city council consensus if you want to send this particular recommendation back and atax and transportation committee come back with something that's different you know maybe that's because the calculation about how many people's lives are being impacted for the positive has changed but for now support staff Matthew, the ward equity question was a big one. I actually had a conversation with a group of the neighbors up there and that came up. One thing I absolutely want to commend staff on is how well they've done at taking care of the needs in Ward 4. There's not a lot left. We heard pretty much the whole list that I've been able to find of things that are missing. And so one of the questions I asked them was, when we reach a point where there's no more sidewalks left in Ward 4, how are you going to feel about that money going somewhere else? And I think that it's a... it's not a stretch to say that even though we live out there we occupy other parts of the city especially the shared common spaces downtown so i in the grand scheme i would absolutely support a more data-driven approach to to choosing where we do these projects in the The maps that I passed around, I tried to put the population density map on there so that you would have a little bit of that information to rely on. That was really part of what was driving my decision to ask for the sidewalks down at Salem. It's not a particularly dense area that that sidewalk goes in, but on either side. It's also not particularly close to the school. But if you wanted to ask somebody in Crofton Manor how they're going to get to Holcomb, right now they're going to get in the car, turn the block, and sit there. in the middle of the street in the parking line that backs up from Holcomb every day because the walking alternative would be to go about another mile and a half out of your way walking down towards Holcomb Elementary and back through a different neighborhood. there are still some connectivity issues around schools and population centers over there that I would like to see addressed. Maybe before you tell me I can't go back to my constituents and tell them I took care of them, but in the big picture, I appreciate the more data-driven approach as well. And the one last comment I would make, Don mentioned that we needed to make sure that we had a comparable trade-off Yeah, I got it down to 10 feet of sidewalk, 600 feet of budget, and about 13 hours of estimated staff time. And so, Terry, I wanted to ask you real quick. In the overlay part of the proposal that we haven't talked about at all, Salem is part of that. With doing sidewalk and overlay, would those be complimentary projects at all? Would they happen completely separate in isolation? How would that impact? Well, they can be. They don't have to be, I guess, if the answer is because if we're going to do a sidewalk project, we would complete that prior to doing the overlay project. however we do lots of overlay projects and then come back with sidewalk projects we just uh saw cut the edge and pour the concrete choosing asphalt so one's not it's not chicken before the egg or it can be vice versa there's no uh efficiency bonus by trying to do both in one stretch no usually the only time that really plays in if we've got a lot of drainage concerns to deal with okay I'm just going to add that when Matthew asked Terry the question about the project to impact the most people, the question was asked in terms of this ward. And so I think if that question were asked on a broader basis citywide, I'm not sure that this project would meet that. And I say that because I do think this council at some point, we brought it up three years In a row now, we provided GIS maps of population density, medical services, shopping facilities, doctor's offices, employment centers. At some point, we've never taken that leap to go from dividing the money equally by ward, either in distance or, and that's in looking at all of it. bond projects, overlay, sidewalks, et cetera, because what has typically happened is we're answering to those of you who have to answer your constituents about whether they're getting their fair share of taxpayer dollars being invested in their wards. But these needs are not created equally. We have older wards in the city that in some cases have gaps or deteriorating sidewalks really poor that this money would probably impact more. So I just want to make it clear because I don't want people to think we were being misleading. We answered the question that this as related to ward four, we did not do that ranking as compared to a citywide impact. Thank you, Mayor. Pause for effect, folks. Councilman Petty, Councilmember Petty, asked a direct question about street superintendent. He had his two lieutenants who have 30 years' experience in building streets and sidewalks and infrastructure in our city. And the question was, can you think of any other place in Ward 4 that could use this money more than Hossel and Oliver? And they said no, they couldn't think of another place in Ward 4. Now we're raising the specter, and Council Member Petty, I agree with you. I would rather serve everybody in the city of Fayetteville instead of specific wards. And if there were a less political way to distribute the money, I would vote for it. I'm not saying that all the money has to be sent in Ward 4, but that's the system we're operating under now. If you don't like that system, fine, let's vote to change it. And then we can spread the money on some other basis. But right now, this is the system we're operating under. So let's not change the rules in the middle of the game. I received several emails, mostly from people who spoke tonight, speaking against the sidewalk. But I did receive three or four emails from people speaking in support of the sidewalk. So I don't want this council to be misled. I doubt if there's another place in the city of Fayetteville that has 8,000 people walk past it in the street on an annual basis. I think Hossel Road has probably 8,000 people on an annual basis walk by it. And it's not just one or two people at a time. It's crowds of people spanning across the street. Cars have to stop or blow their horn to get people to move out of the way so they can drive by. It's extremely dangerous. I implore all of us. We have our differences. I understand that. I vote a lot of times by myself. This issue is important for us as a city. Are we telling the people that come to Fayetteville on game day, we're going to make you walk in the street with traffic or we're going to build a sidewalk for you? I mean, that's the real character of our city. Are we really a welcoming community? When we say, no, you have to walk in the street and share it with vehicles, with cars and trucks. Being driven by people who've probably been drinking, that's not a good situation. I mean, I can't think of any better way to solve that dilemma than to build a sidewalk along Hossel Road and Oliver. I can't state that often enough. If I lived in Springdale, I would still think the sidewalk needed to be built on Hossel Road. If you've been there on game day, you know what it's like. Mayor, we don't have a second yet for Kyle's motion to take this to committee. We're discussing a motion without a second. I think Sarah actually brought it up. Actually, I think the motion, the only motion has a second, and you can't supersede it as a motion to table, which is still before the city council. I got you. And that has to be decided first, too. I mean, it can be withdrawn so you can decide something else, but if it's not withdrawn, then that's a motion that has to be decided first. But I thought Kyle said later on he was not opposed to Sarah's suggestion. Yeah. But there wasn't a formal withdrawal of your motion, I guess, is what Kidd is saying. No. would you actually he started he started to make a motion i think it came actually after the tabling and i think the motion of the table takes precedence i didn't stop you you're a new council member and i thought it was actually constructive conversation but the first motion that needs to be decided will be the motion of table unless the motion of table is withdrawn by these uh mover and the seconder so you're making so i have moved that we refer this back to the active transportation advisory committee Or you could just table it. I think you just need to table it. Like you said, the motion was to the first meeting in February, which is a little bit more than a month. I would move that we table this until the first meeting in February. That's what's on the table right now. I would second that. All right. Now we're going. Well, I think we already have it seconded. Didn't Mark, didn't you second that? Mayor, I think I've got Sarah as the one that made the motion and Kyle as the seconder right now on my screen. Okay. May I speak? Yes, you may, John. Thank you. I would ask the city council not to table it, not to slow it down. If we know how we're going to vote, we've asked the question, what other place needs it more than what we're proposing? And the answer came back, none in the ward. And that's the system we're operating under. Why do we need to look at it more? Why do we need to study it more? We trust the staff. The staff has chosen this. It wasn't because I was promoting it. I'm the minority on this council, okay? The staff thought it was the best. And I think we need to support the staff. I think we need to build a sidewalk and not delay it. Thank you. But the point being... This if it's table for two weeks I'm not going to make a decision in the next three days to build a sidewalk on the hostel either In fact, I might even decide not to build a sidewalk at all and that's my call to make right Okay, so now that we've established all that we have. Oh, I'm sorry. I believe Adela has something No, sorry Sarah Thank you as the vice chair of the active transportation advisory committee i wanted to talk a little bit about how we made these decisions we are trying to move away from the equitable allocation to each award because of the obvious disparity in the need between wards one and two and wards three and four um in fact ward four had so little sidewalk need that it was difficult to choose a project where Whereas, while I don't have the data in front of me right now, if I recall right, Ward 1 had about four times as much sidewalk need. Ward 2 had about three times as much sidewalk need. Ward 3 had a reasonable amount, but 3 and 4 together had less need than Ward 1 alone. so we've tried to take on some bigger projects in wards one and two and then fill some smaller projects in wards three and four um by taking it back to the count to the committee that will give us an opportunity to discuss the overall connectivity you know generally we're looking for um connections missing links in otherwise uh cohesive networks we're looking to connect um safe routes to school um we're looking to connect um workers and customers to business areas. We actually came up with a list of about 30 criteria that we consider when making these suggestions. and of course we work very closely with Terry and his staff in order to meet the budgeting and staffing needs of each project so I think we'll go back and we'll look at that list comprehensively if this were sent back to committee and work with Terry and his team to find the best solution and we may in fact end up going and doing a walking tour out here to this proposed area and see what we think but we have an active Transportation Committee meeting tomorrow night and so that should give us some time to come up with a Well, as the council member who's been around here the longest, I can say we have talked about Hossel and we've talked about Hossel and we've talked about Hossel. And I truly believe that as it's been stated tonight, our staff feels like this is the spot that needs to have sidewalk. I feel strongly that it is not my ward but I I know that we are working for a walkable city one thing that hasn't been mentioned is you know how many people are going to walk that area once we do put the sidewalks in I'll guarantee you if I were walking in that area I would avoid that street but if it had sidewalks on it, I would not avoid that street. So I think we have to look at that item as well. I certainly can understand the feeling of the neighbors and I just feel badly that this kind of thing has to happen but I think when we look, when we up here as your governing body, we do look at what's best for the city, not just certain places. I feel this is what is best for Fayetteville. And I think that the time is right, and I think we need to not hold it any longer. I cannot imagine anything else that could be said about this area. It has been talked about and talked about for so much. So I am not for tabling. I would like to see us make a decision this evening and go on and talk vote in favor of this very, very carefully, carefully looked at. This has been carefully looked at, and as you heard our Mr. Gulley say, he's had many, many, many years of working on roads in Fayetteville, have looked at this list, and have said, this is what we need to do. So I feel strongly we should move on it at this point in time tonight. Thank you. Okay. Mark. When I'm looking at this, we are not locked in to ward equity. And so it's if we really are looking out for the bigger picture of the city of Fayetteville, we have to consider those areas that are older that need sidewalk repairs and need connectivity because this wasn't required when the city built out in those areas. I guess what I would like, if it goes back to the committee for discussion, I think we've discussed this before, and now is the time to discuss citywide needs. Phones need to be turned off. You need to silence your phone. Citywide needs based on the criteria that is utilized in the Active Transportation Committee and see if there is a need that is... so important that it would override the current practice. It's not an ordinance, it's a practice of equity within the wards. So that's why I would support this to go back to the committee and to be delayed is to now move forward and not wait to see if we have to continue with this for this award equity on the expenses associated with the development of sidewalks throughout the city. Thanks. Okay. Well, is there anything else to be discussed on this? All right. So the vote will be, a yes vote is to table. Is to table for until the first meeting in February. No, first meeting in February, almost a month. Okay. All right. Do two at least. that's what you said you can change your motion if you only wanted two weeks yeah i'll change it to just two weeks because we're meeting tomorrow night there's no need to wait that long i'd like staff to have clear directions all right actually yeah chris i just i just want to make sure You guys understand that the order of the committees is that the active transportation committee makes the recommendation to the transportation committee. So we would need to schedule a special transportation committee meeting to have that conversation. I just want to make sure the council is aware of that. So both committees can advise me on what they think I need to do. That's correct. Okay. Got it. Along with the council's advice. Along with the council. All right. Got it. All right. Well, with Chris's new information, I'll stick with the first meeting in February and that will give us a month. No rush. All right. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Patch? No. Latour? No. Smith? Yes. Wright? No. Marsh? Yes. Inyon? Yes. Eddy? No. Ginnett? No. Motion table failed. Okay. Well, the resolution right now is back before the council. Well, not necessarily, but an amendment could be made on the resolution now, could it not? That is correct. Well, on the exhibit, yes. Okay. All right. Let me get my screen cleared up here. Sarah. I move that we remove... the uh household Oliver portions from the proposal and pass the rest of the proposed sidewalk plan and overlay okay do we have a second on that uh John I see you on the screen no I'm not gonna second okay got you Kyle I will second that okay all right we have a motion a second to not put the Hossel and Oliver in the plan but pass the rest of the plan. Is that correct? Yes, and then send the rest of it back to committee for further recommendation. It may be the same. It may be different. But I think that we should go ahead and pass the rest of the plan. Okay. John. Mr. Mayor, I can virtually assure you if this goes before committing, the recommendation of the committee will be to delete the sidewalk on Hossel and Oliver. I can virtually assure that. I don't know that for sure. But judging by the history in the last three years, I'd say it'll be the same thing this year. I realize you're the final arbiter. You will make this decision. I will. So I would like to see us not delete Hossel Road and Oliver Avenue. I urge my colleagues to vote against this motion. Let's pass it the way the staff has recommended, the way the staff has testified tonight that this is the most need in Ward 4. They looked at it with great expertise and great experience, and they're saying this is where we need it. We don't need to tell our staff we don't trust you. Let's trust the staff. Let's pass the full resolution. Thank you. All right. Kyle. I don't want to hold up the rest of the package on this issue. That's why I seconded to go ahead and approve the part that there's no controversy over. Okay. Mark. Let me state unequivocally, I trust our staff, and if we heard what our staff said, if we look at the city, citywide, there may be some areas in the city that have a, that would be more of an impact in the expense of this allocation than the current uh one suggested in this res and the initial uh exhibit so i think that that's uh that also comes from our staff we did hear that so i'm going to consider that as i move forward okay sir I'd like to note that the staff gave us a whole menu of sidewalk needs that the active transportation advisory committee considered and help winnow down in order to develop this list. So this isn't just staff, although staff gave us a lot of, you know, we couldn't have done it without staff, obviously, but I think that it's important that we recognize that the active transportation committee played a significant role in determining which of the sidewalks on that 14 year long waiting list that we prioritize to build this year. There are plenty of other sidewalks on that long waiting list that I mentioned that it would take 14 years at current staffing and funding levels to build out. And when we have a neighborhood that doesn't want it, well, I don't think that that should be a definitive barrier because a lot of people do use this. I do think that that is reasonable cause for reconsideration. And I would also like to note for Councilmember Latour's benefit that Oliver Avenue was one of my recommendations to the committee to build out. So this isn't a political thing. in that sense but you know again we have needs all over this city and if we are not committed to ward equity which I think we've we've been moving away for that there are a lot of other places in the city that could use that sidewalk investment to improve our active transportation network for all of our citizens including those that live in for work for In terms of the intention of the motion, I'm a little double-minded about, even though I feel so strongly that we should do data-driven decision-making at all times, I feel like we're so far along in this process, I'll say I'm double-minded because I'm a little hesitant to reverse course right in the middle of it. And I think in terms of being consistent, if we're talking about the motion, I'm a little reversing course at this time we you know in terms of being intellectually consistent it begs the question why aren't we examining the full list instead of just this one project and and that's what gives me pause about I'm reconsidering it so I guess I have this question for the motion or in the second I think um Councilmember Marsh you just answered it so I'll put it to Councilmember Smith If the active transportation advisory committee and the transportation committee both come back and they recommend something that's not in ward four, would you see yourself being able to support that? Uh, that was a conversation. That was a conversation that I had with the neighbors who were, um, who were opposing this. Um, they didn't have an objection to it. Um, the rest of the, the ward, uh, I mean, I think they would definitely prefer to have it, um, in their own neighborhood, but, um, i would say that given our current state of being pretty well taken care of um and the gaps that we have having another alternate avenue through development yeah i i would i would support um what a tech would come back with so here's where it comes down for me i'm just very curious and that's what this what continues to give me a little bit of pause this is being framed up as uh as a policy change this idea of sending this back to committee at this point. And I think everybody, every member of the council, it's important that we understand what this vote means in proxy if we're doing that. Because, you know, it's not something everybody has weighed in on. It's not the specific resolution that is being put to us, but that's how this particular tabling is being framed. And you know, for me, I would make the call that yeah, we should open that Pandora's box. I think that infrastructure decisions should be made on a more technical basis. But I continue to be a little bit uncomfortable about doing this now, and I don't know that I'll know how I'm going to vote until it gets around to me. But I'm very curious to hear what the other members think about this broader issue to help me make up my mind. Okay. John. Gladly. If we want to change the policy... Fine, let's have a motion to change the policy. Let's do it by ordinance. Let's have three readings at three separate meetings instead of doing it on an ad hoc basis. I too, Council Member Petty, have misgivings about doing it this way. I think we are ad hocly changing the policy and I'd rather see us do it in a straightforward prescribed manner that's prescribed in our statutes. instead of doing this on an ad hoc basis. I would gladly support a policy that says we allocate the funds wherever in the city they're most needed and we have some objective means of determining the need. It doesn't have to be by ward. I agree. That seems rational to me. If Razorback Stadium were in Ward 1 and there were thousands of people walking on a city street sharing it with cars, I'd say that's a need that we need to address. It's the biggest need. It's got to be one of the biggest needs. Maybe it's not the biggest need. It's got to be up there in the top ten. It doesn't matter what ward it's in. It happens to be in Ward 1. Ward 4, I think, technically ends at Razorback Road, so I guess technically Razorback Stadium's not in Ward 4. But it certainly generates a lot of traffic in Ward 4. Okay? So I would say policy change, probably we do need to change the policy. But let's do it in the prescribed manner, not ad hocly like we're about to do. So I would ask the City Council again to vote against the motion. Anybody else? Okay. Okay. I think we're ready to go, aren't we? You want a public comment on the amendment? By the way, I'm sorry. I've let you all out. What public comment do we have on this? Removing Hossel and approving the rest of the list. You have to come forward. Yeah, you have to come up and introduce yourself and all that stuff. Ralph Waldo and Emerson. A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds. He doesn't live on Holtzel Road. But I think one of the saddest things for me is for people to say, I know this is probably wrong, but this is the way we're committed to doing it. If something is not working, if something's can be replaced by something better, it seems to me that it is a foolish consistency to say we must do it this way when we have the possibility of changing the way it should be done and then doing it right. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, please. my name is drew wallace and i live in ward 2 but i am on the active transportation advisory committee uh i think that this is something that you should approve uh mr america's i think that this is uh going to help so many people, thousands of people that are walking to the stadium to try to make it more walkable. That's one of the reasons why it was on there, why it's been on there a really long time, and one of the reasons that we thought about it a lot. And I can see why there might be some disagreements and things like that, but the fact is trying to help the most amount of people. um is something that that we do care a lot about and we care a lot about trying to make it equitable across the city and try to figure out what is going to be uh the biggest benefit and that's why this was one of our recommendations so so i just wanted to say that okay thank you i think you should always do what's best for the city what doesn't matter where it's at we're all in the city right second thing is there's more than one option for managing game day traffic it's not just a sidewalk You can do one-way traffic game day. You could put temporary speed bumps. They did that on Razorback last year. And I think if you stand to financially benefit from something, you should not ethically be able to. You should rescind your voting ability for something as well, if this might possibly be a financial boost to your business and livelihood. I would ask all the city council members to go and walk along Oliver and Hustle and see really how narrow that street is and how impractical it is to put a sidewalk in there. This is going to be very damaging to the neighborhood, to people's properties. and it's just not a really good workable area. And I don't believe that we've explored all the other alternatives that are out there to control the game day traffic on six days a year. It's only six days a year. So I really think that before the city undertakes such a large project and expense and with a lot of the neighbors and myself really opposing it, look at some other alternatives before you make that leap. Thank you. I just wanted to point out that, you know, I grew up on Hulsall Road. I've been there for 55 years and on and off again. And we've had gang traffic there for 55 years. So again, it's really going to impact the neighborhood. Again, it's a very small neighborhood. It's an old neighborhood and it's going to really be up on people's horses. I'm an economist by profession, and I've thought that the system of allocating resources by ward has been silly for a long time, because I view things as allocating where you have benefits relative to cost and not considering political divisions. So I obviously would love this policy change. I appreciate my neighbor John speaking in favor of changing the policy, but only after he would get the sidewalk that he wants, and he's the only person in our neighborhood who wants the sidewalk. If this is so controversial and it potentially involves a change in city policy, why is it not reasonable to at least set this project aside consider the debate of changing the policy, then put this project back in the mix and see how it matches up. But to do this project and then change the policy because you decided that this project has raised the issue just doesn't seem to make a whole lot of sense. Thank you. Okay. Any other public comment? Okay. Mark, did you have – I'm going to bring it back to the council. Do you have a comment? When you bring it back, I do. I have a question, actually. Okay, sure. Go ahead. Okay. We keep talking about a policy. Kit, this isn't a policy. This is a practice. It is not in code. It is not – I think you're absolutely correct. It has been a practice that has developed over the years. It's a practice. It's not a policy. But it has, you know, even though it has nothing behind it, no resolution that I'm aware of, It has been the practice for a number of years and you know it makes sense to seriously consider changing a practice that has gone on for a long time. I'm not saying for you not to change it. I buy into some of those arguments that have been made but it's a serious discussion, a serious decision if you want to do that. Sarah. Remind me again. How long is it one month? Because it's got to go through active transportation and then to transportation, and it will be one month. It will be a little bit over one month before the first meeting in February. It doesn't have to go anywhere. Committees can look at it if they want to, but it will be back in front of the city council in about one month. Okay. Justin. Well, that was my question, too. And, uh, Don brought up a good point. So this was brought up first by Shirley Lucas? Mm-hmm. Late 90s. Many years ago. I was going to say 20 years ago, right? Give or take. No. Maybe 15. The council after I did. So it's been 15 years probably at least. Time creeps along sometimes here. I guess it has been a while. But I guess my point is, and I could... I could agree or disagree with this one, really, either way. I don't know that it will change anything, but one more month for this amount of conversation about it. It's kind of tough for me to dismiss the conversations. I don't necessarily think... uh anything may change what we do but uh to let it go back for uh for those two committee meetings if they choose to talk about it uh i don't i don't think necessarily uh kills anything so i would i would support removing this one item and passing everything else i absolutely think we should make a decision one way or the other when it comes up again in a month or whenever that is thank you okay anybody else all right Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Latour? No. Nia? Yes. Ray? No. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Okay, that item has now been removed. The resolution could still be passed minus the Household and Oliver Avenue portions of the sidewalk project list. Now, I assume this is probably going to go through active transportation and the Transportation Committee again. I just want to be sure I'm clear on all this. We've been discussing this. Those committees can take it up, but one way or another, in a month, it will be back before the city council. We've been talking about this for a couple of days now, and we seem to have it pretty well vetted out. I wanted to be sure I was clear. All right, so now we're going to vote on the resolution as it stands without the also wrote in all of it, correct? I have a question. Sure. Sure. Do we need to add to this that this money, okay, if we approve it without this and it goes back through these committees, is that allocation of money still allocated? I mean, if I could just speak to this. Obviously, again, I'll say it one more time. You're purely making a recommendation. The budget has been passed. The money is allocated. Unless the mayor decides to contract with an outside contractor, that contract would be the only thing that would come back to you. He can proceed with your recommendations. He can proceed with part of your recommendations. He could change all of the recommendations. He directs the staff. And so this discussion about HOSL and the committee and what goes forward will be one more endpoint. input point for the mayor to then direct me and terry on what we're going to build in 2018 all right now sarah i believe you're next i move we approve the resolution all righty kyle all right second all right we have a motion a second to pass the resolution all right any final comments All right. Sarah, yes. I would just like to say that the Active Transportation Advisory Council meets tomorrow evening at 530 in room 326 for those who would like to send comments or attend. Thank you. All right. And I certainly appreciate everybody's input because I'll be making decisions at the end. So, all right. with that sundry would you please call the rug yes no yeah yes right yes yes yes yes all right thank you all moving right along number five An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-59-97 for approximately 0.54 acres located at 690 West Wheelock Street. From RSF 4, residential single family, 40 units per acre to RI 12, residential intermediate, 12 units per acre. Kip. Being ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4 residential single-family four units per acre to RI12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Tim Moldenhauer is here for any questions. Okay. Garner, do you have this? Yeah, if I can get my report. That looks unusual. I may need some technical help, but I can get started. All right, Garner, we're not in any hurry tonight. Mayor and Council, this is a rezoning request for approximately one-half acre land. It's located on the south edge of Fayetteville. It's on Willock Street. It is a long block south of where School Avenue and the Fulbright Expressway intersect. The request is to rezone from RSF 4 to RI 12, which is the residential intermediate district. which is capped at 12 units per acre. So the issue engaged by this request is the residential density allowed under the proposed zoning appropriate. I still use that word, right? The city plan 2030 future land use designation designates this area a city neighborhood area, which encourages a variety of residential building types. and increase density where it's appropriate. This, the residential intermediate district certainly would be one of the districts that you could use to implement the city plan. With that, the Planning Commission and staff both recommend approval. Okay. What questions do we have regarding this? Okay. Okay. What public comment do we have? Oh, John, I'm sorry. I'll take it, Mayor. How much land is involved in this rezoning project? Just slightly over one-half acre. One-half acre. Yes. A little bit over half an acre. Yes. And the parcel is presently occupied by a vacant church. Thank you. Okay. All right. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. We'll bring it back to the council. And so, Adelea. I move that we go to the second reading. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Hutch? Yes. Butcher? Yes. Bush? Yes. Wright? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 17-5997, approximately half an acre, located at 690 West Willock Street, From RSF4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RI12, residential intermediate, 12 units per acre. Okay. Justin. Who is in the roll to go to third and final reading? Sarah. Second. We have most in the second to go to third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fudge. Yes. Mature. Yes. Neck. Yes. Right. Yes. Marsh. Yes. In it. Yes. Petty. Yes. In it. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5997 for approximately half an acre, located at 690 West Willock Street from Mars F4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RI 12, residential intermediate, 12 units per acre. Okay. Any final comments from the council on this? Is everybody good? All right. Under which police call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Number six. Thank you. All number six. An order to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-60-04 for approximately .55 acres located at 1620 North Porter Road from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF4 residential single-family four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garth. Mayor and council, this is also a half acre parcel. It's located on Porter Street and the intersection of Houston Street. It's about a block and a half south of Deanne Street. When the public on the planning commission heard this item, we had comments from the public regarding traffic and flooding and land use compatibility. It's on a collector street. It's served by transit. It's got a bus stop real close. Actually, the flooding, if they were to build the triplex or fourplex use, which is allowed in the proposed zoning, the city's flooding mitigation would be required. The site also has mature trees and the tree protection ordinance would be required too if it's above single family or duplex. Land use compatibility, a wide variety of uses in this area, duplexes, fourplexes, apartment to the north. The adopted plans, it's designated as residential neighborhood area, but it has a wide range of uses as I mentioned. and it's consistent with the city plan goals and the planning commission and staff recommend approval happy to answer any of your questions I have to ask Jonathan I believe is unanimous okay all right a public comment do we have on this yes sure What I'd like to do is show you all a map. Can you introduce yourself? This is Fayetteville flood map. Probably you need to hand that to the clerk and she'll pass it around. Do you want to hang on to it? You have five minutes here. Okay, well, okay. My thing about this property, I own 1636. Linda Joe and that property is six foot above mine And so if you allow building there is gonna blow that flood water Don't go down through there flood my property which on the west side of Linda Joe is all flooded it's an 83 a flood zone and so I say You know, keep what you got because you got all the trees and stuff like that. Because if you allow the east side of the flood, what are we going to do? I mean, we can't do nothing with the west unless you, you know, so that's my big thing about it. And it's an AE flood zone, I mean, you know, it's already a flood zone. And if we block the east side, then we, you know, got it. But like I said, the city of Fayetteville, now from Lankuni, But I vote against that, and if we do anything, we do Unit 8 of that. And that's the reason I do it, is because it's going to flood my house, and then what will we do when we've got flood on the east side and the west side? Okay. Okay. Sir, the city clerk would like you to identify yourself so she can get you in the minutes correctly. Can you give us your name, please? My name is Byron Gunn. Thanks. Thank you. Anybody else like to address us on this? Okay. Collins Andrews, 808 North Park. I lived on Arthur Hart Street for about seven years. I would agree that if there's anything to do with flood control in that area, I'm glad to hear that we have protocol for this type of zoning. But I'm not opposed to it as a former resident over there, but as long as we're paying attention to flooding because it is prevalent in the area for sure. anybody else hi my name is will dr i live at 4149 west pride street and you know me most famously recently for trying to save lewis park there's a lot of talk about flooding lewis park is actually It controls a lot of that flooding over there. You start changing those things, you take away Lewis Park, the flooding is going to be even worse over there. So I just want you to be aware of that fact. So I'm not opposed to it per se, but flooding is bad over there, and you're changing a lot of things over there. The university has changed a lot of things over there. It's going to affect things over there with flooding. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Thank you. Does anybody Chris do you have any ideas on the flooding or Garner? He is our flooding expert I think mayor. Well Chris comes up the floodplain is to the north there's an existing floodplain there are a number of duplexes that are in that floodplain that were constructed in the past. This is a small parcel of ground. The runoff from this ground isn't going to measureably affect that floodplain, if that's your question. I think that would be some of the concerns. All right. I do want to remind the council that our codes require that post-development can have no more impact than pre-development as it comes to at least the runoff of that particular property and its building infrastructure, but it would definitely require... to be considered in this area. And just to add what Don said, that single family and duplexes are exempted from our flood mitigation. But if they utilize the full extent of the requested zoning and build triplexes and fourplexes, they would be required to mitigate. Okay, Sarah. I have a question regarding the flood. I thought it was an 80%. You could not have more than 80% runoff rate Chris could you come with just the code on that yeah I just want some clarity I thought that we had like an 80% runoff issue where you say no more than a 20% increase in in total suspended solids and stormwater runoff right that's the water quality piece of that is is related to 20% but the 80% runoff allowed or you have to treat the equivalent amount on site okay so water quality piece but then there's the quantity is you can't increase the various floods that the 10 25 50 year flood etc okay so you can impact quality up to 20% but not quantity Right. Okay. And it's volume versus peak flow. There's a lot of things that go on there, but there's a water quality piece and a water quantity if it is larger than a single family or duplex. So those are exempt from all of those requirements. Right. So by allowing multifamily here, then those protections would kick in? It could if they do pursue a larger project, yes. Thank you. Okay. Well, it's back to the council. What do you all want to do? Chair? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Mark? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? French? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Wright? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Emmett? Yes. And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-6004 for approximately .55 acres located at 1620 North Porter Road from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the final reading. Sarah. Third or second. We have a motion, a second, a third, and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Judge? Yes. Rattier? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Finan? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Dennis? Yes. In order to rezone that property, it's cried a rezoning petition, RCN 17-6004, for approximately 0.55 acres. Located at 1620 North Porter Road from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Okay. What final comments do we have from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Branch? Yes. Butcher? Yes. Mim? Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Finn? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Bennett? Yes. All right. Number seven. An order to resolve that property is described in the petition RZN 17-6015 for approximately 0.86 acres located south of Wayland Drive between 46th Street and Burles Avenue from RSF 4, residents of single family, 4 units per acre to NC Neighborhood Conservation Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF4 residential single-family, four units per acre, to NC neighborhood conservation. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. All right. Go ahead. Yes, in November you saw a companion item where the applicant asked you at the end to increase the size. They're busy designing a subdivision south of Weddington between Royals and 46th Street. It's on vacant property. It creates a transition from office and commercial zoning on south of Weddington. Utilizes existing infrastructure. It's consistent with city plan 2030 and the Weddington corridor plan. And planning commission staff recommend approval. Any questions we have for our audience? All right. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Let's have a rally. Adele. I move we go to the second reading. Second reading. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'll second that. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. Mature. Yes. Mare. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 17-6015 for approximately 0.86 acres. located south of Weddington Drive between 46th Street and Broyles Avenue from Mars F4 residential single-family, four units per acre, to neighborhood conservation. Mark. May we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Kyle. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final. You beat me to it, Kyle. Why don't you cut it out? We have a motion and a second to go to the third. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading, correct? Yes. All right. Sergeant, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. Latere. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Inion. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes. And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-6015 for approximately .86 acres located south of Weddington Drive between 46th Street and Broyles Avenue from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. Oh, final comments. I forgot to withdraw, but I'll go ahead and motion to approve. No, no, no. We're down to the final comments now. Okay. No final comments. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Batch? Yes. Latere? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Ingan? Yes. Petty? Yes. Annette? Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all. Number eight, an ordinance to amend residential plan zoning district 04-1154, timber trails to allow single family homes on lots 24 through 42, 68 and 69. Kip? Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, are hereby amends Residential Plan Zoning District 04-1154, Timber Trails, to allow single-family homes on Lots 24 through 42 and 68 and 69. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville, to show the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Governor? Yes, Mayor. This property is located on Happy Hollow Road. It's a couple blocks west of Happy Hollow Elementary School. It's at the southeastern corner of Sequoia Woods. And the request is to change the residential, the planned residential district that was approved earlier. So it's a real simple change they're asking for. They're just asking to change these lots to allow either single family or two family. The previous cliffside planned zoning district was a bit prescriptive, and they're actually finding out that some of these lots handle single family structures better than duplexes. adopted plans, it's residential neighborhood area in our master plan. It encourages a variety of residential buildings, which this provides that option. And Planning Commission staff recommend approval of the request. Okay. What questions do we have for Garner on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Thank you. I did have a question. Sorry. I can't get over there. Okay, that's cool. Go ahead and ask your question. Okay. Is this in the hillside protection? It is not. I think it starts south of here. It is heavily treed. yeah and uh the planned development committed to preserving i believe 38 percent of the trees and i'm i'm going to tell you why i ask that if they go to single family then they don't have to do tree preservation whereas if it's multi-family of three units or more they do is that correct that's correct but this is a planned district and and then they're easy since it's a pcd those were 38 percent uh council member kenya because that's what i was looking at him right the 38 percent and again right now it's like where is this in the documentation it's going to be required okay thank you hey and i asked for public comment on this i did okay good all right i'll bring it back to the council Sarah. May we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion to second. Go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Batch. Yes. Latere. Smith. Yes. Price. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Binion. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Binion. Yes. in order to man residential plan zoning district 04-1154 timber trails to allow single family homes on lots 24 through 42 68 and 69. okay mark i move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading justin second we have motion second to go to the third and final reading son please further Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to amend residential plans zoning district 04-1154 timber trails to allow single family homes on lots 24 through 42, 68 and 69. Any final comments from the council? Justin. Sorry. Oh, okay. Any final comments from the council? All right. Senators, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number nine. The order has come in 97.01081, intoxicating beverages in Chapter 97, Parks and Recreation, of the Federal Code to allow the mayor or the mayor's designee to authorize the consumption, possession, and sale of alcoholic beverages in city parks during special events. Kip. Whereas section 97.081 of the Fayetteville City Code currently prevents the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages within city parks, except that the Botanical Guard Society of the Ozarks may allow alcoholic beverages to be served on premises they have leased within the Lake Fayetteville Park area. And whereas special events increase the economic and social potential of the city, and the city recognizes that the possession, sale, and consumption of alcoholic beverages is inherent in the viability of certain events, and whereas the city desires to ensure the success of the many diverse special events held in the city, including those that are held or could be held in city parks, and permitted the limited and temporary consumption, possession, and sale of alcohol at certain special events will further that objective, And whereas the city will continue to consider the safety of park visitors and event participants as its highest priority and will require permit holders provide all necessary measures to ensure the safety of all park visitors and event participants, including complying with all city of Fayetteville ordinances and the rules and regulations of the Arkansas Alcohol Beverage Control Division. Now, therefore, be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 97.081, Intoxicating Beverages of Chapter 97, Parks and Recreation, by repealing Subsection B and enacting a new Subsection B as follows. Subsection B, notwithstanding the above prohibition, colon 1, the Botanical Garden Society of the Ozarks may allow alcoholic beverages to be served on premises they have leased within the Lake Fayetteville Park area for fundraisers. wedding receptions, and other special events as long as they fully comply with all alcoholic beverage control requirements. And number two, the mayor or the mayor's designee may issue a permit allowing the temporary possession, sale, and consumption of alcoholic beverages in the city parks for special events as long as the event sponsor fully complies with all alcoholic beverage control requirements. The permit may include any conditions necessary to ensure public safety and the protection of city property. Unquote. Okay. Thank you, Mayor and City Council, and thank you for addressing this issue tonight for us. We are coming forward to ask for your approval of the amendment of the intoxicating beverage code. I did want to point out that this is for special events and special events only. It is not a carte blanche permission to have alcoholic beverages in the parks. I also want to point out that safety and risk management is a number one concern for our park staff as well as city staff. So we will be requiring that they go through the citywide event permit process, and that includes following all the ABC requirements for beer gardens or serving or providing alcohol in the parks. The Parks Department staff has talked for a long time about the benefits of allowing alcohol in the parks for certain special events, and we just feel like this is a good time to test those waters. So I'm here to field any questions or questions. Anything any concerns that you have? Recently when approving a new private club we required that The their staff members undergo training by FPD on how to spot a fake ID will we be requiring that of? potential alcoholic beverage vendors or whoever's minding the beer gardens and I wouldn't say no to that. Right now we haven't considered every single thing that we're going to require them to do. I think it's going to be a case-by-case and event-by-event basis is what we consider. We will defer to the police department for a lot of those. And it is one of the reasons, that is the main reason that we want to go through the event, citywide event permit process because it has to go in front of fire, police, and ultimately in front of the mayor and or his designee. So. Yeah, to be a little more clear, it's actually the mayor is going to be approving a special event, so it's what he would require rather than Parks or anybody else. Well, I would advise that we be consistent in what we're requiring of the private sector and what we do as a public sector. I would add that we had a, we being the mayor and I, had a discussion with the police chief about this on our Monday chief staff meeting and he expressed concerns that we be consistent. That's why this language talks about complying with alcohol and beverage. Commission requirements and whatever items we would like to see, we would certainly not only practice it ourselves, but anyone who might be organizing a special event in our parks. I did want to just add to John's comments. I talked about this at agenda session, but we talked about the ability as we have toured around the country and seen the various events used not only as economic development drivers, but also sense of place and quality of life events for residents, um, Where this is managed properly, it can be handled as it is like any other business. So if you can think about this, where we have people who would like to use our parks for receptions, convention events, which in Dallas I would reference Cloudborn Park, which is adjacent or near convention area spaces that are used to host events that are a part of bringing people to their community. end of race event as we develop our design excellence grant and create a new festival space the ability to also allow this and those spaces for events that are created with the mayor or his designated approval and the reason we use the special event permit request is so we maintain controls over underage drinking or any other items that could be impacted by such a policy. so this has to apply to all of the parks uniformly but i guess it's unlikely that somebody's going to apply to have a a party in my neighborhood pocket park which in your vision which parks do you think the most likely to to see requests for this we do envision the larger community parks are the ones that are going to probably have the request for alcohol so the gully um bryce davis um the The regional park, obviously, this is something that's actually what the driver of this was. We have a festival that has requested to use regional park this next summer, move their site there. So all the larger community parks where the venue is applicable. I mean, a smaller pocket park, of course, like I said, we'll do it on a case-by-case basis, but it tends to not be applicable in this situation. If you can think about it, we've had an arts in the park event. There's a Taste of Chicago. If we developed an event called Taste of Fayetteville. So it could be primarily our community and Rachel and Park venues or major public meeting spaces that were considered parks. Are there any parks in the system that you would think of have a particular challenge that they might pose? You know, you talk to the recreation guy. I've only been here about a year and a half, so I'm not familiar with every park, but just generally speaking, just the smaller pocket parks where there's not enough infrastructure really to handle any type of crowd unless you start closing streets down, those types of things, those are the ones that we envision or we talked about as a staff. I want to also add that parks like Wilson Park, which are 100% surrounded by residential areas, our special event permit request would have to consider noise and impact on residents, hours of operations of an event. Something more remote like our Kessler Regional Park that isn't immediately adjacent might have more flexibility. It really depends on not only which park we pick, but the type of event. If you had a wine and cheese art show in a park, it would have a very different venue than a music concert over three days in another location. How does that apply, though? That's a question I just asked. If it goes more than 24 hours, does it still come to the council? The council is notified of any special event permit request that is exceeding a day. So if it's over a day, then you... I just used that as an example, Mayor. We're not aware of one. It's on the record, though. Yes, it is. Any other? Oh, Sarah, I'm sorry. I think this is a great idea. And as far as smaller parks go, I think that there are quite a few smaller parks in our community that would make lovely areas for a small wedding, great opportunities for neighborhood block parties. that may want to have alcohol. I think that there's a lot of opportunity here that we could use to add vitality to our neighborhoods, and as long as it was done responsibly, I don't see that it would be a problem. Okay. All right. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Okay. Hello, my name is Jeremy Gunn. I live at 432 West Adams. And I manage a music festival. It's a festival we love to bring to Fayetteville. We currently, the last two years, have done it in O'Ark. It's a cast community right by O'Ark. But we love to move it here to Mount Kessler. It's kind of our dream spot to be able to bring it to. And it would be a three-day music festival. We do sustainable music festivals. And so that would be, I think, passing this... passing this amendment would allow us to do that. If the amendment didn't pass, I don't know that we could bring it here. We want to be all-inclusive with our festivals, people who drink, people who don't drink, from all walks of life to be able to come to our festival. Wonderful. That's all I got. Well, thank you. My name is JL Jennings. I live at 4198 West Bradstreet Lane. I'm on the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board. I just wanted to stand in support of this. I think it really has an opportunity to bring some different entertainment venues to Fayetteville and really kind of maximize our parks and bring in some HMR dollars. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Thank you, Mayor. For me, this is absolutely an easy decision. I mean, right now we allow events to put beer gardens and street right-of-ways, but as soon as you cross this imaginary boundary into the park, you're denied it. That doesn't make any sense to me. So I think it's a very easy thing to say yes to, but I wanted to comment. more broadly in reference to some of the other statements that have been made. For me, while I think it's a really easy step, I look forward to taking the next step at some point in the future, whether that's 12 months out or 24 months out or even longer after we've become a little bit more familiar with this. The idea of a neighborhood block party, fantastic example, I think of. how we should allow our citizens to make decisions for themselves about how they responsibly use the parks. I understand that we have to have a, that we have to follow state statutes very, in a very rigorous way when we're talking about the sale of alcohol. But beyond the sale of alcohol, I don't think there's anything really wrong per se with a couple of friends or families getting together for a picnic with a bottle of wine or something like that in our parks either as long as you're doing so responsibly. I know we're not there yet. I know we don't have laws, even at the state level, that would support something like that. But I think in general, when we talk about how we're framing this issue, it's a very easy thing to say yes to. And I don't think we should really even shy away from talking about the potential of our parks if we were to be a little bit more liberal with them. Justin. one i just want to thank the park staff and the city staff for bringing this forward because i think when you talk about economic development in cities options are key to that you have to allow the opportunity for people to come up with things that they think will benefit um themselves as as this festival organizer has said but also the community that they participate in and that kind of partnership is where you get real sort of economic and and cultural value as well as at the neighborhood level so i'm in total favor of it and just want to thank the staff for bringing it forward I'll also be in favor of this. I think it just opens up a great deal of opportunity for us to utilize our parks in a different and possibly more modern way than we sometimes look at them. We've hit on block parties, weddings. you know, festivals, just pretty much every aspect of life in our city that we'd like to encourage and enjoy with our community. So I'll be in favor of this. Thank you. Okay, Don. I just, Mayor, just wanted to let the Council know that Mayor Jordan shared with his leadership staff the strategic plan that you did and one of your topics was a fun city creating a sense of place and a quality of life of events this is in line again with that type of objective that you gave us and one of the reasons he encouraged us to bring this forward thank you um sarah okay all right Let's wish this to council. Matthew. May I move we suspend the rule to go to the second reading? Justin. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes. Move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. Mature. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. And your order is to amend section 97.081, intoxicating beverages, in chapter 97, parks and recreation, of the Fable Code, to allow the mayor or the mayor's designee to authorize the consumption, possession, and sale of alcoholic beverages in city parks during special events. Okay, final comments from the council. I do want to thank the staff and the work on this, and I do want to thank the council because this is some of the things we discussed at the retreat we had. Whatever that was back a few months ago. But, so, we're listening. All right. With that, Sondra, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Mim. Yes. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Union. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenet. Yes. All right. Number 10. An ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and to approve cost share agreement with Bradford and Irvin Wheeler for the installation of drainage improvements along a portion of East Rebecca Street. with the city of federal share of the cost not to exceed forty thousand three hundred eighty seven dollars and six cents and to approve a project contingency in the amount of five thousand dollars whereas bradford and aaron wheeler receive off-site stormwater runoff from adjacent property that appears to be damaging their property located at 512 east rebecca street and desire to install an underground drainage collection system to connect the new improvements to the city's downstream collection system Whereas the wheelers have requested that the city share in the cost of constructing drainage improvements along East Rebecca Street so the wheelers can't construct a home and And whereas section 170.05 of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code allows for cost sharing and states, quote, if it is determined that offsite drainage improvements are required and that such specific offsite drainage improvements are consistent with the city's current and established priorities, then cost sharing will be in accordance with the required offsite improvements, unquote. And whereas city engineers explored various options to alleviate the drainage problems in this area, and have determined the proposed off-site drainage improvements in the city's right-of-way are required and further that these improvements are consistent with the city's priorities and whereas the city's transportation division is unable to work this project into its 2018 program year and waiving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost by utilizing developers contractor who will be on site installing the privately owned drainage improvements Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements for competitive bidding and approves a cost-share agreement with Bradford and Aaron Wheeler for the installation of drainage improvements along a portion of East Rebecca Street with the City of Fayetteville paying the portion of the construction costs for the improvements within the city's right-of-way in the amount not to exceed $40,387.06 further approves a project contingency an amount of $5,000. Okay Chris. Thank you mayor. This is a single-family home being constructed at 512 East Rebecca which is just east of Olive. There's an existing drainage way that flows across this property and to the south and it continues across Rebecca and then continues further south and then west to the upper Skull Creek area so this is a very upstream end of the upper Skull Creek drainage project kind of the north leg of that project we do have a design for that the funding we've not been able to get it funded for construction as of yet but as this project came through the property owner began building his house uh, realized that he had a drainage problem. Uh, we, we saw that in the, in the spring rains this year. Uh, so since that time we've been working with this on the solution, uh, for this property. Um, so the property owner is required to, uh, accept the drainage on the, on the north side of the house, take it through his property, um, and then, and release it to the right of way. The property owner's share of the project is to get that drainage work done from the north side to the city right of way. The city's share is from the city right of way to tie into the existing drainage system just a little bit downstream. So we've worked with the property owner. He has a contractor ready to go. These are the contractor's prices that have been provided. And so we recommend approval of this cost share to the city. take care of the drainage problem so Mr. Wheeler can finish his home and move in. What questions do we have? Chris, I've talked to this property owner a lot. You know, we've been working on this and it is a mess over there. And I don't, you know, there's always two sides to every story, right? And I think that his angst comes from, hey, you all knew that I was building this. But yet, and I got an approval through the system. But yeah, now I'm going to have to go back and spend another $40,000. Can you explain a little bit how that happened and what we can do to prevent that? Because this is definitely, you've walked the property, I've walked the property. It is evident that he needed to manage water on that. Was there something up front where we should have said, hey, this is a big deal? Yes, it's a little bit of a tricky situation because it's a single-family home, so there are typically no detention requirements, no requirement for any kind of drainage analysis. So there was no drainage analysis provided. Typically single-family home permitting, there is no drainage review. And so it wasn't caught at the time that there was a drainage way on this particular project. So the permitting staff who were looking at it, they don't look for these type of issues. It's unfortunate that... that the property owner wasn't made aware of that, and the engineers that he hired to do the site work and everything didn't pick up on that. But it just simply was missed until the rains came and we recognized it. Would it be... Something that we should add to our code, especially in these areas where we know that we have the runoff issues. I mean, we've already got our long-term plan. We knew that it was an issue. We knew it was an issue. We didn't know how it was going to get across the street until it was funded. Or am I just... adding an unnecessary burden on someone that's building. I mean, this is, it's a burden on him now because he's been out of his house for such a long time and an additional $40,000. It's a burden on us because we've got to go in now and do this. Is there some way we could be proactive in these situations and maybe add that into our code? I would say, you know, typically for single-family homes and subdivisions and newer subdivisions, the drainage is designed so that you really don't – you typically don't have to worry about that when you're building their home. But this was a lot split. It's a lot that had been there forever. So the infill areas are a bit more concerning. So maybe we should – look at the issue of the infill? I think it may be something to discuss. You know, there's a tradeoff there. You know, if you increase the requirements for that type of lot, then, you know, potentially you could increase costs. Well, it's already going to increase it $40,000, and that's a bargain for him, really. Mm-hmm. And I would say this is an extreme case. Most of the time, you're not going to have this. This was just kind of a perfect storm, excuse the pun, of everything that came together the way it did. Well, it's a mess over there, and we need to move forward on this to get it taken care of, and hopefully it'll take care of some other playing issues that we have. If there's no other discussion, I move that we go. suspend the roll and go to the second reading. I've got to get some public comment if there's anybody. And Sarah has something. Was there an existing home on this parcel that's been demolished or are we dividing a lot? It was actually a large lot that had a large backyard. The house that was there, that is there, fronts Olive. So this was kind of the backyard of the house on Olive. It was a lot split that occurred. Okay, and so when they split the lot, were they aware of the drainage issues then? Or the people who lived in this house for probably, I mean, this is the historic district. It's been there a long time. Right. I would have to assume that the property owners knew about it, but I don't know all of the details of who knew what and the property owners, what their situation was. Mr. Wheeler is here tonight. If you want to ask him that question, I'm sure he'd be happy to answer it. Okay, and where is the drainage or where is the water coming from? Is this stormwater runoff from the right-of-way? Is it a creek? Like what's going on here? It's stormwater from, and it really comes from Mount Sequoia. It crosses Mission, goes through some backyards. and begins to develop into a channel, a channelized flow as it comes through there. Okay, and so then this would tie into the system that we built that kind of goes under Walnut Street or? It ultimately will, yes. We do need to increase the capacity downstream of this. There's quite a bit of water flowing in the street, so we do have a design to go downstream from this point. but it hasn't been constructed yet. Okay, because I know, you know, I've got a lot of complaints about people, you know, where that drainage way ends, seeing a lot of increased flooding, so we're just moving it down the line. Were there any low-impact development strategies that were considered that might be... appropriate here yeah I think you know such tight quarters uh we we did we we talked about um really more large-scale um even detention pond type facilities and there's so much water there's just not enough space to really do anything that can mitigate those peak flows thank you Mark okay if there's no other discussion we take some public comment and then we'll here we go what public comment do we have on this okay I'm gonna bring Council back to the council Okay. I mean we suspend the rules and go to the second reading With motion the same to go to the second read Sandra, would you please? Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, yes in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement and with Bradford and Aaron Wheeler for the installation of drainage improvements along a portion of East Rebecca Street with the City of Fayetteville shared of the cost not to exceed $40,387.06 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,000. Mayor, I think I saw someone back there raise their hand at the end of the public input. Is that true? I was just noticing, including Mr. Wheeler, I don't have anything to add to that. Okay. Thank you. All right, Justin. Move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Mark? I'll second that. All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fetch? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Bradford and Aaron Wheeler for the installation of drainage improvements along a portion of East Rebecca Street with the City of Fayetteville's share of the cost not to exceed $40,387.06 and to approve a project contingency amount of $5,000. Any final comments from the Council? All right. Senators, please call the roll. Fudge? Yes. Latour? Yes. Mann? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Indian? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hanna? Yes. All right, thank you all. Number 11, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $122,908 to provide additional funds to maintain Ozark Regional Transit Services in the City of Federal at the 2017 service levels. Kip? Oh, sorry. I was going to say, I can't read it. I'm sorry. Don, is that yours? Yes, sir. Okay. tonight with us we have the executive director of Ozark regional transit Joel Gardner who will be able to speak to specifics to recap what we discussed at the agenda session I'm your city of Fayetteville Ozark regional transit board representative as a board member we were asked to put on the agenda for each municipality a funding shortfall request i think jay bill is the first one uh we have on the agenda the request was for thirty thousand seven hundred twenty seven dollars per fixed route um this funding shortfall for the overall system was about three hundred and thirty eight thousand dollars um part of this um remember that back in um Our prior lives in the establishment of this, um. Transit authority, we share the cost of operating the authority with cities up and down the corridor and the 2 counties. This year, funding cut was made in the county level that not only the associated expenses with that route were cut, but there is state funding that is a part of the funding for rural service that went away that helped cover What I would call back office or corporate related functions, management, payroll, accounting, HR, IT, the things it takes to operate the system beyond the fixed route component that now all the remaining entities need. have to decide whether we want to fund it or reduce the services. The mayor's direction to me as your board member was to maintain the level of service, if anything, to look at the redesign of our routes through an exercise focused more on ridership places of employment the same things we talked about earlier in terms of our other multimodal items but we thought it was important to recommend this funding request to maintain the service we have to go through a redesign aspect of it. And more importantly, the board has a policy of balancing its budget and not running in a deficit. It doesn't have the ability to run in a deficit because there aren't reserve funds to handle that. So if the city chooses not to do that, our routes will be affected by a reduction in service. And so this request came after our budget conversation. We sent out a request in July. We kept it at the same funding level because it was unknown what that difference would be. At the end of the year, in the last meeting, budget meeting of the year, Joel outlined this deficit issue with cities and that's why we're bringing this back forward. There are two items back to back tonight. The reason that this one is first is because the budget amount that was in the budget is actually in your next item, the $300,000, and this would be to amend that number by $122,000. 920,000. 920,000. 920,000. Roughly, let me find the number here again. $122,908. Yes, sir. Which is that $30,727 per fixed route, and we have four of those routes. I'd also add that there are also not only... impacts because of lost state funding, but decreases or increases in labor rates from year to year, fuel prices increase in hard costs such as vehicle parts and fuels. Remember, we also had a catastrophic fire early in 2017 and we've used borrowed buses from all around the country. We're able to restore service within two weeks of that time period, which is phenomenal to Joel and his team. But it also had a huge impact on loss of ridership initially, the ability to get routes back in place. And so as we try to build that system back, it's the other reason we don't think that it's beneficial to our long-term strategy of developing transit to reduce rates or hours of service on a service that we already get requests for. for second shift times for uh commuting people to businesses for weekend service for maine corridor service through the region i also added an agenda session that there is a virtual bus rapid transit study that was taking place funded by the walton family foundation that went from the corridor of fayetteville to bentonville bella vista and a significant portion to the long-term strategy of that implementation is to look at the current design of our transit routes and have those more in line to support that future best rapid transit program. So this is kind of a two-part item. This first part is to ask for this funding request so we can balance the budget and those are regional transit as it relates to Fayetteville services and our portion of the corporate allocation, if you will. And the other is to make the council aware that we will be looking at a redesign of our existing routes with a focus rather than hitting as much distance as we can designing the routes for the best productivity and ridership for the dollars that we have allocated. And that's in coordination with Razorback Transit as well as Ozark Regional Transit, which are both providers in our community. This request, though, is for the funding of the $122,980. And I'll turn it over to Joel for him to add anything else he'd like to say. Okay. Thank you, sir. You covered pretty much everything again My name is Joel Gardner executive director of Ozark regional transit and this request does come to you As it is coming to every other community that Provides fixed route public transit along the corridor this week. We're here in Fayetteville next week We're in Bentonville the week after that. We're in Springdale and the week after that we're in Rogers and So we're hitting every one of the primary communities that we serve, and we are presenting this same request. PROBABLY THE NEAT THING ABOUT THIS INDIVIDUAL REQUEST IN THIS STAGE IS THAT IF ONE CITY SAYS YES AND ANOTHER CITY SAYS NO, THE NO DOES NOT AFFECT THE YES AND THE YES DOES NOT AFFECT THE NO. BECAUSE WE DO SILO THE SERVICES AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE IN EACH OF THE COMMUNITIES. SO IF THEY'LL SAY YES, WE WOULD CONTINUE ON WITH THE LEVELS OF SERVICE THAT WE HAVE. IF SPRINGDALE SAID NO, YOU WOULD SEE A LARGER decreases in services in Springdale and if the same thing with Rogers in Bentonville so this does not affect you saying yes does not carry another community you saying yes is specifically for your community and I'll entertain any questions Sure. I don't have a question for Joel, but I do have a question for either the mayor or Don. What committee oversees public transit? Because, you know, we have our active transportation that's doing trails and sidewalks. We have transportation doing regular. And I feel like we're seeing a lack of innovation and commitment to public transit because there's not a committee that's overseeing it. Yeah, right now the primary oversight is the council member that's assigned to the regional planning commission. That is... Sandra, do you know? Not off the top of my head. We can find it for you. But that's the committee that actually manages or sits in on these transit meetings. We don't have it as a part of your current committee structure. It's certainly something that we could look at with the Transportation Committee. Or if our alternative transportation group wants to expand multimodal instead of just looking at bike infrastructure or transit that feedback again I'm your representative so giving me anything that is important for the council is what I share as a board member on that particular group and we may regularly and the backup to me if I'm not there is Peter Nearing Garden he's my proxy Thank you. I just want to say I think that Joel and his group are doing a great job with the very limited resources that they have. But as someone who is, let's say, transportation insecure and didn't have a car for a few weeks, and I live across the street from a bus stop, but if I had taken that bus here tonight, I couldn't get home. I'd have to walk three and a half miles. And I'm hearing from a lot of people in the community that they're not able to get to their place of work. They can't get to the doctor. They can't get to a lot of the places that they need to go, or it takes an inordinate amount of time. So that it's not feasible. So I support absolutely every bit of investment we can make in transit. And I would just like to remind everyone in our new energy action plan that we've improved tonight one of our action items is to continue to support ozark regional transit razorback transit and regional planning and pursuit of transit solutions for the northwest arkansas region so i'll be voting in support of this tonight thank you okay any other questions or comments um okay what public comments do we have on this okay i'm going right back to the council Sarah? I move you approve the resolution. Adela? I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Mayor? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fetch? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Yes. All right, number 12, an ordinance to waive requirements for formal competitive bidding to approve a five-year contract with Ozark Regional Transit Incorporated in the amount of $300,000 in 2018 and subject to annual budget approval in future years for public transit services for federal residents. Now, Kit, please. We need to amend this ordinance. It should read, instead of $300,000, it'd be $422,908. Is that right, Don? That's correct. So that should be amended both in the title and in the body. Okay. So moved. Sarah. All right. We have a motion and a second on the amendment to increase the 422-908 in the title and in the body. Correct? That's correct. All right. Any discussion? All right. I have a discussion. Sure. Okay. When we increase this and it's outside of our previous budget, this is coming out of reserve? That's correct. This is the use of reserves. Wanted to be sure. uh kyle nothing okay sarah um i'm i don't i don't i'm fixing the boat here oh okay yeah we're you might go for it we're ready to go if i could just make one quick comment before everyone does that uh remember this was an interlocal agreement we've been operating and the city attorney's office and our purchasing department realized that we needed to be under a contract that's why we have this item before you it's a no bid contract there's not someone else that we go out for this particular service on our two transit providers we have a contract with razorback we had a contract run out with hozark regional transit and that's what we're putting in place and that's what this agenda item is i also want to reiterate again because as you talk about the design of this system, we do need to be realistic in our expectation to our funding. And so I'm going to use Razorback because I think if you look at a Razorback transit structure, the frequency that they run their route, the locations that they do are geared towards ridership. Their ridership numbers are significantly higher. But it's also because it's designed like transit should, which are seven principles It takes me where I want to go. It takes me when I want to go. It is a good use of my time. It's a good use of my money. It respects me to the level of safety, comfort, and amenities it provides. I can trust it so it shows up when it's supposed to, and it gives me freedom to change my plans. The design of our system, when we go and relook at our route design, it is those principles we will use to decide what we need to service, not how many places can we touch with the dollars. It's the most efficient use of that money to get the greatest ridership to where people want to go, when they want to go, and the time they want to go, et cetera. So I just wanted to be clear of that when we go through that exercise. And we'll be bringing that back and asking some of the council members to be involved with that design when we go forward. Okay. All right. Any other comments or anything? All right. Senator, please call the roll. Fetch. Yes. LeTour. Yes. Ma'am. Yes. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Now I'm going to read the body. All right. Whereas Ozark Regional Transit Incorporated has operated a transit system in the city of Fayetteville since 1999, when the city council authorized the transfer and sale of city trolleys in exchange for transportation services for Fayetteville residents. And whereas in 2002, the city of Fayetteville first entered into an interlocal agreement with other cities and counties in northwest Arkansas, which allowed the city to become part of the Ozark Transit Authority, which is served by Ozark Regional Transit Incorporated, and which is the only provider of public transit service connecting Fayetteville residents with other parts of northwest Arkansas. And whereas the agreement should be updated to address how annual payments are handled and to include language consistent with the city's standard contract terms. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council, the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a five-year contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and Ozark Regional Transit Inc. in the amount of $422,908 in 2018. and subject to annual budget approval in future years for public transit services for Fayetteville residents. Okay. Don, you got anything else you want to add? We're pretty well. No, sir. All right. Joe, you got anything you want to add? No, sir. All right. Any public comment? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sarah. I would just ask that you assign this to a committee at some point to oversee public transportation because as it is, we're failing our community in the level of service that we're providing. And I think that having some more champions to this cause might be helpful in helping us do a little better. Done. All right. What do you all want to do? Adele. Adele. And I move that we move to the second reading. Okay, Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Lodger? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Penny? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Hinnant? in order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a five-year contract with ozark regional transit inc in the amount of 422 908 dollars in 2018 and subject to annual budget approval in future years for public transit services for fayetteville residents there we go all right sarah motion to suspend the rules and go to the third final reading adela second all right we have a motion second we go to third and final reading Sandra, would you please call the roll? Hutch? Yes. Butcher? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Betty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. In order to sway the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a five-year contract with Ozark Regional Transit Incorporated in the amount of $422,908 in 2018 and subject to annual budget approval in future years for public transit services for Fayetteville residents. Okay, any final comments from the council? Good. All right. Sonja, would you please call the roll? March. Yes. What's your rule of terror? Yes. Ben. Yes. Ray. Yes. March. Yes. Ben. Yes. Eddie. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. All right, number 13, a resolution to adopt the rules of order and procedure of the Federal City Council for 2018. Mayor, I brought this forward with help from the city clerk. The city council has begun readopting the rules of order and procedure of the Fayetteville City Council every year as recommended by the Arkansas Municipal League. And so I've drafted the appropriate resolution to do so today. Reading through the rules, I noticed some rules that needed to be amended. The first is E1A standing city council committees. This was written and approved prior to the ad hoc creation of the equipment committee, and I believe that the equipment committee should be formally recognized and included within the list of standing city committees, and so I've amended the subsection to add the equipment committee. I was surprised to find on page 11 of the rules a section on appointment of new city council member. This section must have been drafted before the legislature changed the law and provided the requirements and options the City Council now must follow pursuant to ACA 14-43-411. State law always trumps any conflicting local rule of procedure, so appointment of new City Council members should be changed to vacancy in the office of City Council member, which you refer to the controlling state law. City Clerk Sandra Smith also noticed a reference to the Code of Ethics of the International Mayors Association, an F2. We could not find any such code, nor were we aware of how or when this rule was provided in your rules of order procedure. I need to read that. I question Chief of Staff Don Maher, who also could not find any real reference to this group or its code of ethics. For me, there are no rules. While investigating, Don came upon a short but comprehensive and understandable code of ethics that the state of Georgia had produced. And since they're in the finals, we thought we might want to adopt it. It had been adopted also by Atlanta and many other cities in Georgia. We like this clarity and simplicity, and so proposed to include it within G, Code of Ethics, as the first subsection entitled General, rename the current first section Business Transactions, and renumber the remaining sections. I have made those four changes to the attached Rules of Order and Procedure, which I've handed out to you. And let me see if I can... Get to that one thing that Georgia had done. Nope, nope, it's not there. I'm going to go look back at my whole long part of it and find it. I'm sure you all studied it. Sandra said she did. All right, well, we're looking for ethics. You know, ethics are always difficult to find. Talking like a true lawyer. Ah, here we go. As the governing authority of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, we, the mayor and council members, adhere to the following ethics, principles, and pledge to conduct our affairs accordingly. Serve others, not ourselves. Use resources with efficiency and economy. Treat all people fairly. Use the power of our position for the well-being of our constituents. And create an environment of honesty, openness, and integrity. So those are the recommendations I have for the changes to your Rules of Order and Procedure. Okay. What discussion would we like? Do you have any questions for the City Attorney or what? What you all want to do here? Adele? I move we pass the resolution. Mark? I'll second that. All right. Before we pass, is there any public comment on this? Okay. All right, we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution of rules of order and procedure. Any final comments? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Lutero? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kinnan? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. That concludes our business. The Rider Fund 2018 Frozen Toes 15K race on Kessler Mountain's new single track trails is Saturday, January the 13th. registrations are taking place currently for that and since it's so cold it really will be a frozen totals race so encourage people to uh or who have an interest to participate i also want to let the council know that on the city's website is the economic development release of the HBO's True Detective series, beginning its production in Northwest Arkansas and location here in Fayetteville. The governor's office and the Arkansas Film Commission, Chris Crane, described Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas region as a distinct character in the series of the production It's expected to have millions of dollars of impact on our city and our region. And that information is released if you want to have citizens asking questions about it. We've also had citizens who have been interested in how they might be a part of the filming, how they might work for the industry. And if we receive those inquiries, we are forwarding them to the proper state contacts So you can let Devin Powell and our economic development director know if you receive those and he'll forward those on. Also, I want to remind that... Two weeks from yesterday, since we don't meet again until after this date, is the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, Monday, January 15th. Our city offices will be closed on the 15th, as well as our Marion Orton drop-off site or any other public building that is scheduled for public hours of operation on that day. So please put that on your calendars to make other arrangements if you need to conduct business with the city in that week. Okay, any other announcements? All right, council, good work. All right, thank you all. We're adjourned.