i'd like to call the order the city council meeting for january the 4th 2022. care which please call the roll kenyon here scroggins present bunch here turk here herzberg here rv here jones
 Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, the first order of business that we have denied is the election of the vice mayor.
 at this time i will open up the floor to nominations i'll nominate sarah bunch to be reappointed as vice mayor second okay all right is there anyone else okay then we will close the nominations
 And so everybody will vote on their selection. So at this point in time, do we need a motion to second, Ted, or anything? Well, the rules say that you vote just by saying the name of the person who you want to support as vice mayor. Okay. All right. Kerowitz, please call the roll. Kenyon. Sarah Bunch. Scroggins. Sarah Bunch. Bunch. Sarah Bunch. Turk. Bunch.
 Sarah Bunch. Hertzberg. Sarah Bunch. Harvey. Sarah Bunch. Jones. Sarah Bunch. She was elected mayor. All right, congratulations, Sarah. Thank you. All right, moving along to number two, have a report of the Firemen's and Policemen's Pension and Relief Fund. That will be a report I will be delivering tonight.
 So the local pension fund report for 2021. In keeping with statutory requirements, I'm presenting this report for 2021 on the local police and fire retirement and relief funds for the city of Federal. Both of these plans were closed by law in 1983, and there are no longer any active working members remaining. There are currently 38 police and 45 retirees and beneficiaries in the system.
 at december 2021 projected expenses from the fire pension fund are approximately 1.3 million as compared to fund revenues of one million projected police pension fund expenses are approximately 1.5 million dollars as compared to fund revenues in excess of 1.4 million dollars this is before adjusting investments to current market value
 Actuarial evaluations are the responsibility of the State of Arkansas Fire and Police Pension Review Board. The last evaluations completed were as of May 2021 for the year ending December 31, 2020. Based on those evaluations, the total pension liability of the police and fire funds were $15.2 million and $18 million, respectively. The net
 Pension liabilities for these funds were approximately $9 million for the police and $15.8 million for the fire. In the annual reports issued by the Arkansas Pension Review Board, neither the fire or police pension fund were found to be actually sound pursuant.
 to estimated established financial tests the fire pension fund has been classified as projected in solvents since 2009. the fire pension board has been discussing the unstable condition of the fund and possible alternatives since that time no specific request was made by the fire pension board to the city council in 2020.
 the police pension fund is also considered axiomarily unsound but not in immediate danger of becoming insolvent the police pension board is also aware of the pension the police pension fund status and has been considering options that would guarantee long-term solvency i will continue to monitor these pension funds in the future and keep you apprised of any other developments if necessary so that is the report on the fire and pension relief funds
 Anything on that from the council? Okay, let's go on to the next item, which is the consent agenda. We got the financial. Oh, very sorry. Paul has financial report. This report is for sales taxes that occurred in October of 2021.
 and is a report on the period of November 2021. So this is the 11th month of the fiscal year. We've got one month to go. Again, revenues were very strong. It was a very strong month again for us. Actually, the revenue for sales tax was up 15.3% compared to prior year for the county from the funds. We got sales tax funds from the county. It was up 19.3% for the period.
 altogether year to date we're up 15.8 percent compared to last year we're up over 20 percent compared to the budget remember when i presented the budget of 2021 i had pulled back the revenue estimates i thought we were going to have a challenge during the era fortunately that didn't happen i'm very happy to uh to report that each month we were very strong
 The one interesting thing about sales tax for the month of October were accommodations and restaurants were up very strong for the period. They were up over 30% compared to last year. Construction was also very strong. The other thing I wanted to point out to you was that sales, that the internet sales tax
 was 4%. Now remember, it's been much higher than that for most of the year. But it looks like it's going to start leveling. It's 4% or 5% mark going forward, which still is good. But it's starting to level off a bit. It'll be up. Sales tax will be up because of inflation, because it's inflationary driven. But don't forget, there are expenses that are also inflationary driven too, and they'll be up. However, for the general fund, we
 were up roughly 14% compared to the budget. Franchise fees were up, sales taxes were up, alcohol and beverage tax was up, and building permits came through very strong in the last couple of months. And they were up 19% of the budget at that point in time.
 uh court fees were down and interest on investments is down interest on investments is very very low i'm averaging roughly 0.4 of a percent on our investments in in government-backed securities our is certainly better than losing money it's better than we can get on cds at this point in time now street fund as i analyze that that's up 20 for the period that's driven by the wholesale turn back
 which is up very strong, and the half cent sales tax to support roads, which is up over 22%. So again, that's kind of driven by people getting out, shopping, moving a little more than they were in 2020. And some of it has to do with inflation also. The parking fund. The parking fund is starting to come back.
 total revenues were up seven percent so the parking revenue is starting to come back again we're seeing people with more activity uh especially in the downtown and dixon street entertainment area so that's coming up uh coming up slowly but surely as we're moving forward we expect good things as we're starting to open up uh down in the dixon street area the walton arts center is starting to have some more shows so i expect that to uh
 to continue to expand for the year.
 Also, operational costs are going to go up as we're calling back additional parking attendance because we're going to need those as the activity increases. Remember, we were holding back on that. We were not replacing open positions until we saw that revenue come back, but that revenue is coming back at this point in time. Parks development fees. Remember the parks development fees? That's hotel, motel, and restaurant fees.
 They're up 36% over the budget for the year, so they were up over $900,000 for a period in time for this year. They've been very strong. They were very, very weak in 2020, so they're coming back very strong for 2021. Water and sewer usage or billings are up 10% at this point in time. Overall revenue for the water and sewer fund is up 8%.
 Again, we do have a significant amount of past dues, but those are being reduced as we're working out plans with customers. And we're working with customers to pay off the past due amounts at this point in time. Recycling trash collection. We're finally seeing recycling and trash collection come up compared to budget. It's up about 2% compared to budget.
 Commercial is starting to come back to commercial activities, starting to pick up for recycling and trash collection. The residential has been strong all year, so we're up about 2% compared to budget. So that's good at this point in time. When we're looking at the airport, which is the last one I'm going to report on, the usage at the airport, flights are up about 30%.
 The actual fuel sales are up 85%, 90% compared to last year. And we're over budget for that, too. So all in all, it's been a very strong year for us. It surprised me in my forecast, but I'm very happy to say I was surprised. However, looking at the future, I do want to indicate that I think that we're going to see that sales stack level off a bit.
 going forward in the future because we're going to be dealing and comparing against very strong numbers however i'm very confident in the estimates that we have made for 2022 and i'm very very happy with the results of this year so far we've got one month to go and we'll see how we do in november and with that i'll be happy to take any questions what questions do we have for paul on this
 Okay, thank you Paul. All right, let's move on to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the December 14th, 2021 special city council meeting and the December 21st, 2021 city council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to authorize an agreement between the city of Feville, Arkansas and Ozark.
 Tennis Academy LLC to provide tennis programs for federal residents in 2022 with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms at a total estimated cost of $61,000.
 Number three, a resolution to approve a proposal from King Electric Contractors, Inc. in the total amount of $218,125 pursuant to bid number 2058 for electrical service associated with Square Lighting and Electrical Improvements Project.
 and downtown walkability project to approve a project contingency in the amount of twenty thousand dollars and to approve a budget adjustment this is 2019 street improvements bond and park improvement bond project number four a resolution to approve a contract seven hills homeless center to provide funding assistance in the amount of forty thousand dollars for maintenance and repairs at walker family residential community complex in 2022.
 Number five, a resolution to approve Amendment Number One to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Burns & McDonnell Engineering Company, incorporated in the amount of $42,764 for design services associated with a project to address Scoward South, Armstrong Avenue, Bridge over Town Branch.
 Number six, a resolution to approve change order number one with Crossland Heavy Contractors Incorporated in the amount of $502,949.80 for the same street extension project and to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 street improvement bond project.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve a utility work agreement with Black Hills Energy, Arkansas, Incorporated in the amount of $93,765.40 for utility relocations associated with the Midtown Corridor project along Porter Road and Dean Street and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 street improvement bond project.
 Number eight, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to convey a 25-foot wide general utility easement for utility relocations associated with the Midtown Corridor project along Porter Road and Dean Street at the police headquarters and fire station site. Number nine, a resolution to approve a lease agreement with the Board of Trustees of the University of Arkansas for the unoccupied banquet area in the airport terminal building to be used by Osher Lifelong Learning Institute
 to conduct classes in 2022 in the amount of $25 for each day the space is used. Number 10, a resolution to authorize an application and acceptance of an Arkansas Department of Aeronautics grant in the amount of $144,685 for reimbursement of the city's matching portion
 of a 9010 Federal Aviation Administration grant used for energy efficiencies and energy efficiency improvements at the airport terminal and to approve a budget adjustment contingent upon receipt of the grant funds. Number 11, a resolution to approve number five to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Hawkins Ware Engineers Incorporated in the amount not to exceed a hundred and ten thousand seven hundred and ten dollars for construction
 observation and project management service associated with the Benson Mountain pressure plane improvement project number 12 a resolution to award bid number 21 dash 80 and they authorized a contract with the
 Caldwell Tanks Incorporated in the amount of $1,155,000 for the construction of the Benson Mountain Elevated Water Storage Tank Improvements Project associated site improvements and demolition of existing tank to approve a project contingency in the amount of $231,000 and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number 13, a resolution to authorize the purchase of the Caterpillar mini excavator from Riggs Tractor Company for the amount of $72,260.34 plus any applicable tax and freight charges pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract. Number 14, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a John Deere 5075 tractor from P&K Equipment, any amount of $40,963.22
 plus any applicable sales taxes and freight charges pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract number 15 a resolution to approve the purchase of four hustlers super z mowers from williams tractor incorporated in a total amount of 38 902 plus any applicable sales taxes and freight charges presented to a source well co-opted purchasing contract
 And number 16, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a Caterpillar 420 backhoe from Riggs Tractor Company in the amount of $112,193.77, plus any applicable taxes to break charges pursuant to a source-well cooperative purchasing contract. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Make a motion we accept the consent agenda as read. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Carefully, would you please call the vote? Kenyon. Second.
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Now let's go on to unfinished business.
 An ordinance to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 21-076, located at 5295 West Weddington Drive, for approximately 2.43 acres, from RA Residential Agricultural to NSG Neighborhood Services General and RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. This was left at the last council meeting on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading.
 Move to go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Care which please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Arby? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, it is described in the rezoning petition RZN 21-076, located at 5295 West Weddington Drive, for approximately 2.43 acres, from RA Residential Agricultural to NSG Neighborhood Services General and RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. And I should call the attention of the City Council to the memo I sent out on December 29th, responding to the request.
 to amend this uh and amend the two exhibits so it would include a an area along the creek to make it residential agricultural and so we need a motion to amend to the ordinance that i sent out with that memo if that's what the city council wants to do i move to amend to a kid's memo second we have a motion to second to amend the kids memo please call kenyon yes
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Okay, Jonathan, I believe you have this.
 I do, Mayor. Thank you. I don't have much to add to Mr. Williams' memo. I did just throw together this visual though to show the Council exactly what is proposed when you look at the legal description. What you see on the left-hand side is what was originally proposed, which includes the area of blue, proposed as Neighborhood Services General near Weddington, segueing into the green portion, proposed as RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban.
 And again, on the left hand side, the original exhibit, you can see the blue and blue and red hatching on the southern end of the property, which is the Owl Creek floodplain. If you look on the right hand side, that's the exhibit from the applicant. And you can see the area of pink, if you will, on that southernmost extent, which mirrors the floodplain. So I just wanted to put a visual to what has been put and submitted to us as a legal description. And that's all I have. And I'm happy to take questions. Thank you.
 Okay, the applicant here would like – they'd like to speak for the council.
 Mayor, City Council, my name is Robert Rhodes and I'm with the law firm of Hall Estill. And as you recall, I sort of gave a bit of a presentation last meeting and with a, I guess, an ask that you would go ahead and pass what we had before you at that meeting
 and depend on city staff and the regulations you have.
 Well, that didn't happen and in the spirit of cooperation we have amended, I guess you all have amended based on our submittal to change that bottom portion to the RA and I would, again I would hope that you would look at this as a developer that is trying to cooperate with city and city staff and the city council.
 and I would ask that if you're going to pass this, I would hope that you'd be able to go to the third reading and pass this this evening. I'm not gonna say anything more unless you have questions, and I definitely stand ready, willing, and able to answer any questions that anyone may have. Thank you. Thank you. What questions do we have from the City Council on this project?
 This question would be for staff. If I remember correctly, the east side is zoned very similar to this. Is that correct? That is correct. Okay, thank you. Any questions from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in the council chambers after that who do we have on zoom no one mayor okay is there anyone that would like to address us in the council chambers about this issue all right
 Okay. We'll end public comment. I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. What discussion or action items would the council like to take? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Kevin, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. Terp? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. And Mayor, since more than the title was changed, I'm going to read the short body of the ordinance as it now has been amended to. Thank you.
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-076, located at 5295 West Weddington Drive, for approximately 2.43 acres, from RA Residential Agricultural to NSG Neighborhood Services General, RA Residential Agricultural and RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, as amended by the applicant and shown as additional information in the agenda packet for this item from RA Residential Agricultural to NSG Neighborhood Services General, RA Residential Agricultural, and RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map Of the city of Fayetteville to collect the zoning change provided in section 1 Okay, now that's been read. Do we have any questions or any final comments from council before we vote? I'd like to thank the applicant for making the changes. I absolutely think that
 We need to increase density for both residents and businesses, but in flood plains isn't where it makes sense. So I appreciate that. I'd also like to thank the applicant for making those changes. I know it delayed the approval by a couple of weeks, but I think it was really important, and I appreciate their efforts in that part. Thank you. Anything else from council before we vote? Okay. Kerridge, please call the roll. Kenyon? Kenyon?
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. All right, move along to number two. In order to resolve that property, it's described in the zoning petition, RZN 21-077.
 located south and east of dock tipton road and double springs road for approximately 39.88 acres from ra residential agricultural to rsf2 residential single family two units per acre this is an appeal it was left on the second reading by the city council i will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading and if we go to the third and final reading
 so good we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading care would you please call the row kenyon yes scroggin yes bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes and in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 21 dash zero seven seven located south and east of doc tipton road and double springs road
 for approximately 39.88 acres from ra residential agricultural to rsf2 residential single family two units per acre okay jonathan do you have anything new on this one oh thank you mary i do have a very brief presentation just to give a a visual element to what was shared with the council at agenda session regarding tipton road so i'll run through that briefly and you have 10 minutes certainly
 all right if the council were a call one of the the outstanding items that came out of the last council meeting was concerned about the condition of dot tipton road specifically its width and how any improvement or widening of it would be handled whether that would be done by the developer whether that would be done by the city to again put it in the visual terms uh west dot tipton road that we're talking about tonight is specifically between double springs road to the west and north 54th avenue to the east
 It varies approximately 16 to 18 feet in width, and the whole length of it is about 4,000 feet long between those two streets.
 Of that 4,000-foot length, about 1,500 feet, which you can see here in red, is actually fronted by the property being considered for rezoning tonight. A typical development would be required to improve at the very least these portions of their frontage. That, of course, always comes down to what's ultimately proposed and whether that scale of a project can bear those costs as it's associated with it.
 One question that came out of the agenda session, too, that Mr. Brown, the city engineer, spoke to was what could potentially occur if a gap was left between the two places where this property touches Dot Tipton Road, especially in terms of sidewalks?
 It could be possible, again, depending on the scale of the project, if that could be borne by the developer and that connection made by the developer. Mr. Brown did advise, however, that there is some money available with city funds that can be considered as a cost share by the city council after development is submitted. That's typically when cost shares are considered by council.
 The comparison that Mr. Brown gave, just to offer some sort of basis of comparison, was West Persimmon Street, which was improved between 2020 and 2021. It was narrower than Dot Tipton is today, varying from 14 to 16 feet wide, and it was a shorter segment, about 2,700 feet long, where Dot Tipton is 4,000.
 This was widened to about 18 to 20 feet wide, and I think Mr. Brown described it as a Band-Aid. It's about a $100,000 project, whereas it would be about $2 to $3 million to widen Persimmon to what would be considered a master street plan section, which you can see here, which includes sidewalks on both sides, green space, street trees, curb and gutter, and a full width of 30 feet on the street.
 uh with that just as a brief reminder staff did recommend and does recommended denial of the request the planning commission was split but ultimately did not forward the item by a vote of two to four we have received some public comment to date most of it has been inquiries and once the applicant shared a conceptual site plan of how they'd like to lay out the property many of those who had commented expressed support for the proposal and again i'm happy to take any questions the council has thank you
 Do you have an applicant? I'm sorry, thank you. I believe Justin Cullors is here as the applicant for the item. Okay, the applicant would like to speak for the council.
 Yes, my name is Justin colors representing small fish with this rezoning proposal. Thank you mayor Thank you council for taking time to hear this again spoke with Jonathan earlier this this morning and basically went through everything that he just described to you so also tried to reach out to some of the council members to get some further input and had a great conversation this Turk and upon her guidance I
 We went out and tried to address some additional concerns from some of the neighbors which as Mr. Kirk just mentioned after seeing the conceptual design that we put forward on this it was substantially less dense from anything that was proposed out there before and we actually received some some positive feedback from the neighbors out there Which that took the neighbors feelings and then I believe the council's feelings from the last meeting back to yes, this is a
 proper rezoning and a good fit for the area. The concern, of course, being not Tipton. Tried to reach out and speak with engineering. Chris was off this week with the holidays. He's
 and upon his uh advice went back and he was able to text me and i went back and watched the agenda session heard all of his comments on there so i guess i would just like to reiterate tonight that uh we are very aware that dr tipton is in need of improvement uh that road was i believe as uh mr williams mentioned at the last meeting you know that was accepted uh
 in a annexation previously from the county, so it currently is not up to city standard. So I would just like to say that if we are able to get this rezoning approved and move into the design phase with some of the other development that's going on out there, the...
 Rezoning that was approved last week of an R. S. F. eight just do north this project along with approximately four to five hundred homes being built in farming and city limits just across the street to the west of double springs. There is going to be substantial
 traffic increase on that road whether this project gets approved or not so I would just like to say that if we do get this approved pass rezoning move to design perhaps it would present a condition where we could work with the city and help bear some of that cost to do some of the needed improvements in that section and I'm available to take any comments from council thank you
 Okay, what questions do we have in the council on this one? I have a few comments and questions. First of all, I'd like to thank the applicant for going to the neighbors and talking with them and explaining a little bit more about your design. I am curious if the conceptual plan was presented to the planning commission. Jonathan or the applicant, do you recall if that was presented before them?
 Yes, it was. It was. Okay. Okay. And then I finally had a chance to catch up and read all the all the materials in the packet. And there was a discussion about a pond overflowing and potentially flooding some of the residents. Have you taken a look at that or discuss that with them or have any information on that?
 The neighbor that was concerned about that, we tried to reach out to them and were not able to make any contact over the holidays between this last meeting and tonight. I did get to go out there during a significant rain event that we just had, and there is potential for overflow on that pond. It's actually something that
 would also present itself to be corrected and improved if we were able to further development out in that area. The lay of the land actually drains really well. It's just an old farm pond that needs to be improved. Okay, one follow-up question to that, and I know this is currently
 allowable in our code. And I didn't have a chance to go back and compare your conceptual design where the pond is located. But I am concerned that we allow houses to be built on filled in ponds. And so I don't know if that's something that you all would take in consideration when you go through the design process, if this is approved tonight.
 Yes, absolutely. If that lot were to be turned into a building site, we have to follow all building codes. I've got a background in paving and excavation. And so, yeah, any time we're going to build on any fill site like that, we're going to bring it up with engineered fill material, make sure it meets compaction before any kind of future construction is done on that site.
 Thank you very much. Again, I appreciate you reaching out to the neighbors. You bet. Okay, what other questions do we have from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. We will take those participating by Zoom first, and then those that are in the council chambers in person after that.
 Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one has their hand raised. Okay. Is there anyone in the council chambers who would like to address us on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is on the third reading, by the way. So we're about to vote. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Caravage, please call the roll. Kenyon? No. Scroggins? Since I represented a client around this recently, I'm recusing. Thank you.
 Bunch? No. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? No. Jones? No. Okay. That fails, Mayor. All right. Thank you all. Let's move on to new business. Number one, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to approve the purchase of a Wiggum & Super 600
 from P and K equipment in the amount of forty two thousand five hundred dollars plus political taxes kit, okay Whereas during SAS research to find a vertic cutter to maintain the city's Bermuda athletic field turf It was determined that only Wiedemann super 600 has a size and capabilities to adequately handle the work now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1 and
 the City Council of CFA works are hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a purchase of a Wiedemann super 600 from P and K equipment in the amount of forty two thousand five hundred dollars plus any applicable taxes okay sir
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is a bid waiver request because this item is so specific. I think Keith may have a picture of it for you. This is similar to a hay cutter in the sense that it can cut heavy duty, really thick debris and also vacuum it up essentially.
 So it has multiple different uses and we could not find anything similar that could accommodate all of the multiple uses and the capacity. This has a very large hopper, so if they are in, say, one of our large parks, they wouldn't have to dump it multiple times. So this is the reasoning for the bid waiver. But I'm happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Sarah on this?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first. And then those that are in person in the city council chambers, after that, who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one there. Okay, does anyone in the chambers like to address us on this?
 Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What actions or discussion would the council like to take? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Caravage, please call the roll. Kenyon. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hurtsburg. Yes. Harvey. Yes.
 Yes, Jones Yes, and nor that's the way competitive bidding and approved the purchase of a Wiedemann super 600 from P and K equipment in the amount of $42,500 plus applicable taxes. I'm gonna suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading Second we have a motion to second to go to the third and final Kenyon yes Scroggins yes bench. I
 Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and approve the purchase of a Wiedemann Super 600 from P&K Equipment in the amount of $42,500 plus applicable taxes. Any file of college and council? There's a lot right there. There, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Kenyon?
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go to number two. An ordinance to approve a residential planned zoning district entitled R-PZD 2021-005 for approximately 13.65 acres located at 1032 South Razorback Road. Kip?
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, thereby approves RPCD 20-21-0005 as described in Exhibits A, B, and C attached to the Planning Division's Agenda Memo, which allows the development of 10.04 acres
 for 16 multifamily units and 3.61 acres for tree preservation, detention, and outdoor recreation. Section 2 that this C-PZD approval is subject to the following conditions as set forth in Exhibit C. Number 1, revise the PZD booklet and plans to clarify the acreage for each planning area. Number 2, parkland dedication must be reviewed by the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board with the associated development.
 3. Any proposed lots without frontage shall provide adequate access for water, sewer, and emergency services. 4. Proposed streets shall meet minimum 2040 Master Street Plan requirements for residential link streets. Additional variances may be needed for alternative street sections. 5. Proposed fire apparatus access roads shall meet requirements as stated by the applicable fire codes.
 Number six a traffic impact study shall be provided at the time of development proposal number seven a statement from an environmental professional Regarding the presence of wetlands must be provided at the time of the development proposal Section three that the official zoning map of the city of Fable Arkansas hereby amends is amended to reflect the zoning change provided in section one Okay, John
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in south central Fayetteville. It's a few lots south of MLK's intersection with Razorback Road, just southwest of the main University of Arkansas campus. To orient you a little bit more closely, this property is immediately south of the land that the city recently exchanged with the university for property on Markham Hill. Immediately north of this is where the university's tennis facilities are currently being built.
 today the property is being used as a distribution warehouse and not much else the remainder of the property beyond the distribution warehouse which abuts Razorback is fairly sloped going upwards from Razorback Road to the east up to Stadium Drive and the multifamily housing located there
 Other characteristics on the site are that a portion of it along the west eastern boundary are within the hillside hilltop overlay district. There is a sizable utility easement associated with an overhead power line, which you can see in the southeast corner of the site on the aerial here. Also, there's a railroad spur that abuts the southwestern portion of the property.
 What's being requested tonight is a residential plan zoning district proposing 142 units within two planning areas. You can see that laid out here. Among that, the majority of the buildings, which you can see here indicated with red dots, are intended as residential housing. These will be three-story, attached in nature. They'll be varying from just a handful of units attached to upwards of, I believe it's six or eight attached.
 Other buildings on the property include a parking garage, which will serve most of the development's parking needs to minimize the amount of surface parking and cut into the side of the hill there. Non-residential buildings above Razorback Road, where there will be clubhouse and services for the residents and the potential for non-residential services and amenities north of that on the northwestern portion of the site.
 As I noted before, there is a second planning area that does include the intent to preserve a large area of tree preservation on the property. Today, the majority of the property is within tree canopy, and I will go into that a little bit more shortly.
 When looking at this request and evaluating it from a land use compatibility standpoint, that staff did find it to be compatible. If you visit the area, you are well aware of the large amount of housing, both to the east, northwest, and west of the property. This I-1 industrially zoned property is something of a relic of when this was a much more active railroad spur. It's a relic of the early days.
 All the properties adjacent to it now, barring the University's parking lot associated with Baum Stadium to the south, are currently being used residentially or for the aforementioned University property to the north where the tennis facility is being built. With that said, again, staff did find it to be a compatible request and perhaps more, certainly more compatible than the industrial uses that are allowed today.
 When looking at it through the lens of our long-range plans, staff did find this request to be consistent with the future land use map, which designates this area as a city neighborhood area where higher intensity amounts of development and density are encouraged. Certainly would be afforded by this development with the 142 units and the potential to have services along Razorback.
 When looking at it through the lens of City Plan 2040 and its goals, staff found this to be certainly supportive of those. This is definitely an infill location. The proposal is intended to serve students in such close proximity to the university. This property will afford students an ability to easily access the university, either through the trail system along Razorback or the ORT and Razorback transit stops that are within a quarter mile.
 Similarly, there are quite a few amenities in the area beyond the trail and parkland and soon to be tennis facilities. There are also a number of services all along Martin Luther King Boulevard ranging from restaurants and retail to office uses as well.
 Other issues staff considered with this request and that were brought up at the agenda session last week were the ecological sensitivity concerns for the property. These are manifested in both the the hillside hilltop overlay district HHOD designation of a portion of this property and also how our city's tree preservation standards relate to what's being proposed. As a
 As the hillside hilltop overlay designation relates to the property, you can see it here in green. Again, it comes up coming from the east side of the property, which is the highest point of the hill, north.
 Overlaying that again with the tree preservation area. There's some alignment there, although not fully it is worth noting that the I won industrial zoning district does have a Relatively lower tree preservation standard. It's 15% as a base which proportions in the HHOD does increase by 5% to 20 and
 uh on the other hand the pzd standard is much higher it's 25 the highest in the city which is supplemented by the five percent associated with hhod standards so for those portions of the property in the hhod that standard would be 30 percent which our foresters they when they review those just to give you all a glimpse of how that's done they have to weight those designations across the property to ensure that the proportional tree preservation requirements are being met
 Another consideration staff had when looking at this was the proposed connection of Stadium Drive. If you have not had the opportunity to explore this area, you may not have noticed that there are no east-west connections between South School and to the east and Razorback to the west. MLK to the north and 15th Street to the south are the only east-west streets in this entire part of town.
 While Stadium Drive will certainly not connect school to Razorback Road, by approving this development and seeing it constructed, we'll create that connection that would not be there otherwise and potentially afford the ability to relieve some of the congestion seen in this part of the city.
 Lastly, and worth noting, because it's not seen with a lot of developments in the city, PZDs do afford the applicant the opportunity to request five unrelated persons per dwelling as opposed to our maximum standard of four in multifamily districts. The applicant has proposed this and staff has found given the location and the intent of the project and the proposal to include this street connection, I just mentioned the Stadium Drive, that it is appropriate and will have limited to no negative impacts on neighboring properties.
 With that, the item did have a few visits to the Planning Commission. It was heard on November 8th where the Planning Commission tabled it, requesting additional information on building elevations and requested to see the potential for non-residential uses and more information about the on-site amenities being proposed.
 The applicant provided many of these for the November 22nd meeting. The commissioners still did not feel at ease with what was being proposed. Some of those elevations and building designs were shown on flat sites rather than how they relate to the topography of the property.
 The applicant came back with those at the December 13th meeting. The Planning Commission was satisfied with the revisions that were made and ultimately forwarded the item to the City Council recommending approval by vote of 8-0. Many of the more prominent comments made by the Commission included that the request was very compatible given the surrounding mix of residential and non-residential uses, as well as complementary to the University of Arkansas being such close proximity.
 As far as public comment goes we've not received any explicit statements in favor or against the item But there have been a number of inquiries today With that I'm happy to take questions and I believe Jeff Bates is here as the lead representative for this item. Thank you Yes, we'd like to speak for the council. You have ten minutes one quick question Jonathan Did you say it was presently zoned industrial? That's correct mayor. Hmm. I
 My name is Will Kelsstrom and I'm representing the applicant. I had a few short remarks prepared but granted the comprehensive presentation that Mr. Kurth just gave, I'm going to shorten those. Well you have ten minutes so. Well I don't think I'm going to need it. I don't want to repeat everything he just said.
 I will say that we got this in front of Planning Commission three times and through that process we sort of hashed out and went back and forth and took comments and went and revised and did this two or three times and ended up with a project that Planning Commission at least seemed they were impressed with it and they gave a unanimous approval.
 So, you know, a few zoning considerations like you just asked, Mr. Mayor. This is currently zoned industrial zone.
 This project is a really good chance to get rid of a relic of an old zoning that really shouldn't be there. And I think this is a good development to replace it with another. Another consideration is that under I one, the tree preservation requirements are only 15% under Pcd. We're going to give 30%. Like Mr. Kurt said,
 This development is right next to several other medium to high density student housing developments as far as I'm concerned This is the best thing that can fit right there So with that I'm here if you guys have any questions. Thank you. Okay, so what questions to add the councilwoman's I
 Mayor, I have a few. Jonathan, could you tell us, let us know if the Stadia Drive extension, is the city responsible for any of the cost of that, or is that solely on the developer? As proposed, it's currently solely on the developer. Okay, thank you. The second question I have, and maybe...
 You know, that's a very heavily treed area, and I understand right now with the current zoning, only 15% would be required to remain, but it would be helpful to find out just exactly how many trees are going to be removed if this development is approved. I mean,
 If you go down there, it's solidly lined with trees, except for that area that's paved and that building. And so we're going to substantially lose our tree canopy if this development is approved. So I would really request that we have that kind of information.
 The other concern that I have is that, and I appreciate you finding the overlay of the hillside hilltop ordinance with the proposed PCD where the buildings will go. I'm wondering what the steepness of that slope is, and the reason why I ask is because over behind Harps off of Garland,
 That was on a very, very steep hillside and they had to remove a whole lot of material. And it's still a very steep slope and I get complaints about that place all the time. And so I just have some more questions about information that was not in the packet or if it was in the packet then I missed it.
 So I would appreciate that information. You probably don't have it right now, but if we could receive it in the future, that would be great.
 Finally, the last concern is I do think it is in a very good location in terms of students. Absolutely, no doubt about it. You have Chick-fil-A and some of the other restaurants very close by. And then, of course, Transit is there and available to go to the U of A. But the five unrelated people may seem a bit much.
 If there are five unrelated people per apartment or per dwelling, how many cars is that? And what is the parking capacity of the proposed parking lot? So those are some of my questions and concerns. Thank you. What questions do we have, counsel? Do you want to answer? Do you have some ideas?
 answer for that now Jonathan certainly mayor thank you for the questions council member Turke I can answer or at least give you some information on two of those pieces and Comments on another as far as the tree preservation item. I know some projects have begun doing tree surveys at this point I cannot speak to that. It's it's not a typical requirement of our PZDs The applicant may be able to speak to that more if they've gotten to that level of detail as far as slopes go I
 It depends where on the property. Again, the project engineer may be able to give more details, but the main locations I've looked at are along that overhead power line easement. The slope rate is about 15%, running from northeast to southwest.
 and the location where uh stadium connects down to razorback varies from about 10 as you get closer to razorback as you might expect up to about 15 as you're closer to stadium drive but i'm sure there may be other points of the property that are slightly more and slightly less and to your last question uh council member turk as far as the the parking the bedroom ratios go
 our parking code does have minimum standards for residential as opposed to our non residential developments and that's one bed be provided per bedroom so it's not a unit count it's a bedroom account so if there's five unrelated individuals and five bedrooms that would be required to provide five parking spaces per each one of those units thank you
 Thank you, Jonathan. Does the parking deck right now as it's designed accommodate five bedrooms per unit for five cars? I'd have to defer to the applicant on that one. Staff has not had an opportunity to see design details to that level at this point. Would the applicant like to answer that?
 So our response to that is that there is, if you look on the plot, there is on-street parking in addition to the parking garage, and we have actually provided more parking than is required under the code. So we feel that we've adequately addressed parking. Okay, thank you. What other questions do we have in the council? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those who are in person in the council chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No hands raised. All right. Is there anyone in here who would like to address us on this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What action items or discussion would the council like to take? This is on the first reading. This is an order.
 Mayor, I would like to hold this until the first reading so that maybe some more information that I requested could be provided in two weeks. And also to be able for the public to be aware of this PCD. We've had the holidays and I'm thinking that lots of people have been out of town and are not aware. And this is a very large project and a very prominent place. Okay.
 I would also be in support of that. I would, too. Okay. I'm sorry, unless a council member brings you back up, your time at the mic is over. Okay. Mayor? Yes. I'd like to request the applicant to respond. Now the applicant may return. Thank you. Before you all vote on this,
 Councilwoman Turk, if you could, would you let us know exactly what you're wanting to see when we bring it back so that we can make sure that we have all questions answered by the time this comes back next? Yes, I'd be happy to do that. Absolutely. Do you want me to do that right now, or can I send you an email? If you would, send me an email, absolutely.
 either either or um i'd also like to state on the public comment part we did have three meetings on this and the last of those i believe was on the 13th of december so i i would think all these people have been notified there's been a sign on the property i think there's been adequate opportunity for people to come in and listen and hear and state any concerns they might have that being said we
 We're open to a tabling to wait if you guys would like, but I do think the public has had plenty of notice on this. I would still be in favor of holding this on this reading. The public may have had plenty of notice, but this is our first time to ask questions about it, so I think it's only fair that we be allowed a little more time to investigate this as well. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, so does the council want to just hold it right here for two weeks? Is that what I'm hearing? Everybody okay? Okay. It's unanimous. It's unanimous. That'll work. All right, let's move on to number three.
 An ordinance rezoning that prompted inscribing rezoning petition RZN 21-079 located at 2978 North Old Missouri Road for approximately 4.88 acres from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, exhibit A, and the legal description, exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4, residential single family four units per acre, to NSG, neighborhood services general. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1. OK. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor.
 this particular piece of property is in north northeast Fayetteville it's located one lot south of Butterfield Elementary School on the east side of old Missouri Road between rolling hills to the north and old wire to the south
 It is largely undeveloped and probably most recognizable to most in Fayetteville as the property of the Keenan Tree House. It's a large, about 80-foot tall, I believe, house, single-family home built up very tall. It's hard to miss. A not so prominent and visible element of the site is that it's also bisected from northeast to southwest by a very large water transmission line of 36 inches carrying water from the
 Beaver Lake to the city of Fayetteville.
 What's being requested tonight from council is to rezone a portion of the subject property, which you can see here includes about one acre of budding old Missouri road. The proposal is to rezone it from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to NSG, neighborhood services general. As you can see here, the proposal is intended to largely mirror what was rezoned on the property to the north in 2018 and allow the balance of the property to remain in its current RSF4 zoning district.
 Staff found the request or finds the request to be compatible from a land use standpoint. There are a number of non-residential, attached residential, and detached residential uses in the area. Although this wider part of Fayetteville is mostly recognizable for detached single-family homes, this particular area represents a fairly prominent intersection where there can be found churches and offices.
 where the NSG zoning district can be complimentary with its allowance for small-scale residents or small-scale non-residential uses and smaller attached residential uses up to four units overall when looking at it from a long range standpoint
 the staff did find the request to be compatible the future land use map complements it as well as the city plan 2040. this area represents a an ideal location given its access to uh i apologize there are several errors on this slide please excuse it and i'll go back to the previous slide to describe it i apologize for that um
 The future land use map does support it. It is residential neighborhood area on our future land use map, which indicates an appropriateness for a wide spectrum of residential uses, which does include which the zoning district does complement with its allowance of single 2, 3 and 4 family homes. Similarly, it encourages non residential uses on prominent thoroughfares and near major intersections. This.
 portion of old Missouri between old wire and rolling hills Certainly represents that especially as the property to the north may may continue to develop it has access to water is in proximity to sewer and Excuse me. It also has a proximity to parks and trails as well as the fire station located on Crossover Road and
 Other issues to be considered with this request, again, is the main transmission main on the property, which is an unusual consideration. The applicant has been evaluating this with the utilities department and is working an understanding of what can or cannot be done in proximity to that. Given the recent failure of this main for the north, there's certainly a sensitivity to that, and the applicant wants to ensure as they develop this area,
 that they are observant of what would be appropriate there and in close proximity to that. To give you a little bit of a visual of how that looks, the area and the hatched polygon here is what's being proposed to be rezoned, and the blue line represents that 36-inch main coming from, again, the northeast to the southwest.
 With all that in mind, staff does recommend in favor of the request. The Planning Commission agreed, forwarding it to Council unanimously by a vote of 9-0. They felt that this represented a positive potential for small-scale offices and retail in an area that is largely represented by single-family homes.
 Also, there was a comment from one of the commissioners who lives in the area that if this property were to be developed, it would be very complimentary to completing the walkability of the area that is not currently there for residents, particularly getting to Butterfield Elementary. To date, we've not received any public comment, although there have been at least two inquiries about what the request is about, but there was no statement of support or opposition.
 And I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And I believe Mr. Weigel is present, I think, virtually as the applicant for this item. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. I see Mr. Weigel here, but he has not raised his hand. Now he has. Okay. Go ahead, Mr. Weigel. Okay. Can you hear me now? Yeah. All right. Happy New Year. Thanks for considering our proposal.
 John Potter, This is a about a about a one acre parcel that's just to the south of some land that in previous years we had rezoned G. We chose the boundary line of the water main that comes through.
 as a natural stopping point for that rezoning knowing that there's a 50-foot easement there and then approximately 35 feet between where we ask our zoning to start on the west side before you get to the waterline that waterline's offset within that easement uh 35 and 15 35 being the buffer on the west side where we've asked for the rezoning we feel that um
 there's a current plan for the bike trail to extend from gully park down to or up to the intersection and then down the front of the property and we just feel that that's a great location to add some small scale community services to the neighborhood and that's our intent thank you i'll be here for any questions if you have
 Okay, what questions do you have from the council or the applicant or staff? Mr. Mayor if May I interject briefly with as a point of clarification? I might slide was correct. This property is designated city neighborhood area in the future land use map. I apologize for that What questions do we have in the council? Jonathan are there any parking requirements? That would be
 that the subject this property would be subject to that would all depend on how it's developed we do not have a non-residential minimum parking standards our codes do give staff the authority to evaluate non-residential uses on a case-by-case basis to ensure that
 a parking issue is not created by a development so there's a theoretical parking requirement of zero for non-residential in practice however parking is required for a residential standpoint it depends on what kind of housing would be built a single family or two family dwelling would be two units per or two car two spaces per unit anything else is generally one space per bedroom okay thank you any other questions from the council
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and those that are in person in the chambers after that. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one there. Okay. Is there anybody in the chamber who would like to comment on this? No.
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. So what action or discussion would the council like to take and or have? Well, it seems like there's no discussion. The information we were provided is comprehensive, and it was apparent that this was agreeable to the commission and the planning staff. So I would like to suspend the grills and go to the second reading.
 Second, we have a motion to go to the second free. Here, which please call the law Kenyon. Yes. Scroggins yes, yes. Yes, Kurtzberg yes. Yes, Jones yes.
 and northern to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 21-079 located at 2978 north old missouri road for approximately 4.88 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to nsg neighborhood services general and so i'd like to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second we have a motion second go to the third and final read care which please call the road kenyon
 Yes, Scroggins. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
 At Nornet's, the rezoned net property described in the rezoning petition RZN 21-079, located at 2970 North Old Missouri Road, for approximately 4.88 acres, from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre, to NSG Neighborhood Services General. What final comments do we have in the council? Here, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to amend 151.01 definitions in 164.19 accessory dwelling units ADU and 164.22 cluster housing development of the federal unified development code to amend requirements for accessory dwelling units.
 Whereas the regulatory requirements placed by the City of Fayetteville on accessory dwelling units have resulted in a continuation of permitted or constructed units lower than the staff anticipated and well below the potential to meaningfully impact housing options. And whereas many property owners are looking for sources of income to pay mortgages and rising property taxes,
 And ADUs can serve this purpose while also contributing to the citywide variety of housing options in otherwise low density areas. And whereas ADUs can promote incremental increases in housing and density and complement existing housing stock in terms of scale and impact,
 and can also afford existing property owners the opportunity to stay in their homes and not disrupt the fabric of the overall community. And whereas these amendments, which the Planning Commission forwarded to the City Council with a unanimous vote recommending approval,
 will allow increased flexibility in ADU development standards to encourage additional use of this housing type throughout the City, thereby increasing access to affordable and attainable housing types. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 151.01 definitions by repealing the definition of accessory use or structure and enacting a new definition as follows, quote, accessory use or structure, a use or structure on the same lot width of a nature and size of 50% or less and customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or structure.
 An accessory dwelling is not subject to the 50% size limit in relation to the principal use or structure." Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 51.01 definitions by repealing the definition of quote, dwelling accessory
 and enacting a new definition as follows, dwelling accessory, a separate complete housing unit with separate entrance, kitchen, sleeping area, and full bathroom facilities, which is an attached or detached extension to a single or two-family structure, unquote. Section 3.
 at the city council the city of favela are here by men section d4 in section 164.19 accessory dwelling units by changing the maximum number of detached accessory dwelling units from one to two as follows subsection four maximum number of accessory dwelling units per lot
 a maximum of two detached and one attached or interior accessory dwelling unit, provided the combined square footage does not exceed 1,200 square feet." Section 4, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal Section D7B in Section 164.19, Accessory Dwelling Units.
 And in Act of News, Section D7B as follows, quote, subsection B, an attached accessory dwelling unit may occupy a basement, first or second story of a principal dwelling unit, unquote. Section 5, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal Section E7 in Section 164.22, Cluster Housing Development.
 an actual replacement e7 as follows quote subsets can seven accessory dwelling units accessory dwelling units are permitted in a cluster housing development or in cluster housing developments by conditional use where a cluster housing development is permitted as a conditional use accessory dwelling units may be requested within the same application unquote okay John thank you mayor
 As Mayor and Mr. Williams noted, this item is coming to the City Council through the Planning Commission's Long Range Subcommittee, but also in conjunction with work from staff.
 As a little bit of background, while some of you may be well familiar with the ADU conversations, the accessory dwelling unit conversations that have been happening in Fayetteville for over a decade now, these largely began in 2018 with the adoption of an ordinance that was fairly limiting but at the time very broad in scope. Fayetteville was one of the few cities in the country that embraced accessory dwelling units as a priority.
 or recognize them as a historical form of housing that many of our neighborhoods have seen for decades, but which kind of dropped out of favor in the latter half of the 20th century.
 After several years of lackluster permitting numbers, in 2015 an amendment was made that increased the size allowance for ADUs from 600 to 950 square feet. However, there continued to be a very low number of units permitted, so in 2018 staff really dove into what seemed to be some of the issues that were preventing ADUs from being built on properties.
 We met with residents, we met with property owners, we met with the commission, and ultimately what was brought to council and adopted included several changes, most prominent of which were the allowance for two ADUs on a property, one detached and one attached, with a 1,200 square foot cap between the two of them. You could have a 600 attached and 600 foot detached, you could have 400 and 800, you had that number to play with and that was it.
 You are again allowed two per property. Two of the other items that we learned were considered poison pills, if you will, to the realization of ADU construction were that we had required separate metering, which would require construction of an ADU and entirely separate service lines out to the street and a separate water and sewer meter, despite the fact that the property may be under the same ownership. So that was removed in 2018.
 And lastly, and probably most prominently, was a deed restriction which existed with that ordinance stating that the property owner had to live in either the ADU or the house with which it was associated. It was found that this was originally adopted because there were a lot of concerns that these houses and the associated ADUs would simply become rentals that would have a negative impact on the established neighborhoods or neighborhoods in general.
 And in reality, what was found is even owners didn't want to impose deed restrictions. It was considered a negative element to have associated with their deed. And so rather than impose that on themselves and perhaps compromise the saleability of their property, they chose not to pursue an ADU.
 So, as I described, the numbers were fairly lackluster for about a decade. The city was averaging a permit for about two to three a year. After the ordinance change in 2018, this did increase markedly from two to three to nine to 11 a year. We even began seeing some ADUs in association with new construction, which was exciting. And I've heard anecdotally from home builders that those are proven to be very popular.
 However, while 10 does sound like a lot, if you average that out, it still only represents 1% of all the residential permits we issued up to November of last year in 2021. To put that more specifically, in that same period, we permitted almost 600 single-family homes, 63 townhouses, 15 duplexes, but again, just 11 ADUs altogether in that period.
 And to provide a little bit more context, Fayetteville is growing. I think that goes without saying. You all are confronted with it daily, every meeting, every time you get an email. I assume it relates to that. If you average out our growth over the last 60 years, it's about 28% a year. It's pretty remarkable to look at it in those terms. This has been felt most prominently in home prices and in recent years.
 where the median home price has gone up from just shy of $300,000 to closing in on $500,000 a home, which is not attainable by any measure, certainly not in Arkansas, much less northwest Arkansas. Contextualizing that and what our development code allows, currently over 36% of the part of our city that is zoned is zoned for single-family development only.
 That means over a third of the land in all the city, you can only build a single family home by right. And if you take that and combine it with the land we have zoned agriculturally, where we do allow agricultural uses in single family homes and perhaps unusually duplexes, that's about two thirds of the city where there's a very limited amount of what you can do with the property. And I think we are starting to reap what we have seen in those terms moving forward.
 And this is associated with a myriad of issues. I'm not gonna go into length at any of these, one, because I have 10 minutes, and two, because many of you are familiar with all of these.
 Some of the most prominent things we've heard from applicants who want to do ADUs is that they want to stay where they live. This is a lot of residents who are being priced out either in perception or in reality. Property taxes is going up, and ADUs represent an opportunity for them to rent either to somebody on a long-term basis, whether it's a graduate student, whether it's a relative, whatever it may be, or they can use it for short-term rentals, which the council's increasingly familiar with.
 It creates a diversity of housing or adds to the diversity of housing options. ADUs tend to be very small. We don't see a lot of small housing construction currently in Fayetteville. Most homes are over 2,000 square feet in size, and not a lot of people can afford that. And perhaps most prominently, from a city planning perspective,
 ADUs afford an opportunity to develop or to add housing in areas that are already firmly established but are in very close proximity to a lot of services and amenities in our city. Some of our most cherished and established neighborhoods in Fayetteville are in close proximity to downtown, in close proximity to our busy corridors.
 And they are also zoned single family with very little option to add housing to those short of doing area wide rezonings or these property by property rezonings that the city council's very familiar with. So that's the context and some of the issues. Again, I don't mean to gloss over it, but you can see here that there is more to it as well.
 With that, there are five amendments that the Long Range Planning Commission or Long Range Planning Commission subcommittee has proposed and that staff is supportive of as well. The first is to Chapter 151, which is our definitions chapter. Currently, ADUs are only or currently ADUs.
 can only be up to 50% the size of the house with which they're associated. That's a very complicated way of saying if you have a 2,000 square foot house, you can only have a 1,000 square foot ADU associated with it. What we have found is this is very punitive to people with modestly sized homes. If you have a 900 square foot house, you can only build a 450 square foot ADU, which may not be something that you can viably finance or something that you can viably rent.
 Moving from there, we have found that there has been a lot of interest in building ADUs in association with duplexes, particularly duplexes with detached garages. You could potentially add a housing unit above a detached garage without adding any impervious area to a property.
 The third proposal is to increase the number of allowed ADUs. While this sounds preposterous, perhaps, to go from two ADUs allowed with a 1,200 square foot cap to three, there has been increasing amounts of interest for smaller and smaller homes. And we're seeing this on both sides of the generation gap in the United States. There are a lot of older people that are wanting to downsize, and there are a lot of younger people that cannot afford larger houses that are being built. This would afford the opportunity to address that.
 The Fourth Amendment is perhaps more of a mundane one, but we've seen issues with it. Building ADUs with existing homes, we have seen that be an unintended architectural constraint where homes in the historic district in particular have been wanting to modify attics as ADUs or add an attached ADU and the roofline, they want to build a roofline that complements this existing historic home, but they cannot because it would be too high compared to the existing house.
 And so that would afford them the opportunity to build an ADU that can complement the home. And lastly, but not least, is to permit accessory dwelling units as a conditional use in a cluster housing project. Currently, cluster housing is already a conditional use in all our single-family zoning districts. This would afford the opportunity to incorporate even smaller housing within those where it's appropriate as a conditional use. They have to show the elevations, where it'll go on the property to the Planning Commission,
 And we felt that that is an appropriate level of oversight to make sure that it's a good fit.
 With that said, again, staff and Planning Commission perhaps obviously are recommending approval of this. The Planning Commission did forward it unanimously. We have not received any public comment at either the subcommittee meetings or the Planning Commission hearings, but I know there's one piece that was distributed today in favor of the request, and I've heard anecdotally that there are others as well, perhaps on both sides of the spectrum. And that leaves my 10 minutes. I'm happy to take any questions the council has. Thank you. Bye.
 What questions do we have in the council? Can I give, Jonathan, do you need a look? Were you about to tie up anyway? I'd like to give you a little more time if you need it. We'll just give him a little more time and we'll give him some more time. I'll let the council decide that. Council Member Bunch, I think maybe one to two minutes would really do it. Okay, okay. I'll give you two minutes if that's okay, Mayor. Well, I'm good with that if everybody else is. Go ahead, Jonathan, give us two more minutes.
 Thank you. With regards to the actually one of Councilmember's comments that I heard through Ms. Masters in planning from the agenda session, there was a question about how many ADUs could be built in association with duplexes. And the way the ordinance is currently written and remains is that it
 or as proposed, excuse me, would be 3 ADUs per lot. So that's the maximum. It doesn't matter if you have one duplex on the property, five duplexes on the property, 10 duplexes, you get 3 ADUs. So there is a natural limitation there which would remain in place along with that 1,200 square foot overall cap. Thank you for the additional time. Okay, you did good, Jonathan. You got another minute left. Anyway, what questions do we have from the city council on this for Jonathan?
 Mayor, I have several. Jonathan, thank you so much for clarifying that it's just three ADUs per lot, irrespective of the number of duplexes. That's helpful. Remind me, are there any additional parking requirements with ADUs?
 There are. Thank you for the question. That was something that was deliberated at the Planning Commission. Initially there was a proposal to remove the parking requirement. There was a lot of back and forth between staff and among the commissioners themselves, and ultimately they opted to keep the standard today, which is there is no off-street parking requirement until you get above 800 square feet of ADU, at which point you have to provide at least one off-street parking space.
 So help me understand this. If this is approved and we have three ADUs that are 400 square feet each, what is the requirement for parking? Because theoretically you would have at least three more people and possibly more living there. The only off-street additional parking that would be required beyond if there's a driveway or a garage or anything would be one space. Just one, okay. So, yeah.
 Okay, thank you for that. I've got a couple more questions. So if I, I'm just going to throw out a hypothetical and please tell me if I'm if I'm misunderstanding or I'm wrong. So let's say I own a 500 square foot house under the proposed and it's and it's it's one story. It's just one story.
 Under the proposed rule right now, I could build three more 400s per foot ADUs, and I could build a two-story, if not three-story, ADU, right? I could have 400 on each level. Is that correct? I don't believe that scenario would be feasible. You're only permitted to do, only one of the three ADUs is permitted to be attached. So I don't know if you could
 I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I'm not sure if that's the right way to go.
 Is that correct? No, I apologize if I explained it poorly. So under what's proposed, there's the potential for three ADUs, and it seems like you understand that clearly, with a 1,200 square foot maximum limit. Of those three ADUs, one can be attached to the main house or duplex with which it's associated. The other two have to be detached from each other. So if you had, taking an example, I think you said a 500 square foot house.
 You could have one attached 400 square foot house and then two separate discrete 400 square foot ADUs as well. Okay, thank you for helping me understand that. That's really helpful. Okay, I think I had one more, but I...
 So one other thing I just want to clarify, make sure I understand this correctly. Right now, by right, in single and SF4 zoning district, I could go ahead right now and have two ADUs up to 1,200 square feet total with one parking place required. And those ADUs, I mean, they're rental property. They're not separate ownership. Is that correct? Yeah.
 i i can't speak for all the adus in the city we've seen some be used for caretakers whether it's health or property caretakers we've seen them used for intergenerational housing where just an adult family member lives in them some are rentals indeed and we've certainly seen some business licenses come through to use them as short-term rentals as well so i i can't speak uniformly for what ownership regime we see most common
 i guess what i'm trying to get at is that you can't buy a separate adu that yet that adu is the property of the principal house owner right yes thank you i appreciate the clarification i suppose it's possible that a property owner could create uh what would be called like a horizontal property regime almost like a condominium association
 where you could theoretically, I guess, sell the ADU, but the owner would keep the land and the main house or some variation of that, that would not be the purview of the city. And you could do that today, regardless. The city is not involved in condominium associations. Okay, thank you for answering those questions. I appreciate it. Other questions we have in the council? I have a question regarding the height.
 situation. Okay, so currently I think on their amendments you talked about the height situation. You know, so what without the amendment, can you explain again without the amendment where the height situation is versus what you recommend for the amendment, Jonathan?
 Currently, a detached ADU can be built up to two stories, and that's not being proposed for change with this request. What is being proposed to change with this request is that there is currently a prohibition on attached accessory dwelling units where they are not allowed to be taller than the roofline of the house with which they're associated.
 if that makes sense so that it's had the unintended consequences of making attic conversions difficult it's had the unintended consequence of making uh building attached to adus with complementary roof lines architecturally complementary roof lines and so the intent is to remove that roofline cap thank you one of the questions we had in the council
 There, I have one more. If none of my other colleagues have any questions. Jonathan, I want to kind of come back here. So if I have a principal dwelling that's 500 square feet, I could theoretically, under this new regime, build one ADU that's 1,200 square feet that's detached or attached. Is that correct? I'm sorry, can you repeat the last part of the question? You said it would be 1,200 square feet that's...
 Right. If I had just one ADU, I could build up to 1,200 square feet, right? Is that correct? Correct. Okay. So my ADU could be substantially larger than my principal dwelling, theoretically, of course.
 At that point, from a land use perspective, the ADU would be the principal dwelling and the existing home would be subordinate to that. That is an interesting scenario we have seen. I appreciate you bringing that up where we have had property owners where they cannot afford to build a larger home at the moment, and so they've actually been building what they consider an ADU now and saving money to build the principal dwelling at a later date.
 which the ADU, which was built as a single-family home, becomes subordinate to the house. So that, yeah, how does that, I mean, in terms of regulation, does it change much of anything? Because I hadn't really thought about its designation as switching, but that's very interesting. No, it's fortunate, well...
 In my professional opinion fortunately Fayetteville does not have exclusionary home sizes. We do not Mandate minimum house sizes requiring certain people in certain dose certain zoning districts to build a minimum 2,000 square foot house for example So no in that sense it does not have any regulatory issues at least certainly not any that we've run into Okay, thank you so much Let's take some public comment I
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person in the city council chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom? We have Kristen Scott. Okay, go ahead. Can you hear me? Hello, can you hear me?
 A little louder, Kristen. Can you hear me? Hello? Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Trying to speak loud. I have a soft voice. I'm Kristen Scott. I live at 2000 North Garland, apartment 93 in Fayetteville. And I'm speaking in favor of the changes. This is an existing city code for ADU. These changes are small. Any response to... I'm sorry. I'm having some trouble hearing you. Let me stay on topic.
 Sorry, I'm long distance. Better now? No. Is that any better? That is. Yes, that is better. That is better. I'll stand right here in this one exact spot. So these changes are in response to existing city code. We've lost you again. Can you hear me now? We can hear you now. Okay, I'll try moving again.
 Did you hear any of that? Yeah, we left off with you are in favor and these are in response to changes within existing city code.
 Thank you. This is a strategy that works toward Fayetteville's 2040 plan for affordable housing. It works toward a wider range of housing options. There are already many standards which protect the city's interest related to property density and the rules that would keep a neighborhood in its own personality and what makes this neighborhood special. It has the potential to increase housing affordability,
 and for tenants. It could provide homeowners with additional income as a revenue source, aging homeowners.
 I'm not that old, I'm only 53, but I will say, as I have gotten older, my housing circumstance has changed. And purchasing property or staying in an existing home but having the opportunity to have rental income also on that property would be something that would be very interesting to me. Are you all hearing that? Yes. Okay. Yeah. It's hard, but we're hearing. Okay. All right. Let's talk about x-raying.
 So I would like to see the city council remove the regulatory barriers in order to make it easier for property owners to create accessory dwelling units, ADUs. This is an already existing city council code and I think that this moves in the direction of our Fayetteville City 2040 plan. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And next Mayor Paxton Roberts. Go ahead.
 hi i'm paxton roberts i live at 411 can you hear me okay yes okay 411 west holly street uh i support the proposed changes to the adu ordinance as a single father who has looked at building an adu to help generate income and provide a potential option for my aging mother these changes will make it more conducive to doing so and also help bring more housing hopefully affordable to the city
 Getting rid of the size limit so that I'm not restricted based on the size of the house I could initially afford to purchase is important. Removing the roof height so that I'm not restricted because of the slope on the property, as well as increasing the number of units will all help.
 the number of ADUs and achieve the city's 2040 goals. However, I would like to suggest that tonight or in the near future making additional revisions in order to fully realize the benefits of the existing ordinance or those proposed to pass tonight. Specifically increasing the max combined size of the units and the max occupancy of the dwelling units. Because the current max size
 combined for all units has not been increased, even though we're bumping it potentially up to three tonight. It makes it hard to create realistic long-term housing options, both for storage size or being comparable to apartments. The average apartment size is more than 800 square feet, and one bedroom studio is around 500 square feet. An increase to a max size of 1,800 square feet would at least allow these ADUs to be comparable to apartments.
 And for example, a small two-bedroom ADU and two one-bedroom ADUs. Even as studio apartments, those are incredibly small. And I've also heard concerns of people worrying that these ADUs could be used for short-term rentals and not help housing stock.
 I believe the current size restrictions incentivize people to build units more conducive to one-night stays versus long-term residences, especially that of, say, a one-bedroom studio apartment that doesn't have as many amenities for living there permanently or on a long-term basis.
 Additionally, the current ordinance restricts the number of people living in a single ADU to a maximum of two persons. So it appears that a homeowner cannot rent a two-bedroom ADU to a couple with a child, for example. It seems like we need more housing to support people of all types, small families, not just couples or college students.
 Also, in order to make use of the three units proposed tonight, it appears that you must have a person related to the homeowner living in one of the ADUs, since only two people total are allowed otherwise in all the units. I feel like this severely restricts the ability to provide meaningful housing and also to recoup the cost of construction on the ADUs because of the restriction of who can live in the units, especially if a homeowner does not have an extended family to utilize one of these units.
 I do believe those proposed tonight are a change in a good direction, but I also encourage the council to consider making future amendments to better increase the number of ADUs in the city. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Is there anyone in the council chambers who would like to address this on this?
 i'm going to assume nobody does all right i'm bringing it back to the city council um this is an ordinance that's on the first reading what's the wishes what action would the council like to take you know or what discussion would the council like to have mr mayor i think we've mr roberts brought up some pretty good comments about the size of the adus and
 And how did, I was wondering if Jonathan could address how we decided on this 1,200 square feet or, you know, how did we come up with that number exactly? Well, I don't have a clue. Jonathan, would you like to answer that? Certainly. My recollection of that, it was with the 2018 amendment, and that was just part of the incremental increasing that had been occurring since the original ADU ordinances adoption.
 If you recall, originally in 2008 it was 600 square feet, which was increased in 2015 to 950. And so I think that has been the theme with the accessory dwelling unit ordinance since its adoption, is just incremental changes. So this was not one that I believe staff or the planning commission was looking to bite off with this one proposal, but this certainly doesn't mean it can't be done. Thank you.
 Well, what other discussion do we have? I'd like to leave it on the first reading. There's a lot to digest here and a lot of opportunity to listen to further input. Certainly tonight there's been valid input that I think should be considered. Okay.
 Yeah, I agree. I think we should leave it here. And I really appreciate that we've gotten this far with it, Jonathan. And I think we do need to start somewhere. It sounds really, really good, but it is a lot to consider and definitely excited about all of the suggestions Paxton Roberts has brought up because I think those are incredibly valid. So just I think we need a little bit more time. Thank you.
 Okay, that's fine. If y'all want us to hold it right here for two weeks, we will do that. That being the case, let's move on to number five. A resolution to amend the rules of order and procedure of the Federal City Council concerning public comments. Teresa, I believe you have this one.
 Thank you, Mayor. Yes, there were two amendments that I would like the council to consider tonight. The first one is changing the way we allow public comment to occur where we have five minutes total, but it's sort of a three minute countdown and then it goes to two minutes.
 I've had lots of citizens tell me how confusing that is many of them reiterating to me several times that it was only three minutes that was allowed and I would say, no, it really was five. So this is to go back and just have it as one five minute countdown. And it really to roll this back to I think how we've done things in previous years.
 The second one is to allow a citizen who wants to present their information through photographs or video able to do so if they provide that information in advance to IT. So that IT can load the information, they can make sure that there's nothing inappropriate or off topic.
 in there. It's not to, what's the word I'm trying to use, sequester their information, but just a way to make sure that it's on topic and appropriate. So those are the two changes. And I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Okay. What questions do we have for pre-summers?
 Teresa, just a brief question and I can't remember you may have said this before. Do you have a time frame that you would like the media to be turned into IT? Do you have that?
 Well, I talked to media and they really wanted it to be, you know, in advance. So they didn't want it to be one hour because maybe that was too restrictive for them. But allowing some flexibility there. And then if this did not work out, if people were handing it to them five minutes in advance instead of well in advance, then maybe we might regroup.
 reconsider putting a definite time in there, but they were fine with just saying in advance. And the reason we did that is that we already allow electronic visual aids, but we don't tell, it's not in your rules how early they must be presented by the applicant
 Instead, that's all worked out with IT. And we, it's really hard for us to figure out exactly how much time IT might need at this point in time, so that's why I suggested that we word it to allow
 the IT department to go ahead and and use their own rules on that because they might have to adjust it back and forth Depending on how many people are requesting it and it's so that's why we left it up to the IT department Rather than trying to put it into your rules of order and procedure Okay. Thank you
 I think probably for the public we ought to at least read the second one that talks about the visual aids. The first one is self-explanatory, but the second one would say that as part of a person's public comments allowed above, the speaker may use electronic visual aids during their five minutes presentation period concerning the agenda item being considered by the City Council.
 Prior to such use of electronic visual aids They must be presented to and approved by the IT department pursuant to the ID department's rules for such electronic visual aids Presentation and so that that was what I had suggested that how we try to incorporate Councilmember Turks ideas and so I you know, and if something I guess doesn't work immediately we can come back and change it or something, but I thought I
 This way it would give IT a lot of flexibility and we probably would not have to go back and change it because they could adjust their rules to make it work for us.
 So I would like to make a comment regarding being able to use electronic means to present someone's public comment. We actually already have a means of an individual being able to do that. They can actually upload their information via the public comment form and they can actually attach documents to that as well. It's been something that's gone on for years where while we're here in the council meeting
 an individual will bring their screenshots or their presentation printed out to where we would hand all of that information out to the council members. Now since via Zoom has been added into the mix and we're hybrid now, a lot of times an individual will join via Zoom to do their public comment and has the ability to just share their screen at that point, which I know that they've done in the past for panelists when people have been upgraded.
 So, you know, if there's anything that the city clerk office can do in order to assist in that process, we'd be more than happy to, since we already have a medium established to accept that electronic format. Okay. And so we have the amendments before you, council. So anybody got any opinions or anything? Okay.
 i just want to add that our experience with zoom is a little risky there so we would prefer to have the materials submitted to it rather than a zoom panelist we have done that with upgrading zoom panelists who were on and mary it's just a technicality with zoom you're looking at me like i
 But sometimes we have done that and while it is a possibility we would like to standardize in this new approach and not have that as a possibility because we really can't control the computer on the other end. So if people aren't registered as authorized panelists then we want to make sure we have
 can do it according to the, I like the language Kit has drawn up for IT to review the material. That way it just helps us.
 I would just like to say that that process makes me very uncomfortable to have that information go through another department, which is not the city clerk's office, because our office reviews all the information and attaches it to the agenda item to ensure it's attached correctly. Now, I do agree that that could be reviewed with authority.
 the IT department to be able to view if that device or however that attachment has been sent to make sure that there's no viruses, but as opposed to be able to go in and view the content to know what agenda item that goes to or to view that to, you know,
 change that individual's ability to put forward what they're wanting to say or say or to deny them in some way. That's the city clerk office has never denied any public comment from going forward or anyone's documents from going over, you know, for several reasons that my clerks actually brought up to me today, my deputy clerks.
 You know, we've always been the facilitator of information. You know, we believe in freedom of speech and, you know, we adhere to that in our office. In addition to that, there's a lot of people that aren't comfortable in coming into the office. So we're coming into the city council meeting. So we've been very happy with how Zoom has really increased the ability for individuals to,
 to join the meeting, you know, for a single parent at home to be able to join the meeting in order to give that information. We see our public, you know, join our meetings every week. We see the same names. We see people who are engaged in the process.
 I was actually just speaking with one of our IT people earlier today, and one of the main reasons that our live stream is always 30 seconds behind is to jump in if there is a potential issue on the live recording. So I think for those reasons, and to ensure that,
 there might not be any discrimination issue. That's why I say that that is something that's always been filtered through our office. And so we won't be discriminating necessarily about that at all. We're only looking for technical glitches. And I think Kit's language is just dandy. Thank you.
 Well, you know, obviously the city clerk has always handled the agenda packet. We're not saying anything about you not handling the agenda packet and putting stuff in there that comments from the citizens if you want to. But when it comes to the actual meeting and presenting stuff to the city council, that has not been controlled by the city clerk. Instead, especially with the Zoom and things like that, it's been the IT department that's been responsible for that.
 And this refers only to electronic visual aids. If somebody has a photograph and wants to show it to the city council, they've always given copies to the city clerk. And when the council was here, they would pass the photographs around.
 So that doesn't really change. This is only electronic visual aids. If somebody wants to present something like that, we want to protect the integrity of our computer system so that something is not entered in there that could be harmful to the system. And so we've always relied on IT to do that, not to control somebody's speech as long as it's just on the agenda topic and doesn't have truly objectionable material in it, which I doubt if we'll ever see that.
 They're doing that right now every time an applicant wants to present electronic visual aids. That's what the IT department is doing. That's not what the city clerk is doing. That's what the IT department is doing. And so I thought since that's the way we've been doing it, that that would be the logical place for it to continue here since we're –
 and now being proposed to extend it to all citizens when they want to make an electronic visual aid so that's why i use the i.t department certainly the city clerk has all kinds of control over her agenda and what she wants to put in there and we're not stopping her from doing anything like that she can do that we all believe in free speech here so this is not anything to attack someone's free speech it's actually to expand the speech
 to allow the citizens to have electronic visual aids. But we do need to have procedures to make sure that it's going to be something that will be protective of our system, so we don't have a virus or something that gets inserted into our system when it's being broadcast. And also, just so that it is appropriate, it's on topic, not whether it's yes or no. That has nothing to do for the IT department. They're not going to look at that.
 So I think this is why I chose the IT department for the electronic visual aids only. That's the only thing that this concerns. I just want to say thank you so much Kit for further explaining that. You know as I mentioned earlier, you know I do fully understand and promote the idea of the IT department viewing any type of attachment when it comes to if it has malicious hardware, excuse me.
 or malicious software that's attached to that, or it could harm our system in any way. However, you know, when you take a look at our public comment form, and it gives you the ability to attach a document or attach anything that pertains to that, whether it be a PDF or a Word document or anything along those lines, it actually already goes through the process of being viewed. Instead of having to now set up someone to the side where you're now going to be tasked
 individual to view and go through each of those that staff time that that goes to you know I think it's very important you know when we take a look at you know comments that have been made to City Council regarding especially since the budget just passed you know how do we get all the things done in a day
 that we can with the amount of money that we're given for each department. You know, we even saw at the beginning of the year where, you know, positions were denied to go forward and certain organizations and certain departments.
 I mean, this is a process that our office handles on a daily basis. So, you know, after talking with, you know, my two deputy clerks, you know, one with 12 years of experience and one with 16, almost 17 years of experience, I feel confident that they would be able to handle that. So thank you so much. Looks like Sarah Bunch had her hand raised. Yeah. I, you know, I appreciate this, Kara. I really do.
 um you know it's brought you know it made me think about this a little bit differently definitely but i do trust the city attorney's opinion on this and i trust you know i trust him to be non-discriminatory to do what is absolutely legal and to protect both the city
 staff, the council, and the citizens of Fayetteville. And I'm going to go with the city attorney on this. I think that's what we have to do here. Not to be, you know, not to be dismissive or anything, but I think this is his job. And, you know, to determine what is the right course of action and what's going to be legal and what's going to be
 uh protect the city and i think that's his decision and i support him in that so council member bunch i just want to say i totally agree with you that you know our city attorney it's wonderful that we're able to have an elected city attorney many many cities don't um so very thankful for that i just want to again express the fact that i
 I don't feel that it should be filtered through another department, especially the IT department, other than determining if it has any malicious software attached to it. Because, again, that's going to take more staff time away from their department regarding items that they handle when it's something that we handle on a regular basis.
 So I hope that's very clear and I hope I've explained our position on it and the information that my deputy clerks have talked to me about today. So thank you. So since you brought that up, Keith, I see that Keith is on here. Keith, do you have any reservations about this and feel that possibly this is going to take an inexcusable amount of time from your staff? Because I'd like to know if it is.
 Now we've talked to that internally. We feel like it's well within our current operations. We've been doing this for quite a few years when people come in and have presentations, whether it's a staff member that doesn't have it ready, they need to give it to us at the last minute or an applicant. So it's pretty similar to what we've been doing for many years. The Zoom thing changes it a little bit.
 And that's why we worked with Kit to ask them to send that prior to the meeting. So as long as we have that presentation prior to the meeting, we feel like we can handle it like we've been handling presentations in the past. Okay, thank you for that. Appreciate it.
 Maybe I could take this opportunity to clarify my intention a little bit more. I really had no idea we would get into these long discussions about this topic. What my observation was that our current practice is, if somebody wants to show some photos or a video, they go up to the mic, they've got the thumb drive in their hand, and they ask us if they can present.
 And we almost always say yes. I can't remember a time when we've denied them doing that. And so having this loaded and ensure that there's no viruses in there in advance, I thought would just make the procedure a lot better for everybody and that we would have a better handle on if there were any viruses in there or not. So that was just the intention of this change. That just wanted to clarify that. Okay.
 what other discussion do we have on the amendments well um do we take public comment we don't take public comment on the amendments well down in the resolution okay
 All right. Well, then we will do the amendments, and then we will have the amended resolution, or what are you telling me here? Okay. Okay. I got it. So now we'll do some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into a segment of three and two minutes for right now. All right.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in the council chamber will be allowed to speak on this after that. Who do we have by Zoom? Susan. Nobody, Mayor. Okay. It doesn't look like we have anyone in the chamber. Do we have anyone in the chamber? No. Okay. So I'll bring it back to the council. Okay.
 So what's the wishes of the council? This is a resolution. I'm going to request that we table this for two weeks. There's a lot here that got kind of confused and convoluted, and I want it to be plain and simple and really understand all the arguments I don't right now. So I move we table it for two weeks. Thank you, Mark. I'm in favor of that. So you are a second? Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to table for two weeks.
 All right. Care what you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. Well, thank you all, but I guess number six, we're done. No, we need to go on to number six.
 Okay. All right. Resolution to adopt the rules of order and procedure of the Federal City Council for 2022. Mayor, I brought this forward because under state law, at your first meeting, you're supposed to basically readopt your rules of order and procedure. That's what this would do with no changes. It's just what you have right now.
 but they would be readopted for 2022, and then at the next meeting, you can decide whether or not you want to make any amendment to them. Well, that's true because we've done that before. So this would leave it just like it is. I mean, if we consider the resolution and vote on it, whatever. Okay. This is just readopting what you have right now. Right. Thank you. Senator Public, I'll just speak on this first.
 What? He's asking if we have any public comment, and I don't see any. Yeah, I have public comment here. This is a new item, so the public might want to comment on this. Well, I got it. I just need to know if there's any other questions from the council. Okay, now let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first. Those who are in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Susan. Nobody. Okay. Is there anyone in the council chamber who would like to address us on this issue? No? Okay. Now I'm going to bring it back to the council. I'll second Mark's motion. Do we have a motion to pass? Yes.
 Do we have a second? No move, yeah. Second. Thank you. Caravans Police, call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. Well, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have, Susan? I don't have any more. Okay. Anything else in the council?
 Well, thank you all very much. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. I look forward to working with you all this year. All right. Take care. We're adjourned.