I would like to call the City Council meeting of January 5, 2021 to order. At this time, I would like to welcome Judge Casey Jones to administer the oath of office to elected officials. The officials' oaths of office will be myself as mayor, Cara Paxson, City Clerk-Treasurer DeAndre Jones,
 council member ward one matthew petty council member ward two sarah bunch council member ward three holly hirschberg council member ward four judge we will turn it over to you
 I, Lionel Jordan, do solemnly swear or affirm that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Arkansas. That I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Mayor of the City of Bethel.
 of the office of mayor of the city of federal upon which i am now about upon which i'm about to now thank you
 i say i care paxton do solemnly swear or affirm do solemnly swear or affirm that i will support the constitution of the united states constitution of the state of arkansas the constitution of the state of arkansas
 that i will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of city clerk treasurer of the office of city clerk treasurer of the city of bayville upon which now i am about to enter thank you very much
 Thank you.
 . Yes.
 Hello. Are you here? Yes, I can hear you. Okay. You will raise your right hand and repeat after me. I, say your name. I, Matthew Petty. Do solemnly swear or affirm. Do solemnly swear or affirm. I will support the Constitution of the United States. I will support the Constitution of the United States. The Constitution of the State of Arkansas. The Constitution of the State of Arkansas. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties...
 and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of City Council Ward 2, Position 2, City of Fayetteville, upon which I am now about to enter. Thank you.
 I say that I, Sarah Dunge, do solemnly swear to affirm that I was born in the Constitution of the United States, and I was born in the Constitution of the State of Arkansas, that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of City Council, Ward 3, Position 2.
 City of Medford. City of Medford. Upon which I am now. All right. I'm ready. Please raise your right hand. Do you have a say in that? I do. I will swear or affirm that I will support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the State of Arkansas, that I will faithfully discharge to you the office of City Council, Board of Board of Directors, City of Medford, upon which I am now. Mayor.
 Thank you, Judge, very much. I want to welcome the new council members, DeAndre Johnson and Holly Hertzberg to the city council. Congratulations. Look forward to serving with you, as always. Sarah, Matthew, look forward to serving with you all. And now let's, now, Kara, would you please call the roll? Funch? Here. Here. Hertzberg? Here. Gutierrez? Here. Jones? Here. Jones?
 Kenyon? Here. Petty? Here. Scroggins? Present. Mayor Jordan? Here. Now, would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? The Pledge of Allegiance is due to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic of Michigan State, under God, individual, liberty, and justice for all. All right.
 Mayor Linole Jordan I want to welcome everyone and in light of the current health concerns Beville City Hall is closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Linole Jordan and I'm present in the council chambers with Councilmember Sarah Bunch, Councilmember DeAndre Jones and Councilmember Holly Hershberg. Also present with us is a handful of essential support staff.
 Kidd Williams, City Attorney, Kara Paxton, City Clerk, Treasurer, Susan Norton, Chief of Staff, Deputy Police Chief Jamie Fields, Finance Director Paul Becker, and two representatives from Federal's IT Department. Other City Council members, City staff, and the public are participating online or by phone. Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the Council chambers.
 In anticipation of an unusually full agenda, the City Council will meet two times this week for everyone's enjoyment. And today's meeting will adjourn after the conclusion of unfinished items. The second meeting will be held on Thursday, January the 7th at 5.30 p.m. and will commence with new business items.
 Participation remains of utmost importance to the City of Federal and we have provided many ways to participate in or view tonight's meeting, including contacting City Council members, City Clerk's Office, or City staff prior to the meeting, viewing through Federal's government channel online or the City's YouTube channel, joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer,
 Staff can view when you have raised when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand We ask that you refrain from raising your virtual hand until the public Comment portion of the item on which you wish to come to comment I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand So as to ensure time to be recognized federal residents will be allowed to speak first when recognized Please state your name and address for the record. I
 Public comment shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item They may wish to address being open for public comment each speaker has one turn speed He speakers allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes Which staff will monitor amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote
 If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The city council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. Now, let's continue on with our business in the city council.
 The mayor's announcements, proclamations, recognitions, city council meeting, presentations and reports and discussion items. The first order of business we have before us tonight is the election of the vice mayor. I will open the floor for nominations for vice mayor. I'd like to nominate Sarah Bunch for vice mayor. Second. Well, is there any other nominations? Yes.
 OK. And I will close the floor to nominations. And we will do a roll call with vote. Gary, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. OK. Congratulations, Council Member Bunch.
 We will certainly keep you busy around here. Number two, 2021 City Council Committee appointments. Who has that? I assume everybody has looked at the appointments, and I need a motion and a second for approval. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the 2021 City Council Committee appointments. Sarah, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Nerg? Yes.
 Yes. Erksford? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Hope you enjoy the committees. Appreciate your service on it. All right, the next thing is number three, the report on the fire and police pension and relief funds. All right.
 In keeping with the statutory requirements, I'm presenting the report for 2020 on the local police and fire retirement and relief funds for the city of Fayetteville. Both of these plans were closed by law in 1983, and there are no longer any active working members remaining. There are currently 38 police and 42 fire retirees and beneficiaries in the system. At December 2020, projected expenses
 from the fire pension fund were approximately 1.3 million dollars compared to fund revenues of 1.1 million rejected police pension fund expenses were approximately 1.5 million as compared to the fund revenues revenues in excess of 1.2 million this is for adjusting investments to the current market value actual evaluations
 are the responsibility of the state of Arkansas Fire and Police Pension Review Board. The last evaluations completed were as of May 2020 for the year ending December 31, 2019. Based on these evaluations, the total pension liability of the police and fire funds were $16.1 million and $14.5 million, respectively.
 The net pension liabilities for these funds were approximately $9.9 million for police and $11.7 million for fire. In the annual reports issued by the Arkansas Pension Review Board, both the fire nor police pension fund were found to be high risk pursuant to the established financial tests. The fire pension fund has been classified as projected insolvent since 2009.
 The Fire Pension Board has been discussing the unstable condition of the fund and possible alternatives since that time. No specific request was made by the Fire Pension Board to the City Council in 2020. Police pension fund is also high risk but not in immediate danger of becoming insolvent.
 The Police Pension Board is also aware of the police pension fund status and has been considering options that would guarantee long-term solvency. I will continue to monitor these pension funds in the future to keep you apprised of any new developments if necessary. Any questions or comments on the report of the Fire and Police Pension and Relief Funds? Okay, next ordinance we have is the Monthly Finance Report by Paul Becker.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report will be for the month of November, month 11 in our fiscal period for the year of 2020. General fund and prelude to this a little bit in the agenda session, but let's talk about the general fund. Property taxes are down, which are to be expected. A lot of those will be delinquent, which will be paid next year.
 when you have a recession, many times the delinquencies go up in the current year and then you pick them up in delinquent taxes the next year. Sales taxes are very strong. We're up six percent compared to last year. As I've reported to you before, this is not only a very welcome surprise to me, but certainly the best we could expect under the circumstances.
 Licenses and permits are about 13% down. How we're gonna finish it on here is gonna be dependent on building permits. We've got a couple of large-scale projects, which may or may not be permitted this year, but they are down a little bit at this point, relatively holding their own. Charges for services actually are down with the exception of 911 fees.
 the legislation was changed for 9-1-1 fees and they're up substantially from what we had budgeted but if we look at all of the other charges for services we're down about 30 compared to last year that's because of the coronavirus we had to cancel uh most of our parks programs and several other activities so they're down substantially court fees are down about 25 for the period all in all
 However, the revenue is relatively flat compared to what the budget was. That's primarily, as I said, because of the increase in 9-1-1, which we may have to allocate some of that to some capital expenditures at a later point in time. But I'm certainly very, very happy to see where we are, and I don't think we could expect to be in a better position than we are right now.
 expenditures are right around in path where we would expect them to be i'll give you more reports on expenditures when we get closer to the closing of the year uh at the next
 We'll be discussing reappropriations where we bring forward many of the items that have not been completed, which we expected to be completed. Bond funds that have not been expended, things of that nature. So I'll have a little better handle on expenditures as we move forward. But the general fund at this point is as good a shape as we could expect. Street fund turned back in the street funds up about 4%.
 compared to the budget as primarily because of the wholesale gas tax that was passed during the last legislative session. That had not been expected when we put the budget together. So we are up about 4% in the street fund. So the street fund is pretty solid as we looked at it right now. Next fund we looked at is the parking fund. Obviously the parking fund
 is generally funded by parking revenues of downtown and the Dixon Street or entertainment district. So far we've collected 60% of the budget. So we're down 40% of the budget. We're looking at operating loss for the year. However, we are still not in jeopardy of missing bond payments, anything of that nature. And we should have enough to go into operations for next year as I talked
 At the time when I presented the 2021 budget, we cut back capital, cut it back to the bone, and we should be all right going forward. However, the one item that we did not include in the budget was a subsidy to art venues that we committed to if in fact we had the available funds from the parking fund.
 So a parking fund, even though it has down substantially, it's kind of just still not in danger of,
 not being able to meet operations. HMR fund is down 80 percent of collections today. Sonya, I know you asked me about this when we talked a little about the general fund and if in fact they're improving. They were doing relatively well. They were only now roughly 13 percent in the month of October. September was a little rocky, and that's probably because of bikes, blues, and barbecues.
 and the football games that we normally have in September didn't take place this year. At least we didn't have the attendance we would have liked to have for those venues. So we were a little soft there, but they seem to be coming back a little bit. So I was happy to see that. And like I said, I know Sonia, you asked about that. So I want to specifically talk a bit about that. First, the Water and Sewer Fund.
 Billings are up about 2%. Now remember, as we talked about before and as you authorized, we're not cutting off service for lack of payment. Because of the coronavirus, because of the health dangers, we're not doing cutoffs.
 So our accounts receivable is rising and rising fairly rapidly. Right now our accounts receivable is about $900,000 over what it was the prior year. I'm not concerned about this because we have a pretty substantial balance fund balance in a water and sewer fund. These these
 Accounts receivable accounts will not be written off. We can't do that. However, we are gonna defer collection of those until the pandemic starts moving toward its closure. And at that point in time, we'll have to make arrangements with people to pay off those balances. But right now the accounts receivable is up. Our total usage, total billing is up about 2% at this point in time.
 Drainage and recycling, again, we talked about that.
 Volume is up in residential, volume is down in commercial. Transfer stations up about 4% for the period. Pool charges are down about 40%. And that's where they asked for special collection of the large trash receptacles to be picked up and that's mostly commercially driven. So again, commercial is down, residential is up.
 All in all, fees are down about 3%. However, we have a deduction from what our costs because that also reduces our costs to the landfill and some of the costs of the collection of recycling and trash collection. So it's rather holding us on at this time. We're gonna have a bit of a loss for this year, but we had expected that going in based on the rate study that we had a year ago.
 Airport gas sales, fuel sales are down about 80%. Down about where it has been. Now, as far as the flights are concerned, the flights are pretty similar to what they were last year. They'll pick up a little bit with basketball season coming, moving forward. However, gas sales are...
 are relatively soft at this point in time. It's about 80% of what we had collected last year. All in all, in summary, I would say at this point in time, I think we're doing much better than we could have expected in view of the pandemic and how it's cut back drastically on the economic activity in the city. Now with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do you have, Paul, on the finances?
 I do have a quick question and clarification. Thanks, Paul, for the HMR information. Just to clarify, the ART subsidy will continue despite the down income or it will not? Oh, I'm sorry. I meant to be clear on that. It will not continue. We will not be able to afford that in 2021.
 We'll have to look at that moving forward, but it is not budgeted and will not continue into 2021. We'll have enough issues just maintaining operations. Hopefully we should do that, but we will not have that additional amount to help fund some of the arts. Okay, thank you. Any other questions? Okay, let's move on to number five. Advertising and Promotion Commission Appointment, Elvis Poyna.
 who has that i mean i can take that mayor okay very good um thank you everyone uh from from time to time we at the advertising and promotion commission have to make appointments to fill vacancies uh in this case about two months ago one of our members was no longer eligible to serve as a representative from the tourism sector um
 We had a committee that interviewed several applicants and was unanimous in its recommendation for Mr. Moya. And the full commission also agreed with that committee's recommendations, forwarded that to the council for ratification.
 If this is your first time seeing an A&P Commission nomination, these happen a little differently because state law makes that commission a semi-independent committee that has its own nominating procedure set out in that state law. Okay. So I need a motion and a second to appoint. So moved. Second. Then we have a motion and a second to appoint Elvis Moya to the A&P Commission. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. All right, thank you all very much. I also want to take this moment to congratulate Chair Paxton for being elected city clerk. So congratulations. Congratulations.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. I've really enjoyed working here at the City of Fayetteville for the last year. And I'm going to tell you, I've met so many wonderful people here at the city, and I just love that. Overall, we always work very hard for the citizens, even throughout this entire pandemic that we've been going through. And I feel, as I've always said before, leadership comes from the top down. So I appreciate everything that...
 our mayor does, everything that our chief of staff does, and all of our department heads. So thank you. Thank you, Karen. And again, congratulations. Okay, the next order of business. If I sit back for a while. On the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the December 15th, 2020 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve an amendment to the contract with CEI, Engineering Associates, Incorporated, in the amount of $23,300 for additional design services associated with Phase 1 of the Centennial Park at Millsap Mountain and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 park improvement bond project. Number three, a resolution to approve the purchase of a new fire apparatus from
 G&W Diesel EVS in the amount of $818,021 plus any applicable delivery charges pursuant to a Houston-Galliston Area Council co-operative purchasing contract for use by the Federal Fire Department to approve project contingency in the amount of $65,000 and approved budget adjustment. This is the 2019 firefighting facilities bond project. Number four,
 A resolution to approve an amendment number seven to the contract with Environmental Consulting Operations Incorporated in the amount of $63,000 for wetlands mitigation site monitoring and management in 2021. Number five, a resolution to approve the second amendment to the tower attachment lease agreement with Altel Corporation DBA Verizon Wireless to provide for equipment modifications.
 authorized the transfer of equipment to the new township water tank and increased the monthly rental payment to 2 400 number six the resolution to approve the purchase of utility locating services for 2021 from arkansas one call system appropriated any amount not to exceed thirty thousand dollars
 Number seven, a resolution to award bid number 20-78, an authorized contract with Thames Brothers Incorporated in the amount of $201,924 for asphalt repairs and microservicing at the Noland Westside Water Resource Recovery Facilities and to approve project tenancy in the amount of $20,192.46.
 number eight a resolution to approve amendment number 12 to the agreement for operations maintenance and management services between the city of fedville arkansas and ch2m hill engineers incorporated any amount of seven million three hundred thirty nine thousand fifty one dollars for services from twenty twenty one
 Number nine, a resolution to award bit number 21-01 and to authorize purchase of reflectorized paint markings from Time Striping Incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2021.
 10. A resolution to award bid number 21-03 and to authorize the purchase of truck hauling services from True Love Dirt Works LLC as a primary supplier and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2021.
 number 11 a resolution to award bid number 21-05 and authorized purchase of aggregate materials from apac central incorporated as primary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price availability is needed through the end of 2021. number 12 a resolution to award bid number 21-07 and authorized purchase of hillside gravel from les rogers incorporated
 in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2021. Number 13, a resolution to award bid number 21-09 and authorize the purchase of a concrete drainage pipe from Surlox Industries as primary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2021. Number 14, a resolution to award bid number 21-10
 and authorized purchase of screen tops oil from les rogers incorporated as needed through the end of 2021. number 15 a resolution to award bid number 21-11 and authorized purchase of retaining wall blocks from for varying unit prices from vendor various vendors based on individual job design specification and cost evaluation is needed through the end of 2021. number 16
 A resolution to award bid number 21-12, an authorized purchase of a high-performance coal mix asphalt from Hudson Construction Company, LLC, as needed through the end of 2021. Number 17, a resolution to award bid number 21-14, an authorized purchase of tree grates from Neofoundry Company as needed through the end of 2021. Number 18.
 a resolution toward bid number 21-15 to authorize the purchase of preformed thermoplastic pavement markings from the vico marking incorporated as primary supplier and from free form llc he's plant incorporated a secondary supplier in the in variable amounts and for varying unit prices needed through the end of 2021. number 19.
 A resolution to award bid number 21-17 and authorized purchase of curb and gutter construction services from suites of construction incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices needed through the end of 2021. Number 20, a resolution to approve a contract for Seven Hills Homeless Center to provide funding assistance in the amount of $51,000 for maintenance and repairs at the Walker Family and Residential Community Complex in 2021. Number...
 21, a resolution to approve the purchase of wireless services and equipment from Saleco Partnership DBA Verizon Wireless pursuant to a National Association of State Procurement Officials Value Point Cooperative Purchasing Agreement on an as-needed basis through August 2024.
 number 22 a resolution to approve the purchase of nine vehicles from chevrolet of federal for fleet operations in the total amount of 283 000 21 percent to a state procurement contract number 23
 a resolution to approve a contract with hub international mid america in the amount of thirteen thousand dollars for insurance brokerage and consultation services from january the first 2021 through december 31st 2021 with automatic renewals for four additional one-year terms in the amount of thirteen thousand dollars per year to authorize the payment of policy premiums to authorize the payment of deductibles
 related to the claims filed by the city and to approve project contingency in the amount of 1 300 per year and number 24 a resolution to approve one-year contract with northwest arlington regional planning commission in the amount of forty two thousand five hundred ninety one dollars and eleven cents
 for stormwater education program for 2021 satisfy portions of the npdes phase two stormwater permit requirements i will entertain a motion to accept consent agenda make a motion that we accept the consent agenda as read second we have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read chair would you please call the right bench yes third yes hurtsburg yes
 Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's move along to unfinished business. Okay, number one, a resolution to express the intent of the City Council's study and develop ordinances to regulate
 and promote trail economic development in the city of fitball. Mary, I believe you have this. I do. Good evening everyone. How are you doing? Good. Good. I'm going to share a quick presentation with you if you don't mind. Can everyone see my screen okay? Yeah something my screen sharing isn't quite working. Let's see. Okay. Here we go. Okay. So
 What we've really seen, staff started researching this last year, probably about six months ago, and what we've really seen in our research is that across the country, economic development initiatives associated with trail systems and greenways have garnered heightened interest from developers and governmental agencies alike.
 Excuse me. A couple that come to mind are the Atlanta Beltline and the High Line in New York. These are well-known examples, but many mid-sized and smaller cities have embraced trail economic development in the past decade, hoping to guide the overwhelming interest people have in living on and or near trails and balance that desire with protecting unique environmental considerations that such trail systems often have.
 Trams really do hold some tremendous potential for economic development as an important convergent point of transportation and economics. However, these spaces, especially in mid-sized cities, tend to be underutilized for a variety of different reasons, including existing and underlying zoning regulations, access difficulties, and environmental considerations.
 Staff has found that with the advent of the Cultural Arts Corridor, we expect to see additional heightened interest in real estate development and retail sectors adjacent to the Greenway. And our hope with this report is to really preemptively prepare the city for the types of issues that might arise, while at the same time elevating our small businesses, which have been devastated by COVID, through planning efforts, public engagement, and really hoping to support and advocate for regulating economic growth adjacent to our trail systems.
 Our primary goal is to encourage the continued use of the transportation corridor for commuting and recreation while creating a framework for future economic and residential growth so that that growth can be guided in a responsible way. For example, we have outlined a number of goals in our report.
 And one of the first goals that we're working towards, that we'll have a short section on later, is our sidewalk vendor and mobile vendor ordinances, as well as our code-based regulations concerning location and operations of mobile vendors. What we really want to do with our goals, and especially with goal one, is to provide several ways to responsibly encourage both micro and macro investment along the trail. Okay.
 Initially, micro-investments and efforts such as transforming and repurposing city-owned underutilized areas adjacent to the trail and amending existing ordinances to allow micro-vendors to utilize these spaces has real potential to initiate renewed investment and revitalization in the Greenway. These underutilized spaces not only have the potential to captivate consumers, but also leverage a parcel's additional economic potential for additional future growth.
 What we did was we kind of chopped up the trail into three segments and then we outlined four nodes of opportunity. Our existing economic conditions, specifically the variety of uses and sizes adjacent to the trail, support the need to outline these several different nodes of economic opportunity to focus staff's efforts and resources and protect these trail areas as they continue to grow.
 As favorable conditions evolve, it's really important to guide and support the, not just guide and support, but help frame how these trails and the economic drivers adjacent will grow. Our nodes currently of opportunity extend north from Lake Fayetteville and then south to Walker Park.
 And we hope that by clearly identifying areas prime for success, staff will be able to focus as we move through our various initiatives. Encouraging these defined geographical nodes allows us flexibility and control, and as these items are integrated into the existing city fabric.
 Our real hope is that the Greenway is governed by flexible regulation, which allows for growth, while at the same time balancing increased developmental interests with the need for a solid environmental and neighborhood protection.
 With that being said, I'll hand it over to Hugo, who's going to outline an example of our first initiative, which is part of goal one. And it's an initiative that staff felt would be easily accessible, something that we could do quickly and something that we've worked interdepartmentally on with Parks already to kind of decide, you know, what would be best moving forward. So with that, I will turn it over to Hugo. So I will stop sharing and allow him to share if that's...
 Oh, could you just continue sharing, Mary? Sure. Okay, sorry. You have about five minutes. Sure, okay, go ahead. I'll make it real fast. Okay, so kind of focusing on one of our goals, specifically goal one, section C, we really wanted to focus on increasing local entrepreneurship presence and resiliency adjacent to the trail. This is to really expand and diversify our commercial space, right?
 This requires more creativity defining our commercial spaces. So revising our food vendor ordinance creates conditions for entrepreneurs to envision their business thriving by expanding their spatial opportunities to really kind of engage consumers.
 So the two items that are kind of associated with this particular goal item would kind of be the action items of revising existing mobile vendor regulations to operate in more public locations and converting underutilized city property into temporary mobile vendor courts. Next slide. So to kind of get a little background and context, some research done.
 A working component of this plan is to really support small businesses and entrepreneurs by creating resiliency and strong economic communities. And I think that was kind of like the main component to this. Doing some background research, the September 2020 Yelp
 Article that kind of like talked about local economic impact reports really highlighted that 60% of really the closed businesses due to the implications of COVID-19 will be permanently shut down, meaning they will not return once this is over. So you really kind of have to foster this new growth. Diversification of commercial spaces permits an entrepreneur to access different price points of entry and really allows them to start climbing the commercial spatial ladder.
 creativity and flexibility in commercial spaces also really allows us to look at underutilized spaces and really maximize their full potential. Next slide.
 So kind of like giving you kind of an example, we kind of wanted to focus on the second action item associated with this particular goal, which discusses the conversion of underutilized city property into temporary mobile vendor courts. We wanted to showcase what these goals and action items could transpire as we move forward if this plan is to be approved.
 But moving methodically through a set of criteria of predetermined variables, we really establish a short list of viable city-owned properties that could be converted into mobile vendor courts. For the sake of time, I really want to focus on one specifically, which is located on West North Street, which you can see obviously location-wise on the map. Next slide.
 Breaking down this potential mobile court spatially, the left image depicts this site colored in orange in relation to the streamside protection overlay ordinance and is also showing where it is in relationship to one of our proposed nodes, which is highlighted in pink. What we found particularly beneficial about this site was its location along a busy corridor, which is further displayed on the right image.
 And we believe that utilization of the site would support the continued preservation of our local ecological system, but also being very cohesive towards sustained trailside economic growth. So it kind of maintains our ecological safety and sustainability principles while really kind of also accomplishing the goal of entrepreneurship and business development along the trails. Next slide. Furthermore, the images shown...
 above kind of particularly site provide further visualization. It'd be important to note that this space along the other, along with other very, oh my gosh, sorry, variable city-owned spaces could become vessels of affordable commercial spaces.
 Thus supporting urban renewal, but also increasing consumer foot traffic towards these businesses through multi-motor and vehicular accessibility, which I think is very important for small business development and small business sustainability. But really in essence, this site is an example of what this plan hopes to accomplish to a higher degree, which is the continued vibrancy and continued buildup of economic resiliency along our trail systems.
 with respect to sustainability and equal opportunity. Next slide. Thank you. And that's all we have for you tonight. Yeah, we'll take any questions that you have. What questions do we have in the council? I have a question, a real quick question. Sure. So,
 I like the updates, the revisions. I think they are really good. One thing that I'm wondering, you just highlighted sort of 1C. So do you anticipate developing a plan, bringing it back, or phasing that plan in that you present to the council? I mean, this looks like a resolution of intent so that you can really start digging deep into this. I'm just kind of wondering how you might roll it out.
 Sure. So we're going to create a timeline should this resolution be passed. We would intend to create a timeline for all of our goals. So we have three goals. And then within that each goal, there's obviously sub goals and that's included in the report. But we would hope to create a timeline based on the subgoals.
 staff time and resources. Some of these are obviously larger goals, like a trail side overlay, and some of them are smaller and they're associated with, you know, just an ordinance amendment here and there. So we would expect to create a timeline, but then for the most part, our goals would have to come back to council
 at some point for review and approval. So that's the time that we would expect to bring them back. However, if you'd like us to provide a timeline, we'd be happy to do that.
 I would certainly appreciate that. That would help me kind of understand the process a little bit more that you all anticipate. I think this is really great. I'm very excited about it. I just want to make sure that environmentally that we're sustainable and that those considerations are taken up. So thank you. That looks great. Thank you. Any questions? All right. Let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes for a second. We'll open it into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to go first? All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. What's the wishes of the council? Or what discussion do we have? I move we accept the resolution.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Okay. An ordinance to amend 118.01.
 applicability of chapter 118 business registry and license chapter 151 definition is chapter 161 zoning regulations 162.01 establishment listing of chapter 162 units use units in chapter 163 use conditions of the unified development code to classify the types of short-term rentals and create regulations to permit and inspect the rentals
 This is left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Do we have a second? Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 I think I heard six affirmative votes, is that right? I believe so. Okay. In order to amend section 118.01, applicability of chapter 118, business registry and licenses, chapter 151, definitions, chapter 161, zoning regulations, section 162.01, establishment listing of chapter 162, use units,
 and Chapter 163, Use Conditions of the Unified Development Code to classify the types of short-term rentals and create regulations to permit and inspect the rentals. Okay, I believe you have this name.
 I do thank you good evening um as discussed at agenda session and and discussed with with city attorney's office um we staff would like to recommend that this ordinance as approved by planning commission originally be forwarded to the ordinance subcommittee of council for further review
 I feel that this item is best amended at the community level before being brought back to the full council for further consideration. This is something that planning commission worked on for a really long time and staff has been working on for over a year now. And I really think that to navigate and review the amount of public comment and research that we've done, even in the last six months, that it would be best that we review this at the subcommittee level.
 and i'll answer any questions that you have um tonight so what questions we have staff and council i don't have any questions but i think that's an excellent suggestion to send it to the ordinance review i think so too i agree i think we have a little one
 And Mayor says we're just getting organized. We actually thought that probably it ought to go to the first meeting in February to give the ordinance review time to actually meet and discuss this before taking it back to the city council.
 So I have a comment. I do think going to ordinance review is a really good idea. My comments last time when we discussed this was that I would really appreciate ordinance review taking a look at a third type of short-term rental.
 um while they're while they're at it uh not just having a type one and type two but sort of the hybrid uh between type one and type two like i described so um i don't know if that's appropriate to make that request right now but uh since it's going to go to a review i thought i might throw that in there
 Well, you're on the council. I guess you can make that ask. Yeah, I think it's appropriate also for other council members, not even members of the Orders Review Committee, to attend and make suggestions or comments or whatever they want to. That's really kind of up to the chairman of Orders Review Committee, but usually that's allowed.
 Thank you. I'd appreciate being included when that meeting gets scheduled. Yeah, because any of those meetings that we have, any council member can attend those meetings and voice their opinion one way or the other. They may not be voting on that particular committee, but they can certainly make their recommendations to the committee. So is there any other suggestions or...
 I have a suggestion and some comments, and I will look forward to attending as well that Ordinance Review Committee. A few comments that I received today, people were asking, you know, in terms of that, you know, it says no partings or gatherings and how that will be enforced.
 So that was something that was brought up. You know, they come just for one or two nights and so then what, you know, what's the consequence there? People are kind of not following the rules. And then, you know, the other question that they had was, which I thought was a really good one, you know, for living we talk about three unrelated people in the same place.
 versus where we're talking about maybe a large house that might have eight unrelated people. And so kind of navigating and looking at that, you know, what are we, what's our plan there? And then one other one had to do with safety, sleeping rooms and talking about, you know, easy way to get in and out of the rooms, you know, when people are staying, making sure that those are safe.
 safe rooms. Those are some of the top things, but I will follow back up with this committee on some of the other detailed things. Okay.
 I'll bring it up again because I believe I am on the ordinance review. But I mean I got a lot of calls from both sides. It seemed like what both sides could almost agree on is that if there are bad actors that the neighborhood should be able to have a mechanism to let the city know and maybe remove that specific house from being able to be in Airbnb.
 I don't think that either side wanted all the restrictions as long as if somebody was once a week bringing in 10, 12 cars and having a party, that we could do something about that. And that seemed to be a common agreement on both neighborhood alliances and Airbnb alliances. Anything else? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 Let's see. When will the ordinance review look at this? Who is on that? I know, Simone, you're on that, aren't you? I am on it. Who else is on that? Mary Jordan. I also serve as an in-person. Okay. Okay. Matthew and Holly, I believe. Okay. So, I know y'all don't have a chair yet, but I would like to kind of have an idea of when you might be able to meet. Does anybody have an idea?
 I'll let somebody else speak first. OK. Does ordinance review just meet as it's needed? Usually whenever the chair calls from .. OK. OK. I believe this one they need. And I don't want to put anybody on the spot .. So until they meet once this year, they don't have a chair, right? They don't have a chair. I'm just saying. But there's two council members I know that served on it last time. Well, we're meeting this Thursday at 530. So maybe the next Thursday at 530.
 Okay. I just kind of want to get an idea because I know folks are probably going to be asking. I can handle two Thursdays in a row, but three might be pushing it. It sounds like the suggestion is a week from this Thursday at 530. Yeah. Okay. So now, is there any other comments or questions from the council? Are we going to table this, Mayor?
 Until the second meeting in February? I move to table the second meeting in February after public comment. And that's good. And then that way, you all can meet anywhere between now and the second meeting in February. OK. Did we have a second? Second the motion. OK. Do we have a second? I'm sorry. All right. Thank you. Yes, Mayor. I seconded. So we're going to table till the middle of next month. That's going to be February 16th of 2021. Thank you. All right.
 So we have a motion and a second to table till the 16th of February. Correct? Any discussion on that? Council? Okay. Chair, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Okay.
 let's go on to item three a resolution to approve federal police department policies 44.1.1 juvenile operation operations and 84.1.1 property management acquired and in custody i believe deputy police fields has this tonight good evening mayor city council jamie fields representing chief mike reynolds
 The juvenile operations and property management policies were first presented to council at the December 15th City Council meeting. As a reminder, the police department is accredited by two entities, first and foremost by the Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies and also by the Arkansas Law Enforcement Accreditation Program.
 As part of our accreditation program through CALEA, we go through a continual process of reviewing and revising our policies. And so it's not unusual for us to be bringing forward revisions to existing policies. We're proud of that CALEA designation because only about 5% of law enforcement agencies in the United States achieve that accreditation through CALEA.
 We have been accredited since 2013, and I think the events that occurred this past year shows the value to the police department and the city for that accreditation process. When other law enforcement agencies across the country were scrambling to establish policies in areas such as de-escalation, use of force continuum, duty to intervene, and early warning systems, the Fayetteville Police Department had already established those processes because of our CALEA requirements.
 Both the juvenile operations and property management policies were previously approved by City Council. The changes to the property management policy are being made to tighten up security protocols and oversight. These particular changes are highlighted in red in your agenda packet. The amendment to the juvenile policy is due to new CALEA standards on non-custodial interviews.
 Non-custodial interviews are not new to the Fayetteville Police Department, nor to Arkansas law or the Rules of Criminal Procedure. It's only in addition to our policy and the standard itself required that we explain the difference between custodial interrogation and non-custodial interviews. Non-custodial interviews are not designed to seek confessions.
 Juvenile confessions are only permitted at the Fayetteville Police Department during custodial interrogations, which is covered previously and approved in Section 9 of our policy. At the December 15 City Council meeting, City Council members requested that we soften the language in this policy, that we better define interview versus interrogation, and that we cite laws and rules of criminal procedure that we follow.
 These additional amendments since that meeting are in blue and were included in your agenda packet this past Tuesday for review. This past Thursday, we received some recommendations from a community member that we reviewed, and we have agreed that we will strike the word offender from number five in this policy.
 and also agree with Council Member Smith's recommendations to ensure gender pronouns are neutral throughout the policy. And we can easily clean those up when we clean up the strike throughs. The bottom line is, this policy follows the laws that relates to interviewing juveniles and our policies and laws should never be in conflict. And with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have in the council? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member please stay on the topic no rude behavior please name the address uh residents federal first all right who would like to address us sarah moore okay go ahead
 Good evening, Mayor. This is Sarah Moore in Ward 2. I appreciate that we were able to pause until this evening, but I sent a note into
 The city council to the police department and to your office as well, because I was concerned about from the time of December 15th, having conversations about revision to this language that we've been through a holiday period. And so many folks that have been reached out to in national agencies like the Vera Institute of Justice, the Berkeley College Policies,
 policy clinic who's doing work in the state of Arkansas today looking at legislation in the state of Arkansas around juveniles and fines and fees and discipline in school and out of school suspensions and things as we go into this legislative session have not been able to weigh in on this language and
 I think it is really important whenever we make any policy changes that we look at subject matter experts and I am very appreciative and I do acknowledge that our police department, they are expert in their field and they strive to be the best and CALEA is one of the ways that like Deputy Chief Fields shared, we are an elite field in that regard of participating in CALEA and having more stringent standards and I'm very appreciative of that.
 However, I would ask that any policies that we're making that work towards the safety, particularly of our community members, but particularly of juveniles, of children, people under 18, like my children, who are nine and five,
 that we really vet these across different channels to get feedback from subject matter experts, especially in juvenile matters of brain development, neuroscience, of people who work in juvenile justice. The university has folks who
 There is lots of evolution of what's happening of standards of law enforcement, which is why you know this Kaleo standard has been updated. And so to continue to be on the forefront, trying to make sure that we get as many folks that are the subject matter experts involved in this.
 I continue to have concerns. I'm appreciative of what language has been changed so far, and I'm appreciative of that conversation, but I continue to have concerns around the fact that there is now going to be a written policy, which we already have in place, as stated by Chief Reynolds at last meeting, that we interact with any child under 18 who
 can actually have an interaction where they're questioned in a non-custodial setting. So my child, a nine-year-old, could wander a street over and end up potentially around an area that maybe had graffiti and begin to get questioned without, you know, one block over where I'm at having a parent present. Many of the research around brain development says that
 There is a lot of intimidation around this authority figure that some lines of questioning just due to police training tends to lead children towards a certain answer. And many children who want to think that they're giving some right answer potentially say something that can cause criminality for them that suddenly changes it over to criminal charges. So I really would ask for us to pause
 to know that we just came out of a holiday period. I don't understand today if there's anything negative that happens if we're out of compliance with CLIA for this next month. I would ask that we get subject matter experts involved in the language and that we specifically really look about having that interaction with a child without their parent present. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this one? Alessandra Brown. Okay.
 Go ahead. Hi. Hi, my name is Allie Brown. I'm Ward 4. I'm a teacher on leave. I teach kindergarten and have for seven years. I want to start with a short anecdote. Yesterday, I went to Walmart grocery pickup, and I noticed that one of the students that were in an upper grade in my building my first year of teaching was now actually the person loading the groceries. And
 She's just about 17 or 18, and I considered her when thinking about this policy. Even though I was a familiar person who she regarded in a positive light, she really still was kind of nervous and really timid to communicate with me. The dynamics take on such a drastically different character when an officer in uniform steps on the scene. To the text of the policy, a lot of us can appreciate the difficulty in finding the appropriate
 wording or language because you're writing a policy that tries to direct the officer in difficult situations of human interaction and friction. Stated in the purpose of this policy is that the juvenile may need parental guidance. This language seems nice and appears to be perceptive, but it really is a disingenuous acknowledgement of the need of a parent because the rest of the policy
 seeks to try and justify the right of the police officer to perhaps exclude or be absolved of having to locate the parent in certain instances.
 Section 5 under operations states that the officer can conduct a non-custodial interview if the officer does not have probable cause that the juvenile or child committed the criminal offense. But in the very next section, it states that the officer may possibly develop probable cause during this non-custodial interview. So the justification of having a non-custodial interview is that there is no probable cause, but yet the officer does not have probable cause.
 can go look or fish or have an opportunity to capture the probable cause. It seems a little like circular logic here. Section 6 under detention states that the detention of witnesses shall be reasonable and not exceed 15 minutes. It's unclear if the officer is explicitly stating that the child will be detained for 15 minutes and then can leave. I wouldn't perceive these teenagers
 to have the gumption to kind of exercise their right to leave in certain situations, depending on their personality, their emotional intelligence, their background. Section C under Part 6, it really reads like a declaration of police rights. Section C under needs some major rewording and the passive phrases like shall be reasonable,
 reasonably suspects if such action is reasonably necessary, just widens the legality and capacity for the officer, but contracts the rights for the child. All of this while not contacting the parent is just not sound policy in the eyes of a lot of mothers. I'm a black mother,
 What this policy lacks in language, I think we can make up for by requiring officers to have high emotional intelligence, cultural competency, and confirmed goodwill for people in messy situations, perhaps. Right now, there are 17 teenagers in our jail, and it's hard not to look at them and their faces and accept that they're completely culpable for what got them there, and it's hard not to think about what fruits came to bear from their non-custodial interviews.
 Thank you for honoring my right to speak tonight. Thank you, Mayor and the City Council. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion shall we have?
 I have a comment. I'd like to say how much I appreciate the police department taking a look at the language and making some of these revisions and softening this a little bit and also making it clearer in certain instances.
 I think this goes a long way. I know they're trying to balance the CALEO requirements with some of our local concerns and that sometimes that can be a very difficult balancing act. So I do appreciate them taking a look at that and also meeting with Sarah Moore to discuss this further. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to comment on this?
 I just want to thank Sarah Moore and Allie Brown for coming forward to share their concerns. I do think it's a fair point that we, you know, just getting out of the holidays and probably don't have as much participation on this item that we would normally see.
 I do remember Chief Reynolds going over, which was really helpful for me. I think it was an agenda session and maybe Jamie went over it. There was like a difference between interrogation versus another type of questioning for children. And so that's kind of what I, that kind of helped me. You know, there was an education component there. And so I think if we could kind of help people
 clarify what those two types of questionings are. That would help a lot. You know, asking a child which way did someone run, I think is a fair question for police to ask a child without the parent to be there. But yeah, absolutely. Any questions incriminating them, I think fell under interrogation. So I just, if Jamie could speak to that a little bit more, that'd be awesome. Thanks. Sure.
 Thank you for giving me the opportunity to respond to that, to answer that question. First, I'd just like to say that we encounter juveniles daily in our line of work, and we encounter juveniles daily.
 I think we're getting focused on what we see as maybe being a juvenile offender and thinking that everything we do is about juvenile interrogation. That's just not the case. Many times when we encounter juveniles, we're encountering them as victims, as witnesses. And I'll give you an example, two very recent examples.
 Within the last two weeks we had an incident on North Crossover where an 18-year-old young man was hood surfing on the hood of a car, meaning he was riding on the hood of the car while the car was in motion. And unfortunately he fell from the car. He sustained serious injuries. He was not able to communicate with us and we were trying to get him emergency care.
 The only people on the scene to give us information on the individual were juveniles, and it was critical. Time was of the essence. We had to have information in order to deliver him, to reach out to his next of kin and to get him immediate assistance. That's only one instance that our officers encountered. Not long before that, we had this shooting
 on Garland of a 15-year-old. Unfortunately, that incident happened in a car. The shooter drove off with a 15-year-old in his car, and there were juvenile witnesses on the scene that we had to talk to to get emergency information. And so daily, our officers are out there, and I remind you that they're well-trained, they're educated, they're from
 professional officers out there encountering juveniles every day and they are talking to juveniles. It's not always a juvenile offender, a juvenile suspect, and they need to be able to do their job. And so I don't know if I'm addressing your question and answering exactly what you're looking for, but I will say we are not compliant with CALEA until we update these policies. So I don't want that to be a misunderstanding. We need this resolution to be passed.
 Thanks, Jamie. You know, I think, is it possible that we can, we can pass it and continue to bring more clarity to it as, you know, I understand trying to stay compliant. But helping everyone, I think it's an education element to help everyone understand those two big different interrogation versus, you know, a question about, say, for safety, right?
 Is that something we could keep working on going ahead and passing? Well, I think that we're always in discussion because as a part of our accreditation process, we are always reviewing our policies to make sure that we're compliant, not only with best practice standards, but with the law. And so I think our discussion is always ongoing. I have another question.
 So just, I understand that, you know, the interrogation versus the interview process is very different. And I appreciate the definitions being included in your policy. But Fayetteville police officers, they are wearing body cameras. Is that correct, Deputy Chief?
 That's right. And thank you for for making that note, because everything Fayetteville police officers do, everything is on the record. We have dash cams. Officers are wearing a body microphone. We have body worn cameras. Everything we do for the most part is recorded. And so we're always on the record.
 Thank you very much. So we can, if there's any kind of issue, we can, there's a record there, we can go back, it can be looked at. I'm sure that you do that often to just review how incidents occur and the process. So thank you for that. I appreciate it. That's correct. I have a question about that. I'm glad Teresa brought that issue up. But Jamie, on the
 on the body cams does officer have to turn those on or is there something that turns it on automatically when they leave the car or like the dash cam is always running right so there are triggers within the car things like the when the lights come on when the siren come on when the those things will trigger the body-worn camera if another officer within a certain distance
 from you turns its body horn camera on, yours will come on. So there are automatic triggers, but yes, officers also are accustomed to manually activating their camera when they encounter, you know, when they encounter citizens or some type of enforcement action. Okay. But there is, there is something there that kind of will on certain circumstances do it automatically. There are automatic triggers. Yes, ma'am. That's good enough. Thank you. Can a police officer turn his mic or his camera off?
 Yes, a police officer can turn his camera off. And we, you know, we monitor that pretty closely. And so we're quick to correct that type of issue. So, I mean, I guess we are talking about policies and procedures. What would happen if a police officer were to inappropriately turn off his camera? What disciplinary actions are at least automatic?
 So there's a review process for that. And formal discipline at our agency begins with supervisor counseling, and it goes through termination. And so it would just depend on the circumstances. But we do have a progressive discipline system. We take that very seriously. Thank you. I have a question. First, I say I appreciate the changes in the diligent approach to this so far. I'm curious.
 I wanted to ask a question just so that I knew the answer. I've supported almost, I want to say, every CALEA amendment that's come forward in the past, and I didn't really even think of it until this time. What exactly is it in terms of its significance? Is it just a body of standards, or are there benefits, tangible benefits that come with accreditation or consequences from not having it?
 So there are benefits to being CALEA accredited, and a lot of that comes with the credibility for your agency. Recognizing that you follow best practice standards, recognizing that those standards are on the leading edge of what's going on in our communities today.
 For instance, in 2020, we had a lot of discussion about police reform and a lot of the discussions that I mentioned earlier, CALEA already required those things. And so one of two of the greatest benefits is we're in continual review of our policies to make sure they're current, but also our training is ongoing and current. And so those are two major benefits. They really hold our feet to the fire.
 I remember last year the relief I felt that we already had some of those policies in place. I don't want to trivialize that in any way. I'm prepared to support this myself tonight under the idea, I just have this growing recognition that
 we would benefit from having subject matter experts review things like this in advance of when it comes to the council. And in a way, I'm kind of reminded of our discussion at agenda session about the development partnership that's being worked on.
 Just like that, my expectation as a council member is that a lot of this stuff is going to already have been vetted through the community before it comes to the council. And I think in a lot of ways, these are growing pains associated with the recognition of what's going on and what's need to change that a lot of us felt last year and some of us felt a little bit earlier. Yeah.
 I think in the past it was really normal for us to just take these and to just barely review them and to approve them because
 frankly, there was just that much trust in the system. And I think what we're seeing now, at least for me, just a growing recognition that we might need to, as a council assign some additional resources to be able to vet these things and improve upon them before they come to us. I don't know exactly what that looks like.
 It's probably not another staff member. It's probably something like a committee of talented lawyers who are in the field working through some of these issues. But that's my growing recognition. And this issue is shining. It's just adding another light that's shining on that recognition for me. So it's something I'm going to really be thinking about over the next couple of months. Yeah.
 Matt, I think that's a great point and I wonder if it fits already in Civil Service Commission or where we might other committees that are existing potentially could discuss it. I don't know. I'm just maybe I'm spitballing a little informally right now myself but the main thing seems to me that we really do need
 people who we can call experts on the things that need to be reviewed. So great points, Sonya. Maybe that is a good venue for it. Or maybe it will be something else. In any case, I'm open-minded. DeAndre, are you available? Could you speak a little bit about, from your experience on Civil Service Commission, do you think this would be an appropriate conversation for that committee?
 We can't hear you. Okay. I feel that civil service is more of the hiring aspect. And I feel as if that, I just would like to ask Jamie this. Jamie, has this been a problem with our police department here? Have we had any of these issues as it relates to the interrogation issues? No. And I think that we are focusing on what we,
 What we're thinking of is interrogation when, in fact, most of our interactions are not interrogations. In fact, in 2020, we've interrogated 18 juveniles at the Fayetteville Police Department. And so that is not a large number when we're thinking about officers encountering, you know, juveniles every single day. So, no. And Council Member Jones is correct. Civil service primarily addresses...
 hiring, promotions, and disciplinary issues for civil service. Correct. Correct. Yes. Okay. And so I feel as if what I'm hearing is interrogation could be more subjective, right? I mean, one person could look at it as it's what I'm thinking is you do it daily. You haven't had any issues. I'm just curious to know, I see the recommendation. I'm just curious to know, I see the recommendation.
 I think it's what we've been needing. I think you guys answered the question. I think you responded in a manner in which you should have. That's what I'm thinking. And to answer your question, this Civil Service Commission is basically the HR arm and for promoting the hiring and terminating. So I don't think that they were called under that category. Thank you, Councilmember Jones.
 And thanks, Jamie, for that clarification. I do think that's a good point because I feel like if we're talking about a very tiny number of the 18, I think that's a fair thing to discuss. And I also, though, do want that policy in place in case a parent does feel that, you know,
 which questioning was it? And I feel like right now, as it's written, we have the triggers to decide which kind of questioning it is. So I'm feeling pretty good about the policy and ready to vote on this. I have a few more questions.
 So, Deputy Chief, how often do you have changes to CALEA is the first question. And then also, how much advance notice do you have to those changes? Because, you know, the timing on this issue was kind of unfortunate this year. It was right before the holidays.
 Sure. And so I can't give you a definite number. We had, we had several this year because Kalia changed their numbering system. And so some of those changes were very minor. You just had to change the numbering system. Um, but,
 This particular policy, I think it fell late in the year because there were so many things that took precedence for CALEA and law enforcement and oversight in general because of the events of 2020. And so many more things took the front seat, agencies needing to respond.
 you know, get their deescalation training in order, agencies needing to get their use of force continuum in order, all of these things that we're already doing, I think they really took the focus and attention upfront. And so that's a little bit of why, you know, it took us late into the year to get this policy before the city council.
 So just to follow up, this was like an atypical year. So last year in 2019, you had very few changes or any changes to CALEA. Would that be a fair statement? I would say this wasn't an unusual year in the number of,
 But CALEA is cyclic, and it just depends on what's going on in the country and what's going on in the criminal justice system. When we became accredited in 2013, I know we have some council members here who suffered that painful year with us. And we brought forward dozens, dozens of policies that were new policies, revisions to policies. But once we got over that initial hurdle, then we've had several each year. But yes, this is an unusually high number this year.
 Thank you very much. Anything else? Mayor Jordan, I would like to make the motion that we accept the resolution with the correction. So, DeAndrea, you make the motion to pass the resolution. Second. And we have a second. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Jones? Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Number four, an ordinance to approve a contract with the Bank of Federal Drain House Federal Depot LLC and possibly Ted Bell to purchase about one-half acre in the depot bank lot for $350,000 to approve a
 2.2 sorry 0.2 acre lot on the north end of the civic plaza to agree to pay to Greg House the ownership of about 14 000 square feet on the bottom floor of the city's public parking deck and other items and to pass an emergency clause so we're on the second reading I believe
 so before we get into much of anything i want to uh we've been going back and forth with this thing for a while this is uh and what i would like to do we can go on to the third reading but i certainly want to table this until the second meeting of february because i want some time to work on this i
 Some of the things and everything that I've seen, and maybe you won't wait or yourself or somebody to start off, but certainly my interest in the project of the depot lock, we began this conversation, was to ensure that the public gets the highest quality product that drives downtown redevelopment and new commerce through a cultural arts corridor.
 This is why that we were directed, we felt like back in the spring that the depot lot was the area, but we had to work out the details of the contract. So we started on that. We worked through the spring and summer. We turned it over to the city attorney and they also had an attorney. They've worked on it since the middle of August and we have not come to any conclusions.
 anything settled on it so but i would like to ask for another month to continue the discussions and i also want to seek some additional expertise from some organization that specializes in public private partnerships and i believe i believe we're going to need this third party resource so we can affirm our efforts or dissuade us from moving forward that's kind of where i'm at with all this right now with everything that's
 around. Susan, do you or Wade want to add anything? Well, I'll just add, Mayor, that we have had feedback from civil council members that encouraged us to go this path. And so we've been looking at how the best process with the purchasing department for how we'll seek the outside real estate development legal services that would have experience in negotiations involving public-private partnerships. And
 specifically related to land development and commercial multi-party transactional agreements and that's the process we are embarking on with the purchasing department so i think we can get that done and we can have that oversight and review of the terms and the contractual negotiation done in time for the timeline that wade has already indicated we're fine within about a month yeah
 or time and council i just need this money and i will tell you this right now in a month's time we'll either have something or we're going to be having an entirely different discussion around here so
 Mayor, I'd make a statement or make a comment here. Sure. You know, obviously this has been a long contract. My whole goal was to try to effectuate what the city staff had negotiated and still make sure that the contract would be legal and not make any problem with our bond indenture. And we did receive a letter on the 22nd from,
 Greg House's and Ted Belden's attorney with six or seven final, seemed to me like final issues. And the first one was the only one I heard back from the council that really they didn't have any problem with us having a LLC rather than actual Greg House and Ted Belden as the contracting parties. And the other six issues, which were all outlined in their letter,
 are basically pretty minor compared to the overall contract itself. So we got down to about six issues.
 which I discussed in a memo. I have not heard back from any city council member about these six issues, and most of them are really policy issues about whether they're willing to agree to some other terms that Greg House and Ted Belden wanted to have into the contract before they would agree to it.
 So, you know, if you certainly if you want to bring some other entity in to look at that, that's fine. But you should know that with this contract, which is a multi-page contract, we're down to a very few issues that have not been resolved at this point in time. And so, you know, if the city council doesn't want to try, doesn't think that you have the.
 understanding or want to try to decide the issues that their attorney presented, for example, the time limit to build the condo floors, the six and seven floor, the
 how long and what they have to do for the proposed food hall building on the plaza. Like if you're not concerned about whether that's going to be a shell building or if you actually want it open. That's really issues that the city council and the mayor as the policymakers need to make as their policy decisions.
 I have no problem having different contracts between the bank, a separate contract with the bank and a separate contract with Greg House and Ted Belden. So most of these issues really are not some that should stop this contract. But, you know, certainly if you all want to bring some other entity in, that's fine. And I'll just, you know, do whatever I can to cooperate with this other entity.
 I absolutely think we need to bring someone in. The last public-private partnership that we had was the TIF district. And I'm still not, we didn't get anything out of that. And because of that, it makes me think that we do need someone that is specifically
 aware of issues that could come up. You mentioned that we have very few issues. Well, very few is no issues. I don't know if we'll ever get to no issues, but the whole LLC and contracting partners, it's like every time that I see one more thing, it's like taking one, we're getting more risk and they're getting less liability. And that's the best educated point of view that I can have, right?
 from what I'm reading, public-private partnerships are a tricky thing that you need to do the best you can. And this is the public's money. And I think an investment
 and something that can be seen as not so complicated, but then later we don't get maybe what we thought we were getting. I would like to hold off and to get a specialist in here. It would make me feel more comfortable. It would make me feel more comfortable, too. Thank you very much. Hey, Mayor, if I can add to the timeline aspect.
 So I think we do have a little time to get this third party on board because we're still working through some developmental design pricing. And, you know, we hope to get a guaranteed maximum price. And I think that's going to make the developer more comfortable with what the money he's going to be laying out. And so that I think here again, sometime in March, we should have those numbers.
 Okay, well that's good. Yeah, I also think we need a third party. This is big enough and it's gone on long enough and it's complicated enough. I would hate
 a year from now if we're so off that this almost becomes a derelict of duties on our part because we haven't properly vetted this. So I would like the third party. I also have some questions. I think this would be for Wade. The Spring Street, can that hold a proper size debt? Do we know that right now? Yes.
 There was actually, there's been two different studies on that. Back in 2012, when we built the Spring Street deck, there was some consideration of several different sites and that specific site was looked at. And then again in March, when we started this project, we also looked at it again and again.
 Even just to simply put it, the footprint of the building we're looking at right now would fit on that site. When's the last time a coring has been done that would verify that there is bedrock? Okay. I think a worst case scenario would be that we get to March, we say no, we go to Spring Street, and then three months later we go, oh, we can't even build there. Yeah. So there has not been a geotech...
 report done on that site. You could assume that that site is similar to the site where the Spring Street deck is on because it's right across the street. It's all in the same vein, but of course, you would have to do some actual cores and soil borings to really know. If you put the building on top
 and to where you're not having to do a lot of excavation, you know, there's ways and mechanisms to support your foundation. Okay. I'm hoping we can continue this conversation because I may bring forward an ordinance to actually pay for coring because I'm terrified that we may say no
 And then we're going to go with this other option and that's not even an option. So I want to know that. That's a good point. In the big scheme of things, you know, we're talking like a $10 million project, a coring or soil analysis would be pretty nominal. $10,000 to $20,000. And I think that would probably be important in our negotiations either way.
 So we'll make that happen on the core drill and see what we can do with that. Yeah, we can amend the contract with our engineer that's already doing coring for us and get that done. I want to be clear. I look forward to having the deck on the depot lot and the liner buildings and that's what I hope works out. I just want to make sure that we have other options in place. So thank you. You bet. You want to look at a backup plan in case you need it.
 I think that's really important that we need to have those corings done to ensure that that we do have a legitimate backup plan. We'll get that done, Theresa. I'll get that done. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, I am very, very supportive of bringing on this third party. You know, as Kit said, there's, you know, there's probably just a few issues that need to be resolved.
 but an expert could get through those lickety split i mean just like you know take no time at all so i'm really supportive of that um you know i think that's uh we're the stewards of the city dollars here and i think that's the best route to take at this point and um do we do we take public comment on this or anything what do we well we can um i think
 i think we need a motion to table it maybe because i would like to make a motion to table it then if we don't i mean what i think council what i need is about a month here give me about
 February the 16th and we'll have something one way or the other okay I will make a motion then that we title this to the February's till the February 16th meeting quicker I'll bring it back okay that works awesome yeah I'll second that all right
 I was mayor, I was able to speak with with kit and one of the concerns that I had when with the the details from that was a lack of the survey provided by by Ted and
 and I forget his name, Greg and Ted. And that way we could know the actual data of the amount of property we're talking about on the depot lot. And Kit can go into a lot more detail. I'm not explaining it perfectly, but, but essentially to figure out the value of the amount of land we're talking about, uh,
 and putting that together with the land that we're talking about on the north end of the cultural arts corridor in kind of how does that, does the value that we're going to pay equal to what we're,
 the money, the property, the space that we're going to, you know, have. So if that could be looked at, that would, that, and because he said, we don't even have a survey yet for it, and that we've been requesting it, but it is not coming. So we have no data to go on to really put a value on it. You know, it was, it was kind of my understanding that we were buying
 i mean we weren't looking at like per square foot or whatever on the value of the property that we were looking at the totality of it um you know a survey i mean what are we talking about as far as the difference in the land that we i mean are we talking like
 or a thumbnail of a sliver of land that's not going to make any difference, or are we talking about not being able to build the project on the property because it's not large enough? I think we're talking about a very small piece of land, but I'll let Wade talk about it. Now, when it comes to surveys, of course we'll need surveys for closings. That's a whole different thing, but we're not, we entered into this negotiation talking about the end product.
 and the gains that we would have from the land being swapped. And we weren't counting inches, but Wade, if you could describe the difference in the properties approximately since the surveys are just coming back. Yeah, so the property on the North Civic Plaza space is like 6,000 square feet. And then the properties over on Greg that Greg has and the bank has, I believe Greg is 0.2 acres.
 And Kit, maybe you can help me out. Remember how much exactly the bank had. But basically, we were looking at the footprint of the deck, of the new proposed deck and the space required for that, for this early discussion. And then like Susan said, once we had an agreement, then there would be surveys that would lay out the exact footage.
 Yeah, I do agree with Sonia, though. It would be nice if we actually had a survey of what they're proposing to sell to us.
 The bank's portion, I think, from the overhead that you provided to me looked significantly larger than what Greg House and Ted Bell or Greg House owned. But when you're buying property, it is good to know exactly what you're getting. So I think a survey is not very expensive. And if they won't do surveys on their property, then maybe we need to do it ourselves so that we actually know what we might be buying. Yeah.
 Yeah, so we are. We have engaged our engineers to do the survey on our property. And I know that the same engineer has reached out to Ted and Greg to do the survey on theirs as well. I think it's safe to say the surveys are underway. Awesome. So I believe I made a motion. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Mayor? Yes. Okay.
 I'd like to request that we allow two people who have their hands raised, Kerry Arcega, an adjacent property owner to the project, and Ted Belden, one of the applicants. I'd like to request that we allow them time to speak and ask the council to allow that. Sure. Okay, that's fine. You ready? Yeah. Kerry, go ahead. Kerry, you have to unmute yourself.
 Okay, I'm learning. Thank you. Can you hear me? Yeah. Okay. I surely understand the need to do due diligence on this, but I hope you can appreciate my frustration in this matter. We started this last January. We thought a decision was going to be made on picking a location in March. Of course, the pandemic hit. You know, I closed, you know, the depot. Come June or July, we were thinking about reopening it
 But I told the decision would probably be made in October. It just doesn't make sense, financial sense for me to open up my business, hire 60 people, buy inventory, only be open for what I thought was going to be a couple of months. And I was told that basically the decision has been made. We're just crossing the T's and dotting the I's. And I am counting on those funds to survive as a businessman in Fayetteville.
 I mean, I have an agreement, a buy agreement with my landlord, and I've been paying rent on the depot for the last 10 months without any income. I was also hoping to get the fund maybe starting in January or February to help me make it through, you know, with the new business I opened up down in the Mill District. I'm barely hanging in there now. So I hope you can appreciate my frustration as a businessman here that I'm hearing, oh, a survey hasn't been done. It's a year later. We don't know what piece of property we're going to buy.
 I'm just very frustrated. I understand all these things have to be done. It just seems it's taking so long, costing me tens of thousands of dollars. And literally my business surviving depends on getting funds from my landlord for the lack of income I'm getting from the depot. Now I'm hearing maybe it won't be March or April. So maybe I should open. I don't know. I'm very confused. I don't know.
 All I can say is I hope you can do this in as quick a way as possible so I can know where I stand. Thank you. You're very welcome. I totally understand. Ted Belden. Go ahead, Ted. Yes, good evening. What I wanted to just mention to the council, and I appreciate all the things that have been said tonight, and I agree with most everything that's been said, and I would like to encourage the council to 
 Go ahead on the next item on the agenda. It talks about approving some fees to the architects in Olson. The last two meetings that's been delayed and pushed down the road too. But just like you're asking for some boring samples to be done on the other site, I think it's important that we as the developers understand our costs. And I think that delaying any, the fees to the architects and to the engineers to determine these costs is
 is is not wise we need to understand what the cost the city needs to understand what the cost of this project will be and you got to have the city uh the engineers and the architects to do the design work and that's really where we are we have design development fees is all that we've gotten to we don't have construction drawings that i'm aware of that really help
 the contractor determine an accurate price. So we've been waiting on that as developers for quite a while, and that's been one of the holdups. So we need to understand what those costs are. So that's my comment tonight. I look forward to continuing to talk. We are very close, I feel, to a contract and look forward to the relationship we'll have with the city. Thank you. Okay. So we have a motion and a second to take. And we're good.
 February 16th, I can assure you we'll have something to vote up or whatever we're going to do around here because I totally agree this needs to move on. All right. Any other final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Warren?
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Thank you all very much. We'll get something done here. All right. Number five, a resolution to approve the amendment number two to the professional engineering services agreement with Olson Incorporated for Senate RFQ. Second? Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second.
 19-01 in the amount of $164,900 for the architectural services related to the replacement parking deck for the cultural arts corridor project and for proven budget adjustments for this 2019 cultural arts corridor bond project. Blake. Well, Mayor, these are basically for the architectural portions of the deck. So, yeah.
 The way we procured this contract is we knew we were going to have an engineer to design the superstructure. And then we came back and teamed up with the architect that's also working with the developers for some of the architectural elements of the deck. And so this is to carry the design development.
 through construction drawings on the architectural portions. Okay, what discussion do we have from the council on this? No discussion. All right. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. We have five minute duration, broken segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city councilman. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and the federal residence first. We would like to address this on this one.
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? I have a comment. I'm very concerned that we continue to spend money on this location where we're not certain. And so I would really like to hold back on using any of those monies further until we get a contract in hand on this project.
 You know, this is quite a bit of money and yes, we're being delayed, but I want to make sure that we're very fiscally responsible with the public's money. And this has gone on quite a while and I just we've already spent quite a bit on the project. So I would I would ask that we table it or we hold it until we have a decision on the previous item.
 Let me ask Wade something. You heard Ted Belden say that they need to get these figures so they'll know how much they'd have to pay to increase the strength of the superstructure and things like that. Do we currently have the engineer that can give them that figure or do we also need to have an architect to arrive at the figures that Ted Belden was talking about?
 The good point Kit, the superstructure cost which would be the cost for the developer to increase the live loads are already in the design by the engineer. So we would not need this particular amendment for those additional cost calculations. Mayor I move we table this item to the same meeting as the previous item.
 Second. We have a motion to second the table to February the 16th. All right. Any other discussion on that? If some reason we needed to bring it back early, can the mayor do that? The mayor will bring it back as soon as he can get it done. If I can get it done before the 16th, you'll get a good look at it. I promise. All right. That's, of course, okay with everybody. Anyway, care which police call the roll.
 Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Okay. Well, moving right along. Number six, an ordinance to rezone that property, scrubbing the zoning petition RZN 20-014, located southeast of I-49 in Weddington Drive for approximately
 112.85 acres for RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre, RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre, RO residential office and C2 the thoroughfare commercial to UT urban thoroughfare and CS community services. Okay, this is on the second reading and I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading, or not.
 Without that motion, I'll read the body, although I should note for the record that the applicant has submitted a bill of assurance. We have drafted redrafted the ordinance to include the bill of assurance in case this would be passed. So basically, at the end of the title, it just says subject to a bill of assurance. And that's, again, what it says right at the end of Section 1, that all of this would be subject to a bill of assurance.
 So we probably need a motion right now to amend the ordinance to reflect the bill of assurance that we have received. So moved. Second. We have to amend the ordinance to reflect on the bill of assurance. Correct. Okay. All right. Good night. Terrence, please call the roll. Funch. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes.
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scoggin? Yes. Okay, let me read the body of the ordinance as it's been amended. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit A and the legal description exhibit B both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre RMF-24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre
 R.O. Residential Office and C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare and CS Community Services subject to the Bill of Assurance. In Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. So now we have read it for the third and final time. Thank you.
 Kit, I have a question. I believe we spoke about this as well. Essentially, if there was parts of this resolution that we didn't agree with, the zonings, you had recommended that I just either vote up or down on the whole thing. And so is that still, is that what, did you, would you concur with that?
 Well, I would just say that normally that's what the city council does. However, the city council has tremendous authority when it comes to rezoning property. It's legislative power that you have. And so you actually can do something that has not been requested by the applicant. That's very rare to do. And we certainly need to hear from the applicant.
 But normally it's just an up or down vote, but that's not the only thing that the city council can do. You can amend the ordinance to reflect what you would like to see in there instead. However, that's very rarely done. And I think that certainly we need, would need to hear from the applicant about that to give them a chance to respond to anything that, that the city council might suggest as a better way of rezoning the property. Thank you.
 So, as the staff is not, okay. Okay, go ahead, Jonathan. We're on third reading, correct? Now, it gets read to body. All right. Go ahead, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. I don't have anything to add. I do know that that bill of assurance was offered this afternoon, I believe, and I'm not a thorough chance to vet it. But I do know Ms. Maranoni is available to describe what's being offered in the bill. Okay. Go ahead, Paula. Okay.
 So that's not all? Paula, I don't see Paula. I got it. OK. My mouse was stuck. On the bill of assurance, we actually I was talking with you all earlier this year about our neighborhood over here and about doing an overlay on it for height restriction.
 And I was thinking about, you know, some of the things that you all had brought up about softening the edge, basically. And I've said a number of times that there really aren't too many neighbors over there to the east. And...
 But even so, I think aesthetically, it kind of makes sense for it to blend. We don't know what that neighborhood to the east will turn out to be. There's a 25-acre field there. And so what this bill of assurance says is that on the entire east border,
 far border of the property that we're putting a restriction on it that on the first hundred feet that buildings will not exceed three stories and then that's on up above there's no second level of that because that community services allows for five stories
 down in the UT, the first level would be a maximum of three stories for 100 feet. And then the next 100 feet would be a maximum of five stories. So considering that the zoning only gives a consideration of 15 feet,
 uh to a residential neighborhood this is i believe quite generous and i hope that it will solve some of the concerns did i keep talking on my presentation okay thank you i wanted to thank the aldermen who were able to come for the site visit and
 And one of the things that was really interesting that I didn't really plan on was that once you got there and looked out and you could see how expansive the property was. But also, as it started to get darker, I told everybody, I said, now look up the hill. There's nobody on the entire property going south. There's nobody there.
 going south anywhere. And you could see off to the left a couple lights up on the hill. And I said, okay, that's Pratt Place way over to the left. So some of the people who were writing in and such saying that their neighbors are actually over a mile away as the crow flies. And some of the
 people went up and drove up the road and then went over walked over to the east fence and I could see them way off in the distance looking through the trees trying to see where the neighbors were so in fact the the perimeter boundary of our property is right at two miles long
 It's 1.96 miles exactly. And in that whole perimeter boundary of our property, there are three owner-occupied residences that back up to our property. And that is it. So all of this discussion about the neighbors, the neighbors, the neighbors, I mean, that is very loosely used.
 In 2009, I listed the Hecathorne property and I had it listed for two or three years. I don't remember exactly. But I asked Sarah Lewis to get all the neighbors together so that I could address the neighbors and tell them what we were planning. And so we met at the community building over on Sang and I walked in and was just totally attacked by about 40 people.
 And it took upwards of an hour to get them under control where I could even talk. And ever since then, we have been attacked. Anytime anybody brings up anything about developing any property around there,
 It's just this attack, really. And I mean, you saw what happened on Markham Hill and they're bragging about they've got 10,000 people on the petition and it's growing. And I'm like, OK, but it's already approved. One alderman at one time said that he ran for office to keep anything from happening on our property.
 So, I mean, this is just not reasonable. We have been under contract nine times and six of those times our contracts have been crashed by city representatives and or the neighbors. So we need your help on this. I mean, it is ridiculous that this property is still sitting there and it could be benefiting the city and the neighbors.
 The neighborhood to the east from Weddington bordered on Weddington, Sang, Maple and our property is dying. And it is not a slow death. It is dying as fast as it can go. In the last 10 years, there have been 30 sales in that area and 29 of them became rental properties.
 And that is not something that they can do anything about. Nothing. Even if you put sidewalks in there, it will do nothing because the price point to age and the fact that it's so close to the university. However, with this property, with the massing of it and the energy of it and the centrality of it with the parks and the trails and such, it will revitalize that whole area.
 and give the people a place to go and elevate the prices of their property and contribute to the quality of life. Right now, with it just sitting there, nobody can access it. Nobody can come in and go run or ride their bike or anything. So nobody else can enjoy it but us. I want to quote Matthew Petty, the December 15th City Council meeting, as it pertains to the neighbors.
 And he said on another subject, he said, some people will never come around ever, ever, ever. So trying to appease this situation is futile, in my opinion.
 We need to be able to develop our property. I mean, it comes down to that. We have a right to develop our property. We have a right to request reasonable zoning. Your staff says this is reasonable. The planning commission says it is reasonable. It follows the city guidelines for the future land use map 2040. It says,
 checks all the boxes of the six development guidelines of the 2040 plan. It checks five of the six boxes handily. And the master street plan, we had our streets designed by the engineers and done for the master street plan.
 We're following the recommended zoning in 2016 with the Drake Farm. You were so excited about this zoning. So what else do we have? If it is voted down and we can't come back and apply for this same vote zoning for a year, but we could come right back and apply for C2 and RMF 24 and RMF 40.
 We are ready to get this going. We need to get this going. We need the city's help with it. It is ridiculous that we are not able to develop our property. So it comes down to, do you believe in what you have created?
 fostered in the city's 2040 plan you're bragging that there were 900 people who participated in it that is a guideline your zoning's are a guideline do you believe in those do you believe in what you're saying or is it a laborious collection of buzzwords so we need your help we'd appreciate your vote thank you thank you okay
 What questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff? Okay, well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration, both in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and federal residents will speak first. Well, who would like to start? Mayor, we have Raina Truly.
 okay go ahead could you please unmute yourself no she's go ahead she's got her mic ready to go runia rain yeah well we can't hear i got it now can you hear me now okay so sorry um my name is rania truly i live at 2122 lawrence circle 72701
 I live on the west end of Lawrence Circle, so this rezoning will have a direct impact on my and my neighbor's lives, not even to mention the rest of the city. I heard what was just said, I disagree with much of it. I am a genuine neighbor, been a Fayetteville resident for 38 years.
 I am speaking to make a protest for the rezoning. I've not spoken before at this meeting, and yet that has no bearing on the importance I placed on this issue.
 We live in a quiet, very peaceful neighborhood. We have a great quality of life, and it is of utmost importance that our lovely space not be disrupted. I do not want the Maranoni property to become an area of dissonance. I have not seen what urban thoroughfare includes. I feel great concern regarding all zoning changes.
 especially for the possible CS zoning nearest to our homes. We've had no explanations of what things mean. I have many questions, more than I can state here.
 I am directly opposed to three or four family dwellings. I feel they're unacceptable, particularly due to increased traffic flow and increased noise level. The proposition of gas stations and drive-through restaurants sounds awful. If they're going to exist, the location should be nearest I-49 where the noise level is often high anyway.
 I oppose multifamily dwellings beyond duplexes, particularly if they are allowed to be more than two or three stories. I don't know what clutter housing is. I feel that amusement services with potential noise pollution should also be kept near I-49. I would like to know how large our hotels and motels allowed to be.
 Outdoor music establishments are entirely inappropriate for this property. All of these things are listed in the CS, I believe. I also need to say that a 15-foot setback on the east side of the property, which abuts single-family dwellings, is definitely not enough.
 I've also learned there are potential drainage issues due to natural springs and the lay of the surrounding land. Beyond what I've already stated, the possibility and likelihood of Maple and or Cleveland being extended would negatively impact all neighborhoods in this south area of Sang. The still less than ideal course of action would have traffic routed to Weddington Avenue, and there again, that interchange is already taxed with too much traffic.
 This is due mostly to not enough foresight. We do not want this type of traffic near our homes. Let's not add another issue to Fayetteville's infrastructure. Thank you. I have no more to say. Ed Baker, go ahead. Can you hear me? Yep.
 Okay uh Ed Baker 2131 Lauren Circle uh I'm not attacking Ms. Marignone in any way. I'm sorry she feels a bit skinned about this but uh let me start by saying my main concern with the community services portion of this rezoning uh this portion backs up next to my property and several other properties on the west side of Lauren Circle
 My concerns are number one with the community services designation there's no telling what could be built there. My neighbor just mentioned several things that could be built there, none of which are compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. Five-story apartment building to a liquor store, I know they said we're going to not do anything over three, but in my opinion that's still too much. Most of the things that could be built there are not compatible with the surrounding neighborhoods.
 My concern number two is possibility of drainage issues. There's a wet weather creek that runs from off of Markham Hill from the south to the north behind Lawrence Circle directly behind my property. There's another creek, wet weather creek, that comes from the Marignone property from the west to the east right behind my house that goes into the other creek.
 We already have issues as far as water in our yard. I'm worried about development on that development there that could increase drainage issues and problems. My third concern has to do with the possibility of funneling traffic to the development onto Seng Avenue from either Cleveland or Maple, which runs just to the south of Lauren Circle. It's basically a trail which also cuts into, there's a connection there up in Maple.
 there's a piece of that city property that used to be university property that connects right there that is supposed to be designated as uh if i'm if my information is correct that's part of the markham hill property that's not supposed to be developed that connects in there that also connects to miss maranoni's property i'm worried about traffic coming in uh
 the temple area all along saying there and around lawrence circle into the areas on berrien or east and west of saying also into bodark and waterman woods i know they're not directly touching the property but it's one connected neighborhood there in that area the same valley area it's its own unique community i'm afraid the kind of development increased traffic from such a development would negatively impact our community uh talking
 Talking about a 100 foot buffer, I do not believe that is adequate in my opinion for a three-story building in my backyard. I also disagree with Ms. Marinotti's comment that it's a dying neighborhood. I bought my house in 2001 for $109,000.
 Most recent appraisal was for around $250,000. So those properties are not dying. It's not a dying area. Lots of family riding bikes in and out of all the communities and connecting streets there, walking their dogs, walking with their families. I just think that that will be destroyed by development.
 too close to the area. Again, my biggest concern is the community services portion, not the urban thoroughfare. I respectfully ask that the council members vote against that portion of the rezoning if possible. If not, vote against all of it at the current time without knowing what's going there. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Lisa Orton. Go ahead.
 Hello, I'm Lisa Orton and I live at 1663 West Halsall Road and I also wanted to confirm what Ed was saying that the neighborhood surrounding neighborhood goes from Weddington down to you could say Nettleship. I mean it's all of Ward 4 on the east side of 49. That's
 would be affected by this. But I wanted to mention that compatibility used to be important to the city. And by compatibility, I mean, you don't up zone a property inside a neighborhood and you don't up zone a property beside a lower density neighborhood without a buffer to protect that neighborhood.
 And when you think of like Hobbs Park or Buffalo River National Park, you don't put an urban high density development right beside it. You gradually, you know, maybe it's farmland and then it's RSF1 and then further away RSF2 and so on until you finally get into urban. So to me, that's more compatible and it would be the same sort of thing with this beside all those neighborhoods around it.
 There needs to be a buffer and a gradual up zoning as you move away from the neighborhoods and the forest to the south. And I realize this doesn't go along with the some city officials and developers vision for Fayetteville, which appears to me to be like up zoning everywhere and pushing mixed use and pushing higher density, even when many residents of Fayetteville don't want that.
 And there is another, I've mentioned this before, but there is another vision for Fayetteville that I believe most residents have. And if you just walk the neighborhoods and ask,
 I mean that survey, online survey that just 900 people knew about and did. I mean that's really not Fayetteville. You need to walk the neighborhoods and ask people. And I believe you will find that most people are tired of all the construction and upzonings and not fixing infrastructure first and they're tired of the deforesting and the cutting down of trees in general.
 And so will your decisions support the vision of the few or the vision of the many? And what is the vision of the many? And if you don't believe me, let's find out a way to truly survey all the residents. I believe the things people love about Fayetteville, when you just go door to door and talk, because I did that to help campaign for some candidates, and you got to talk to the neighbors.
 The neighborhoods, what people really love about Fayetteville are the neighborhoods they live in, the trees, the urban forest, the trails, the history, the historic places, the arts, the university at a reasonable size, and this kind of small town feel. And, you know, if people are not from Fayetteville and have moved here, often it is to get away from busy, crowded urban life.
 They like the small town feel. So to me, smart growth is figuring out how to keep that small town feel and managing development to ensure that we protect what most Fayetteville residents really love about Fayetteville. So I would say to please don't approve this rezoning. I mean, I'm for the Marinones rezoning.
 making money off of this property. But I'm against this rezoning because it's so high density and so massive. And because it's 113 acres and right up against the forest to the south and the neighborhoods, all, you know, all the 10 blocks of neighborhoods on the east and southeast.
 And I think a PZD that has a buffer protecting the forest to the south and the neighborhoods and the Temple Shalom to the east and southeast, you know, those 10 blocks of neighborhoods there that would be affected. I think there should be a buffer protecting the forest, protecting these neighborhoods and Temple Shalom and that that would be more appropriate that would gradually transitions to
 a higher density area near Weddington and near the church, near the fitness center, you know, in that area, I could see it higher density, but have a gradual, you know, buffers protecting the forest and the neighborhoods of the low density and gradually move toward high density in that Weddington, you know, church fitness center area. So anyway, that's,
 That's what I have to say. Thank you so much for listening to me. Thank you. Next is Robert in Virginia, Liner. Hello. Can you hear me? We can. Thank you for allowing me to speak again. I think this is the third time, but I will tell you, I will agree with Ed and Raina. They are our neighbors, and we're at 2129 West Lawrence Circle, right?
 And I am against this. I hope you will vote no. And it was stated that Lauren Serwer, it's a dying, well, it's not dying. And I wanna tell you something. There are five houses that their backyard butts up against the Maranoni property. And I wanna tell you in the first house is a retired school counselor. The second house is a retired geologist and retired educator. The third house are,
 two coaches and teachers, husband and wife. The next house is a rental, but the person that owned it was an elderly man and he passed away in that house. And the next house is a young doctor. So there are...
 people, there's only one rental in that area that butts up against it. And the rest of them are professional retired people, except for the coaches and teacher that I hope retire sometime in the near future. And then the doctor and on the corner, who's a house is backed up against maple is electrician. So I don't see how they can say that
 we're a dying place. We might die if you ruin it for us, but I want you to vote. No, you all have my letter that we sent in October and I've also sent in some texts and I've talked, this is a third time, but I think you're making a mistake and I don't think a hundred feet from my backyard is enough even for a three story instead of a five story. So I just hope you'll keep that in mind because you know,
 It might be you one of these days and somebody wants to put no telling what in your backyard. So thank you for allowing me to talk. I appreciate it. You're very welcome. Thank you. Nobody else? Ms. Trulie's hand is still raised, but she's already spoken. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. Okay. Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We're on the third and final reading. So what's everybody's thoughts? I'll start, Mayor. Okay.
 So, you know, I want to thank the neighbors who, there are many neighbors of the Maranoni property that were able to come and speak today. You know, it was Sarah Bunch and Theresa Turk and I that were able to make it to the tour. On that tour, we were able to be close to Weddington and to the existing commercial
 We had to hike it to get to the boundaries. And we just kind of had to go off on our own to go check it out just because we weren't sure if there might be. We took Miss Maranoni, which we're so glad that she was able to meet us there. So there might be some animals in the area.
 property and we might encounter those and she wanted to make sure that was going to be okay. We didn't encounter any but what we did learn as we got back in the back to that corner which is the um it would be the the south west corner which is the Lauren Circle neighbors.
 And it is very, the topography is, is, you know, changes quite a bit there. There's a convergence of two creeks as described by Mr. Baker.
 And I just feel like that piece of property absolutely does not need any kind of upzoning whatsoever. I wore my hiking boots. It had not rained recently, but I was they were quite muddy. It was very wet back there. And so I just feel like this is why I was asking Kit if, you know, can we rezone some of it and not another part of it? Yeah.
 And so I just feel like that quadrant back there does not need to be touched whatsoever. However, obviously along 49 and on Weddington, that frontage area along that,
 absolutely seems like a great place to put some commercial space. So we're not saying for me, I'm not saying that it's all or nothing, but I'm trying to understand what, what we can recommend. So if it was up to me, I would say that we need to rezone the front commercial area, but not this. There was a section called section three, which I can't find it in my packet now. But it's the, that that's right behind the Lauren circle neighbors area.
 And so that's kind of what I have at this moment where I'm thinking. So I'd love to hear from everyone else. I've got a question for Kit. If we turn this down and they come back with UT but in different areas, is that enough that they don't have to go through a year wait? They don't have to go through a year wait if they make a substantial change in what they are actually asking for.
 And so if they divide it up and only ask for a particular partial to be UT rather than the whole area or something like that, that would be, in my mind, it would be a different enough request that they wouldn't have to wait a year. But I also should defer somewhat to Jonathan Kurth because that's really the planning department's decision about whether any proposal is changed enough so that it would not be barred by that particular code section.
 certainly mayor would you like me to comment on that i would yes yes certainly uh kid is right that is in the section of code that planning administers and it is ultimately a planning commission determination which makes it kind of a chicken or egg situation where it's not until the the proposal is being considered that it can be ascertained whether it's substantially different
 I think consistently in my time here, we have determined that if it's a change in area or change in zoning, that has been enough to merit reconsideration. But again, it is ultimately at the Planning Commission's discretion. Okay. I feel like UT absolutely makes sense on the access road and Wagonton. That's urban thoroughfaring. They're literally almost...
 the words make sense that it should be there. But how many feet you go back, we've had properties where we've zoned back a thousand feet and that didn't make sense. So I've got some issues going
 Irvington Board of Education, Urban thoroughfare all the way back and then the CS. Irvington Board of Education, i'm kind of on the fence on this one, because the the ut makes makes a lot of sense, although i've seen some ut that's gone in and it's just been giant parking lots because right now, if you drive. Irvington Board of Education, What we've seen with the P one and the ut is just giant parking lots and then building the back so hopefully that doesn't happen.
 Mostly I'd like to see a PZD, but I'd be okay with urban thoroughfare and then some scaling back and then maybe even some preservation as you get farther back. This is one of the last large pieces of land that can be developed and just given a blanket, go for it. I've got some issues. The only land that's kind of similar in size is off the Fulbright Expressway and they're going the PZD route.
 and they're going to do something very intensive and that makes sense there. But given a blank check here all the way back, I've got some issues. I would like to see a PZD. I'll share some comments. I think on the face of it, I feel pretty similar to Councilmember Scroggin, although I'm less inclined to favor a PZD. I'm totally on board
 per my review with the urban thoroughfare portion of the other request, and even perhaps a good portion of the community services area, but would prefer especially at the very rear of the site. If there was something that was less intense that was proposed, I'd be ready to vote for something like RIU or neighborhood general.
 or neighborhood services limited something in there, which based on what I've learned about the project probably preserves pretty much everything that has been described to me about the project so far without opening the door up to a future sale to somebody that wants to do something like a gas station. So I...
 But I do have to say I'm kind of not in favor personally of advocating for a PZD. I think it's kind of a very blunt way of going about development negotiations. It might be one of the only tools we have to really get into the weeds, but
 We, in my opinion, should strive to grant the right entitlements up front through a good deliberate rezoning and trust our design standards, which generally work pretty well with some notable exceptions we're working on. What troubles me more is the way the conversation seems to proceed anytime we see a lot of big rezonings.
 You know, 1972, when we got the nation's first national river, the population of Fayetteville was only about 36,000 people, and the population of the world was only about 3.5 billion people. It's more than doubled. And I know we keep talking around in circles about this, but people got to have a place to live. And it seems like so often arguments to keep things exactly as they are at the end of the day, if we fall under their logical conclusions, are,
 amount to telling people to figure things out completely on their own because we've already figured it out for us. I mean neighborhoods have to look different if we're gonna have a transit system. So I don't know that the rezoning that's proposed is exactly what I would be enthusiastic about supporting. The bill of assurance helps a little bit, but it's really the land uses at the very end of community services that give me a little bit of pause.
 I could see this slightly revised and I'd be enthusiastic to vote for it. If the applicant insists on an up or down vote tonight, I'm not sure where I'll land up but I feel like I've been transparent in my thoughts about it. I was one of the people that went out and walked around the site.
 I think the UT in some of the areas where it is is appropriate, but I have some concerns about the CS zoning in the back as well. And I feel like that the  I mean, I know this was a simpler way to just say, okay, we're going to do two zonings. I wish there had been a little more finesse applied to this because it is such a large piece of property, and I wish there had been just a little more 
 finesse put on it and consideration for that back part of the property but one thing i did consider is not just what could go in if we rezone to cs but what the land and the other uh factors might might create there because you know when you talk about uh there's there's a slope i believe a portion of i think a portion of what is in the cs zoning
 is part of the hilltop overlay district. So that would apply to this. When you look at this land itself and you think about here's a wet weather stream, a developer is probably not going to be able to go in and in a cost effective manner and cover up the streams that are there and completely flatten everything. So you've got the topography itself kind of defines what goes in there. And I see
 you know i see that as having uh some shape to to the cs zoning as well instead of just what could go in the land kind of determines what goes in and then when we get to um actual development phase you know we have a lot of discretion there about what where how things are laid out and screening and things like that so while i'm not exactly thrilled about the cs zoning
 I think, you know, 100 feet is a pretty good buffer for a neighborhood. And I feel like when we look at, we are trying to anticipate what Fayetteville is going to be in the future. And a lot of the neighbors and a lot of people, whenever we have a rezoning issue, they say, this is not Fayetteville. This is not what we want.
 this is you know this is destructive to my neighborhood and I know I wouldn't want a three-story building suddenly to appear in my backyard but I also have to to to look at this as being someone else's property it's not my property it belongs to this family and I believe Paula told us there are 35 heirs to this property so I would imagine
 I can't work out stuff with my mom and dad and my sister sometimes. I can't imagine doing 35 people and trying to negotiate that. So, you know, I understand that there's some complications on the Maranoni side of the property. But we're looking at what is Fayetteville going to be in the future. And what Fayetteville is is a place that I was able to buy a house.
 I love my neighborhood. It's RSF4. It's, you know, it's, I love where I live, but I might not be able to afford that house today. You know, and I've been really lucky and I've been blessed to be able to have the things that I would love for the next generation to have. And if we keep saying, oh, we can't do this here, we can't do that there. Right.
 I'm torn on it because I'm from Fayetteville. I love Fayetteville. I'd like for all the trees to stay there and everything to be just the same, but we can't grow as a community. And if we don't develop anything, then we run into the risk of us being a community that even people like me might not be able to afford in because we can't pay. Our tax base is not large enough.
 I'm really challenged with this. I like the idea of the UT, but the CS gives me a little bit of pause, but maybe not for the same level of pause that some of my other council members, and maybe not for the same reasons. Thank you. Okay, what other comments do we have? I'd like to make a few comments.
 So I appreciate Ms. Maranoni allowing us to tour her land to actually get out and walk the land the other day and all the information that she provided us that was very generous of her.
 And as some of the other council members have noted, we did find some water issues, that wet weather stream that's back there separating the Eastern side of the property from Lauren Circle, I think was a big feature.
 Also, the stream that kind of comes in and meets that other one that's going, there's one going east-west and there's one going north-south. So there are definitely some water issues back there that will need to be considered.
 The Temple Shalom folks spoke very passionately last time. I am very concerned about any access out to the east side through the temple or close to the temple.
 And also on Maple Street, I don't see how CS would be used except really accessing that Maple Street area. And you have not just one neighbor, but many neighbors that have their backyards that back up right to Maple Street. A very unused yet paved street back in there.
 So those folks will be affected if Maple Street is used as an eastward access out of the current Maranoni property.
 We already talked about traffic issues, the problems with CS, that there could be gas stations in there. You know, we're going to address that issue, I guess, in the next item on our agenda. But there are a whole host of challenges that I see.
 I do agree that UT might be appropriate, especially over there at Weddington and also on the Futual Drive access street. I do think that would be an appropriate area, but it's not small enough. We've got a huge area that is requested to be UT and without a PZD.
 um if we approve this without a pzd 112 acres that's really precedent setting in many ways i think it's irresponsible um because we really don't know what's going in there that is the highest density uh allowed in our code uh so it seems to me the burden of responsibility is even greater with such a high density uh zoning type so i um
 I will not be supporting this because of the reasons that I laid out. I would be very open if the developer, if the applicant came back with something much more modest and something much more...
 I guess considerate of the long-standing Eastside neighbors. Those areas have been in there at least for the last 30 years, if not 40 years. And actually some of the areas up on Ora and Berry Street have been there at least 50 or 60. So these are well-established neighborhoods. They're not new neighborhoods. And in my opinion, they're thriving.
 It's not a dead neighborhood if you have renters. Renters are people too, and they're good, responsible citizens and should be treated as such. So I just think that this is too much, too dense, and too large of an area to rezone at this time. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? All right. No final comments, third reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Bench? Yes. Yes.
 Herb? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Jones? No. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Okay, the ordinance passes. Okay. Okay. Let's move along to number seven.
 All right. An ordinance to amend 161.22, community services and 161.24, urban thoroughfare, by changing certain permitted uses to conditional uses. This was left on the first reading. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Care to please call the roll. Batch? Yes. Turd?
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. And the ordinance amends section 161.22, community services and section 161.24, urban thoroughfare by changing certain permitted uses to conditional uses and I will note that
 Blake Pennington upon my request had submitted a potential section 3 as I have spoken before to you all about basically to protect the city from a regulatory taking lawsuits because of the fact that if we remove the right of someone, some landowner right now that has the right to build
 a gas station or a fast food station and maybe has plans to do it and we don't give them an opportunity to do that, then it's very possible that the city could be liable for that.
 This is very similar to what happened with the Streamside Protection Ordinance, where we actually were removing property from development rights if you were on one of these streamside protection areas. And to prevent suits against us, we phased that in rather than adopting it immediately.
 And that was successful. We had no suits against us. And now we have a streamside protection ordinance fully in a force. And yet we have suffered no problems from litigation on that or having to pay out judgments. Blake sent out this section three, which basically allows owners and the who have some vested property rights on this who have purchased property,
 and are ready to do within the near future, preliminary plats or large scale developments or other development items like that, building permits to do them if they do that in time. So it gives them a savings period. Now I will say that the new business, which we're not gonna get to tonight, has a proposal to rezone to community services
 for an entity that apparently wants to build a gas station there. The city council has plenty of rights when it comes to zoning and rezoning not to do that. But we do face some legal problems if we do not have the savings period that Section 3 represents. So that's a recommendation from the city attorney's office that we do that in order to try to protect the city from damage.
 regulatory takings claims, which could very well be successful. It has nothing to do with whether or not this is a good idea. That's certainly up to you all. But assuming that it is a good idea, we still feel like it'd be better to have this Section 3 added to it. And I'm certainly ready to answer any questions you all might have. Okay. Okay. What questions do we have?
 Mr. Mayor, could we allow public comment before we vote on that amendment? We can, but let me read the rules. By unanimous consent or a majority vote of the council, I believe, and, kid, I don't have those right before me. That's correct, Mayor. And then there's a three-minute time limit, if I remember that correctly. That is correct. You're either going to have to 
 unanimously consent or we'll have to have a motion in the second and a vote and you'll have to vote. So is everybody okay for allowing public comment before we vote on the amendment? Anybody opposed? Okay so we will allow public comment before we vote on the amendment. And this is for the amendment only? For the amendment only, yes. Okay and everybody's got a time limit of three minutes. Okay, who would like to be first? Oh I guess I better
 read this everybody gets one turn to speak you've got three minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members stay on the topic which is the amendment no rude behavior please give us your name and address and table register we'll go first who would like to start it up councilman okay go ahead kyle kyle we lost you sorry i am on a different setup from normal and uh
 I was not expecting that mode, sorry. Thank you, Mayor and Council. I'm Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. Don't believe there's been a motion for the amendment yet. And to be honest, I would hope it would stay that way.
 I appreciate the need to guard the city against taking his claim as well as any of you. And I believe this is the wrong time to be having that conversation. As the city attorney pointed out, if we remove the rights for development requirements,
 someone might well have that claim but this amendment amendment to the code does not remove the right to develop a gas station or or anything else it simply moves it to conditional use permit and so i believe a a question of takings at this point would be premature and and the more appropriate time to discuss that would be at a conditional use permit hearing
 or after a conditional use permit was denied, at which point the city council would have the ability to appeal that and protect yourselves from a takings claim at that point. So I would encourage you to consider
 go with a swifter enactment period. It absolutely makes sense to grandfather in folks who've already got their applications into the planning department or will very soon perhaps, but six months at the rate that Fayetteville is developing is a long time and a lot of opportunity for things to happen. I believe you've probably had a dozen or more emails
 about the rezoning that Kit mentioned due up on Thursday. And the specific issue there is concerned about gas stations. So I would like to make sure that we are listening to those neighbors and zipping up the parts of the zoning code that make them nervous before that becomes an issue. Thank you for your time. All right, thank you, Kyle. Who else would like to address this? Jim Hazen. Go ahead.
 Good evening. My name is Jim Hayes and I live at 2160 Rupel. I support changing CS zoning to remove or conditionally approve gas stations. As I understand, CS zoning is to develop walkable mixed-use town centers. Gas stations are too high impact and drive the area towards commercial zones instead of a family-friendly service area. This ordinance has been flawed for a long time and creates opposition every time CS is considered
 because of the forceful impact of gas stations. We should have greater discretion in what is allowed in our community. I won't go into detail, but you understand that a gas station is not a typical service business. It has a huge impact on traffic safety and disruption of an area versus a coffee shop or a vet clinic or a child care business. No gas station is built under CS zoning so far, but there's always opposition to gas stations by the public whenever CS is discussed.
 it will be opposed every time it comes up in the future until we get this ordinance in line with the desires of the residents. As far as the takings, if a person buys a property that's zoned agricultural, they have no rights, as I see it, to be protected because they're thinking about going into a community service zoning. We can't forecast or guess what they're thinking. So unless they have community services established,
 I don't think they have any rights to be protected from the consequences of it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else wants to address this? Hunter Buick. All right. Can you hear me okay?
 Yeah. All right. Good evening Mr. Mayor, City Council. I'm Hunter Buick. I live in Ward 4, 1841 Best Friend Lane. I'm actually about a 10-minute walk from where I think this issue first came up with the come and go at Mount Comfort and Ripple Road. I'm also the developer of 53 acres that we just purchased this past year.
 at Mount Comfort and Ripple Road and we are we've had the vision of developing this site kind of from a unique perspective as a developer and a Fayetteville owned real estate developer and also being a resident nearby so I think we've had a unique and enjoyable perspective on how to
 develop this and and so our vision for the property that property in that area is really to create a walkable neighborhood district which as some of you are aware um the mount comfort area is older than fayetteville itself it's a it's a unique opportunity to kind of take advantage of a historical area with the trail system the creek um
 two of the schools nearby, a new daycare going in on Mount Comfort. And so we really wanted to take advantage of that opportunity to make this a special neighborhood and new district in Fayetteville, a place that residents could be proud of and a place that citizens of Fayetteville are drawn to. And so we've actually designed, I mean, those on the planning commission know we've designed a project under CS zoning with no variances. We've been hopeful that across the street,
 would complement our vision.
 And at times we've even entertained the idea of purchasing the land across the street so that we could work towards that vision. And as someone who's been working within the CS zoning and in real time and trying to make Mount Comfort this new neighborhood walkable district, I can tell you that a gas station flies in the face of what we're trying to do and accomplish that vision. Under CS, if we're talking about connecting residential with commercial and that commercial being neighborhood,
 services. I just kind of wanted to propose the question in any listing information for a house or marketing piece for rental housing have you seen photos of highlighting a gas station nearby or even the words in bold hey right next to the gas station you just don't you don't see it because gas stations they cater to cars as we all know and not to pedestrians and so as a result gas stations aren't
 very conducive to create that neighborhood feel that I think a lot of the residents in the Mount Comfort area are seeking. So with that said, I believe that moving gas stations to a conditional use keeps enough flexibility for sites that make the most sense or make more sense for that cut type of use while not providing such an uninhibited path in neighborhoods who want to preserve that neighborhood feel.
 oh no yes right we're on the amendment yeah we also like to address this on the amendment lauren thomas
 My name is Lauren Thomas and I live at 5006 West Waverly in Ward 4. And I just wanted to speak up in support of this ordinance and of the amendment. I think that allowing the city council to have additional input on some of the changes that occur with these different properties over time helps to
 prevent some of the conflicts that we just listened to in the previous discussions. I think it allows conversation and thoughtful planning to happen on all fronts, and so I just wanted to speak up in support. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Okay, now we're taking public comment on the event. I'm going to bring it back to the council. So what discussions do we have from the council on this? Mayor, I'm
 I'd like to hear a little bit more about how moving this to a conditional use may mitigate some of the concerns about takings clauses as opposed to a wholesale deletion of these uses from the zoning designation. Is there anybody who can speculate a little bit about that? Jonathan? Jonathan?
 Certainly, I can attempt to feel that Mr. Williams may be just as able to do so. When it comes to takings, the case history usually involves the determined taking of value of a property, usually associated with some perceived or entitlement with it, usually associated with zoning, sometimes with a development approval, by moving it from a permitted to a conditional use case.
 that's not effectively removing the allowance for it. It just means it's, excuse me, subject to a higher degree of scrutiny and development review. I loosely described them as mini PZDs in some instances. So it is certainly a higher threshold and more of a challenge for developers to achieve that threshold, but it doesn't remove it as a potential land use on the property.
 Does that make, oh I'm sorry. No go ahead. I was going to ask if that adequately answered the question. I certainly agree that it is safer to move it to a conditional use than just remove it totally from from any right to build it all and I do agree with Kyle that unless someone does apply for conditional use and either does not like the terms of an approved conditional use thinking that
 prevents their project from going forward or being successful, or if it's denied, then at that point in time, it is possible that three city council members could appeal and then grant the conditional use or whatever you would want to do. And there really wouldn't be a takings until the applicant has, in fact, approved.
 suffered a loss of his right to build that he has right now. So it would be a longer process before the city could ever get sued on that. But it is something that I feel like I needed to caution the city council about.
 It is possible that you could undo the problems if you were faced with a conditional use that had been denied or with such restrictive conditions that the applicant says that it has damaged his property. If the city council chose not to do that though, then of course,
 The city could be sued and the difference in value of the property with and without the ability to build a gas station, so to speak, could be fairly substantial. But again, that is a longer process. And so it's much better to move it to a conditional use than it would be just to remove it.
 Okay, wonderful. I really appreciate both of those explanations. And for me, that helps me make my mind up on the amendment itself. It seems like there is, in terms of the support for this ordinance, that the broadest support is around the
 gas stations and changing how gas stations are treated. And it also seems like from both of those answers that if there was a dispute, there are several exit ramps or opportunities to settle the case, so to speak, before it actually ends up in a courtroom or in front of a judge where a takings claim is actually being made.
 So with that, I'm pretty comfortable voting against the amendment for the new section. And assuming that if we do vote for this, it's about conditional uses and not about eliminating the land uses entirely, that's the only thing that makes me comfortable for it. And I've seen...
 at least a half dozen times on this council where we've gone through that exact same thing, not about takings clauses, but where there's been a dispute about a conditional use permit, the conditions that have been imposed by the planning commission, the city council has reconciled that and settled the dispute. So I'm confident we can do that again. Thank you. Okay. So let me refresh all this again, Kit. Your amendment basically says that
 for everybody that's. Well, Mayor, there's not been a motion and a second for the amendment. So it will die for lack of a motion. Unless a city council member wants to make a motion and have it seconded. Otherwise, just go straight and we're just writing the ordinance itself. Yeah, and we go back to what we had to begin with, correct? So unless there's a motion and a second, the amendment's just done. I have a question here.
 If we vote for the amendment, I think we need people to know exactly what we're voting for or against. And since we didn't read it, we don't know that. How do we get this information? Well, I could read it. It doesn't sound like it's going to pass anyway, but it's about six or seven lines long. If you want me to read it, I can. I don't want you to read it. I just want to know the impact if we do it and we don't do it. Sure.
 Obviously, it's changing things, and I need to know exactly what it's changing. Okay, what it will change. This ordinance without this amendment goes into effect, assuming it's passed, goes into effect 31 days later.
 There are parts of the Unified Development Code that says that if you are trying to renew your building permit or other development permits, then you've got to comply with new changes to the code. And this would be one of the new changes. So that's more likely how this might come about as a takings against us.
 But as Councilmember Petty said, the City Council really has tremendous powers to protect the city from litigation if you would go in there and approve the conditional use. But what this says is that if you own property right now that's zoned for community services, then you have a right to file a building permit, large-scale development within six months of this ordinance. And if you don't, then you lose that right.
 And that's what we did with the Streamside Protection Ordinance. We gave people the right to develop, regardless of the Streamside Protection Ordinance, for up to two years, depending on the size of their lot. I don't know how many things, if any, were developed then, but I do know that we didn't get sued, and now the Streamside Ordinance is protecting our streams. However, you know, this doesn't necessarily mean...
 If you don't pass this, it doesn't necessarily mean we'll ever have to be liable. A lot of it will depend on what the city council might do in the future. Okay, let me restate it from a point of view, because I think that I want to go ahead and move forward with this. Being around back when the stream side ordinance came in, the thing about, it's not about litigation with me, it's about allowing people that are already some way vested
 that intend to develop under community services six months to do that or to get started on it. That's more palatable than 31 days because if you're developing something, you've already invested in that and I think that it's fair to allow six months to bring it in. I don't necessarily understand why we're in such a rush. So,
 It makes it more palatable. Did we not learn a lesson on the last one with the driveway stuff about getting more engaged with the people that it impacts the most? And we certainly haven't done that because it's been put on the agenda very quickly, in my opinion, at a time where people aren't paying a lot of attention. And it does impact people.
 a person who has something already in the works. And I think that we should respect that at least for six months. So I want to move, I'll present this motion for consideration for passing. Okay, so Mark, you're making a motion to pass the amendment. Yes, sir. Okay. Second. And we have a second. All right. Okay, so we have a motion and a second. Second.
 What other discussion do we have on the amendment? I suppose the council. Mayor, I have a comment. I'm sorry. Go ahead, Mark. Well, I just wanted to say, well, no, I want to hear what other people say. Never mind. So I'm just wondering if six months is too long. So I would, I'd like to make an amendment or potentially make an amendment for three months rather than the six months. Okay. So we have an amendment on the amendment.
 Correct? Well, the proposed amendment. Yes, the proposed amendment. I don't know if I need a, I guess I need a second for that. Yes, you would. So the amendment on the amendment would be to make it three months instead of six? That's correct. Okay. Is there a second on that one? That's the kind of thing that I might second if this amendment passes. Okay.
 All right, so that amendment dies for a lack of a second. That's correct. I wanted to... In order to support the amendment, I want people to take the... Put yourself in the shoes of the owner of the property that might have something in the works and the developer. To get things financed is not instant. To get things in order with your engineering and with your...
 design and with what it is that you think that you're going to put there is not a short-term effort. Six months is, I think, fair. Again, I go back to the streamside ordinance, and I know that being a supporter of that in a big way, it was hard to go with the six months. But if you look at the way that it actually unfolded
 it was much easier than it would have been if we had done it with some more immediacy. And so in order to make it more palatable and to make people understand what it is, six months is not a long time. From a development or owner point of view that's trying to make certain that who wants to develop it has at least some opportunity to continue to move forward.
 We already have a reputation and you know this, Fayetteville being a hard place to build. Now it should be because our topography is different. We have watersheds that we must protect. So it's not apples to apples, but it is perception. And people say, oh, it's hard to develop in Bentonville or Benton County or whatever. That's not the perception. And perception is a lot of people's reality.
 So I think six months is a fair amount of time that we should consider. And I'm basing this a lot on the streamside protection activity. I thought I'd like to add that, you know, Mark brought up some really excellent points about, you know, putting together a deal like this or commercial property like financing takes a long time. You know, all your studies you would be doing take a long time.
 And a lot of times in contracts, it is written in that you will have 90 days to start something, but then you have a, if it takes longer going through the city or whatever, then you have an additional 45 days to add onto that, you know, to ensure that you get things done, that people don't get midstream in, in an application process. And then they just have the rug pulled out from under them. So I think,
 i i think six months is probably okay i would not be in favor of anything less than six months and just to verify because we've been all over the little bit tarnation with this thing yes we have a we have a motion and we have a second
 to vote on the amendment for six months for six months yes would be for six months no would be 31 days is that right or that would be yes we still got to come back we still got to come back we've got to come back and vote on this ordinance this is just an amendment just on the email ordinance and we got to clear that out of the way and then we'll get back on the audience i tend to agree with with mark on a lot of the things that he brought up because
 If you look at just, I mean, just the financing, we always try to allow a minimum of, you're lucky if you have all your ducks in a row, you can probably get it done in maybe two to three weeks if you're just, everything's perfect. But it's always best to tell your clients that you're allowing at least 45 days. And if they're applying for any type of government financing, it could take longer than that.
 And so 45 days on just residential, you know, it doesn't 31 days on something that could be considered commercial. That does not seem long enough to me. So thank you. OK, Mayor, I'd like to add one more one more thing. I'll keep it brief. I think for me, what I'm hung up on is, you know, to just talk about six months and implementation grace period. All that sounds fine if that's all we're talking about.
 especially if this were like the Streamside Protection Ordinance, but I feel like we're splitting a difference that doesn't really exist and kind of making a false equivalency. The Streamside Protection Ordinance removed, completely removed development rights from the riparian zone and the management zone that's adjacent to our riparian corridors.
 And this proposal doesn't do that. It maintains a permanent pathway to those projects. And the other thing that I wanted to make note of is that any application that's already in process is grandfathered in, whether that's a development application, or I believe the last time we talked about this of a rezoning application had already been filed, even that's the case.
 So one of the things that is stuck in my head is something that a couple of my colleagues say from time to time, which is that just because you bought the land and you had an idea doesn't mean you have a right to get the rezoning you want. You have to go through the process and the deliberations and we have to bring it up for a vote.
 And I feel like that's still true for gas stations. And if you bought a piece of land and you had an idea to put a gas station on it, you're not guaranteed the zone until you get it. And even in terms of financing, I don't know any lender that's going to lend on a gas station project until the zoning is already in place. The zoning has to precede the financing. So I don't see how...
 six months really protects anybody. It just seems like it's something that seems nice to do. Well, Zach, you're absolutely right when it comes to zoning.
 They don't have any rights at all if they don't have zoning. So this would only apply to development and development issues if they already had the zoning. So the city council is never under any requirement to grant a developer the zoning they want just because they want it. And in fact, as I was talking about the one that's coming forward, it'll be much safer for the city
 to not grant the rezoning to allow a gas station as of right, as opposed to removing it from properly zoned land that's already owned. But you're right, if it was zoning, that would be absolutely correct. But this is development rights.
 for someone to build. However, I think that as you said, there are exit ramps that we would be able to take on this to probably avoid liability. I can't guarantee that's be perfect. I chose six months because I figured that would be very defensible in court. Then I could get up there and said, they had six months, your honor. They didn't choose to do it. And I think that's a winning argument.
 I'm not sure if three months would work. Maybe it would. It's better than zero. But I'm just trying to I'm actually not trying to be very helpful to the developers. I'm trying to protect the city's treasury. Yeah, I can tell. And I appreciate that. And heaven help me, kid. If you ever tell me you're 100 percent sure that there's no risk in something. If I don't catch that, somebody somebody let me know.
 I don't want to belabor the point at all. What it comes down for me in real politics is I'm gonna be far less likely to vote for any community services zoning and sensitive locations until this passes. And I don't think I'm the only one on the council that feels the same. I think that's a wise position to be taking at this point. Well, I understand that absolutely also, but...
 Council member Petty mentioned that there's a lot of processes and deliberations, and there is. I tell you, commercial financing is not easy. And I was a banker for years, right? I did loans. There's a lot of things that have to be put together in order for the bank to take the risk. And a bank will support you early on, but then there's always something else that is needed.
 And that's what's residential to a degree, but it's much more time consuming if it's a commercial loan. And like we always, we don't have to approve it, you know? I mean, there's always still ways to be sure that we are making an impact on the development area. But in 31 days, that's
 That's really quick. Six months is quick. To go through the process is not 31 days. And so I think that, and again, I'm looking at it in addition to protecting the city from a lawsuit, from a point of view that as an elected official that's representing the community as a whole, that I'm empathetic. I might not be totally agreeable, but I'm empathetic
 with the point of view that people are going to have that are in a situation where they have already started the process, and then there's the deliberations. And I'm thinking that it is just more palatable, like I said. And if it's, on the other hand, if it's 31 days, then I'm less likely to vote for it. So it's going to impact all of us in that way. So...
 There's a lot to think about here, but I do think it's a good amendment.
 I have a question. So remind us, when did this first show up on our agenda, this, the UT and the CS, the changes? When was it first requested to be put on the agenda? When did it show up? How long have we discussed it? This is the second meeting we've had about it. So we've been discussing it for, I suppose, less than 31 days.
 So, you know, and it may be just a nice gesture to give six months, but, you know, I'm fine with doing that. I don't see any harm in the amendment to add, to give people the right to have six months. And if it's just a, you know, a nice gesture, I'm okay making a nice gesture once in a while.
 So I'm still supporting the six months. Okay. Anybody else?
 Mr. Mayor, I feel I'd be remiss if I didn't make a quick point of clarification if the council hasn't picked up on it. And Mr. Williams can correct me if I'm wrong. But the conversation has revolved purely around gas stations. And I believe this ordinance and the amendment also relates to the proposal to move single and two family dwellings from permitted to conditional uses in CS and UT. So opinions aside, I wanted to make sure that was well known before the vote was taken. Thank you.
 So just a reminder, this is the amendment.
 We're not talking about what Jonathan just brought up, which is a really good point. Well, it is a good point, but this came in the original ordinance, didn't it, Jonathan? And what KID is doing is giving a six-month grace period before, if it passes, for this to go into effect. Is that correct, KID? That's right, and it would be, at this point, both for the gas stations and for the residential uses.
 Yes, so all the uses would be six months. Correct. Yeah. Thank you, Jonathan. Yeah, thank you, Jonathan. I wanted to bring that up earlier, but I'm under tracking with, we're just talking about the time period and then I wanted to bring that back up. So everybody's got it now. We're not just talking necessarily about gas stations here. This is a six month grace period for the whole ordinance if it passes.
 Correct. Kit. Knight. That's correct, Mayor. All right. I just want everybody in the public to know, make sure everybody's got it.
 Okay, just to make sure I understand, because I think that just confused me. The amendment is just for the time period, and then we're going to vote again for the overall ordinance. Yes, whether or not this passes, then the regular ordinance, either amended or not amended, will come before you. Right. When we amend this ordinance, then you'll vote on, we'll go back to the procedure of bringing forward the amended ordinance. We just haven't got there yet. We're still...
 We're still on the amendment. Okay, thank you. Is there any other discussion on the amendment? Well, all righty then. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No.
 Okay. Well, that didn't take long. Let's go back to the amended ordinance now. And what I have is that we need to take public comment on the amended ordinance. That's correct. Because we took public comment before we voted on the amendment. But now I've got to go back and take public comment on the amended ordinance.
 which basically means this thing has a grace period of six months added to what you have here. So having said all that, and I'm sure everybody has got it, let's take some public comment. Remember, everybody, this time, everybody gets one turn to speak and you get five minutes. Broke into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on the topic.
 No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to? Mayor, I have a question. This is the second reading, right? Yes. Because it was tabled. Okay. We're on the second reading. Thank you. I should have clarified that. You ready for public? Yes, I'm ready for public comment. Will Doc read? All right, go ahead.
 Will Dockery, 4149 West Bradstreet Lane. I would just like to point out the community services zoning is supposed to bring us walkable commercial services with a mix of housing types. Instead, all we keep getting in community services are four houses to an acre, which there's nothing wrong with that, but it is when you're trying to have a mix of housing types and car-centric commercial services. The taxes, these...
 sparse developments generate don't pay for the maintenance and upkeep for the infrastructure in The area that we keep talking about which is along Ruppel and that's not just the north part of Ruppel That's also the south part of Ruppel in addition to 71 be a large portion of 71 B is also community services So instead what we keep doing is we're just making the same mistakes that previous generations did with 71 B and now we're just
 carbon copying that onto REPL and that's ultimately
 We're trying to fix 71B that was in part of our bond issue. And ultimately that's gonna cost us over a hundred million in today's dollars to fix that entire stretch. So I just, I'm wondering why we're doing it all over again on multiple green fill sites on the east side of town, which is why I really do like this ordinance because that will prevent us from making the same mistakes all over again. And secondly, we keep bringing our hands about where everyone is gonna live in Fayetteville who keeps coming into our town in this next decade. We're talking like 10,000 people.
 And we could easily fit all of them inside the mayor's belt if we built them at eight houses to an acre between Ruppel, between MLK and Persimmon. I live there. I'm totally fine with that. I mean, if we really want to get real, that whole area is about 230 acres, which is about the downtown area. Yeah.
 like we keep worrying about messing up our old neighborhoods and i i want to keep reminding you that we do have a green fill site that's inside the mayor's bill box that we can fit all these people who want to live in fayetteville and if we just think a little bit more creatively and think about things like this and um it's part of this is changing this will
 help us to stop building Fayetteville like it was built in the 80s and it will help us to stop getting the same problems we had in the 90s. So what we're doing isn't working so please pass this ordinance and so that way we can have the we can get rid of the problems that we're having with community services at this point because really community services is not working as it was originally intended to. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Suzanne Clark. Okay go ahead.
 This is Suzanne Clark. Excuse me. I'm at 244 West Dixon Street and I apologize if you can hear the really bad music in the background. My office is above the piano bar and they just decided to kick it up at nine o'clock. So I apologize for that, but I am here tonight to speak against this ordinance.
 I'm an attorney in town and a good deal of my practice is focused in construction litigation, so I deal with a lot of developers and contractors. And as Councilman Kenyon mentioned, whether it's perception or not, there is a very strong perception about the difficulty of developing and building in Fayetteville because of the amount of regulations that are imposed.
 And in moving this to conditional use, it really is just saying it is not an option that a developer or an owner can plan for in advance and assume that they're going to be able to move forward with it. There's been a great deal of focus about this being on a proposal that was made and withdrawn on Mount Comfort Road. I'll be speaking about that on Thursday.
 But this is about CS in general, not that specific location. And this is not because we have learned that there's a problem with gas stations in CS because they don't exist.
 Frankly, I think it would be worthwhile to be able to see a developer who is willing to put a gas station in place with the restrictions in a form-based code that the CS requires. We're reacting to a problem that has not occurred.
 And the purpose of the CS zoning specifically said it is designed primarily to provide convenience goods and personal services for persons living in the surrounding residential areas. And that the intent of the zoning district is to provide standards that enable development to be approved administratively. This ordinance specifically removes that from the purpose so that it cannot be dealt with administratively.
 so I would ask that you consider this and not approve this ordinance I think that property owners and developers need to be able to work within a zoning structure without everything that someone may have an issue with being forced into a conditional use you'll have the opportunity to look at individual plans as they come forward so I'd ask that you vote against this ordinance thank you
 Okay, who else? Hunter Buick again. Okay, go ahead.
 Hi Mayor, City Council. Just a couple points I want to bring up with this extra opportunity here. You know, I think we're all familiar with College Avenue and if anyone's seen some of the historical pictures of College 71B, what it used to be and where it is today, I think that is a pretty strong argument to what we're discussing here.
 And just the efforts lately by the city to create a more walkable area here on college. And so I think what we're looking at specifically on Mount Comfort Road is a blank slate here to not back ourselves into a corner by certain uses like gas stations and to, from the outset, start with...
 uses that create a walkable neighborhood feel. You know, I'll comment as well from a developer's perspective to Mr. Petty's point. You're, from a financing perspective and even from a land closing perspective, you're really not going down, at least we aren't, going down those roads until we actually get a property rezoned. And so a lot of developers do that because of the risk that's on the table.
 And so, and I'll, I'll mention as well on the West side of our site, uh, we actually plan on, on trying to do some single family where it's a little more appropriate, um, by being in favor of this new ordinance. We're actually moved to, uh,
 to the point earlier that single family along with the gas station use is moving into that conditional use yet we're we're still in favor of this even though that's something that we plan on for the west side of our property and so just knowing and understanding that hey this isn't something that is off the table it's something that if it's appropriate it will get approved so that's all I have. Okay.
 Jim Hazen. Go ahead. Yeah, I just want to say very quickly, you know, the purpose of zoning is to provide an appropriate zoning for the people, not the developers. If the people don't want a gas station sort of environment in their neighborhood, they should have the right to have that occur and to worry about whether a developer gets his dollar out of it or not.
 is not the purpose of the proper zoning of an area. So I think we should keep that in mind. We're trying to make Fayetteville a livable, family-friendly, resident-friendly environment. And if people oppose gas stations, they should have some means to keep that out of their neighborhood. Thank you. Okay, who else? That's it? Okay, well, here we are.
 I would like to potentially table this and have ordinance review, take a look at it. I feel like, you know, uh,
 Our vice mayor, new Sarah Munch here, Councilmember Munch has pointed out that we have 31 days of talking about this. This is very new. This is a big change and affecting a lot of people, you know, and I also feel like there's kind of a two-headed side to it. You know, we talk about the mixing up the housing types and then we talk about gas stations and so
 I think we're trying to do too much in one bite. It seems like everyone's for the gas stations to, to have that conditional use. And then where we come a little bit of a, where I'm hearing some friction is from the mix of the housing types. And so I think, you know, maybe we're biting off a little bit more than we need to, but could we have ordinance review take a little bit, take some time. Let's not try to do this tonight and, and just, you know,
 digest it a little bit further. Well, Sonia, you're on the second reading, so if you just left it right here, it'd be another two weeks before you heard it again. And then if you wanted to table it after that, you could. I think that's what I'm going to be in favor of.
 And also request for ordinance review to take a look at it. Right. I support that ordinance review. This is bigger than just gas stations. We haven't even talked about the housing types and the impact that that has. Theoretically, it has an impact, but also realistically, it has an impact with immediacy. So we've got to balance that out. Maybe we should separate these two issues.
 Otherwise, it's very hard to negotiate support because maybe one side you support and the other side you don't. And at least it should be considered, I think, by ordinance review to see if it should be divided. Yeah, I'm definitely okay if ordinance review looks at it. I had a developer, a large one, call me a couple hours before the meeting. So I think they would like some more time. And I'm also okay dividing the question.
 Well, my question to you all is, if we table it, are we going to table it till, say, the middle of February? Or are we just going to leave it on the second reading and then see where we are in two weeks? Because Sonia was talking about tabling. And in the two weeks from right here to the next meeting, it would go to ordinance review, right? If we just left it right here.
 and we would send it to ordinance review it would be two weeks before it came back to the council but if you want to table it for longer than that then that's a different matter and that's all i'm asking let's wait to table it till we know we need to table it okay that sounds good to me i'm just wondering before we move on if we should separate these two items tonight
 You know, because I do think that they would be much better served looking at them separately. And it might be better to do it tonight. So we have them in different paths. I don't know. How do you all feel about that? I feel good about it. I was looking at trying to remove the fourth whereas if we are going to try to separate it. And I don't know. I need some help to make sure that's what would do the job or not.
 Could you provide us some guidance in how procedurally we can do that? I think it would be difficult tonight to do that. The whereas clauses are basically just the context. They don't have any force and effect, so you have to look at the actual sections.
 And I think if the city council wants to do that, that's best handled by the ordinance review committee in recommending maybe two separate ordinances coming out of there. And it also would give me a chance to draft something up that makes sense so that we're not...
 missing something along the way and trying to do it tonight just on the fly. So I do think I do understand what you're saying. I think it makes a lot of sense that there are two different issues here in a lot of ways. And therefore, they should be probably looked at separately. But I think probably that's what should be done at the Ordinance Review Committee level. And I can tell you from the phone calls I'm getting and the emails I'm getting,
 from folks is that they're against the gas stations, but I really haven't heard too many against these single family homes and duplexes. I tend to, you know, I'm in agreement with Kit on this one. I feel like, you know, I feel like it's very hard for us. Some of us are here, some of us are at home on Zoom, and it's really kind of hard and I think unnecessary to try and craft some new,
 you know policy right here right now i think we can ordinance review can decide that but i would say that i have the same issues with gas stations and you know uh that a lot of the the community has and but but with the cs zoning um you know i don't recall any
 any gas stations that i can think of that have been built in cs zoning and i uh suzanne clark brought this up and maybe jonathan if he's still here can refresh my memory but cs zoning requires the building be flipped uh is that correct jonathan if you're there that is correct there are
 There are several site design standards and building design standards associated with gas stations in our mixed-use or form-based zoning districts, including what you noted, the building being closer to the street, the canopy has to be behind the building. There are standards for even what the gutters on the canopy look like. So it's been kind of difficult. I don't recall anything ever coming forward.
 uh a gas station in cs zoning and i think all our uh gas stations are in in the the commercial zoning areas but it is an issue we have so many complaints about that you know we need to maybe work on on uh you know restructuring it somehow so that uh
 possibly people feel more invested in in the process but as far as the single family and the the two family the duplexes i i don't want to take that off because when you talk about building a community you know it's always it's always great to have things to walk to but you also need the houses and for people to live in and i'd
 I think that between commercial and or light commercial duplexes is a good option that people should be able to look at and plan for. Like I'm going to put a coffee shop here and maybe some apartments above it or something. But coming back from that in the same zoning, I can put duplexes and then I can still have some single family homes in there if I want to.
 I think that seems appropriate to me. And it wasn't single family homes and duplexes that ruined College Avenue. It was other things. It was removing those things that hurt College Avenue. So I'm in favor of sending this to ordinance review and letting them figure out if we need to tease out the gas station and fast food element of it and the single family and duplex element of it. So thank you.
 So we're not going to try to separate the two tonight. Some of some of the council members said they wanted to try and separate the housing from the gas station tonight. So are y'all still interested in that or just send the whole package to ordinance review? Well I see Teresa here so what do you think? Sorry I think what I would suggest is that
 instead of tabling it tonight we send it to ordinance review and so they can separate that out tease some of those other things out and not delay this too long because this could go on for quite a while and I don't think that's fair to to anybody so that's what I would recommend so just leave everything together Teresa and we just send it to ordinance review and two weeks we'll look at it again right
 I was thinking we would send it to ordinance review and then I don't know what their meeting schedule is. You're right, I don't either. So... I agreed to meet next Thursday. There you go. Next Thursday. Okay, so will this be on the agenda? We would put that... I'm not on the ordinance review board, so I'm... yeah.
 Right. So Sloan is on there and Matthew is on ordinance review and Holly and Dan. Yes and how many how many items are they going to be reviewing? Fortunately only two and I recommend no more. Okay. I might have a comment about that agenda.
 It's easy to split these things and we've already seen almost everybody wants to split them and consider them separately. And it seems fair and realistic to suggest that although the changes might have some significant impacts, the legislation itself is exceedingly simple.
 There's nothing complex about the legislation. It's moving two lines, literally two lines from one table into another table. Ordinance review most often has its most value when it's reviewing complicated legislation with a lot of if this, then that considerations or different structures or frames that need to be chosen from.
 So it's not that ordinance review wouldn't have input on this, but I feel an obligation to manage and to temper expectations about how much ordinance review might have to say about this legislation.
 because with the legislation being so simple, we can divide the question that, I mean, that's an easy thing to do, but with respect to each side of that division, it's pretty much going to be an up-or-down decision for every council member. The ordinance is just so simple, even though the impacts might be significant.
 My plan would be you divide up these sections. You'd probably end up with five sections. And then it'd be up to the city council to choose which of the sections they like and which they do not. And we can get that done hopefully pretty quickly in the meeting. The other thing I wanted to put forward is...
 We do hear from a lot of citizens that they want new neighborhoods to be mixed use and to have a mix of housing types. And we can't find a new neighborhood under our new zoning that does that. So no matter how you slice it, no matter how proud you are of all the work we've done at the city and where we've come and where we've been with our zoning codes and our development department and so on and so forth, with respect to that goal, we failed.
 we're still failing. And if we want to fix that, we're going to have to do something. Whether or not this particular proposal with respect to single family homes is the only thing that we'll ever have to do to fix that, I'm supremely skeptical.
 If we do do it, it's probably still part of a mix. I think we've got to really face the facts on the goals that we've expressed for brand new neighborhoods. And what our citizens have said they want very clearly for brand new neighborhoods and realize our policies are not getting us there. We're gonna have to change something so that we get more than just single family homes.
 So what do you all want to do? We decided to leave it here and the ordinance review is going to take it up in nine days. Okay. So we'll just leave her. We'll figure it out. As always. Well, that concludes our business tonight. And I can assure you I have another one for you on Thursday that will be just as fun as this one. All right. So...
 What announcements do we have? Nothing. We've said it all. And we should probably say that we are recessing this meeting. We're not adjourning it because that would end the meeting, but we're recessing this meeting until 5.30 on Thursday. Yeah. So it's a long recess. We're down to this evening. We'll recess till 5.30 on Thursday. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.