I would like to call to order the city council meeting for January 17th, 2023 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Here. Verna? Here. Bunch? Here. Turk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Harvey? Here. Jones? Here. Jones?
 Thor? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you... Why don't you just say...
 I didn't know you could throw your voice right there. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Okay, good evening everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award presented by City Attorney Kent Williams. Kent. Thank you, Mayor.
 For over 20 years, it has been my honor and privilege to recognize a worthy City of Fayetteville employee to receive the City of Fayetteville Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award. This award has been given annually in recognition of that city employee whose service to our city and our community best exemplifies Dr. Martin Luther King's dream of equality, justice, brotherhood, and service.
 This year's honoree joins a distinguished list of city employees who have embodied Dr. King's dream and have helped fulfill his legacy of service. Although I will honor a single employee tonight, there are many, many city employees who work hard every day to make Fayetteville such a great place to live, work, and raise a family.
 City of Fayetteville employees from billing and accounting clerks to firefighters and maintenance workers, from department directors to their newest employees, are responsive to citizen needs and input and do their jobs diligently and efficiently.
 They serve our citizens and community with courtesy and competency. I count myself very lucky to be able to work alongside my fellow city employees to ensure that Fayetteville remains a welcoming community in which all are treated with respect and dignity. I met tonight's honoree when the City Council and the Environmental Action Committee began considering an ordinance to attempt to reduce the littering
 and environmental problems caused when so many restaurants were using styrofoam containers which cannot be feasibly recycled and are causing almost everlasting pollution worldwide. Environmental educator Heather Elsie eagerly began to analyze this issue and research the successes and failures of other communities who had tackled this problem. Heather brought us vital information regarding other cities regulations,
 and importantly found cost-effective alternatives to single-use styrofoam clamshells, cups, and plates. After the City Council passed its first regulation to prevent the City's own use of such products and to encourage other governmental entities such as the University and the Fayetteville School District to also reduce their use, Heather worked closely and effectively with the Fayetteville School District
 and we need to thank the Fayetteville School District for successful efforts at substantially reducing the amount of styrofoam going through the landfill. When the City Council expanded our ban of single-use styrofoam containers to local restaurants, Heather worked hard to ensure all local restaurants were informed about reasonable substitutes at reasonable prices. Heather did so well that the City never had to take a single enforcement action to force compliance.
 Unfortunately, the state legislature evidently supports the continuing littering of single-use styrofoam containers because it passed a law to prevent Fayetteville from continuing its regulation of restaurants' use of such single-use containers. However, because of Heather's successful effort to educate and inform our restaurant owners about the feasibility of using reasonable substitutes instead of styrofoam,
 Many ecologically and public-spirited restaurant owners have continued to use those better products, even after the city could no longer require such use. But wait, there's more. Heather Elsie also worked with University of Arkansas students and professors to develop a sustainable outreach project, including a green business guide to help businesses to be more sustainable and ecological.
 Heather was also an integral part of the rollout of our residential food waste collection program. She has consistently worked to educate residents and businesses on the benefits of composting and how to participate. Most recently, Heather Elsie led the implementation of the 2022 Pick Me Up pilot program.
 Heather has worked with our partner Genesis Church to establish this very successful program employing unhoused city residents of five in teams of five to pick up trash from trails and parks on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. About 30 people enter their names to be included in the pool, which are then drawn to see who will be able to work on those teams that day.
 and they're drawn from they gather at the seven hills homeless center and their names are drawn there not only are these unhoused people paid twelve dollars per hour but genesis church provides a bus for transportation to work sites lunch on site and shower opportunities after the job as well as other services genesis church is paid two thousand dollars per month for administering this program and supplies a representative to oversee the program
 The pilot Pick Me Up program, which was financed from a grant of about $30,000, authorized by Mayor Jordan in June from the Recycling and Trash Fund, was honored at the 2022 National Resource Recycling Conference in Austin, Texas, as the program of the year. This program has not only resulted in amazing amounts of trash being picked up and removed from city parks and trails,
 It has given many unhoused residents a continuing opportunity to perform important, worthwhile work by earning a fair wage. The overwhelming desire of our unhoused neighbors to participate in this program is a testament to its value for some of our neediest citizens.
 It is my great pleasure to present our City Environmental Educator for Recycling and Trash, Heather Elsie, as our worthy recipient of the 2023 City of Fayetteville Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award.
 Thank you all so much and to be receiving this award and being a part of a community that makes the programs that I'm a part of a possibility just like my heart is exploding right now. I get to work with all of you so closely and it's just this is a great
 This is amazing. So thank you all so much. And yeah, we'll just keep doing the work. Thank you. Okay. All right. The next order of business we have is the consent agenda. Number one approval of the January 3rd, 2023 city council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to waive requirements of competitive bidding and approve the repair of Fire Ladder 3 by Ruckner's Truck and Equipment for the estimated amount of $37,845.58 and to authorize the use of Ruckner's for the future repairs of heavy-duty vehicles.
 and fire apparatuses that may exceed thirty five thousand dollars on an as needed basis through february the fourth twenty twenty five number three a resolution to amend resolution
 122-19 and to authorize the extension of the contract with Dana Safety Supply Incorporated DBA Fleet Safety to continue utilizing the GSA contract for the purchase of emergency lights and related equipment through July 31, 2027 and any future renewal periods.
 Number four, resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Kraft and Tull and Associates Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 22-01, selection number 13, in the amount not to exceed $321,238 for design services associated with the Cato Springs Sewer Extension and Lift Station project and to approve project tenancy in the amount of $16,062.
 Number five, resolution authorize acceptance of a 2022 Justice Assistance Grant in the total amount of $84,326, which will be used to purchase law enforcement equipment and supplies for the Federal Police Department, Springdale Police Department, Washington County Sheriff's Office, and to approve budget adjustment.
 a resolution to approve an Amendment 1 to the Memorandum of Agreement with Central United Methodist Church Incorporated, DBA Genesis on MLK to provide funding in the amount of up to $100,000 for the Federal Litter Abatement Program. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to accept the consent agenda as read. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 yes Arna yes yes yes yes yes Harvey yes Jones yes more yeah okay thank you all now we go to unfinished business number one resolution to order the raising and removal of a dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by
 Kevin Roy Calhoun located at 3301 South Coach Road in the City of Federal Arkansas and to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $17,500. Jonathan, I believe you have this. That's correct, Mayor. Good evening, Council. Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. Mr. Billy Bryant's not able to attend this meeting, so I'll be taking this item on his behalf. Thank you.
 There's been no new information or updates since the agenda session, but for those who were not able to attend, Mr. Bryant had contacted Mr. Calhoun, who shared that he'd experienced some circumstances since the December 6th council meeting that prevented him from perhaps regressing as much as he would have liked, although he's begun work on disconnecting some of the utilities.
 But I believe he is here tonight to speak for himself and I'm happy to take any questions the council has. Thank you. Are you Mr. Calhoun? Yes, sir. Would you like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Well, I just first would like to, sorry, I'm a little nervous. It's a, this issue has become, the burden of not dealing with this issue has become a greater burden than the issue itself. I emailed some of you.
 a background of the situation, admittedly not handling it well. I'm here tonight to appeal to you that I want, this is a burden that is important to me that if I take care of this burden, it will be a great burden lifted off my shoulders. And I've talked to Mr. Bryant, I've talked to another employee with the city about applying for an application for a permit of demolition.
 Sunrise Mountain, I've always loved this property. It's kind of, it's just a beautiful piece of property on the south side of Fayetteville that most people aren't aware of. Ultimately, I would like to build a house there of my own on this property. And I offer my sincere thanks for your patience. And my regret is that I've forced you to take action, you know, to reach this point to take action against me. That's definitely a regret of mine.
 Okay, what questions does the council have for the owner or the staff? Anything? Mayor, I have a question. Thank you for coming before us tonight. I really appreciate you showing up and being here. So, you know, we want you to be able to –
 apply for the permit and take action and and and so that we don't have to step in or do anything So could you maybe provide us a little timeline about when you think you'll be able to? Submit the permit and and some of the other actions that might be required that you've discussed with staff sure I mean my priority is to do the permit first that obviously that shows you good faith that I've taken that You know that first important step and the way I understand and that I
 Within the next week or two is what I want to do. I talked to the city about going to the location, taking some pictures, and then the steps that it'll take to get the permit, which I'll probably come up here to do, actually. So as soon as possible with that. And then the way I understood it was then after the application, after I get the application with the permit, then I have six months to complete the task. And I've already got...
 I've got it memorized as far as each step I would like to take. The inside of the house is very dilapidated. I need to have that cleaned out, removed whatever contents is left in the house and the garage. And then start the – I've had the utilities disconnected. And then, of course, hiring a company to come in, obviously to remove the contents of the house. And then hiring another company to –
 demolish the house. So and then I can just maintain the property at that point till time is right to ultimately I'd like to build on it. And you think you'll be able to complete it within a six month time period? Oh, I will make it a priority to complete it. I mean, yeah, like I said, this has been a burden I've carried way too long and I know you know, there's time, you know, you always have this
 this emotional side of your mind and your logical side of your mind. Logically you say, yes, you start with this step, this next step, do that, but then your emotional side looks at the whole big picture and you can kind of get overwhelmed by it. Ultimately, getting, you know, taking care of this, again, will take the stress and anxiety that's caused me by not dealing with this issue. You know, this last issue basically that's connected with the loss of my parents will be a
 very beneficial for both my mental and physical health. Thank you so much for answering those questions. I appreciate it. The only other thing I'd like to add is, as far as to help ensure that gets done, I have a very close friend, family if you will, Brian Waters. Sorry. I still get emotional about this for some reason, just many years later. Anyway, I know Mr. Berna
 uh knows brian waters and he will not allow me to fail on this he's a retired policeman of 29 years with the fayetteville pd and he will not allow me to fail at this so i'll have his full support on any assistance i need and so thank you very much you bet thank you for your time i have a question mr calhoun yes you know i understand how
 overwhelming things can be sometimes and and how I totally get the idea of like you look at one thing and you think well I can do this but then you start looking at the big picture and it just gets just totally out of out of you know out of your control sometimes do you would you feel comfortable having an update to the council or something and
 Is that something we could ask for? Sure, you can. You know, like, say, at four months, you can come in. Oh, me communicating with you, the update. Oh, I would. Give us an update. Send us some pictures or something like that. I would suggest that. Yeah, I was going to say. To maintain communication with you, to show good faith in you of what I've done, what I've accomplished, absolutely. I know from my own experience,
 Sometimes if I know I have a deadline, you know, I move a little better if I'm working under a deadline. Oh, absolutely. So we might consider doing that maybe at four months and just kind of get an update on where you're at. Because in the past, we've had a couple of situations where we've had, not that you're going to do this, but we've had, you know, where a building's been in really bad condition and then we've worked with the owners.
 you know, and waited and waited, and then they were going to demolish it, and then they couldn't, and it just, you know, and it is a, sometimes these houses and these structures are dangerous for people, you know, because there's always someone looking for a place to...
 know do drugs or something like that so whatever yeah we don't want anybody to get hurt so so if it's okay with you I might you know we might discuss maybe just an update in four months or something like that so thank you very much for coming in tonight I would agree with that having lost a parent myself I know how
 troubling that can be and there's always little things that it's the last thing that you're holding on to and For you, it sounds like it's the house even though it's in terrible condition. Yes Well, it was their house initially, right, you know, it was going to be there, you know, you know the last house They would you know purchase they moved to this area because mothers my mother's mother was in prairie Grove and
 That's what brought them to the area initially. When I moved here, what the plan was was to go to school, get my degree, and then move to a bigger market. But I love northwest Arkansas. I just never left since I moved here. Sure. So I think—
 I think the right thing to do is he's showing some good faith and let's give him an opportunity with the checks and balance of making sure you're making progress. So I don't know, do we do that through a motion or how do we do that? Well, I'm going to take some public comment before we get too far into this.
 I do have one question. Unless, oh, go ahead. You know, and again, you should feel no embarrassment. This is just part of life. My only question is just regarding the finances. This is an unexpected and significant cost. And some people do find it better to in essence have the city
 hire the demolition contractor because you're not having to up front that cost. The city then places a lien in that dollar amount on the property, which you then can pay off and have that lien removed. And and that may be less stressful for you. So I would just ask that, you know, get your bids as quickly as you can, because if the city's bid is lower than any you get, you would want to take advantage of this.
 And I wish you the best of luck. Thank you. I would say though that if you're going to end up doing that and you do think you ever want to build on the property, that that lien will have to be paid before you finance the construction. Yes, I was made aware of that. Or rolled into the construction loan somehow, but it will have to be taken care of before you can start on it. I mean as far as the finances from my end, that shouldn't be a problem.
 so okay all right thank you yeah I would just like to add on behalf of council member Sonia and I we are excited about the potential development in Ward one so thank you sure thank you thank you for your thoughtful email miss Harvey any other questions
 All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber who would like to address us on this issue? Okay. Susan, do you have anybody on Zoom? Okay.
 No, sir. Okay. Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wish of the council? What conversation would you like to have there? I would say let's give him the six months with the, at three months, a review by staff and making sure we're making progress.
 I'd second that. Okay. Yeah, I agree. Yeah, that's actually a motion to table this resolution for six months and you want an initial report after three months to go to city staff? Is that what the motion was? That's fine. Yes. Okay. So I'll second that. Well, I think Sarah already. Okay, that's good. Okay. Continue. Okay. Just trying to keep up with everybody here.
 Alright, is everybody everybody okay with everything? All right, we have a motion and a second carriage, please call the roll Just for clarification. That would be July 18th meeting that it would be table to if it passed We declare yes Are now yes bench. Yes. Her yes Hertzberg. Yes Harvey yes
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay, let's move on to number two. An ordinance to approve vacation 22-024 for property located along Razorback Road, Maple Street, Garland Avenue, Cleveland Street, Hill Avenue, Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, and Lieutenant Colonel Leroy Pond Avenue in Wards 1 and 2 to vacate portions of streets...
 street rights-of-way this was left on the first reading I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading so moved second of most of the second to go to the second reading care which police call roll we occur yes burnin yes yes turk yes Hertzberg yes Arby yes Jones yes more yes
 In order to approve VAC 22-24 for property located along Razorback Road, Maple Street, Garland Avenue, Cleveland Street, Hill Avenue, Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, and Lieutenant Colonel Leroy Pond Avenue in Wards 1 and 2 to vacate portions of street rights-of-way.
 That's a little tricky, isn't it? I'll try to get it right. I did the same thing. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. I do have one update on this item, and that is in response to Councilmember Whittaker's question about whether the city's ongoing efforts to install conduit around the city could be considered as a part of this. Fortunately, the city's IT director and similar representation from the university met last week.
 And there's a very general and accepted consensus that that is a good thing. However, there's also consensus that it ought not to be incorporated into this proposal. There's a concern that with agreements to possibly have conduit sharing both citywide and campus wide, having it incorporated into an agreement specifically tied to these rights of way could create some unanticipated constraints.
 That said, there was an appreciation expressed that this had basically catalyzed having that conversation to begin with. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. And again, it was my understanding from the last meeting that there was an interest to hear this presented at the town and gown meeting, which is next Monday prior to a final decision. So that would necessitate a tabling to the February 7th council meeting. Is there any university people here that want to speak on that?
 uh jay young is here as the representative for the item mayor yes would you like to speak for the council yes sir uh thank you mayor council members
 Again, Jay Young with Development Consultants representing the University on this. We had a pretty good discussion last time. This does come to this Council with unanimous support from the staff and the departments at the City. You heard from the comments from the IT folks that, you know, this conduit and communications item may, it's not their desire that it be a condition of approval for tonight's
 if it is approved tonight. And to remind everybody that there is a condition, I believe it is condition seven, that specifically talks about the maintenance and use agreement that is gonna be drafted by the U of A, submitted to the city for review, for revisions.
 and that that will have to be accepted by both parties in its entirety, and that within that maintenance agreement is the opportunity to have any specifics that would be drafted that would need to be corresponded or coordinated between the U of A and the city. So there is that opportunity if it is approved tonight and doesn't have to go to another reading,
 that there are still opportunities for the city to have their final and full review before all of the conditions are accepted. Teresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. I mean, the town and gown meeting is next Monday, this coming Monday. Yes. And I just think it would be beneficial, especially for the neighbors, to have some of their concerns raised in terms of what may come to pass in the future with this vacation and the construction that might take place. And so I would ask that we hold it on this reading, and we could have the third and final reading in two weeks. Yep. Thank you.
 Any other questions for the university or Jonathan from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber that'd like to address us on this?
 Susan you have anybody? No sir. Okay then I'll bring it back to the council and the council wants Teresa you want to table it for two weeks? Yes sir mayor. I mean not table it but leave it on the second reading. Yep you're leaving it on the second? Okay second. All right we have a motion in seconds well we don't even need a motion second we just leave it on second reading. How about that? That was quick. Okay moving along.
 All right under new business number one a resolution to amend the rules of order and procedure of the federal city council to clarify that an agenda applicant shall include the Appellant from a final decision of the Planning Commission for city staff Teresa this is yours
 i'm popular tonight with all these resolutions and ordinances um so this past year in 2022 we had several um citizens that appealed a decision made by the planning commission and it was really unclear how much time they had to speak
 And so this clarifies that. Obviously when a citizen or citizens group wants to appeal a decision, they have to have three council members support them. And thanks for Kit clarifying last week that
 this would allow us to give them 10 minutes, just as an equal time as a developer has to appeal a decision by the Planning Commission. So this is just trying to balance that out and clarify within our rules of procedure how that would go if we had another situation like this this year.
 Mayor, I think you had a good interpretation of this. This is the 10-10-10 solution where the staff, the developer, and the citizen representative each gets 10 minutes. Our council member would like to take the 10 minutes instead of that. Did I have that right? That's correct. Yes, sir. Okay. Any other questions from the council about this? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this issue? Okay. Susan, do you have anybody? No, sir. Okay. Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. And what discussion or action would the council like to take?
 maybe we suspend the rules and go to the second reading well this is a resolution oh I'm if we approve the resolution second get you get you got that care okay we have a motion and a second to pass resolution is there any final comments from the council okay care which please call the roll we took her yes Arna yes yes hurt yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Thank you all. Moving along to number two. Resolution authorized Mayor Jordan to sign a subrecipient agreement to accelerate the foundation DBA upscale NWA for job training and placement services for lower income federal residents
 into higher wage, high demand occupations utilizing the American Rescue Plan Act funds any amount of $742,223 to approve budget adjustments. Yes, sir. Thank you. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm pleased to bring forward the Accelerate Foundation's request for funding for Upskill NWA, a program that will promote workforce development within the healthcare sector.
 I'm super excited about this program because not only will it assist individuals in moving up the career ladder, but it will also increase the number of healthcare professionals in the city of Fayetteville, which is greatly needed.
 I would like to turn it over now to our director of economic vitality, Devin Howland, for some background and then Mr. Justin Fletcher with the Accelerate Foundation has a presentation outlining the program for your consideration. Okay, Devin, you have 10 minutes. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, council members. Devin Howland, economic vitality. And as Councilmember Hertzberg mentioned, this item is a subrecipient agreement with Accelerate. This was on staff's suggested ARPA list that was submitted to you.
 As we referenced last week, this program trains residents of lower income households for high wage jobs within the healthcare sector. And including the occupations, which Justin will talk about a little bit, were guided by the healthcare system themselves. And I feel that's important to note. These are in positions that are needed, needed by hospitals such as Washington Regional.
 While this specific proposal has largely been discussed as workforce development and workforce training, I do feel it's important to at least note that this is also a healthcare sector support program. We think about labor force that has left from COVID due to burnout. Several sectors come to mind that the census shows us, but none so more than healthcare workers, and that makes a lot of sense.
 Back to our residents benefit from this program, the uniqueness is that they connect them with wraparound services, whether that be rental assistance, childcare, et cetera. The amount of the program is $742,000. That was based off of 4% of our ARPA funds. And tonight we have members from Accelerate Foundation and Upskill NWA here. And so it's my pleasure to turn it over to Justin Fletcher, Vice President of Programs, for a presentation.
 You all have ten minutes. Yes. Good evening. My name is Justin Fletcher. I'm vice president programs with Accelerate Foundation. This is my colleague Carol Morales, who is the president CEO of Upskill Northwest Arkansas. Also in the room is Jeff Webster, president CEO of Accelerate Foundation.
 Accelerate Foundation, formerly known as Endeavor Foundation, is a community foundation, public charity that has existed for about 25 years to serve northwest Arkansas, investing upwards of $130 million into the community.
 We had the honor of being in front of this body last time in 2020 for the cobblestone farm community project. And we are more than happy to be here tonight to be in front of you again with another project that we think is extremely important to this community. That is, of course, upscale Northwest Arkansas. So tonight I'm just going to give you a little bit of background in terms of why this regional initiative is needed.
 uh what it actually does um the impact that we'll have especially in terms of the implications for fayetteville how we've done after one year we have just finished in 2022 our inaugural year and then of course ask city of fable to join us and your fellow cities and counties in this regional initiative some of some who have called it the biggest regional initiative since the creation of xna so why why are we doing this well
 I don't think I need to tell anybody that a skilled workforce, especially one that stays in the region, is incredibly important. And it's incredibly important because it helps with several different issues. Of course, there's the unprecedented growth that continues within the region. You look at any data and the need for workforce just goes up, up, up, up, up, up as you look out over the entire decade.
 Then there, of course, is the Healthcare Transformation Initiative, which is being spearheaded by the Northwest Arkansas Council. That initiative is about making Northwest Arkansas a world-class healthcare destination, while at the same time stopping the bleeding of $950 million being lost to medical outmigration to other states, other regions, because we do not have the capacity nor the specialties here to meet those needs.
 Some of you may have heard about the health care transformation, and one of those biggest issues, of course, is the workforce. You may have heard of some of the workforce initiatives for physicians that have come across the pike in the last few years. What you may not have heard about as much is the issues with the paramedical industry.
 careers, which are the foundation of the medical system. These are the nurses, these are the EMTs, these are the phlebotomists, the technicians, all of these people that make physicians able to do the kind of jobs that they do. Currently there is a gap of a thousand, more than a thousand positions that go unfilled every year in this field.
 This is just going to lead to a potential catastrophe with potentially doctors having to be the ones to take your blood pressure, and take your weight, and run the labs down, the surgeon having to do a one-man band thing in the operating theater.
 We must have these positions in order for doctors to be able to do the job that they need to do for the people of Northwest Arkansas. Now, here's the good news, is that this workforce exists. There is a workforce that can take these jobs. They just need to be trained. Two-thirds of the people in Northwest Arkansas have less than a bachelor's degree in terms of their education. Now, does that mean we need to get everybody up to a bachelor's degree? No, it does not. It just means there's a lot of people who have space to rise.
 Among this group is nontraditional workforce, nontraditional students within the workforce. And they are especially key for regions that I'll go to in a minute, primarily when we're talking about wanting that workforce to stay here. Because there are many paramedical professionals that are being trained in northwest Arkansas that come from Texas, that come from Oklahoma, that come from Missouri. And they come in and they get trained and they do their clinical rotations and then they leave.
 All of those resources having been put into them that do not come back into the region as far as filling those gaps that we need. Non-traditional students, they're older, they have more obligations, they've been around for a while, they have families here, they have roots here, their friends are here, they are about this community. They are going to stay here and that is what we need.
 Unfortunately, though, due to a lot of those additional obligations that they have, nontraditional students generally have a harder time accessing this type of education and training. So what are we going to do about it? Well, the simple matter is that there's not one entity that can do this alone. We all have to come together in order to address this. There's two major moments that I'd like to point out.
 as far as that starting to happen. The first one was in July 2021 when Accelerate Foundation with its partner, Walt Family Foundation, announced the creation of the organization and said that within six months, we would have 100 students in the program. We've been put off by the pandemic. The need was growing. We were going to have it done in six months. The second was in November 2021 when CEOs, executive leadership from across
 many sectors, health care sector, philanthropy, educators, city and county government all came in the same room to talk about these very issues. Mayor Jordan, you yourself were there at that meeting. If you think of the mayor as a CEO of the city and the county judge as the CEO of the county, there were 17 CEOs in that room and they all came to the same conclusion which is we have to come together with everyone doing their part to do something about this before it's too late.
 So what are we going to do about it? Well, this is the model. It's actually based off of a model called Project Quest out of San Antonio, which has been around for 20 years, has been replicated in Texas, in Arizona, in Colorado, and now we are taking our shot at it here in northwest Arkansas.
 The basic idea is that you are bringing these three groups up here on the slide together to work a comprehensive way around these students for their training. Obviously the employers, they have the jobs. They're also paying into the program to support it. You have the educators who are providing the training, but also making sure there are slots that these students can come into in their programs.
 and then Health and Human Services, which is huge, because if you have tuition paid and you have all your books but you don't have any childcare, you're not going to class. If you don't go to class, you can't graduate. So you have to have all three of those coming around, this person, these people, to make sure that they are able to succeed. And the coordinating entity within that circle is Upskill Northwest Arkansas. And what do they do? The main thing is that they provide coordination of integrated resources.
 What we've been told, Dr. Jorgensen, formerly of NWAC, was saying there are all these programs out there that provide different pieces of the puzzle, but no one is actually putting them all together in a comprehensive way. That has to be done. Fortunately, our HART division has been doing that for years now, and we are leveraging them in terms of Upskill Northwest Arkansas.
 Career navigation, what does that mean? It means that these are the people that are helping the students through the educational system, but they're also providing mentorship, they're providing help, they're cheerleader, they give them a hug if they need it, they give them a push if they need it.
 They are helping them through the entire process, but it doesn't stop. Their job is not over on graduation day. They also are connecting them to the employers, our partner employers, and making sure that they are ready for those jobs. They are also staying with them past the time that they are hired to see how they're doing and making sure they're on that road up.
 Of course, our strong educator and employer partners providing those slots in their education programs, providing those dollars, providing those clinical rotation slots that are needed. And then after all of those things, after we've gone through each of those, if there is a gap, and often there is, especially with nontraditional students, we provide financial assistance with the education wraparound services to reduce or eliminate the need to work during school.
 because these programs are extraordinarily challenging, especially for people who have all of these other obligations. We want them to be able to stay in the programs. And what we're being told by these educators is that they're dropping out.
 So this is an example of one of those ways that we're getting the social services around that by using Hark's technology to build resource plans and connecting them to as much of these existing resources as possible so that we can spread the wealth in terms of the resources that we have to fill gaps later on.
 So, as I've talked about, for all the reasons I've talked about and for a couple of others, we have decided that the initial focus of Upskill Northwest Arkansas is the medical profession. All of those reasons I gave, but also because we were able to mobilize quickly. It was just calls to six CEOs as opposed to 300 organizations for IT or something else that would be able to get us to move quickly, because you'll remember we gave ourselves six months to get this going.
 So these are examples of some of those thousand jobs that go unfilled and the ones in yellow, these six yellow ones are the ones that we're currently doing. These are reassessed every year with the employer partners to make sure that they are the correct ones and also with us to make sure that their salaries are at the level that we want them at in order to move them forward into a more stable economic situation.
 So what is the impact? Well, the impact has been proven by Project Quest in terms of what they can do. And what we want to do is be able to have those economic impacts go forward, that participant income go forward. Our goal is to grow households to 80 percent of the median family income or higher. If it's only an individual, we want to see a salary increase of at least $15,000. And as you'll see, we actually kind of lowballed ourselves on this, but more on that in a second.
 There's also a generational effect. We do like to target families because Project Quest has seen that there is a much higher rate of college attendance if the of the children of participants. Time. Oh, time. Okay, thank you.
 Could you finish? How long do you think it would take you to finish? About 30, 30, 45 seconds. Okay. How much? 30, 45 seconds. How about I give you a couple minutes then? Give him a couple minutes. All right. All right. Everybody agreeable? I appreciate it. Thank you so much. Two minutes. I appreciate that.
 So let's go straight to this right here. This is the impact that we're talking about specifically for Fayetteville residents. This is people in the program right now, 27 participants in the program, average increase of $29,000 for them right now. That over time for investment of 742,000, 6 million in increased income during the post, the first five years after graduation. That's a return of eight to one on that investment.
 And we're actually globaling that too because that income continues to go up. The data from San Antonio will show you that's going to get even higher and higher.
 How did we do this last year? 100 upskilled in WA participants, 18 graduates, 94% placement with our employer partners within 90 days. Average pre-graduate income of 17,500. Average post salary is 53,800. This is transformational for people.
 We're serving, as you can see from these demographics, more underserved populations. One of the graduates was a Fayetteville resident. They increased their salary by $26,780 after being in the program. So what are we asking? We're asking the Fayetteville join us, join the community, join this regional initiative to be part of this, to make sure these people continue to get the support that they need and have this transformational effect on their lives.
 These are just some quotes from some people that can talk about how this has affected them throughout the entire process. These people are working hard and just trying to do need a little bit extra help in order to do this for their families. That is all. This is the this is the request. And Carol and myself would be happy to answer any questions. OK, what questions do we have?
 Mayor Jordan and council, I don't really have any questions, but I will say this. I had the opportunity, I believe it was February, either late January or February last year, and I was headed to Solon Springs, and I was a passenger, and I was very fortunate to hear to be a part of this presentation. Carol, thank you. Jeff, thank you. I've been a fan of your work.
 from day one. And when you made this presentation, I thought of one thing and you showed that tonight that when we live from the bottom, our community rises. And so I really appreciate your work because investing in humans
 Investing in people, I think that that's what we have to do to make sure that everyone rises. And so I work in healthcare and I do understand the crisis. There is a hiring crisis and that's not just us, but that's everywhere. So these jobs are very essential to all of us. And I really appreciate your presentation tonight
 your patience and your commitment. And to Holly, thank you so much because you work in healthcare as well and you know exactly how crucial and how necessary this is. So thank you guys, thank you both.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just have a couple of questions. So I just kind of did the back of the envelope numbers and for 27 students that would be about $27,481 a year or is that over three and a half years? So maybe if you could explain that a little bit.
 so yeah yeah so so thank you very much miss turk for your for your question so the average cost of a upscale nwa participant is 21 000 but as we mentioned with the the slide with the circles the employee partner actually pays us a third of that so the cost
 of an actual participant right now is 14,000 per participant. Okay, so does that mean that you would have more students than the 27? That the 742,000 would go much further? Yes ma'am, we would start recruiting very heavily to start filling those slots that are made available through the additional funding.
 Just to clarify as well, philanthropic dollars paid for Fayetteville during the first year. One of those have graduated. The 27 there in the program do need support for the upcoming years as well.
 And so is it, is this, so would that cover, this funds would cover the three and a half years that throughout their tuition, throughout their? That 14,000 average is for the entire program. Okay, for the entire program. My next question is,
 You kind of mentioned about the out migration of some folks and you're targeting non-traditional students and that makes a lot of sense, but is there a condition within your program that they stay here for several years or five years or do you have anything like that? Wonderful. Absolutely.
 The contractual agreements are had between upscale NWA, the employer partners, the education partners and the participant. When they commit to the program, they commit to go to school, they commit to graduate, they commit to give us access to their records so we know, we can check midterms and we can see how they're doing. They also commit to interview with all five hospital CEOs and they commit to staying employed for two years right here in Northwest Arkansas.
 Wonderful. And my last question is about transportation. I noticed that you had that in, I don't have the slide in front of me right now, but you had that covered. So I appreciate you all trying to break down all those barriers and which are real with non-traditional students. So if somebody's car is broken down or they don't have transportation, how would that gap be filled?
 That's great. So that's done directly through the Career Navigators. And so we had a real life situation where we had a gentleman who was driving on one spare and really bad tires. We worked directly with WIOA, the workforce office, to get him the number. So he had a credit card that he was able to use to buy all four new tires.
 So it is us collaborating with and connecting across state agencies and local agencies to make sure that we are able to serve the needs of those participants. That could be a gas card from Career Pathways Initiative at NWAC. But to be able to have partners like WIOA that say, hey, we can do a little bit more, it has been wonderful in serving the needs of our participants.
 So if somebody doesn't have a car, they have no transportation, somehow that gap will be filled. That's part of your commitment. Yes. So we have had, we've connected participants and they've received gas cards, they've received bus cards, they've received, in the case of Juan, four new tires. That's not the case with everyone, but there are resources out there and that's what we do is we connect that participant to whatever resource they need to be able to get them to school. Okay.
 OK. I would clarify on that as well, too.
 We know the issues. We have people from as far away as Pea Ridge, Madison County, Asylum Springs who are participating in the program. We're doing everything we can in order to do that. That said, I would say that providing transportation ourselves is beyond the scope of the program. In some ways, it's like Ozark Regional Transit being asked to do career navigations. It's just not a core part of what we do.
 That said, let me put on my other hat of Accelerate Foundation, and I think it was you who actually said it last week, that there are opportunities for partnership here.
 And we are interested in that because this is the population that clearly that we're wanting to serve in terms of our philanthropic work in northwest Arkansas. So we offer the same offer to you as we would any of the other partners. If there are innovative ideas around how this can work, where it could bring the entire community together, that's something we're interested in listening to and possibly supporting. Thank you.
 So I think that's the main thing to take away. But I would say that it's definitely an important conversation. It's definitely a related conversation, but it is a separate conversation from the work that we were doing with these 27 and all of these others that are being able to come into the program and have their life changed. We absolutely don't wanna forget about those people and we are doing everything that we can. And if we can do more as Accelerate Foundation with you, we'd be happy to explore it.
 Thank you. I really appreciate the fact that you address. Oh, I'm so sorry Teresa were you done? I was done. Thank you mayor. Okay. Yeah I really appreciate your approach to addressing a lot of the historical barriers that Non-traditional students are faced. I understand that you also in addition to tuition books and fees that you also help with
 licensing fees for exam because we know that in the healthcare there is a license and it can be expensive and so not only are students graduating but after graduating they have to pass a test in order to get those jobs and so that's one of the, to me that was a very important piece because I've seen how that can certainly be a barrier so thank you for addressing that as well. Your program is very comprehensive and
 believe that you have identified and almost addressed a lot of the barriers that we know to impact a lot of students especially students who are of older college or non-traditional students. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Jones. If you want to flip your light on where I can see who's got what here and I'll go ahead.
 I just had a question. The slide has gone down, but I think you had gotten funds from many other areas in Northwest Arkansas. I'm curious with that amount, I think it was how much was it total? I believe it was $13 million to date. So with the $13 million that you've already taken in from other areas, do you have any student openings that you haven't filled to date?
 Yes, we have approximately 40 slots that are open for the 2023 cohort. And when does that 2023 cohort start? It's a staggered date, so we just had some that started the spring semester. We'll have an additional group that starts in the summertime, and then we'll have the group that starts in the fall.
 And another question, as we've had discussion about we're going to have a ARPA workshop where we're going to look at the remaining funds and determine what we're going to do with those. I'm just curious, is there any timeline on exactly when you would need these funds? Would a month's delay or two months' delay, would that put in peril this program in any way? No, not at all. Okay, thank you. You're welcome. Thank you, Ms. Miller. And Mike. Hi, everyone.
 My challenge was an aversion to needles and blood. It had not to do with opportunity or transportation. So I appreciate the realistic approach of attempting to help people get into the program. I appreciate the regional approach as well and think that that's wise.
 Part of the attractiveness of our region to skilled Employees is having both a hospital in an airport and it does us no good to have the shell of a building without the staff To service it. My only question is then what's the the highest medical credential that they can obtain through your program would that be a an
 It's a Bachelor's of Science in Radiological Imaging Sciences out of UAMS. Okay, thank you. Yes, sir. Anything else? Scott? I just want to be clear, I think you said that in that slide that was showing the
 dollar amounts that you ever see the 13 million or that it was the regional partners the other cities you were calculating that on a 4% of your total ARPA funds correct okay yeah and the 13 million also includes the third contribution from employers as well so those those monies are in there as well okay um I think this is a great program I think we have to identify
 We as Northwest Arkansas community are, we're on a cusp of something potentially great in our medical services with the partnerships of which Washington regional are entering into. And with the constructions that they're talking about doing out there, we are on the cusp of something pretty, pretty special. And I think it's,
 responsibility to to be leading the pack and I will be in support of this. I have a question for staff on this where where did this rank in this request where did it rank in terms of you know like the hierarchy of our ranking? Yeah
 Out of the 34 applications that we scored, this program ranked number nine out of staffs. We gave it a cumulative score of 82.25. Okay, okay. And so, so like just, just this is something that was kind of, so the Legal Aid of Arkansas, where did that rank? Five, okay.
 Oh you're fine I'm just gonna say foot now. Number five. Number five okay thank you very much David. Are you done Sarah? I am. Yeah thank you all for your presentation having run a school for 13 years for non-traditional students I
 your program I think you've really hit the very key points that I wish I could have achieved and those other partnerships and assisting with the
 other barriers that exist for non-traditional students. I could be the best teacher, I could have the best curriculum, we could have the best placement, but if the students can't come to class, they can't get there for childcare, transportation reasons, I think that should be a huge priority. And trying to find that collaborator, and I would say trying to find maybe three or four transportation collaborators, I know that exist here,
 in Northwest Arkansas. So we're gonna put the energy out there to make that happen. And we have a transportation committee, so maybe we should talk about that as well. But I really appreciate your energy and effort to organize.
 and work with these students because it is life changing for their families. I've seen it multiple times and I think the healthcare sector will benefit greatly and the people of Northwest Arkansas will benefit greatly. So I look forward to supporting this and seeing it expand. So thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am.
 Mayor Jordan and City Council, I would like, if I can, I would like to make the motion that we approve a budget adjustment for $742,000. Oh, I've got to do public comment. But we'll get to that. We appreciate you so much. Yes. Thank you all. I appreciate it. But I've got to take some public comment. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this issue? I would, Mayor. Thank you for your time and council members. My name is Robin Eason and I am the ambulatory manager for patient experience for Washington Regional Hospital.
 There have been billions of dollars that have left our region in the last few years because people are not comfortable coming to our region. They leave here and they go to the Mayo Clinic, they go to MD Anderson, they go other places. But Washington Regional's goal is to be the best place to give care, the best place to receive care.
 As I go through the hospitals every single morning, I see the shortage of nurses that we have in our facilities, the shortage of phlebotomists that we have there, the shortage of LPNs. All of our health care needs are not being met in this area. And there's no way that we will be able to do this if we do not train individuals to stay in this area.
 I'm working my way back because at one time, I was a single parent. I moved here 22 years ago.
 I wish I knew or had a program like upskill that could help me pay tuition, help me figure out. I was a single parent. I had a five-year-old son. I had to navigate and figure that out for 11 months with no salary, just trying to work, make it work, and operate in a lot on faith, to be honest. But I made it through as a surgical technician. That's one of the roles that we need in our operating rooms.
 I worked for Northwest Technical Institute for 14 years. I served as an allied health director, I served as their vice president, and I also was a teacher in surgical technology.
 The roles that we play in medical, in the medical field here in our area, they are needed. We have so many nurses shortages. People are overwhelmed. COVID has really done a number on us. There have been many nurses who have left the field because it has been too much.
 So I support upskill. It has been amazing. I have had students. I am new back at Washington Regional after 14 years. I worked ten years prior to that. Last year, we had our first set of students to go through upskill. Let me tell you, life changing, life changing for those individuals because now instead of making minimum wages, they're able to support their families.
 My husband and I took care of our niece who moved from Tulsa. She's a minimum wage. She had no skills. We sent her through Northwest Technical Institute. She got her CNA license and was able to make more than minimum wage. But let me tell you something, if you don't have that opportunity, many people can just, they can't afford it. If they don't have this type of help behind them,
 It'll always be, they'll always be behind the ball. So if we can support upskill, I think it would really be a transformational thing for our economy as well. They will stay here. They will pull monies in as much as they make. They will put it right back into our economy. And that is what makes this area so great. And this is what would make it work. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council members. I'm Pastor Curtis Smith of the historic St. James Baptist Church. I am here in full support of Upskilled as a pastor who serves thousands of folks within the area, those that are disenfranchised, low-wage earners, this program would create
 an incredible change of quality of life for folks, not only in my church, but in this community. I believe that the trajectory of one's life, and I speak from the heart of people,
 you know, because I live with them and walk with them every day. And I believe that programs like this changes the trajectory of one's life where they feel like being poor or being in poverty is something that does not have to remain the same in their lives and in their children.
 And so this program, in particular in areas that are desperately needed in our community, I think will play a large role in changing the life of people in the city of Fayetteville and in the region. And so I want to encourage all of you to support this.
 for that very reason, but also it makes a difference in so many lives in our area. When you think about this, I think about not only single parents and nontraditional students, but also think about their children. And when you think about how their children's lives will be changed,
 Now to see that their parents are able to provide a better quality of life for them means so much. And so Upskilled is doing such an amazing job and an incredible job in being a part of the change that we need to see in our community. And so again, I wanna encourage you to support it because it is life-changing for those that are participating and those that will participate.
 So thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hi, my name is Ana Martinez. I am a resident here in Fayetteville at 4353 West Beaver Lane. I am a participant of UPSCALE NWA. I am currently in school. It has been such an impact for me. I call it my second chance. Sorry. Unfortunately, I was not able to afford
 after graduating, going to school and complete my dream job, which is become an RN. So thankfully now, and Upskill has funded me and I've started to complete my course.
 It has given me peace of mind. That's one of the things that has impacted me the most. I am a mother of two children. I go to school full time. And just to have that burden off of my shoulders and not be able to touch our home budget financially and just
 work hard to complete my classes and just have that peace of mind is just priceless. Another thing has boosted my self-esteem. I was not, before I was not able to feel confident enough to go to school. This has motivated me not only because it has funded my whole
 school, but because I have my career navigators encouraging me and motivating me through the whole way. I have also, it has also impacted me because I've become a role model to my daughter, and I know I've impacted her as well, and I'm impacting her as I go, as I walk through my career.
 Also, one last thing, it's just going to be a blessing for me to be able to give back to the community and make that impact as a registered nurse once I graduate. So I would urge you guys to please help us fund and get more people to become or fulfill their dream jobs and become nurses in the medical field. Thank you. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us? Hi, my name is Omar. I live at 1551 North Lefkowitz Avenue, apartment 43. In 2020 when COVID happened, I saw how the healthcare professionals, the nurses, the doctors, the janitors, how they came, worked hard, put everybody above their own needs
 just to make sure we were able to fight COVID. And I'm like, ah, what can I do to join this? I searched, but the fees at the university was too high. And then I signed up for Northwest Arkansas Community College with just trusting with family support, I'll be able to do this. And I got an email, oh, you can apply for this scholarship. I was not sure what to expect, and then I applied.
 And they said, you are in. I said, OK, they will just pay my fees. But I wasn't. I've been blown away with the amount of support I've gotten from my career navigator just sitting down and checking up on me. I have two kids. One is on the spectrum. The other is four. Last year during my finals, I was studying, and I heard her making some noise in the bathroom. I went down like, oh, what are you doing? She was like, oh, mommy, you need to go and read. I'm like, what? Say you need to go and study.
 This is what upscale has done for me, that my four year old can tell me, oh you need to go study because they've taken care of my fees. They've linked me up with food pantries that I don't have to struggle with grocery. Last year was really hard for me. I became a single parent to my two kids. And I was sure if I didn't have upscale supporting me, I could have just said, okay, it's time to look for something else to do. But because they've already paid my fees, I had the books,
 focus on one thing. So they grounded me down to be able to study. Before that, I didn't know how to write. My English was really terrible. I'm not even sure I'm talking to you guys. But I've done the English component and I saw my grades. I had to send it to my friend. And she was like, yeah, your text message has improved greatly. That you no longer send some abbreviations. That we're trying to figure out what does she mean by this? I'm like, this is what upskill has done for me.
 that I'm able to write a paper and I read it and I'm like I did this, I see my grades, I got, I've seen people showing oh I'm on the dean's list, those were things I didn't think I would ever achieve and then I get an email oh you made the president list. I'm like really?
 Upskill is this and more. They have told me that, okay, we're going to work with you. It's not just the money. It's my carrier navigator sending me a text message. Oh, I saw this. I think this would be good for you. It's, are you okay? It's sending me, oh, they are doing a car check here. You should take your car here. And they check my car free of charge. And I come back and I'm like, wow. When I wanted to be a nurse, everybody said, oh, you need to take a loan. Nobody gives scholarship.
 I'm like, okay, community college, my parents sell their land and they sell, give me their pension, I should be able to do this, but I don't have to do that anymore. That I can study, I can walk into the bookstore and say, oh, I need to get my books. I'm not scratching my head and thinking, oh, where would this next thing come from? This is what upskill has done for me. Last year was really hard, but this morning I woke up, I dressed, I had a smile on my face like, let's do this upskill.
 I'm hoping to apply to nursing school in April. I can't wait to finish and give back to my community because Fayetteville has given me so much more that I'm not sure I'll be able to pay back even with two years of just, I don't think two years is enough to give back to what upskill has given me. So I really implore you guys to please support upskill. You are not just changing.
 my life you're changing the lives of future people my friends they see the impact of what i'm doing the papers i'm writing the one able to speak they're like okay now we believe you're going to school and upskill is not just throwing money down the drain i'm able to push myself to study knowing that the accountability that they are committed to my sources they are not just putting the money they are like okay how can we help you this person is just tremendous so
 What they showed here is just a tip, but what they do for all of us, it's not just me, they do it for each and every one of the students. We meet and we're like, oh, what did Claudia say today? It's just beautiful to watch that these are people supporting us to succeed. They could have just decided not to do it, but they are doing it. So thank you, Upskill, and thank you very much for hearing me out. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Anyone?
 Okay. Susan, who do you have on Zoom? Nobody on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Now I'm going to bring it back to the council. Thank you so much. Hearing those, hearing the remarks and the, I guess we can call them testimonials, it reminds me of different phases in my life, being an adult student and also being a teacher of adults and those barriers that,
 I've heard those barriers my entire life. And so it feels good tonight that we have an opportunity to interrupt and dismantle some of that. And I think that the work that we do here in Fayetteville, Mayor Jordan, one of the things that really attracted me to your administration is the fact that you care about people. And one of the things that you did, I remember the very first conversation that we had, it was about workforce development. And now that conversation has continued.
 I hear some of the same things that you've talked about tonight. And one of those things, of course, is child care. And so I think that what Upskill is doing is very conducive to the very values of Fayetteville. And so I'm excited to support this. Again, I've been a fan since day one.
 And I'm looking forward to witnessing how this is going to do what you all said that it's going to do, and that's transform lives and change the trajectory of so many Fayetteville residents. So, Mayor Jordan, if I may, I would like to I would like to.
 I would like to make a motion. Make a motion. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I would like to make a motion for a budget adjustment of $742,223 to the Upskill Foundation.
 Actually, the resolution. You're going to make a motion to approve the resolution. To approve a resolution. Y'all, I'm sorry. Yes, to approve a resolution. I'm getting kind of emotional hearing these stories because this is very dear and true to me, my experiences, again, as a former student and as a teacher. So, yes, but I do make a motion to approve a budget adjustment. Lord, yeah, just the resolution. Second. Thank you. We have a second. I heard some questions.
 Sonia did you make a second? Yes sir. Okay we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. What final comments would council like to make? Sarah you're light on. No you don't have your light on. I'm ready to go. Holly do you want to make a final statement? I just want to thank everybody for your time tonight. I think this is a really important initiative and I thank you guys for your support. Absolutely. Anybody else? Okay.
 This is a good thing. Carol, would you please call the roll? Bedecker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Thanks, y'all. On we go. All right. Let's go to number three.
 Resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign a subrecipient agreement with Legal Aid of Arkansas to provide education, outreach, and legal services to federal residents terminated from Medicaid coverage utilizing the American Rescue Plan Act funds in the amount of $92,156 and to approve budget adjustment.
 Scott. Thank you, Mayor. I'm proud to bring this forward. And again, as I mentioned at the agenda session, I want to fully acknowledge that when we left here two weeks ago, we had a plan in place to have a workshop to coordinate our efforts for the ARPA funds. But after on Tuesday night, Jayden Adkins had a passionate plea.
 for funding and the reasonings behind her request made perfect sense to me. And I started researching it on Wednesday morning and considering the timelines in which they are working under, I felt it was important for me to bring it forward outside of the workshop that we were talking about doing.
 Within the omnibus spending bill, and I'll have additional explanation here shortly, but even though the emergency declaration was extended, inside that bill is a hard deadline that could adversely affect recipients of Medicaid within Fayetteville.
 If those folks are not given adequate representation, they could be adversely affected. And under the timeline that we're working on under
 I think Paul said four to six weeks to do contract language and getting everything worked out. Once approval was gained, that would put them in a position where it might not give them adequate timing to be prepared to help the citizens.
 So I felt it was important that I bring this forward. So at this time, I have Jaden Adkins and Lee Richson from Legal Aid of Arkansas to ask them to step forward and make a short presentation, a 10-minute presentation if they need that, and then answer any questions that you might have. Good evening, everyone. Good evening.
 Thank you. I'm Lee Richardson. I'm the executive director of Legal Aid of Arkansas. We've been around for 55 years serving people here in Fayetteville and throughout North Arkansas. We have nine offices from Helena to Rogers and the Springdale office primarily serves Fayetteville. So we provide free civil legal services.
 to low-income individuals who can't afford to pay an attorney. We focus primarily on access to safe and affordable housing, protection of consumer rights, protection from domestic violence, and economic justice, which includes access to Medicaid. Clients are usually at or below 125% of the poverty level. Last year, we served 629 residents of Fayetteville. One in three of those had some kind of COVID nexus with the legal issue that they presented.
 And Jaden will talk more about the crisis that we see coming up almost immediately. We've been trying to, we filed this application for funding in March of 2022, as I recall. And we've asked other people throughout our service area to help throughout the 31 counties, the King Foundation is helping in the Delta, National Health Law Program is helping in the center part of the state.
 And Fayetteville is our biggest service area, the largest population that we have, the largest population of low income individuals. So we really, really do need your support to hopefully keep this crisis at bay. And I would ask Jayden to give you specifics.
 Thank you, Lee. I spoke here before last time, but again, I'm Jayden Atkins. I'm a staff attorney with Legal Aid of Arkansas, and I work in our Economic Justice Workgroup and out of our Springdale office that Lee mentioned as being the primary servicer for the Fayetteville residents.
 As Councilman Berna referenced, there was an extension of the federal public health emergency that was announced this week that was anticipated. That does not extend the deadline that I noted last time of April 1st.
 because of the Omnibus Spending Bill in December, decoupled the Public Health Emergency Declaration federally from the timeline in which states were to begin terminations on Medicaid. Those are no longer connected. So the federal government can keep extending the COVID public health emergency, who knows how long,
 But regardless of how that what happens there terminations are going to be set to begin as federally required on April 1st. And as I mentioned last time, the state of Arkansas has decided that its state agency DHS will.
 is going to be required to do those terminations for everyone in the state of Arkansas and Medicaid. Everyone is going to have to have redeterminations done within six months of that date.
 I believe that we are one of two states only that have decided and made a state law requiring us to do it in this shorter period. The federal government is giving us 12 months, but the state has decided to do those terminations in six months, which does mean that, of course, that the state resources that are going into these decisions for the termination are going to be
 It's going to be difficult for them to make accurate determinations of who should be cut off of Medicaid, who should have these services reduced, and making sure that due process, federal due process rights are protected through this process. There's going to be a lot of people, based off of our experience, that are cut off of these programs simply because they miss a mailer. A lot of these people haven't had these redeterminations done for three years at this point.
 How many of them have moved? How many of them have changed addresses, changed income?
 all these things have happened in their lives since then that DHS is going to need new information on. And that is a lot to ask of both the state agency and of our clients to go back on. So I did bring some numbers last time I was here. I wanted to provide an update because with the end of the year, we got new numbers from the state on who in Fayetteville is on Medicaid. Based on our estimates, there's 37,000 Medicaid
 program beneficiaries in Fayetteville. Now a lot of that's duplicates, so a lot of people are on multiple programs. Our estimate is that 20 to 25 thousand Fayettevillians are on some form of Medicaid based on those numbers. The state Arkansas has indicated that 400,000 of the 1.3 million Arkansans on Medicaid
 are likely to be terminated and that those 400,000 are going to be kind of pushed to the front of the line. Now again, all these people, all of the 20 to 25,000 Medicaid beneficiaries in Fayetteville are going to have to be redetermined in that six months, but they're going to push forward these 400,000 Arkansans and we estimate based off of those numbers that that's about
 7,000 Fayettevillians that are going to be at the top of this list to get to get terminated And I I did speak a little bit last time about what happens when people are cut off these programs But I wanted to remind you that you know This isn't as simple as someone doesn't have their copay covered at the doctor and they're asked to pay this is someone not having access to allergy medications that they need to survive and
 This is people suddenly not having care hours, people who receive at home care services, who are completely disabled and not able to care for themselves. They rely on these waiver programs through Medicaid that provide those services and pay for them. And if those hours are cut,
 the vendors don't provide the care most of the time and those people can suffer irreparably or even die without that care. So this is very serious. We foresee a lot of problems in this and we want to address it in two ways. The first way is through outreach.
 Ideally, this has already started and we have been doing what we can to start this process now ourselves of outreach. That means outreach is a broad term, but we've got to talk to our clients, we've got to talk broader than that, we've got to talk to people who we've never talked to before. We've got to go to the Fayville farmers market, we've got to go out.
 food banks, wherever we can go to meet people where they are and try to inform them that this is going to happen, try to help them get that information to DHS to prevent them from getting terminated in the first place. That's the ideal. We also need to connect with community partners. So that means, you know, the people that UPSCAL is working with, Washington Regional, we need to go talk to
 people who are providing these health benefits to people so that whenever they see those cuts happen, they can talk to someone about who to contact, hopefully us and what we might be able to assist them with. So that's the first part. The second part is direct services. And we already do this for a whole lot of Medicaid beneficiaries, and, or at least we did pre-pandemic. There's been less work now, obviously because of the public health emergency, which has been taken up by other work.
 But we have historically represented people in appeals processes for this. This could also sometimes be helped by just reaching out to someone at the agency, because we have those connections oftentimes. We know who is going to be able to fix a problem the fastest. So we might not even need to represent someone in an appeals case. It might be as simple as sending someone an email, but the
 claim and the person doesn't know that they don't know who to talk to they just know that if they call DHS the phone rings and rings and rings and they can't talk to anyone so between that outreach and those direct services we hope we can put a dent in in the in the effects of this and and as we mentioned we have support in other parts of the state through other funding sources we've been able to get but we would love to get that support in Fayetteville thank you
 What questions do we have? I don't have a question. I would like to commend Council Member Berna for taking the initiative. I know how important this program is. I've had patients both on Medicaid and patients who have needed your legal assistance.
 intervention, especially with housing. And so we know that there are a lot of Fable residents who depend on your services. And so I'm certainly, certainly glad and happy to be able to support this.
 Understanding your outreach dollars that you spend will reach a regional audience, what mechanisms in place to directly affect Fayetteville residents with the
 Oh, well, this money will allow us to put resources into Fayetteville that are exclusive to Fayetteville. Outreach, yes, the outreach materials that we create are going to be on the website and then other locations where other people will benefit. But there will actually be a dedicated staff attorney working.
 nonstop hopefully for the next year in Fayetteville because of these funds doing only services directly to residents of Fayetteville whether it be the outreach and education but more more importantly the direct services whenever they've been terminated or they're threatened
 with termination and they're on a level of, their resources are not such that they can reach out and get a private attorney to assist them. So we have a case management system that allows us to assure that money allocated from any particular grantor is spent where the grantor directs. We have a complex accounting systems that do the same. So there's safeguards in place. Thank you.
 Okay, anybody else before we take up a comment? Yes, go ahead. Just a curiosity question. If a person has moved and their mailing address is not accurate, how are they notified of termination or do they just find that out at the provider?
 So DHS in its current policies requires people to update, keep their mailing address up to date. Unfortunately, a lot of the clients that we see move very frequently and sometimes they forget or sometimes they don't have a permanent mailing address. They're staying on someone's couch and they don't feel comfortable giving an address to do that. So we see a lot of problems with that, but the result is essentially.
 if someone is sent a mailer asking them to provide information and they don't, then they're cut off of services usually. Anybody else? Anything? Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed
 To speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this in the chamber on this topic? Okay. Susan, do you have anybody on Zoom? No, sir. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. So what conversation would you all like to have or what action would you all like to take? I move we approve. Okay. I got Teresa first and then I got Sarah second.
 or did or was it vice versa i mean i'm i actually was just going to suck it sarah so i was i was too quick to the mic i guess i was going to move that we approved the resolution second all right we have a motion a second to approve the resolution what final comments would the council like to make okay i take it
 Sorry, I turned it off. That's okay. I just wanted to thank Jaden for bringing this to our attention. And I want to thank Legal Aid's work in the community. You know, this is a small investment that we can make towards, you know, greater well-being for our community. And these are directly what these American Rescue Plan dollars were for, you know, helping our disproportionately impacted population. So I can't, you know, wait to say yes and to support this because this is important work in our community.
 anything else care which please call the roll we dicker yes Arna yes yes her yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes more yes okay all right let's move on to number four resolution authorized the addition of a
 A point five temporary full time equivalent position to the finance internal services department and to prove budget just Paul.
 Well, unfortunately, unfortunately for our accounting director, she wishes to retire. Unfortunately, she's done an excellent job and we wish to keep her, but she has been willing and agreed to stay on. Her resignation will be in March. I'm requesting to be able to retain her part time to help train her.
 successor moving forward she has agreed to stay on to do that this would be specifically for our current accounting director once she leaves you have a position to be terminated at the end of the year if we don't need her for that long we'll terminate it before that but that's the request at this point in time okay what questions does the council have Paul okay
 Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by then will speak after that. Does anyone want to address us on this topic in the chamber? No, sir. Okay. All right. I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Okay.
 I just want to make a comment. I think with an important, critical job like that, it's good to have overlap. It's good to have training. In my professional career, I've seen where that overlap was not allowed. It was not able to occur. And so I really support you bringing this forward, Paul. Thank you. I've got a move.
 We approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay.
 Had you lied on I know but I'm ready to go Me too here would you please call her up? We dicker? Yes, Arna. Yes Yes, hurt. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes, Harvey. Yes Jones. Yes More yes, okay that concludes our business Susan. Do you have any announcements? No, sir. Not tonight. All right Thank you all very much
 We're adjourned.