I'd like to call to order the City Council meeting of January the 16th 2024. Chair, would you please call the roll? Berna? Here. Bunch? Here. Turk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Stafford? Here. Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Whitaker? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award presented by
 THE CITY ATTORNEY, KITT WILLIAMS, BUT IT WILL BE BLAKE THAT WILL BE PRESENTING FOR KITT WILLIAMS, CITY ATTORNEY BLAKE PENNINGTON. THANK YOU, MAYOR, CITY COUNCIL. UNFORTUNATELY KITT WASN'T ABLE TO ATTEND TONIGHT'S MEETING BUT HE ASKED ME TO PRESENT THE DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. BROTHERHOOD AWARD ON HIS BEHALF. FOR OVER 20 YEARS, CITY ATTORNEY KITT WILLIAMS HAS HAD THE HONOR AND PRIVILEGE TO RECOGNIZE A WORTHY CITY OF PAYABLE EMPLOYEE TO RECEIVE THE CITY OF PAYABLE DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. BROTHERHOOD AWARD.
 This award has been given annually in recognition of that city employee whose service to our city and community best exemplifies Dr. Martin Luther King's dream of equality, justice, brotherhood, and service. This year's honoree joins a distinguished list of city employees who have embodied Dr. King's dream and have helped fulfill his legacy of service. Although a single employee is being honored tonight, there are many, many city employees who work hard every day to make Fayetteville such a great place to live, work, and raise a family.
 City of Fayetteville employees from planners and engineers to recycling and trash workers and park staff, from department directors to their newest employees, strive to be responsive to citizen needs and input and do their jobs diligently and efficiently. They serve our citizens and community with fairness, courtesy, and competency. The city attorney and I count ourselves very lucky to be able to work alongside our fellow city employees to ensure that Fayetteville remains a welcoming community in which all are treated with respect and dignity.
 Tonight's honoree has served in two very important positions for the City of Fayetteville. His first position was as the City's internal auditor, where he ensured that all departments performed their services ethically and in full compliance with all financial requirements. He had to consult and work with all directors and managers competently and fairly. His outstanding services helped ensure that our annual reviews by our audit committee and outside auditing firm revealed that Fayetteville had fully complied with all financial requirements.
 But an even greater test lay ahead for Steve Dotson when he was promoted to the new position of Deputy Chief Finance Director. Soon, the complex and sometimes confusing American Rescue Plan Act funds were received by the city. Deputy Chief Finance Officer Steven Dotson worked closely not only with the Fayetteville City Council and administration, but numerous local nonprofits to help these organizations receive vital funds which the City Council decided they should receive to benefit our citizens.
 Stephen had to make sure these millions of dollars of federal ARPA funds could legally get to the nonprofits approved by the City Council, so these nonprofits could be reimbursed for money they had expended to help Fayetteville residents because of the COVID-19 pandemic or for future needed services. Stephen treated all nonprofits fairly and equitably and helped those charities needing advice and guidance about how to complete the ARPA funds application to be eligible to receive ARPA funding.
 Because of Steve Dotson's diligence, patience, and efforts, the City Administration and City Council, working efficiently together, were able to distribute millions of dollars of ARPA funds to our most worthy and effective nonprofits to help as many of our neediest residents as possible. Stephen Dotson was shown to be the servant leader that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. asks all of us to strive to become.
 It is therefore my pleasure and honor to present on behalf of City Attorney Kit Williams, the 2024 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award to our worthy recipient, Deputy Chief Finance Officer Steven Dotson. Thank you all very much. I appreciate it. Thank you, Steven, for that rousing speech.
 Congratulations. Job well done. All right. Let's see. The next order of business we have tonight is the election of the vice mayor. I will open up the floor for nominations for the position of vice mayor right now.
 I move we elect Sarah Moore. I'm sorry, Sarah Bunch. I'd like to make a motion. I'm sorry, Sarah. You would also be amazing. I'd like to make a motion to nominate DeAndre Jones. No. No? I would like to second Holly's motion for Sarah Bunch. Okay, is there any other nominations? All right, then we'll close the floor. And, well, we have to vote now. So, can everyone please call the roll?
 arna yes bunch yes turf yes herdsburg yes stafford yes jones yes more yes we did her yes okay congratulations all right let's move along then to the next order business which is the consent agenda number one approval of the january 2nd 2024 city council meeting minutes
 Number two, a resolution to approve a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $44,559.78 for stormwater education program for 2024 to satisfy portions of the NPDES Phase II stormwater permit requirements. Number three, a resolution to authorize application for matching grants for the Ham Street Creek and Tributaries flood mitigation efforts.
 Number four resolution to approve change order number 14 to the contract with NAB host construction corporation in the amount of 137,000 $442.40 for work related to the cultural arts corridor replacement parking deck project and to approve budget just this 2019 cultural arts corridor bond project and
 Number five, a resolution to authorize marriage order to sign a three-year enterprise license agreement with ESRI Incorporated in the amount of $58,905 per year for the continued use of geographic information system software and to approve the project contingency in the amount of $5,890.50.
 per year number six resolution to approve budget adjustment in a total amount of one million six hundred thousand dollars to fund the approved arpa projects addressing housing and stability i'll entertain a motion except consent agenda motion to approve second we have a motion second to approve the consent agenda this red care which please call the wrong arnold yes
 Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Okay. Under unfinished business, we have none. Next order of business is new business. Number one, a resolution to recognize the ninth annual National Day of Racial Healing
 on Wednesday following the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. DeAndre, this is yours. I guess we're going to have to change the dates up a little bit. Yes, I'm wanting to make an amendment to change the date to, I believe, the 24th which is next, that's next Wednesday. Is that next Wednesday? I don't know. That's good. Okay, so you want to amend it to change it to the 24th at noon? Yes.
 Okay. So the amendment is to change to the 24th of June. That's a motion and we need a second for the amendment. Second. A motion and second to change the date from yesterday to the 24th, 17th to the 24th.
 care which police call the role verna yes bunch yes yes artsburg yes stafford yes jones yes more yes yes okay all right we have the amended resolution deandre would you like to say a few words or
 Yes, this will be February second year participating, and this event will explore how to reconcile the past and proactively promote healing and justice for all. As Mayor Jordan stated, this event is observed annually following Dr. Martin Luther King Jr's birthday. This day allows us to hold space for the fundamental role that racial healing plays
 As we contemplate shared values and the future we're raised, it's not a predictor of outcomes. And cities across the country are participating in this event. And Fayetteville was one of the few Arkansas cities, I believe Little Rock is the other city, who is participating. And the participation, of course, is encouraged by the National League of Cities.
 any other comments okay well let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to speak on this topic that's in the chat who do you have on zoom susan no one has their hand raised mayor okay then i'll bring it back to the council this is a resolution
 Any discussion or do we have a motion and second? Do we have a motion and second? Not yet. Yes. I think a motion would pass the resolution. I'll second. We have a motion and second to pass. What final comments would we like to have? We certainly encourage the citizens of Fayetteville to please come out and be a part of this event. This is saying a lot about our city council, our town, and of course our mayor. And we have...
 I believe, representatives from the Fayetteville Police Department, and we have other community leaders who will be speaking as well. So it'll start at 12 noon and last no more than an hour. Thank you. I think I brought a clock from my show last year. Yes, yes, yes. Thank you, DeAndre. I really appreciate you bringing this forward. Yeah, and I'd also like to thank Councilmember Jones for bringing this forward and bringing the next thing forward. That's why I wanted to nominate you for that position. Thank you.
 Any other comments? All right. Care which police comes first? Burnett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number two, resolution to honor the 2023 Federal High School football team and the Federal Athletic Department. DeAndre? DeAndre?
 Yes, here I go again. We received some information this evening and I believe Council Member Turk sent it to me as it relates to an amendment and Council Member Berna also reached out to me concerning the amendment. So if it's okay, Mayor Jordan, can he go ahead and make the amendment to this now and then we'll proceed with the other part?
 they is it the one that we were discussing okay so what's the amendment oh I was going to suggest but it's your resolution DeAndre that we actually include each name of the football players or the seniors there's 127 players in there so that was going to be my recommendation on on to amend that thank you
 And my observation was, I think we were talking about inviting all the team to be here. And logistically, I thought that was going to be a very difficult thing to get 127 players into the room. So I thought maybe of saying maybe invite the coaching staff and the seniors just for logistical purposes. Certainly recognize them, but that was my recommendation.
 And that's totally, both are totally fine with me. I think we'll have to have someone work with the school district, and I certainly don't mind doing that as it relates to getting those students' names and then following it up with them and see who will be able to attend. Okay, so the amendment would read how? Blake, you got a handle on it?
 So, on Councilmember Barna's, I believe it would say section two that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby invites the coaching staff and seniors of the 2023 Fayetteville High School football team to attend the February 6th, 2024 City Council meeting to be recognized for their achievements.
 And I was going to suggest that we just include their names. I don't know if you want to read their names tonight or just have them included in the resolution. So it's quite a lengthy list. Yes, that's fine with me. We can include those names in the resolution. Mayor Jordan, it sounds like I'll have to get that to you as quickly as I can. Well, that would be handy. Yes, sir. I'll work on that tomorrow. Okay. All right.
 Anything else where we need to vote on the amendments, correct? Yes, you need a motion and a second. I'm going to second on Scott's amendment to limit to the coaching staff and seniors, correct? Yes. Getting my head straight on. I move we amend the resolution to inviting only the coaching staff and the seniors to the February 6th meeting, city council meeting. Second. We have a motion to second. Okay.
 All right. Let's vote on that first. Any discussion on that? I would just like to say I really appreciate the council and Mayor Jordan. This is a great opportunity for us to continue to build that very important relationship with the school district and the city. And I am I'm looking forward to seeing their faces of excitement and joy. So thank you. OK. All right. Any other discussion on the amendment? All right. First one.
 Caravans, please call the roll. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes, we did. Yes. Okay. Now, was there another amendment here or does that cover both of them? So I think we still need another amendment that would read something along the lines of that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby recognizes the following senior members of the 2023 Fayetteville High School football team. And then we can list those names in the resolution in that section. I think we're talking about listing the whole team. The whole team. The whole team.
 so it would be hereby recognizes the members of the 2023 fable high school football team as follows okay motion to pass second and motion is second to pass the second amendment on the entire football team being on the list right sarah just brought up a good point do we want to add the coaches in there too
 Why not? Yeah, might as well. For a hundred points. A hundred points, then what's another 15? Throw the coach and staff in there too. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Okay. All right, now let's vote on second. We got a motion, second, correct? Sarah, you had a second, I know.
 care which please call the role arna yes yes yes yes yes stafford yes jones yes more yes yes okay now we have the amended resolution what any discussion on the amended resolution from the council
 Okay, let's open it up for public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Does anyone wish to speak on this topic in the chamber? No one's on Zoom. Okay. All right, bring it back to the council. We have the amended resolution. I need a motion and a second to pass.
 make a motion to approve the resolution as presented second we have a motion second to pass the new resolution any final comments thank you deandre bring it forward go dogs all right carriage please call the roll arnold yes yes church yes earthsburg yes stafford yes jones yes more yes weedeker yes okay thank you all very much
 Number three, resolution to approve Amendment Number Four, Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Hawkins Ware Engineers Incorporated. Any amount of $483,940 for additional services associated with the project to alleviate flooding near the North College Avenue and East Sunbridge Drive intersection and to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 Drainage Bond Project. Chris.
 Thank you, Mayor. And I just realized that this may be a little bit misleading. This is not a $483,000 amendment. This is a $28,780 amendment. Well, yes, I missed that one. Well, I know that's what it says, and I think it may be a little bit confusing. But basically, the total amount of the design will be $483,940 after this $28,000 amendment.
 The work on this is to revise the plans and prepare them for rebidding. We bid the project earlier this year, and the project was far above the budget that we had available. So this is to revamp the plans, reduce the scope, and do the initial phase of this work. So that's what this was in front of you. And again, it's $28,780.
 $28,780? Yes. So I need to scratch out the $483,000? Well, I think the, I'm not exactly sure how the resolution. Yeah, I'm not exactly sure how the resolution reads. I think maybe the title has that correct, but then some portion of it. So there may need to be an amendment. It does need to be amended, both the title and Section 1. Okay.
 I move we amend the title in section 1 of C3. Second. All right, amend title and section 1, right? What's it going to read?
 So the title will read a resolution to approve amendment number four to the professional engineering services agreement with Hawkins Weir Engineers Inc. in the amount of $28,780 for additional services associated with the project to alleviate flooding near the North College Avenue and East Sunbridge Drive intersection and to approve a budget adjustment. Section one would be similar. All right. All right. Well, let's vote on the amendment first.
 well i need a motion motion to approve second mayor we already had a motion and then a second we have a motion to second already okay sheriff would you please call the road ernest yes yes yes yes yes stafford yes jones yes more yes yes now we vote on the amended resolution
 All right. What discussion would we like on the amended resolution? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak and you have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chamber? Okay. Bring it back to the
 Council and no one's on zoom I'm if we approve the resolution second, okay mostly second to pass the Resolution as read here, which please call the run. Oh, yeah. Yes. Thanks. Yes Yes, Hertzberg. Yes, Stafford. Yes. Yes. Yes more. Yes, we did her yes Okay. Do you have any other?
 Waiting for the next item. Okay. You've got this one, too, I think. Yes, sir. All right. Resolution to approve a budget adjustment to create a project budget for an extension of Stern Street between Baines Drive and Old Missouri Road. Chris. Thank you, Mayor.
 with this going here uh stern street is a is a street that's been on the master street plan for many years there's a there's a disconnect between two segments of sterns from west of old missouri road and then east of vantage drive so this proposal is to get to connect those two locations
 The reason we have this in front of you now is that we did have a commercial development that came into being in about 2018. All of the developments, all the lots have been developed there. They have contributed various amounts to making this connection. So we have a total of about just a little under $21,000 available to the community.
 make this connection. They do have a time limit, so we do need to either move forward with spending these funds or if we don't spend them, then they do go back to the people who originally paid the amount. So that's what we're here to talk about is the connection itself, the budget to do that, and then we can
 I can answer any questions. I'll go through. I have a few slides here. First of all, this is the connection itself. You can see Vantage Drive there and Old Missouri Road. So it's just a very short segment, about 260 feet of street.
 zooming in a little bit and you can see a little bit of the context and the the developments that are around it the commercial development to the to the west uh it's existing uh single-family residential along stern street to the east uh we have some multi-family in the area as well and uh some uh uh
 I believe those are duplexes there, the Bellefonte Gardens. So we'll talk more about that here in a second. We did take quite a bit of public comment on this. This was back in the summer. We asked questions about the connection of Stearns. It was highly polarized. We had a lot of highly supportive comments. We had a lot of highly unsupported as well.
 I think what we could discern was that people who lived along and near existing sterns were much more likely to vote against it, which I think makes sense. But other users were highly supportive. We also asked about a pedestrian-only connection and kind of similar results, although a little bit more 50-50.
 We also asked questions about whether existing improvements were needed along Stern Street for sidewalks. And again, a lot of support for that, probably more support than anything. The traffic calming was also a question. And it, like many of the other ones, was highly polarized, but ended up being about a 50-50 split.
 So zooming in a little bit tighter, this is the connection itself. The brown lines that you see kind of along the street are existing right-of-way. So there is existing right-of-way in this area. The subdivision to the north is a POA subdivision. So the POA owns the property on either side of the right-of-way. They have been using
 that property and a little bit of the right-of-way for use for their maintenance activities. And that little small brown building you see there, kind of on the southeast side of the right-of-way, is a maintenance shed that they are using currently.
 There were some questions about how much traffic might be generated. So this methodology that we used was the same methodology that was used to develop the cost for each development. So when the development came in, they generated the expected trips from that particular development, and then we assumed that 25% of those trips were going to be used.
 would go to the east from the development. So a generation of about 750 trips total from all of the developments that occurred there along the new section of Stearns, 25% of those trips is about 188 vehicles per day additional that we would assume would use Stearns Street. Existing ADT, you can see there is 529 vehicles.
 That's an average daily traffic ADT. We also talked a little bit about trees during this process. There are about 25 trees in the right of way, some nice trees really. The construction would remove about 9,000 square feet of tree canopy, which
 Typically, we would not consider right-of-way in any kind of canopy loss, but in this case, I think it is appropriate. So, 41 trees would be needed to mitigate loss of that canopy. And this is just, again, another view of the connection.
 So, just to summarize the public review, we did have the Speak Up survey that was up where we got the results that we talked about earlier. We then took this to Planning Commission. I should also add, we had a public meeting at the end of July out on site. Most of the people who attended that meeting were not in favor. It's really the neighborhood, surrounding neighborhoods.
 Then went to the Planning Commission. They voted 8-1 recommending forwarding confirmation of the Master Street Plan connection. There was no discussion about budget or construction or anything. It was really just a discussion about whether this was an appropriate and needed connection. We then went to the Transportation Committee.
 in September and received many of those questions about the traffic and the things that I talked about here. We answered those questions at the end of November and the committee recommended approval by a 4-0 vote.
 So lastly is the cost. This is all the cost factors, the base cost of $320,000. Really, I should say the base cost of $385,000 for a complete street with lighting and trees, the additional tree mitigation costs.
 the sidewalk and traffic calming, bring the grand total to $482,000 is the estimate for this. We do have the $20,850 in developer funds that would go toward the cost of the project. So with that, we are recommending moving forward with the construction of the project. Approval of this budget adjustment would then allow us to move forward with that design and construction.
 And with that, I can answer any questions. What questions do I have for Chris? Chris, you mentioned that it's been on the... Bob, I think... Oh, sorry. Teresa had her line on. Okay.
 Thank you. So, Chris, if you remove those trees, you've got to replant 41 trees. And are those saplings? They're pretty small. So they're not equivalent in the sense of carbon sequestration or canopy or any of those kind of qualities. Yeah, so over time, and I don't know what that calculation is. Jonathan might know better what that mitigation expectation is. Yeah.
 yes they would be small probably two inch caliber trees thank you i thought so i just wanted to make sure thank you yeah uh chris you mentioned that uh it's been on the master plan for many years when i look at this it looks like it was always kind of meant to connect so like how long has this been in the plans and and uh was it from the offset uh where onset meant to connect like it looks like it
 Yes, I think the development to the north there, that's when the right-of-way was dedicated. I believe that was in the late 90s or early 2000s when the actual right-of-way was dedicated.
 I have in my notes when it was added to the Master Street Plan, but I believe going back several years we had several iterations of the on the Master Street Plan. Like 30 some odd years? That I would I would not be surprised. Yes. One other question, Scott. Two questions, Chris, as you and I were talking yesterday. As Stearns goes east,
 And I believe it hits, is it Old Missouri? That's right. But Stearns will not be, the likelihood of Stearns being connected all the way to crossover is very unlikely because of development that's already there. Is that right?
 Yes, just looking at it is on the Master Street Plan. So that is something that as developments occur, we would look at where those connections could be made. From a practical standpoint, there are some sections that are developed and would likely not
 have a street connection at least for a long time unless the city decided to move forward with a project or something like that but it's not all greenfield not something that would would be connected at any point in the near future okay and understanding that the developer fees the 21 000 roughly
 Had it not been for the 21,000 in development fees, where in the priority list would this extension be? Because that's what's the driving force behind it. Where in the priority list of city priorities would this be? Right. Yeah, I think that's a difficult question to answer. I think the
 The reason again that we're here is because we do have those fees, but we also have this fully developed except for this very short segment. So if that commercial development had not occurred, you know, that's not something that that we would have expected to build as part of the development because that's the point of the Master Street Plan.
 is when you have undeveloped property you're able to to make those street connections this is the last segment it's not ever going to get constructed by a development because it's fully developed and there's right-of-way there so really again we're bringing this forward because we we do have the funding but we also or we have the money from the developers uh but it's it's really kind of a time to make a decision whether to move forward with the construction or not
 Sure. Chris, what are the proposed or what would be typical of, you know, sidewalks and traffic calming in this area? And where would those be just typically? Sure.
 Yeah, so there is an existing sidewalk along Stearns. It's at the back of curb. It's old and has some issues. So what we would look at is either on the south side of the road, building a sidewalk that has a proper green space, is a little more comfortable for pedestrians, or replace that sidewalk on the north side.
 And then as far as traffic calming, there are a lot of tools in our toolbox, but everybody most of the time gravitates to the speed cushions that we've been using. So that would be one thing we could do probably in at least two locations along the street. Is there any way, like, I mean, what would typically be the width of the street that we would build?
 Is there any way that could be made more narrow and not take out so many trees or something like that? Like kind of like a sure pinch point there to slow people down. Right, yeah, I think that's certainly possible. We really just look at the entire right-of-way, but when we get into the detailed design, there may be some things we can do to save some additional trees.
 But what we've done is just said if the entire right-of-way is used, this is what the tree canopy that we deserve. And one more question about the shed that belongs to –
 Elephant gardens, yeah. They'll have to move that. It's just a corner of it seems to be. Yes, it is within the existing right of way. That's another situation. Once we get into the detailed design, we'll look at what the options are for moving that a little bit, moving it a lot.
 what potentially we could leave it in place and just squeeze past it. But until we get into detailed design, I don't know that for sure. We are assuming it will have to move. Okay, thank you. Anything else? And the right-of-way existed before the shed, correct? Yes. So they built in a right-of-way? That's correct. Anything else? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber? So my name is Karen Percival. I have a little bit of a cold, so sorry. My name is Karen Percival. I live in Belafonte Gardens, and I'm an owner there.
 And I know that the meeting only starts at 530, but we have a whole bunch of people that are coming later because we thought this was later on the agenda. So I'm surprised that it seems like it's more earlier.
 Okay, so I've been to every one of these meetings that Chris has talked about and So I am going to summarize here My concern number one is that this is too expensive to connect 260 feet of Stearns right away The city collected what Chris talked about the twenty thousand eight hundred fifty three thousand dollars and are the twenty thousand eight hundred $53 and
 Now we're going to spend $480,000 to connect 260 feet of cement, take out 41 trees, and give us cement in replacement. One of the things I learned when we went to the Planning Commission and then on to the Transportation Committee is that when you take out tree canopy in one location, you don't put it back necessarily in that same location. So our subdivision and the Stern Street subdivision are just without...
 We already have enough pavement there because we have a lot of water runoff from down the hill from Zion, so paving a little bit more is not going to help anything. The trees do a lot. Concern number two is the huge apartment subdivision on the east end of Stearns is not yet fully built and therefore not measurable in its impact.
 on stern street neighborhood i've walked driven and biked on stern streets it's a narrow subdivision street just like chris talked about it was built in the 1980s and um it's been that way for you know it's not built to be a thoroughfare concern number three
 Again, it's too expensive. We have Zion, which Zion looks beautiful if you've all driven to Zion and walked it. I live there. I'm so grateful to have Zion be there. And just six-tenths of a mile over is Joy Street. So on Old Missouri, we have six-hundred and six-tenths of a mile, and we're going to put another thru-fair costing $480,000.
 You know, if I didn't live in the subdivision, I wouldn't even know about this, but I think it's a waste of money.
 Concern number four, the tree canopy. I'm glad we spent a lot of time talking about the tree canopy because that's why I live in Fayetteville. I moved here in 1985 and I love that we had people hanging in trees, that we're trying to save tree canopy and that it is a priority of the city of Fayetteville. So I'm glad we're talking about that. I just want those trees back in my neighborhood. If you're going to cut them down, I want them back in the neighborhood. Time.
 Is it possible, I'm sorry Scott. You think ma'am, how much longer would you need? One minute. Okay, everybody's amenable to that. We have no one else here to speak today because they're all on their way and I told them not to bother.
 Concern number five is that in January of 23, and I have the letter here, in January of 23 we contacted Chris's department, the engineering department, and we said we are having to replace some of our fencing around our subdivision because it's old and worn out and it was built in 2000 when the subdivision was built.
 And so we contacted them because we know we're in the right of way. And they said that the city does not have this on the radar for the city funded project. And so we went ahead and built the fence and you can go there and see the new fence that's built around that end of the subdivision.
 So I asked the city council to vote no for the budget adjustment on the student street extension because it's too expensive and the tree canopy of the 41 trees and it's
 it's too dangerous we've talked about this in every other meeting is it's too dangerous to add any more traffic coming into Vantage because you've got those beautiful bike trails going up and down Vantage coming from Lake Fayetteville going out to Lake Fayetteville but the treat that because it's a hill everyone goes down it really fast and to come up to Stern Street we've already had accidents you can you can we drive it every day so you can see
 If you look at the police reports, I'm sorry, I'm getting out a little out of order. If you look at police reports and whatever, that there have been accidents and close calls because when you go down Vantage coming from Lake Fayetteville, I mean, the bikes can go really, really fast. Okay.
 So again, I ask you to please not vote for this budget adjustment. I think $480,000 of city money could go to other worthwhile projects that are not so close to already thoroughfares. You already said tonight that Stern Street is never getting to 265. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? My name is Scott Hill, and I'm the manager of Belafonte Gardens, obviously the maintenance and stuff there.
 I just want to clarify on the satellite images are older. We actually have one maintenance shed that's about 12 by 17 feet with about a 20 foot by 12 foot carport concrete in the ground. Then we have another 10 by 12 shed next to it. These are both put in before I started working there three years ago.
 So to get these sheds moved, we're going to have to cut down probably another 10 or 15 trees to make room for trucks and trailers in the sheds and a place to turn around. So I just wanted to clarify that. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? On Zoom, I have Karen Woodward. Go ahead. Okay.
 I don't know if you guys can hear me. I'm on a plane and we're about to take off. I'm going to speak very quickly. I emailed most of you today with my opinion on this thoroughfare becoming
 for lack of better terms a death trap in four different spots what if you connect the rest so i'm asking you to absolutely say vote no on this connection as a right-of-way for vehicles i do feel like uh if 21 000 is the issue um i don't know if this was noted earlier but part of that money
 One of the contracts did say that it could be used for sidewalks. So what I would encourage you guys to do is to look at that amount of money, maybe return the difference of the $21,000, and look at future sidewalks through there or right away for our people who like to enjoy Lake Fayetteville instead of restricting –
 this access to Lake Bayable through the bike path with cars zooming across and I have to go. They just closed the door. Thank you guys, I appreciate it. Thank you. Who else? No one else on Zoom there. Okay, I'm gonna bring back to the council. A discussion with the council I'd like to have on this issue. Tracy.
 uh mayor this is a you know we've got a really split group of people here really polarized group on this issue and i didn't have a chance this week to well the weather was bad to go out there and take a look at the situation and i'd probably like to take a tour now i don't know if my other council members would like to see that it's a small area or if you'd like to vote tonight but i
 like to put that out there that that might boots on the ground might be insightful as to what may be able to be done maybe that pinch point narrowing maybe maybe not but I always just find that very helpful I think they had their lights on first okay yeah I just wanted to echo what counsel
 I did receive the information today. I'm aware that there are other individuals who may be coming, so I would like to do a tour if I'm able to. And if we could table this, I would really think that would be.
 This has been at Transportation Committee that four of us sit on a couple of times and I think we've had really exhaustive conversations around it. We've been very thankful for what staff's input has been and what the residents, they've been very engaged and have provided a lot of really good information and feedback, which I really appreciated.
 You know, some of the things brought up about the funds, you know, and whether or not this should be considered, you know, the fact that we have to put considerable outlays over and above is that we all kind of, I think, came to an agreement. And they can correct me because they're here if I misspeak.
 But at the end of the day, I think we all put this forward, asking for your approval tonight, because we do have a Master Street Connection Network plan. And we know that we're welcoming a lot of new people to Fayetteville every single day and know that those folks have to have different avenues to be able to get people easily and safely throughout our community. Right.
 And so while, you know, it would be great, we all want less traffic on our streets, right? But it's like, it's that balance and that balancing act because, you know, also those folks on Zion and the other roads don't want to take the same or increased volumes of traffic too, right? They would probably come say, can you do something else? Can you put speed bumps or what have you? And so for us, I think at the end of the day from transportation committee are asking for you to approve tonight because that's...
 This is something that we all have held hands on what our master networks are and that we know connectivity is so incredibly important. But we also are going to be mindful of making sure that we create it being as safe as possible, being able to make sure that we're slowing down traffic where we can. And I think, you know, that was kind of our recommendation to really work in concert with the neighborhood. So tonight, I'd really ask for your approval because staff is really trying to move forward with their work plan and I'd like to get them moving. Scott, then Bob.
 I would be in favor of Teresa's proposal just because in talking to Chris yesterday, he thought the same thing that we probably it was not a bad thing to table this and they're not under a yes, they are under a timeline, but they're not under a time crunch. So I would be in agreement to table this.
 Okay. Sir, did you have your light on first? No, I think you... Okay. Yours. I understand this will probably get taken tonight. This did come to transportation, and we did have pretty vibrant discussions about it and the need for it. I know that all of us would want
 The Fayetteville that was here the day we moved in to always, whenever anyone moves to Fayetteville, myself included, the day we get here, that's how we want it. But we're growing and we know it. And this is part of that growth. This has been in the plans. I understand the pain point of having a building you got to move. But I'll say I can't take that into consideration myself.
 Because I know there's a message to all of Fayetteville. Don't build in a right-of-way. Don't put anything in a right-of-way Whether it's going to be used or not. It's a right-of-way. It's a it's an easement. It's not your lane So you're just asking for hardship when you do that and it's not something I feel I could take under consideration personally, even though I do understand the pain that causes and trouble that causes but Those are my main points. It looks like this is
 we're leaning towards tabling so i'll save my other comments for the future hi thank you i appreciate the work of the the transportation committee and um and will support it i don't have any opposition to tabling this however um to the next meeting fayetteville needs every east west
 artery we can possibly have in this town and This would create an additional one There's no real belief that I think is rational that the city is not going to continue to grow in every direction that we currently have and We would rue the day if we don't make this connection I tell people to get out and drive in Fayetteville and enjoy it because this is the best traffic is ever going to be in this town the rest of your life
 and the gods agree with me. And so I just... I just think, yeah, I just think that...
 that everyone wishes traffic would be on the street away from where they reside and that's a perfectly natural opinion for each of us to have but if uh if everyone got their way how would we get around town and so uh you know think about zion's construction i mean
 God forbid if there weren't other alternative routes. So every street we have is gonna need to have repair at some point. And that's part of the reason we will need these alternative routes. When we go to maintain the streets, you would prefer people use, they're gonna have to have some other way to get to and from work and home. And so that's the logic behind this connection. Thank you.
 Yes. Yes. I guess we're going to table this. I was in favor of voting tonight. I was ready to go. But one of the things, you know, I
 Mike brought up is that, you know, we need every little connection we can get, and yes, we do. And this is one connection. If this connection had been here, it would have alleviated some traffic that would have been, you know, some problems on Zion because that was just a big problem over there to begin with. But...
 You know, this is a lot of the things that have been mentioned just simply are not, there's not going to be traffic calming. There's not going to be a new sidewalk if there's not a street connection. That's kind of the give and take of this scenario as far as I'm concerned, because there's just no reason to add these other things there if you're just going in, you know, you're talking about a dead end subdivision. So...
 You know, I regret the possibility of losing the trees and I'm sure once we all go out there We'll get a better vision of this but this has been on the master street plan a long time If you drive down Stearns if I remember correctly There is a like at the end of Stearns it just kind of stops the street just stops and there's Like is there a pile of dirt there with a barrier on it or something? So it's it's like I
 you know it looks like the street is supposed to go on through there but you know i understand the the neighborhood not wanting the street to go through and it's going to change things and it's going to you know increase the traffic but i do think it could alleviate traffic at some of the other intersections just you know if i want to cut through to go through advantage and i don't want to get on joyce or i don't want to get on
 Zion you know because Joyce is not the easiest street to turn left on you know so you know I might take this connection if it's there so thank you okay so I assume we're going to table this for a couple weeks is that we need to make a motion to table I move that we table this for three weeks second care which please call
 Mayor, excuse me, the motion was for three weeks because we were going to miss a meeting. Well, let's make it three weeks. Vernon? Yes. Funch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Stafford? No. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Okay. Well, we'll take this up in three weeks. All right, let's go on to number five.
 A resolution to grant the appeal of City Council Member Sarah Moore and Teresa Turk and deny variances FAR 2023-029 and EAR 2023-030 for a gas station development at 1110 North Garland Avenue. Jonathan, let's start off with you. Now, here's what I was intending here tonight. I want to give staff 10 minutes.
 I want to give you all, then you'll speak after that.
 Okay, and then You're appealing this for Federal strong, right? So if you want to give them ten minutes I'm good with that and then I believe we need to give the development team that's bringing the project forward Ten minutes as well and then we get into public. Does that sound fair? Yes mayor. That sounds perfect. Okay. Thank you Let's start with you. I
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurtz with the Development Services Department. As the Mayor noted, I'll take about 10 minutes to give some background on the project. I spent the majority of my time at agenda session talking process, so this time I'll take the opportunity to talk more about the specifics of the project, but of course I want to make myself available for any questions the Council has on either side of things.
 The property in question is in North Central Fayetteville in Ward 2 and includes two parcels, which you can see here located at the northeast corner of North Street and Garland Avenue. Uniquely to this property, it also has frontage on two other streets, Mount Comfort Road to the north and Lindell Avenue to the east.
 You can see the two separate parcels in better definition here as it relates to those streets. Today, the properties have between them six curb cuts onto those streets, excluding north. There's two on the Garland, three on the Mount Comfort, and one onto Lindell.
 Over the last several years, those properties have been developed with a couple uses. The western one, the western parcel was developed with a gas station most recent, or not most recently, but a gas station building about 10, 15 years ago that subsequently turned into a Little Caesars pizza place on the east side and maybe most memorable as a Mr. Burger Drive-Thru restaurant that was a Euro location before closing.
 Today, both buildings have been demolished and the site is effectively again demolished down to grain. Delving a little bit into the background of the project, staff began meeting with the applicant team in about mid 2023, what we call a pre-application meeting or a consultation.
 There were a few pieces of feedback provided at the time. The first of which is that the property is owned C1 neighborhood commercial. It allows uses like those I described previously on the property, including drive-through restaurants and gas station. The development team wanted to develop a gas station, and so understanding that it was allowed by right, moved forward with the project and received comments on a proposed site plan.
 It's a little bit of a project description of how it looks as it relates to those streets. Again, you have Garland to the west, Mount Comfort to the north, Lundell to the east and north to the south.
 The property is oriented with the C-Store, the convenience store portion of it. You can see here blue on the eastern side of the property and the awning serving the gas pumps on the west side. Two curb cuts are proposed for the overall site with the current proposal, one on the Mount Comfort Road to the north and one to Lindell to the east.
 The building is designed in terms of elevations, is the lingo we use. The top one you see here is called the west elevation, which means if you were – that is the side of the building facing west, so that will be the entrance. So the entrance to the – the main entrance of the building will be interior to the site, not exterior to it. The building – the side of the building that will be fronting Lindell is what you see below that, or the back elevation, as it's referred to here, facing east,
 to the north and south respectively. North is on the lower portion of this picture and the south elevation on the top portion. They will also not include entrances with them. With the feedback that staff provided in mind, the applicant team went back and worked on the project and ultimately came forward with two variance requests to address some issues they felt were site-specific and unfeasible to overcome.
 With that in mind, I'll go into those in a little bit more detail. For simplicity's sake, it's best to understand them in the two packages that came with. One was VAR 2023, zeroes 29, and that's about the building. The other is VAR 2023, zeroes 30, which is about the site. So if you think building versus the site, site is all the horizontal work on it, concrete work, parking lot, sidewalks, things like that. Taking these one at a time,
 The request for commercial design standard variants was for largely what I just described to you. The building, the convenience store portion of the project, is intended to face the awnings similar to what you see in many convenience store locations, gas station locations here and elsewhere today.
 with the east side of the building facing Lindell, effectively being a back of a building. Our design requirements are intended to have buildings be street facing. There's a lot of intents for that. It makes it easier for the public, the walking public, the cycling public to approach them. It's a better urban design, but on a four sided property, it can be very difficult. As our ordinances typically apply, this building would be required to have three entrances on it to the north, east and west.
 Ultimately, what is proposed is very similar to what I showed you earlier. The lower elevation, which is the east elevation facing Lindell, is proposed with no entrance on it. And accordingly, a variance was requested to that requirement with the upper elevation, which faces the gas stations, being the elevation with the main entrance to the building.
 Moving on to the more complicated of the variances requested, those to the site, there's five components to this. I'll break these down. Looking at the site again, kind of orient you to where each one of those is.
 The first one, as it relates to entrance widths, our requirements and ordinance allow entrances and their widths to be based on the classification of the street they're accessing. So the higher classification street, the wider the entrance to allow more lanes so people can make independent left turns, right turns, entrances. What the applicant has requested is a wider entrance facing Lindell, primarily because that's where their large vehicle entrance will need to be.
 Moving on to the drive aisle widths.
 Gas stations, as many of you all know, if you've used them before, there's a lot of priority given to site circulation. Is a auto-oriented use, there's a need to move vehicles, cars with trailers, personal vehicles around the property with ease. And accordingly, it's not uncommon for gas stations to require wider drive aisles than you would normally find in a privately developed parking lot. Accordingly, drive aisle widths have been requested.
 effectively the entirety of the site to allow that maneuvering throughout the property in an efficient manner. The third variance request when it comes to sites is regarding the throat length. That's the distance when you come off a public street onto a property before you need to start interacting with the circulation that's happening on that property. If you think about backing out of a parking space and needing to have enough room to both back out and for people entering the property to observe that person backing out, that's
 excuse me, in effect what the throat length standards are based on for this site because of the size of it and because it's adjacent or about four streets, they've requested that the throat lengths by both entrances be reduced from the typical 40 feet that's required.
 The fourth variance when it comes to the site that's being requested is a matter of access management. The city attorney's office issued a memo to this effect, but in an effort to summarize, every piece of private property in the city has some vested right and some degree of access to an adjacent street.
 However, the city of Fayetteville has access management standards which prioritize where those access points are and what way, shape, or form they take in an effort to ensure safety and the safe interactions of vehicles coming from private properties to public streets.
 When it comes to properties like this one or properties with more than one frontage, our standard is that the curb cut has to be placed on the lowest volume street. In this case, that would be Lindell. So what's being requested with this variance is to allow that second entrance requires an access management variance to access Mount Comfort as well because it's the same classification but higher volume street.
 Finally, as a matter of curb cut separations, this is also in our access management ordinance, but a subset of it. In an effort to minimize how many interactions there are, again, from private properties to public streets, our access management standards are set up to space out curb cuts to a more predictable pattern where they are further apart, the higher volume and the higher speed traffic on a street.
 On a street of Lindell's classification, 50 feet is required. However, to locate the main driveway in the manner that they want to and with the width that they want to accommodate large vehicle traffic, it pushes that curb cut to within 50 feet of Mount Comfort Road, and thus the reason they have requested that variance. All told…
 Staff ultimately recommended in favor of these variances. The Planning Commission, again, heard them in two parts, one for the building and the other for the site requests. Both were approved, however, it was by a split vote. The architectural design variance was approved by a split vote of six to two, and the site design variances were approved by a split vote of five to three.
 Moving forward from that July 2023 Planning Commission meeting, a grading permit was approved. Following that Planning Commission meeting, at which there was no public comment at the meeting itself, there became interest in the community or concern in the community about this property being developed as a gas station. Members of the public were advised. Okay, John, your time, your 10 minutes is up. I have 6.37. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 You know, you can. I'm just saying. Yeah. Time is at an end. Three minutes. How much time would you need, Jonathan? Three minutes, please. Three minutes. I'd like a grant. Three minutes. Thank you very much.
 following the approval of the variances it became a big concern to the several members of the community that the project was our gas station was being proposed at this location and identified that the variances were the item over which uh discretion was available to uh perhaps uh
 sorry i lost my turn i thought with that split uh that the variances uh that are perhaps the merited additional consideration from the city council because the class of project had to get a grading permit rather than a special planning commission entitlement that grading permit was approved in november 2023 and that was appealed to planning commission as a vehicle to move the variances to council
 Ultimately, the grading permit appeal was denied by the Planning Commission by similar vote as was provided with the variances. Some issues I wanted to touch on is one that's worth noting is there is a cost share riding on the coattails of the gas station project for a potential trail along North Street. This project proposes to narrow Lindell as a part of it. It's a very wide side street and this project would reduce the curb width between the two sides of it.
 There have been questions about the rarity of variances, whether related to generally use specific or this property specific. In the interest of time, if you want to hear more about those than I spoke to at the agenda session, let me know. And lastly, as you all know, there's been a substantial amount of public comment, including just this week, both in favor and opposed. I'll not attempt to characterize that because I believe most of it was delivered directly to you all.
 All that said, staff recommends the denial of the appeal and to uphold staff's recommendation and the Planning Commission's approval. I'm happy to take any questions that the Council has. Thank you for the additional time. Okay. What questions does the Council have or do you want to wait until we hear? Okay. I have an initial question just to understand this. There's absolutely no curb cuts on Garland or North? Not proposed, no.
 Okay. Now, does the council members like to make a statement? If it's okay, I'd like to go ahead and let Fayetteville Strong present, and I'd actually like to follow up at the end potentially with anything else that's come up that maybe we need to hit on, but it might be redundant if we spoke, Council Member Turk and I spoke beforehand to what will be spoken to both with the
 property owner as well as the Fayetteville Strong applicant. And so I'd love us to maybe just hit on any additional questions or highlights at the end, if that's okay. That's fine. That's the way y'all want to work it. We'll do it that way. All right. Fayetteville Strong, you have 10 minutes.
 Good evening and thank you so much for giving us time here to voice our concerns about this. We especially want to give our appreciation to Council Members Turk and Moore for giving us this opportunity to make the case for what might be a better use on this corner. I also want to thank the Planning Commission staff for all their hard work and guidance throughout this process.
 My name is Delaney Bartlett, as you probably know by now. I'm a lifetime Fayettevillian. I currently reside on South Gregg Avenue. So as some of you know, I founded Fayetteville Strong last year as a local citizens group aligned with the principles of Strong Towns to advocate for a safer city for people on foot, bicycling, and other forms of active transportation.
 which also has the added benefit of being much more fiscally sound than our outdated auto-oriented zoning practices that we currently have. As part of that, we're big supporters of the rezoning plan along the 71B corridor. We've also been extremely supportive of the city's active transportation projects, such as the new bike lane on Appleby. We've been speaking out in favor of them and defending them from critics on social media and in public.
 Mostly, though, we're here to be boots on the ground, helping residents make real tangible improvements to their streets, making them safer and more enjoyable. If we could go to the second image. We worked with other local groups and neighbors to install tactical urbanism projects like the Holly Street project seen here, which is located just a block away from the lot that we're discussing right now. If we could go to the next one, please.
 We created temporary protected sidewalks, so to speak, and used traffic calming to make Holly Street objectively safer for the students and families who live there. We're coming before you today to urge you to support our appeal. In his letter to the council, Roadrunner's attorney Robert Rhodes states that the gas station that it wants to put on this lot is, quote, the best fit, safest, and most convenient in the eyes of the planning staff and engineers.
 We could go to the next slide please. But it is not the best fit, safest, or most convenient in the eyes of the residents who have to live, walk, and bike there. We could go to the next one please. There are many reasons that the community as a whole and not just Fayetteville Strong is overwhelmingly opposed to this development.
 This development runs directly counter to the 2040 master plan which was approved by our city council and which you affirmed last year which state that this area should be developed in a pedestrian friendly way with mixed-use development supporting diverse economic activity with safe cycling access and transit services putting a large gas station
 Here undermines our plans, our public investments, and much of the progress we've already made building strong transit services in that area. But today we're focusing on what we think is the most important factor. The fact that this kind of development here and what is already one of the most dangerous intersections in the city will make it even more dangerous for people walking and cycling.
 To walk you through the details, I'd like to introduce you to Nick Thorne, an architect and one of the founding members of Deadville Strong. Thank you, Delaney. Thank you, City Council, and thank you, City staff, for all of your help as we move through this process. As Delaney said, my name is Nick Thorne. I live at 629 North Gray Avenue, just a few, about less than a mile walk from this property.
 I'M A PROUD MEMBER OF FAYETTEVILLE STRONG AS WE WORK TO IMPROVE OUR CITY. WE HAVE A LOT OF SUCCESSES FROM 2023 AND WE HAVE SOME REALLY BIG PLANS FOR 2024.
 Not only is this project and this property important to the long-term health of the built environment of our city, but like I said, it is also less than a mile walk from my house. And what happens in this city is just as important as what happens in my neighborhood. As an architect, I regularly ask myself, how might this be otherwise? And that question rings especially true for this project.
 This property is a prominent location within the community, and this intersection is regularly active with people walking, biking, riding scooters, and taking Razorback transit. After seeing this site cleared of the existing buildings, I, like others who support this appeal in the community, were discouraged when learning that a gas station was planned for such an active and visible corner. This proposed project, with the variances granted,
 IN ADDITION TO THE VARIANCE THAT IS GRANTED, GOES COUNTER TO THE VISION SET FORTH BY OUR CITY TO ENCOURAGE STOPPED DEVELOPMENT IN AN ACTIVE LIFESTYLE BY INVESTING IN BIKE LANES, SIDEWALKS, DOING THE GOOD THING OF REMOVING COMMERCIAL PARKING MINIMUMS AND BUILDING A ROBUST AND INTERCONNECTED TRAIL NETWORK.
 THE EXACT LANGUAGE AND SPECIFIC REASONING BEHIND OUR APPEAL ARE INCLUDED IN THE AGENDA PACKET AS PART OF THE LETTER THAT WAS SENT TO COUNCILMEMBER MOORE IN TURK. SO I WILL NOT READ THAT IN EXPLICIT DETAIL TONIGHT, BUT HOPE TO PAINT A MORE COMPREHENSIVE PICTURE OF WHY THESE VARIANCES SHOULD BE DENIED.
 Broadly speaking, the appeal focuses on challenging these variances granted for the departure from architectural and site design standards. As was reviewed for the architectural variances, we believe it is irresponsible to the fabric of the neighborhood.
 for a new building to not be fronted towards the major streets where people will be approaching from, as seen on the south elevation, primarily because the south elevation is faced towards North Street and where there is a planned trail extension, which you'll see on the next slide, for the North Street corridor for active transportation to be built.
 The most significant concern though of our group is the negative impact that the proposed plan and the approved variances will have on the area's safety. I commend the City of Fayetteville for adopting the Vision Zero Northwest Arkansas Safety Action Plan in 2023 with a goal of eliminating traffic deaths and serious injuries by 2030, and for receiving a sizable grant to improve pedestrian safety in other parts of the city.
 But to make progress towards that goal, vehicle-centric uses shouldn't be granted exceptions to driveway regulations in areas with dense concentration of incidents and collisions and injuries, as shown on the next slide in the traffic crashes heat map. In addition, traffic crashes, this traffic crash heat map should also be considered when new projects, especially auto-centric projects, are proposed in these dense concentration areas.
 As was reviewed, the intersections of Garland, North, Lindell, and Mount Comfort present a confusing and unique scenario in our city for drivers, pedestrians, and transit users alike. Increasing traffic volume on those minor streets due to auto-centric uses will be more dangerous to people who live, work, walk, and bike in this area and will be counterproductive to meeting the Vision Zero goals set by you by 2030. Adding insult to injury, if you will, the site plan variances
 don't actually make the site accessible for tanker deliveries, which is shown in the next slide. As you can see, the increased driveway widths
 on Lindell that are supposed to provide better access for the trucks. The trucks are still unable to make the turn wholly on public property. As you can see in the bottom right, the truck has to cut across sidewalks and city public city property as well as doing the same on the north as it exits onto Mount Comfort.
 While after-hour deliveries might lessen the direct impact on pedestrians, this traffic flow for tanker deliveries will eventually degrade public infrastructure and likely make the sidewalks less safe and incur more maintenance from the city. So overall, this project, if you look at it from a big picture, this project is more of a microcosm of vehicle-centric development pattern that has...
 PERPETUATED INDIVIDUAL SITE PAD DEVELOPMENT AND HAS LED TO, HAS NOT HELPED THE CURRENT HOUSING CRISIS IN THE CITY AND WE BELIEVE THAT THIS PROJECT WILL NOT SIGNIFICANTLY IMPROVE THE LIFE, SAFETY OR WELFARE OF THE CITIZENS OF PAYETTEVILLE. IN CLOSING, JUST BECAUSE A GAS STATION CAN BE BUILT THERE DOES NOT MEAN THAT A GAS STATION SHOULD BE BUILT THERE. THIS PROJECT FALLS SHORT OF ADDRESSING OUR CITY'S CURRENT AND FUTURE NEEDS AS THE REGION AND CITY GROWS.
 as explicitly designed in the city plan 2040 and the recently completed housing assessment. Planning Commission missed the mark with a short-term vision when approving variances to enable this project and later denying our appeal. So we are asking you, City Council, to right the wrongs of past auto-centric development, build on some impressive previous city planning successes in our city, and chart a course for truly making Fayetteville everyone's favorite. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right. Any questions for us? I think we'll hear from the Roadrunner development team, and then we'll ask, I'm sure, multiple questions. You all have ten minutes, Rob.
 Thank you. Good evening, Mayor, Council. My name is Robert Rhodes and I'm with the law firm of Hall Estill and I am representing Roadrunner tonight. And tonight we have representatives from Roadrunner to answer any questions that you may have. We also have a part of our engineering team and architectural team, and they stand by ready, willing and able to answer questions as well.
 Behind me is Jake Newcomb. Come on up, Jake. And Jake represents the owners, and he's going to start off. Thank you, Robert. Council Mayor, start off by saying thank you on behalf of myself and the developer for having us in here tonight to be able to present a few key points that I think are going to be important in your consideration of this matter. Thank you.
 First and foremost, as an anchor for what's going to be said tonight about this project, I want to emphasize that this gas station, and you've heard it and you know it, it aligns overall seamlessly with the existing zoning code. That is, it's not a discretion whether or not this type of development can be built.
 it's a matter of right now the variances are a different question but how we got there as you heard from mr kerth is through a collaborative process with the city these aren't variances that are absolutely necessary for this development to go forward rather they help make the development a safer and more desirous project and i think it's important to note too that mr kerth stated in his agenda planning session he didn't touch on it as much tonight but these variances are commonplace
 amongst gas stations that are built in Fayetteville. Part of the reason being, as Mr. Kerr stated at the agenda planning session, is that the nature of our code inherently places an undue burden on applicants who want to build a gas station in Fayetteville because the code is not
 set up to accommodate gas stations. So the results you get from that is that most gas stations that are gonna go in are gonna achieve these exact, or request and achieve these exact same variances that have been granted in this matter. And I don't have all the data with me, but we know for a fact that the come and go that was built on Martin Luther King just in a year ago, received some or all of these exact same variances. One of the key concerns you've heard from the appellants here this evening, and I think you'll continue to hear from public comments is safety.
 And I want to assure the council that safety has been at the forefront of the considerations of this development.
 You know, you heard earlier about the right to access certain streets, the lack of the necessity for the curb cut to enter on Garland and North. It's my understanding that there's a strong argument to be made that we could access on Garland and North, much busier thoroughfares that would result in a less safe development. In a collaborative effort with the city, we are now going to access this property on Lindle and Mount Comfort. That requires the variances.
 because these are smaller thoroughfares, but these were done to enhance the safety of the project.
 All things considered, if you looked at it earlier, I believe there were six curb cuts between these two parcels, two of which enter Garland. This development will reduce those curb cuts to two. There'll be no ingress and egress on Garland. And the variances weren't granted in an arbitrary fashion. I want to be sure that we understand that. They were carefully considered to enhance the safety measures that are associated with this property. And denying the variances is probably going to result in a less safe property or development.
 And we've also heard concerns about the development's alignment with the future master plan. And I want to be clear that I understand and support the city's long-term goals. However, I don't support the notion, and the council should not either, that the city's plans 20 years from now should be used to prescribe or prevent a landowner now from utilizing his property under the codes that are in place now.
 I want to remind the council that the developers of this matter have, for almost a year now, expended time and effort to work collaboratively with the city in an effort to work within the current zoning code to create a development that aligns with that code and is also developed in a forward-thinking manner. And that's the sort of collaboration that I would put to you that is the embodiment of responsible land use instead of some deviation from it.
 And I also want to be clear that we've heard various reasons for why these variances should be denied. And I think we'll continue to hear whether it's safety or whether it is about the future alignment with the plans. But it's all traceable back to one goal. And nobody's trying to hide the ball here. They don't want a gas station to go in on this lot. That's what the key of this appeal is.
 They couldn't attack it frontal, so they had to attack the variances. And, you know, like I said, you've heard from the city attorney, and you'll hear from me, and you'll hear from others, wishful thinking about what you'd like to see here or what may be allowed or not allowed here in 20 years cannot be part of the analysis on whether or not these variances should be granted or denied. Okay.
 So in conclusion, I'd urge the council to deny the appeal, approve the development with the present variances. And as I stated earlier, denying the appeal is not only going to uphold the rightful use of this property under our current zoning codes, it's going to result in a safer and more desirous development for everyone. And granted, the appeal will have the exact opposite effect. And with that, I'll yield the rest of my time to Mr. Rhodes. Thank you all.
 I'll be very brief. I think in my letter I had indicated that we had tried to meet with the Fayetteville Strong folks and had not. Well, since that letter, we had what I thought was a very productive Zoom call. And I can tell you that this is one of these situations where,
 the developer and the owner are totally at odds with a citizens group. No, that's not the case at all. I think we respect them without a doubt with what they're trying to do in this community. We had a great conversation with them. I think we heard and listened to them. And I think they heard and listened to us. However, at the end of the day,
 We have a situation where the Roadrunner folks met with the city staff and asked questions over a year ago, asked questions about, okay, how can we put this together in a way that it's going to be appealing to the city and it's going to be safe and so forth, realizing that this was a busy intersection.
 And with that collaboration, we came up with, we believe, and what the city staff believe to be a safe way to put what we have a right to put in. We also have spent a million dollars so far on this piece of property, engineering, what have you. After this much time and that much money, unfortunately, as we told the folks on the Zoom call, the Fayetteville Strong folks on the Zoom call,
 Our hands are somewhat tied. We can't go back on this. We need to put a gas station in there, and we will. We want to put the safest gas station, so therefore we are going to fight for these variances. But if the variances are denied, then we'll still have to put a gas station in there, but it won't be as safe. What we recommended in that Zoom call, you're not without...
 resources, this is us talking to the fail strong people. You're not without a way to move forward. The ability of this group 700 strong to work with staff, pinpoint areas in the city where perhaps there's a rezoning change that's needed, where you can make it safer for walking, safer for bicycles
 and then work with council members and get it before the council and change the zoning. That is their recourse to stop this, the variances here, and make this less safe
 is not a logical recourse. And we respectfully would ask you to deny the appeal. And when I indicated that we had people from the Roadrunner and engineers and architects here, I meant that as in, please ask us any questions that you may have
 and you will hear us give you very solid and truthful answers, and I thank you. Okay. Well, that's the three presentations. Now I will give the floor to the council members that brought the appeal. So thank you to all the groups and to the different parties who have spent time on this. I understand there's been a lot of diligence done on all sides, and I understand resources have been expended.
 I also understand too, and I want to, you know, again, address an elephant in the room. You know, the processes are not perfect. I think there's been frustration on the side of the development applicant and the property owner, and there's been frustration on the community side. And I will tell you that we have work to do on the council on the way these processes happen in the future, and we've learned that, unfortunately, with this development. So I do want to acknowledge that there's been some frustration there.
 I also too, though, in talking to my council members, really want us to think about when we make this decision that we did reaffirm the city plan 2040. And it's really a vision for what we really want these areas like this to look like in 2030. And while they're correct that by right, this has the ability to be able to have a gas station, it doesn't by right have the ability to have the variances. Right.
 Maybe an additional project or a different project would also have to come. You know, it is an odd way that it's laid out and ask for variances. But that within the law and the way things are, and I'll let our attorney correct me if I'm wrong, we can take into account uses whenever we're thinking about whether or not we're OK with those variances.
 We also in our workshop, a city council really said that our priority was quality of life in Fayetteville. And we've yet to totally define that. But oftentimes our conversations go back and hinge around safety. As a mom with an eight and a 12 year old who lives a stone's throw from this location, I both bike, walk and use my automobile in this area.
 It is a very hard area to navigate safely. Those heat maps, I live those every day. I've also lived in this area of town for the last 12 years. And I will tell you that those have been quite low volume places that were in business in that area.
 Not frequent trips coming and going from those properties while it was a Little Caesar, while it was Mr. Burger. You know, the height of that would oftentimes be Razorback football games, right? But it didn't generate the types of trips that whenever I've looked up a study that was done.
 by the ITE Journal and you have a service station of this magnitude and if you think about the road runner that's located at Lafayette and college there, that's half the size of what we'd be seeing at Garland and North Street. And the ITE Journal talked about the potential for thousands of trips. I know today that property in the last 12 years has not experienced thousands of trips yet we look at a heat map like we do.
 I also know that when we think about the community investments and the taxpayer dollars, we have to be good stewards of our money. Our community invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in that city plan, and they visioned thousands of them for their voices to be heard, for us to listen in every decision we make.
 Additionally, we are continuing to put money and we got a really good textbook lesson from the housing study about the cost of infrastructure. We've made incredible infrastructure improvements around the city and we always want to make sure we're putting the best effort of the property so that it can pay back. And we know that we're going to put millions of dollars creating more safety with a trail system. So we really want to make sure that when we are
 bending over and we're making variances for different developments that were in honor of those commitments that we've made to taxpayers with those investments.
 You know, I feel like a little bit of the applicant has done fear mongering, if I'm being honest. I went in good faith to sit with them and I was basically at the end of the conversation, much like you heard tonight, told we're going to put a gas station here no matter what. That doesn't feel collaborative or like community to be told and basically fear monger that it's coming and it can be in a less friendly format and we'll go and we have the ability by state law to access these different roads.
 Yes, they do, but again, are we in community? Are we collaborative? Or do we have a vision for the future together? And I really do question if it were the case that they could easily access this project without going and creating a 41-foot variance to the regular driveway entrance, if they really could access this property. And are they going to really be able to go to the drawing board in the future with this project and fit it on there without these variances?
 So I ask for your consideration tonight to really uphold the ideals and the taxpayer funds that have been entrusted to us and to deny these variances because this isn't the right fit. It's not the right use of our funds at this time. And that we do have to be visionary and have to really listen to all residents, not just those that have the biggest megaphone, but everyone in Fayetteville. Tracy?
 I echo many of Sarah's suggestions and comments. I live really close to this area. I probably go past this area three or four times a day. It's very congested. When I started looking at the safety information, the volume of traffic, I became very concerned about that. And also had many constituents reach out and ask that we appeal this.
 So, in sum, that is the reason why I appealed it, because I am very much concerned about the safety, the volume of traffic. I can't think of any higher volume of use in a very, very congested area already. So those are my remarks. And I would ask that we uphold the appeal and deny the variances.
 Okay, well let's start with what questions does the council have for the staff or roadrunner or federal strong to begin with? Mayor?
 I was going to ask if I could address a point that Council Member Moore made since the City Attorney's Office was invoked. I think the confusion came about because at the Planning Commission meeting, I read a portion of the code that talks about the test for granting a variance. The test is if the provisions of development chapter 166 or parking and loading chapter 172 are shown by the developer to cause undue hardship as they apply to this proposed development.
 AND THE SITUATION IS UNIQUE TO THE SUBJECT PROPERTY, THAT HAS SOMEHOW BEEN TAKEN TO MEAN THAT YOU CAN CONSIDER THE SUITABILITY OF THE PROPOSED USE. THE ONLY TIME THE USE OR THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT COMES INTO PLAY IS WHEN YOU'RE LOOKING AT WHAT THE NEEDS OF THAT PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT ARE. SO IN THIS CASE YOU'VE GOT A GAS STATION.
 They have site circulation issues that another development might not have. That's when the proposed use comes into play. It's not whether the city council likes what is being proposed or you feel like it's not in line with the city plan because it is a use by right. It is zoned for gas stations. So what I recommend is looking at the test, and it's at the end of my memo that I sent out yesterday or the day before. There are four things you're looking at.
 It's whether an undue hardship exists, whether the situation is unique to the subject property, whether substantial justice can be done in the public interest secured by granting the variance, and that the variation will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of the regulations being varied. So if you deny the variances, it should be because they don't meet the test, not because you don't like gas stations. Okay. DeAndre. Yes.
 Blake, thank you for sharing that. I have a question and it was brought to my attention that the applicant mentioned that it's been some mentioned regarding a lawsuit if we deny the variance because that is from what I understand an infringement on their vested property rights.
 Is that help me understand it, please? Sure. So if the city council denies or grants the appeal and denies the variances, the applicant can appeal to circuit court. And if we get to circuit court, then either a judge or jury will determine whether the applicant has met the test that we've got in the code. If you were to.
 deny them, say for example, they were proposing four driveways on all four sides, and you said no, they could potentially file suit and either one, get access, or two, get damages because we've taken away a property right that the Arkansas Supreme Court has recognized. So it could be appealed further beyond this body. Okay. So, but
 then they're also from what I'm understanding that the project will go forward without the variances. So if they can sue, then how is it possible? So it's a it is a by right use. So they could move forward straight to building permit without the variances and they would have to comply with all the unified development code requirements that Jonathan has gone over or their other option is to appeal.
 a denial if you were to deny the variances tonight they could appeal that to circuit court and ask the court to require the city to allow them to use the variances thank you blake thank you
 I just wanted to start with the first question and I'll save my comments for a little bit later, but there's a question for Jonathan. Jonathan, you mentioned that there were no votes on planning on both sets of variances on design and on the access variances or the site variances. Do you know what the arguments were for those no votes? Can you summarize that?
 I can't attempt to characterize it. I do know that I think one of our commissioners is present in the room tonight if they'd like to speak for themselves in the capacity as a commissioner. The site design standards, there was some concern similar to what was expressed by Fayetteville Strong and what you've heard from some of the council members so far tonight that there are, or there were traffic concerns that even with the variances that may not alleviate some concerns about access.
 and that we may not be upholding the intent of those ordinances, which are, have kind of mixed purposes in some ways. They're at one hand, a lot of those site variances are intended to be about improving circulation and efficiency of a property. They're also intended to ensure safe access onto the property, not just for vehicles, but for non-vehicular users as well.
 I think that's a pretty consistent theme of what I heard the commissioner saying was that supporting the variances would not observe their intent or would not maintain the spirit and intent of what those ordinances exist for. I think that was most primarily emphasized with the building design variance, if I recall correctly, with the understanding, I think I may have noted it earlier, but to repeat,
 that the intent of that ordinance is to have street facing buildings that are more readily approachable and addressing to that adjacent street rather than having a blank wall and then a dry vial and then the street or sidewalk. Yeah. I mean, it's hard to have every down and forth sighted.
 you know we have streets on all sides and like architects street-facing building on all four sides yes if that's a question that that it is uh very very much so um there are particularly with convenience stores a lot of back of house activities uh some of which need a very secure space that's not safe for them to have entrances it's not safe for them to have windows i believe this the most comparable condition that we've seen this is the
 I'm forgetting the name of the gas station, the new one on Happy Hollow. Is that a come and go? Oh, thank you. Yes, it's a come and go. That was great. They had to seek a very similar variance because their back of house activities that are on the south facing side of the building, which face towards the city property where Mexican original previously was, they sought a variance for that because Ray, which wraps around the south side of the building, is a public street. Hey, you need to turn the mic on. Oh, sorry. I apologize.
 Okay, it is a little different. I mean those streets aren't really, Ray's not really trafficked there, at least as it is now. I mean there's zero traffic on Ray. I don't know that counts on it. I did miss because my neighbor is— That's my neighborhood. Sorry, it's fairly— I walked—I'm doing all the time. —what I meant to say though, but yes. Okay. Okay, I have a question for Jonathan that I would ask for the gentleman that spoke for Fayetteville Strong to come back up. I got a question for him.
 It's my understanding that you staff worked with the developer to agree on these variances. It was a hand in hand working back and forth with each other to come up with these variances. Certainly, I think that's a fair characterization. And it's your interpretation that these variances make the project a safer project? Yes. Okay, thank you. If I could ask the gentleman from Fayetteville Strong to come up.
 And if you could pull up the for him the the slide that shows for like I forget the term you use hotspots. So the the heat map the heat map map. Mayor, I have that available. Yes. Quicker. Would you explain to me how these are calculated?
 That is not part of my expertise of how the heat map is calculated or populated. I believe it takes accident and incident reports from public safety and plots it on a map. If there's anyone from city staff or city council that could answer that more directly, I'm not fully aware of how these are actually calculated.
 Jonathan, do you have an answer for that? I can speak to it. This is information that is collected annually by our GIS group, our computer mapping group from our police department. The particular one that's available online, as you can see, I believe goes from 2017 to 21. So that's a cumulative number over five years. So it can be broken down by individual years as well, which is certainly something that staff looks at when considering these requests.
 Sorry, I thought I had it here. I have the numbers in front of me, however. For example, 2023, there were two accidents that the police department responded to. In 2022, there were four. In 2021, there were four. In 2020, there were three.
 So those are all accumulated on this map with each dot representing a different classification and response, whether it's no parent injury, possible injury, or incapacitating injury, if you can see the key on the right-hand side here. So that's not live.
 in a year that's scattered over. Correct, that's a five-year cumulative. And this one is 2017 to 2021. I believe it takes a bit of data cleanup to get those updated and hear from you here. Is it possible to scroll up a little bit to the Mount Comfort intersection? Thank you. And so that's over, it looks like same amount of time, five years? Correct.
 The reason I asked that is, Bob, if you remember agenda session, you asked us to take a look at this and take this in consideration. So I did just that. And I was quite frankly surprised at the few number of accidents that do occur at this intersection. And any accident is one too many accidents. However, to put that in perspective,
 We had two accidents at that intersection in 2023, and we had a total of 3,038 accidents throughout the city. So I wondered how this got to be, as the lady that spoke to Fayetteville Strong talked about this was a very hazardous intersection, but the numbers don't necessarily,
 agree with that. If you take into consideration the intersections that are major concerns in Fayetteville, this doesn't even get in the top 20.
 of locations. So I was wondering how you calculated, came up with that and obviously you cleared it up. And if we peeled away the numbers, for example, there was two accidents in 2023, the one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10th rated intersection in Fayetteville had 68 accidents.
 So the number one intersection had 118. So after I got to, at Bob's request, I started peeling this number, peeling this,
 uh map down and i was a little surprised at the numbers so i thought you came up with it as a reason i asked you to come back understood and um i guess what the only the only thing that you know i might think of is you know it i drive through here regularly as well i live down the street from theresa and uh it it's a tricky intersection to navigate to navigate especially with the slip lane turning from uh north onto carlin headed north
 And not all, these heat maps are generated from police reports and not all the time are police report, are wrecks and crashes and incidents likely reported. So there might be some that are just likely not called here, but I appreciate your comment to the context of this map. So thank you.
 Thank you. Scott, there's one thing I'd like to point out while that map's still up there is I don't know if you're just looking at the center of that circle, but that's like the middle of the intersection. When you bring it out to the full intersection, you're looking at more, and I understand it's still nowhere as significant as the other intersections you're talking about, but I just want to make sure you're counting all those dots to the east, west, north, and south,
 writes MacDav in the apex of that intersection.
 Well, and if I can interject, I mean, I absolutely understand the comparison, but then I feel like we could get into the weeds of the numbers and maybe we should. However, I don't also know what the traffic counts are from each of those. There are some major intersections that probably see the vast majority. And so as an absolute count, they might look one way, but what do they look at as a percentage of the traffic in the vehicle and pedestrian area?
 pedestrian volume that goes through there would be a question too, because we have many bodies on Razorback transit buses, we know they're full. So the volume of people moving through there versus how many car trips that some of the others. So I understand you wanting to dig deeper into it, but also a little concerned that
 At this time, you know, this is not the same as like a college and Joyce intersection. Definitely, you know, North and Garland, I wouldn't say would be comparable in that type of comparison. Well, I...
 I dug into it just because Bob made a point to ask us to do that and made a point to show a point of significance to that. So I wanted to honor his request and I did that. I had one other question. Behind HARPS, Jonathan, there was a substantial...
 housing apartment complex that was built four or five years ago. Did we have concerns at that time about traffic or have we obviously by the numbers of accidents, we're not seeing we haven't seen an increase of accidents because of that housing. You recall roughly how how long ago that was built?
 i think you're correct it was about five or six years ago but i do not recall if there was any conversation around traffic concerns uh the way that that apartment complex is set up as it feeds on the to as you can see here on the garland at another signalized intersection just the north james street which serves the apartments enters into mount comfort immediately before another signalized intersection so basically the same concept as gas station would feed to the lesser
 volume street. Not apples to apples, but similar. Right, right. Okay. Thank you.
 So, Mayor, I'd like to comment on Scott's question. So there is actually a real problem there. So when they feed out of behind harps, a lot of them, they're only supposed to make a right-hand turn. They make a left-hand turn. I see it all the time. There's been so many near crashes there, if not more than that. And I have complained about it, and so have the neighbors.
 So there has been definitely some safety issues coming onto North Street. And I think that was discussed way back when. Any other questions from the council? Okay.
 Mayor, did we get to speak again after public comment? Because I'd like to save my... I was going to save my comments for after public comment. Oh, we're going to do public comments. And Bob, we'll sit here and talk all night if you want to. Okay. It looks like we're headed that direction. All right.
 We're going to take some public comment. We're going to take some public comment now. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You've got a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to be first in the chamber?
 GOOD EVENING. MY NAME IS KEATON SMITH, LIVE AT 88 EAST FOURTH STREET. THANK YOU MAYOR AND COUNCIL FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK IN SUPPORT OF FAYETTEVILLE STRONG'S APPEAL OF THESE VARIANCES. I'D LIKE TO START BY EXPRESSING APPRECIATION FOR THE ENTIRE TEAM AT THE CITY FOR AN EXTREMELY INNOVATIVE PROGRAM THAT ALLOWED FAYETTEVILLE STRONG TO IMPLEMENT TANGIBLE SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS ON HOLLY STREET LESS THAN A QUARTER MILE FROM THE PROPOSED PROJECT.
 Fable Strong worked with city staff, the Trailblazers nonprofit, and dozens of volunteers and supporters on a project approved through the city's Tactical Urbanism program. As you all know, this innovative program allows any citizen or group to ask for permission to make temporary improvements to their neighborhood.
 On Holly Street, one block away from the proposed gas station, we added a protected biking and walking path, crosswalks, and a beautiful mural painted at the intersection of Holly and Oakland. These improvements are helping to slow traffic, improve safety for cyclists and pedestrians, beautify the streetscape, and build community. They also create a critical connection between one of the highest density neighborhoods in the city with the amenities and the commercial services in the Garland North area.
 I say all that to highlight just one specific example of this amazing city government doing fantastic and innovative work. Tonight, please let this conversation be a call to action to build on the many wonderful things the city is doing by addressing the underlying issue in this case. What is the root cause of the issue we are discussing tonight? The root cause is that the rules for what can be built on this site,
 the zoning are diametrically opposed to the vision that you all in our community have cast for the future of this neighborhood the city can solve this mismatch by proactively rezoning our designated tier centers to make the development pattern we've all agreed we want to see built legal please make it legal to build walkable mixed-use town centers throughout Fayetteville this particular project is being shoehorned into a challenging site it's a square peg in a round hole
 Even though a gas station is allowed here by the zoning, a gas station doesn't fit here. My observation is that the community overwhelmingly opposes the project. When it first came before the Planning Commission, the news article about the proposal generated a huge amount of uproar and negative comments on social media. Unfortunately, the timing of the article was such that the public did not know about it in time to attend the Planning Commission and express opposition, and it passed.
 That said, I empathize with both the landowner and the project developer. Both have invested significant time, effort, and money in this project. However, the developer knew going into this process that variances would likely be required and project approval would not be guaranteed. They also knew or should have known that this location has been designated as a mixed-use tier center in our growth concept map. As for the landowner, one potential solution that would substantially increase the value
 KEETON, DO YOU NEED ANOTHER MINUTE? CAN YOU DO IT IN 30 SECONDS? I'LL GRANT HIM A MINUTE. ONE POTENTIAL SOLUTION THAT WOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE THE VALUE OF THEIR PROPERTY COULD BE FOR THE CITY TO CONSIDER CONVEYING THE MOUNT COMFORT RIGHT-OF-WAY TO THE PRIVATE LANDOWNER, CLOSE THE DIAGNAL STREET AND UPZONE THE PROPERTY TO ALLOW FOR A DENSE MIXED USE
 It is my personal opinion that the highest and best use of this property is likely market rate student housing, and I'm sure the surrounding businesses would welcome the increase in foot traffic that dozens, maybe more than 100 new residents would add. In closing, I ask that you deny these variances, and more importantly, I ask that you begin the process of rezoning this tier center and all of our designated tier centers to align our land use policy with our land use vision. Thank you. Thank you. Who else wants to address this?
 I AM A CURRENT MEMBER OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION. I'M ALSO A PROFESSIONAL PLANNER BY PRACTICE WITH AICP CERTIFICATION. I WAS ONE OF THE VOTES AGAINST THE VARIANCES WHEN IT WAS BEFORE THE PLANNING COMMISSION. SO I KNOW THAT MY WORDS WERE CODED IN THE LETTER FROM STRONG, BUT I WANT TO MAKE A COUPLE OF POINTS HERE IN PERSON FOR YOU. ONE IS, THE VARIANCE OF THE VARIANCE OF THE VARIANCE OF THE
 This use is absolutely permitted by right.
 BY RIGHT MEANS YOU GET TO DO IT BY RIGHT IF YOU MEET OUR STANDARDS. IF THEY HAD PROPOSED TO MEET OUR STANDARDS, THEY WOULD HAVE NEVER COME TO PLANNING COMMISSION AT ALL. THEY COULD HAVE GONE STRAIGHT TO GO. CLEARLY THEY DIDN'T TRY TO DO THAT. WHAT ARE OUR STANDARDS? JONATHAN HIGHLIGHTED A LOT OF THOSE. AS FAR AS I CAN TELL AND WHAT WAS PRESENTED EACH TIME THEY HAVE COME BEFORE THE PLANNING COMMISSION OR YOU ALL,
 They've made no attempt to meet our standards. They have delivered their standard prototype of a Roadrunner gas station that you can see sprinkled all over the state.
 I know in other places, if you really want to meet our standards, there is a shorthand term for gas stations that are doing something called gas backwards. That's where they actually put the building at the street and they put the canopy on the other side, which is where their access is.
 from either Mount Comfort or Lindle. They made no attempt to meet our standards as written. They came in the door asking for variances. Variances are not by right. There's no guarantee. We heard the applicant tonight, and Mr. Pennington mentioned perhaps they could have
 ASK FOR ACCESS FROM NORTH OR GARLAND. I WOULD POSE TO YOU IF THAT REALLY MADE SENSE, THEY WOULD HAVE DONE THAT. THE TOPOGRAPHY IS VERY EXTREME AT THAT INTERSECTION. THEIR ABILITY TO GET A TANKER TRUCK IN FROM EITHER GARLAND OR NORTH IS HIGHLY UNLIKELY. IF THAT WAS MORE LOGICAL, THEY WOULD HAVE COME WITH THAT TO START WITH. I ENCOURAGE YOU TO UNDERSTAND THAT VARIANCES ARE NOT GUARANTEED. IT'S WITHIN YOUR PURVIEW.
 to deny that or to support the appeal this evening. I could go on and on. I'm happy to answer more questions, but I encourage you to look out for the best entrance of the city, of the residents, not just the Roadrunner application. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hello, everyone. My name is Kevin. I'm a 170 South Hill Avenue. I had a whole thing written out, but I'm just going to piggyback off of what that nice lady just said. Kind of the one undercurrent that I've heard from this is the threat of lawsuit to the council. And it should be noted that these are the lawyers' jobs. They were just doing it. Whether or not it's a formality or not, I'm not a lawyer, so I can't speak to that.
 Like the lady was saying, variances are not a guarantee. And I think there's a strong argument to be said for protecting the public good in both the financial security of the city's coffers. What all the faithful, strong folks always chime about the financial solvency of mixed-use developments. The developer could have built, you know...
 A BUILDING OF VARIOUS SIZES, ANYTHING MORE THAN ONE STORY, AND THEY WOULD HAVE A DIVERSITY OF TENANTS AND INSTEAD CHOSE TO GO WITH ONE TENANT. OF COURSE, IT'S THEIR RIGHT, BUT IT'S ALSO THE CITY'S RIGHT TO PROTECT THE FINANCIAL INTEREST OF THE CITY. AND OF COURSE, THE MOST IMPORTANT THING IS THE SAFETY. SO, YEAH, TALKING A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE SAFETY, IT'S BEEN SAID BEFORE, THE NORTH OF THE CITY.
 uh, street trail will be going along the, uh, the corner of North streets. And, you know, I've already had one example. I ride sometimes up in Rogers and there's the come and go. God, I feel like there's been like three or four come and goes built in the past two years. Um,
 There's a come and go on First Street going towards downtown Rogers and, you know, the driveway goes right over the multi-use trail. And sometimes I'm on my bike and I just, you know, thankfully nothing's happened, but it's just an accident waiting to happen. It just undermines the utility and the safety of what that trail would provide. And then jumping back over to what was said before, the city plan 2040.
 talks about the tiered centers and what the vision for the city was going forward. And, you know, the plan is good, but really we need to be accelerating efforts to actually rezoning those plots. You know, if this plot was rezoned, and regardless of what happens today, the plots and all the plots need to be rezoned so that these kinds of deliberate, bureaucratic decisions
 struggles can be avoided because when we give developers more options, we will get better options. Currently, we have quite poor options with the land we have. This is very location efficient land. I mean, when I was in school, I lived at Hots Hall right up the hill and I would sometimes walk down to Harps and get something and go back up. I didn't need to get in my car and it was a lot easier not to. Those kinds of examples will proliferate,
 if we build a city that accommodates for them. You know, we have to break with this lack of imagination that a city is meant to drive through. A city is meant to live in and produce wealth. And so that's all I'll say on that matter. And thanks for listening. Thank you. Who else wants to address this?
 CLARK ECHOLS, HIGHWAY 112. FIRST OF ALL, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR GIVING US THIS TIME TO SHARE OUR CONCERNS. I'M FAYETTEVILLE BORN AND RAISED AND SO THANKFUL TO LIVE IN A CITY THAT WORKS SO HARD TO LISTEN TO ITS CITIZENS AND WORK TOWARDS A BETTER FUTURE. I'M HERE AS A PROUD MEMBER OF FAYETTEVILLE STRONG'S AND IN SUPPORT OF OUR APPEAL OF VARIANCES THAT HAVE BEEN GRANTED TO THE PROPOSED ROAD RUN GAS STATION.
 This proposed development would be redundant and unproductive land use that would set back the economic potential of this entire block for a generation and is in direct opposition to the City's vision as outlined in City Plan 2040, the North Street Corridor Improvement Projects, which include the North Street Trail Extension.
 But most importantly to me, and most concerning to me, is that this development is dangerous and would only increase auto-centric use and a more dangerous intersection in the city for cyclists and pedestrians and also people driving automobiles.
 I work at the university where we have nearly 1,200 international students and scholars and family members, many of whom who live in the apartments and neighborhoods surrounding this intersection. We even had international students participate in our installation of the Holly Street Project.
 Most of these international students who are here, they have no car. They are reliant on public transit. They are reliant on cycling. They're reliant on walking to get where they need to go.
 So, you know, when that comes to them reaching the university, you know, going back and forth to the university, reaching transit stops, reaching, you know, grocery stores and recreational activities, they're navigating this area on a daily basis over and over. Not to mention all the other students and community members who live in the area who do navigate this intersection on a daily basis.
 This development will make this intersection more dangerous, and so I urge you to support our appeal. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening. My name is Steve Clark. I'm the president of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane, Fayetteville.
 I'm dumbfounded. I'm dumbfounded. All of you say this is by our zoning laws that we adopted collectively. Whether any of us were here at the time or not is not the issue. The city did. And we say, but that's not good for our city. It will be great for our city whatever we do if we're in compliance with the 2040 plan.
 We have no more idea how many people are going to be here in 2040 than we do whether Arkansas basketball team will win another game. We know there'll be a lot, and we know with that lot, it'll be a challenge. We also know, because I went to law school here, I taught on this law school faculty, I've lived in this town a whole lot of my life. It isn't the first time someone said, that's not a real good intersection, and the city did nothing. Nothing.
 When you count the traffic count and you count the accidents there, when you show it on a screen, when yellow and red and all kinds of kind of cartoonish, oh my God, explosion kapow. And there were less than two or two. It's really about how we're going to develop our city with what we've got. And we have no magic plan. We have our best thoughts first.
 But if we used our best thoughts every time, that road wouldn't look like that today.
 It would not. And the city would either condemned part of it and changed it, or the city would have said, because we're building all these houses that were not there before, we have this great, more traffic that was there than that before, all kinds of things. And we're still building them. You have approved in the last 90 days, or maybe 180, at least two other fairly sizable projects that are going to be within about three blocks of those gas pumps that you don't like so much.
 But you're not recognizing what change means. There's going to be some charging stations there, and they mean something good for this city. They mean something good about taking carbon out of the air for those kinds of vehicles. It means something good for the people who want to come to this city. I've been studying the history of this city. It is based on change.
 but you don't take change from today and apply it to some time ago. Come and go is not a bad character. They've been in our city over 10 years on a very, very difficult traffic corner, and they've been a model citizen. They follow the rules. They should be permitted. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Are we done? Okay. Who do you? Okay.
 Thank you. Thank you Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive and isn't it nice to be here talking about something besides housing for a change.
 Several folks have mentioned your leadership through various plans, and I thought it was worth it to dig into the specifics in a couple of them. The 2040 plan is the big one everybody thinks about. I don't ever talk about goal number four, we will grow a livable transportation network. And it goes on under that to say, instead of focusing on vehicles, the city seeks to make streets more accommodating for pedestrian cyclists and transit.
 Back in July, y'all adopted a brand new one. This may be our newest plan, the Vision Zero plan. It seeks to have zero fatal and serious injury crashes. That's the goal. Not two, not 20, not however many are at Joyce and College.
 It specifically says that we will reduce conflicts between roadway users. That's one of the action items. And several times tonight it's been said that the variances for this project make it safer, but nobody has explained exactly how wider driveways are going to make pedestrians have fewer conflict points.
 Going back even further, 2017 we adopted an energy action plan that said we were going to reduce our per capita vehicle miles traveled to the 2010 levels by 2030. And it also said that 50% of our community-wide energy would be clean energy by 2030. I wonder how we're doing on those plans now six years out and whether this is going to move us closer or farther from those goals.
 Whether it's housing needs, walkability, economic vitality, or the existential environmental crisis that we face on this planet, everything about this project and the consequences of its variances undermine the goals that you've set and worked towards.
 If the Roadrunner had proposed a development that was aligned seamlessly, like the lawyer said, with all the requirements of our regulations, we wouldn't be here having this talk. But they did not. They asked for a bunch of exceptions to the rules. That's not by right. That's favors. You don't owe them those favors so that they can take us the wrong way from our goals. And I know that they say they spend a million dollars.
 I'm sorry, that doesn't sound like something that's your problem. That sounds like a business risk. And I know that it's been six months since this was passed, but folks told you back then in July that they wanted to appeal this, and this is our process. We call that due process, even if it's a little long. Thank you. Thank you. Please vote to uphold the appeal. Thanks.
 City Council, my name is Thomas Brown. I live at 339 North Gregg. I want to thank you for giving me the opportunity to address this important point. Our appeal and our other speakers effectively address the serious safety hazards associated with operating a high activity auto-centric pedestrian hostel
 filling station at an intersection currently experiencing high levels of vehicle, bicycle, and pedestrian accidents. Could you... you already have? Great, thank you. Therefore, I wanted to address an equally disqualifying compatibility issue. This is the conflicting nature of the proposed Roadrunner project
 with the pedestrian friendly mixed-use urban design objectives of the core of a Tier 2 center. The City Plan 2040 states that all tier centers are intended to be mixed-use nodes that are pedestrian friendly areas served by current or future transit services. The plan
 Additionally states that Tier 2 centers are characterized by commercial uses that are located in mixed-use structures or office buildings. The development proposed by Roadrunner is not a pedestrian friendly and not proposed to be located in a mixed-use structure or office building.
 It is a busy auto-centric filling station that emphasizes vehicles over pedestrians and should therefore be denied as a development that does not support the public interest as defined in Chapter 2.2 of the City Plan 2040 and its growth concept map. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Okay, Susan, who do you have on Zoom? Micah Chaney. Okay, go ahead. Good evening. My name is Micah Chaney, and I live at 958 West Bel Air in the same neighborhood as this project, and I'm asking you to oppose the variances for a proposed gas station. Granting these variances undermines public interest and deviates from our community's vision as laid out in the City Plan 2040.
 It adds complexities to an already congested intersection, posing dangers to pedestrians, cyclists, and drivers. Anyone who has driven in this intersection could easily tell you that adding more congestion to this intersection is a terrible idea.
 I am not against the right of a property owner to determine the best and highest use of their property, but I do strongly believe that a neighborhood has the right and the responsibility to try and shape its own fate to influence pivotal features in its community. A redundant gas station with a redundant convenience store that requires a slew of variances and will make an already dangerous intersection more dangerous is inappropriate for this site.
 People who don't live in this neighborhood get to reap the benefits of this gas station, while we, the people who live in this neighborhood, are reaping every single disadvantage. It can also be true that tonight's issue is not altogether about a gas station. It's about citizens that want what they were promised by this council when they unanimously reaffirmed the city plan 2040. Currently, the plan is something like...
 a young man putting a picture of Dwayne The Rock Johnson on their wall saying I want to be as buff as that guy and then hardly lifting a weight. I urge you to I urge your support in denying these variances and even more than that I encourage the city government to use any means possible to change zoning all over the city so that we can see that the city plan 2040 come to fruition. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else? No one else currently has their hand raised Mayor.
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Will, what discussion would you all like to have?
 If I could, the first question would be, there's a depiction of a fuel delivery vehicle needing to access public right-of-way to actually get into the site. And I don't know if that's accurate or if we could get clarification about that need. That would be one question that I would hope to get clarification on. Thank you.
 Is there someone you would need to, you know? I don't know who to even ask the question of, but if someone knows that would benefit. Good evening. I'm Brom Driver with Ecological Design Group, civil engineer on the project. And that image that was up there is an old image from one of the very first submittals.
 And through the process with the city, we had adjusted that driveway that was based on a, actually the driveway width that was proposed in the master's plan, but was not actually going to be built. And so that has been corrected and adjusted prior to the grading permit approval. So we have now, I mean, that is an old plan that they were showing at that time. So that is not accurate, that the trucks would not be going across the sidewalk and building.
 infringing on the trail at all. So that's an old plan that we're... That one particular one that the Strongtown presented is an old plan. That is not what was approved by the grading permit team. Oh. And similar to some of the other documents that they had had presented in their documents were not the most current design plans, similar to the building. Okay. Is that accurate, Jonathan? We can bring up the plans that Jonathan had, we can compare.
 i i think from for my benefit i can pull up what an auto turn drawing which is the vehicle tracking exhibit and i'm not sure if this is the perhaps council member whitaker can confirm or deny that this is the one he's uh considering or or mr driver can confirm that this is or it's not the most uh current one this is
 I believe this is the one Mr. Whittaker is referencing, I think, where it shows a tire strike perhaps on the curb coming off of north to Lindell and along Mount Comfort. Does that look familiar, Mr. Whittaker? That's correct. I was asking if the use of that public right-of-way would be required for fuel deliveries. And I believe that is an older plan and that was adjusted and worked through with the city engineering staff to correct that.
 So we, I don't remember when that one was submitted. If that's the case, does the applicant have an update that we could look at? Yes, absolutely. We could find what was the final approved plans. And I don't know if you could just even verbally talk to then, I mean, are you having to make a wide swing in that area? Can you verbally talk to what the changes actually are? Sure. We've got a different plan. I want to see the plan. Right. Yeah. Yeah.
 You only have two access points, I guess, and so that's why I'm scratching my head. If you're not coming on North or Garland to access the property, you have the two driveways that you have to come into. Those vehicles, again, I've been living in that area for a very long time. There's only so many approaches that you can take to get into that property, so I'm really confused about what kind of additional way. There's no additional. It's the same plan. What I'm saying is the corner there at the intersection...
 on Lindell and North, where it comes in, it has the actual plan that is the existing conditions is what we're dealing with when we're coming in and out. And that's different than the plan that was provided to us by the engineer that had done the set of drawings that we had on for the public improvement.
 So I'm sorry, I just say I don't know where that plan or why that's the plan that is up there. But we have we have updated that traffic turning movement and that truck does not impact that that point. And so I guess I also am curious. So but an 18 wheeler gas truck and all the delivery trucks are 18 wheelers that I saw going to Roadrunner just yesterday that have to bring in like chips and sodas.
 Will they all cross over North Street to get into Lindell then over where we're going to be investing for that pedestrian thoroughfare? When you say crossover, do you mean that they would use that intersection? Correct.
 I believe that would be the intersection that would be used. Okay. Would that be the primary or is that a secondary? Because I guess they also could try to come from the Mount Comfort, but I don't know that they can make that because we're not creating the width there. I don't have a CDL. I haven't driven 18-wheel recently. So I'm just assuming and guessing based on just being an automobile driver in that area that they're probably going to struggle to make that cut.
 they're probably going to have to go from north to Lindell or from Mount Comfort swing into Lindell. All we can do is use the software that's available to us to evaluate the movements that are that we're expecting from the various trucks. And so when we did that, we worked with engineering staff to show that we were correcting that issue with the way the trucks movements were doing. And that's how we got through the grading permit process.
 Okay. Now, Mike, go ahead and finish up. You move on ahead of the floor. My next question deals with sidewalk and trail. And so this is open to staff and the applicant. And that is I'm wanting someone to describe. I've had the...
 mention of impact on the continuation of the trail. And so whether someone from the engineering or Jonathan, whether you're able to help me understand what are the impacts to the proposed trail sidewalk as a result of the proposed development that would help me see, is it de minimis or is it significant?
 Certainly, and what you see here, excuse me, is the, you can see the engineering stamp. These are from the approved grading permit documents. So just to orient you again to what we're looking at, we have Mount Comfort to the north, Lindell to the east or right, Garland to the west or left, and then north.
 on the lower side of the design. The clear polygon here, the white polygon you see here is the convenience store and the one with a different line type inside, that's where the gas station pumps are.
 So the site today has no sidewalks, has no trail on any of its frontages. What's proposed in this project is to add them to all of the frontages. There will be sidewalk proposed along Mount Comfort, sidewalk proposed along Lindell. That's the location where the two curb cuts are with the larger of the two along Lindell. The trail that will come down Garland and come across
 north street is not going to have any proposed curb cut interruptions it'll be an uninterrupted segment of trail except where it crosses public streets does that answer your question councilman okay yes tracy
 thank you mayor um jonathan is it you've probably been searching around to see the new design i i'm wondering how um the truck entryway has been accommodated uh compared to the one that we've seen and it'd be really helpful to see the final design and i don't know if that accommodation was made because the trucks are smaller if that so i'm just a little perplexed about how that swing radius has changed
 I am looking for that drawing. I have not found it quite yet, though, but I will keep looking. Thank you. Okay, Bob. Thank you. First, I'd like to thank everybody. I'd like to thank Sarah and Theresa and Fable Strong for bringing this appeal. I'd like to thank the folks from Roadrunner for being here and presenting their side of this. I think no matter what way this goes, I think this really brings to the surface
 the big failure, which is our failure. Our failure to be proactive in our rezoning, to make our zoning match our aspirations, to make our zoning match our 2040 plan, to start to activate our tier two centers. And hopefully this is a call to action for all of us sitting up here. We've got to start moving on this. If we want to see,
 uh the Fayetteville that I think we all want to see we're going to have to start rezoning this town in a major significant and and quick urgent way we're grown too fast um look I love my roadrunner I grew up working next to the roadrunner at Lafayette in college I love my new come and go down on Huntsville Road my wife and I walk there I get breakfast there I'd say
 I hang out there. I got I got I got swag. I got a hat t-shirt. You know, I love it. I love my gas stations but I also love my city and I love my safe city and I'll tell you I used to use the Mount Comfort cut through all the time and At this point, I think that road should almost be abolished if you try to take a left turn and
 And I was with my wife, we were leaving Hart and coming up Garland the other, just a week ago. And I ditched it, I said, I'm not even going to try this, that's insane. And I went up and made the left turn on north, as we all probably should. And you look at those heat maps now, and yeah, they're bright color, but it's to make a point. And if you look at the broader, I mean, I counted just quickly 50 little dots.
 in the broader intersection area. So it's not just 10 or 12, 50. So it's already not safe. And so I don't see personally how an auto-centric use and allowing left turns off of Garland onto Mount Comfort, left turns off of Lindell
 it on to north, which is also if you've tried that, you know, you're taking your taking your life in your hands sometimes. I don't think how that's going to improve safety in any way, shape or form. You know, yes, you can build by right, but there's no such thing as a variance by right doesn't exist.
 And a lot of people have brought that up tonight. And I think that's something to consider. As far as the city getting sued, look, we can get sued. This is America. You can sue anybody for anything at any time. Now, I got a couple emails from people that actually bought property near this location because they were looking forward to our 2040 plans in our Tier 2 center. I think they would have a case that the property is being devalued.
 in their situation by putting in a gas station. So whatever way we go, yeah, we can be sued. We can be sued all the time. And we are sued all the time, right Blake? We're pretty common, not uncommon. We really haven't. So I, you know, taking that into consideration. As far as money invested and money spent, you know, like I told the gentleman earlier and told all the Fayville, tell all the Fayville and all the world again,
 don't buy the furniture and the appliances before you have the keys to the house. And it's a business decision that was made and you're not owed a variance. There's no variance by right, as I said.
 You know, my issues do revolve around safety and it's a legitimate issue. It's not a non-legitimate issue. It's not something that's an excuse. I've driven that intersection my whole life. And I don't, now I shy away from making those left turns either on the north or off of Garland. It's dangerous. And you're seeing it. And there's no way that unless they put in another light right there at Mount Comfort,
 there's no way it's going to be less dangerous. I mean, really, we need to just get rid of that section of Mount Comfort, in my view. Yeah, I mean, there's really, you know, I'm sorry to fable as strong as I can't vote on this in a way that takes into account our aspirations, because, but that's my fault, that's our fault, because we haven't addressed the zoning. But I can look at safety, and I am looking at safety, I'm taking it seriously. I think that's most of what I have to say.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you for my ability to ask earlier questions. Thank you guys for addressing those. It's a remarkably complex project before us and I have a right to do some complaining too. So this is hard stuff.
 And we signed up for it. We've got a front row seat to these kinds of decisions to be made, and it's a privilege that we have, and I want to acknowledge that. So, you know, the foundation is a use by right. There is no retroactive rezoning the site. That raises the philosophical question, if not this use and another commercial use comes in that is not a mixed use combination residential commercial development, then what
 would Fayetteville Strong propose? It's not the gas station, something else, single use insurance agency, one story, they buy the dirt. We have to be cautious that we don't mock ourselves in this short run with opposition to one single project. I wanted to complain about previous councils
 being on the current council saying, wait a second, 18 rascals have been up here and have not addressed the tier centers. And that's completely inappropriate for me to do. And here's why. In 2006, the community adopted the 2025 plan. In 2011, we adopted the 2030 plan. In 2017, we skipped 2040 and came up with the 2050 Fayetteville vision plan.
 Then in 2018, a year later, the council voted that we wanted to update the 2030 plan. And in 2020, we adopted the 2040 plan. We've had it mentioned that how come we didn't get around to addressing tier centers. There was a little thing called the pandemic that hit. And so I want to shout out some appreciation to staff and to the mayor that there were other distractions that came to this community in this city.
 that precluded the momentum continuing on to attempt to address tier centers. And doggone it, I wanted to complain about the 18 previous council members, and I need to actually defend them. They did the best they could. They got us through the pandemic doing some big, bold decision-making, and I commend them for that.
 Secondly, I want to defend staff and say that the huge effort is the 71B corridor plan, which will be addressing tier centers along that street and be rezoning. And we're looking to update the downtown strategic plan in 24, which would be implemented in 25.
 We're told that that's all that our staff can actually handle, and I actually believe that and feel that we are compelled to look for ways to add additional staff in the realm of planning. I feel like they're spinning the squirrel cage as fast as they can. And then we've had mentioned
 Wait a second. We adopted the 2040 plan. How dare us not have created the tier center zoning We also have an enduring green network and show me a single piece of legislation that adds teeth to the enduring green network There's zero legislation. It's purely aspirational just like our tier centers while we support them and we want them is aspirational language there is no legislation at this point and
 And so we do have our work cut out for us. But I assure you, we're going to have, just like trees on extending the street in this town, is something we embrace. The environmental concerns in this community, which are aspirational, are going to have to be addressed legislatively as well. So I don't want to give the impression that I'm unappreciative for the volume of work that this administration has taken on and accomplished
 We simply can't do it all simultaneously. And finally then, and I will hush Mr. Mayor, and that is, God forbid we say no to these variances and a mixed-use, tier-two, compatible, pedestrian-centric use come along. And God forbid they need some of these exact same variances because we have a
 four street frontages, non-rectilinear parcel that would need to be addressed. I have a problem with us saying no on the principle of I don't like the use
 to potentially turn right around and say yes to someone else asking for the exact same variance. I wish I was smarter. I wish that I could summarize and that it was a clear path that this is an easy yes, easy no, and it just isn't. But I felt compelled to at least do some research, to do some checking
 I will conclude by saying, yes, we need a bank, a car wash, an oil change facility, a gas station, and a drugstore on every critical retail corner in this town, and we've not gotten there yet, so we just aren't trying hard enough. So, no, I don't embrace the use. No, I don't embrace more car washes and oil change facilities, but until we are able to collectively allow our staff to catch their breath and
 And to begin the work of rezoning significantly, especially our critical key retail corners, we're not going to be able to steer the ship the way we want. In the meantime, there are going to be uses by right that are going to come along that we need to be equally respectful of just
 Just as we were told the community adopted the 2040 plan, the community also adopted the zoning that exists today. And with that, I'm done, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Okay. Scott. I was just waiting to see if the Lord flicked the lights. The battery fixed transformer that blew out on Spring Street. This is a very complicated issue.
 situation we find ourselves in. I don't know that I necessarily think that that parcel of land is the best place for a gas station convenience store. I don't know that I don't know that I'm there, but I feel like I have to look at the situation as it is, as we are today. The 2040 plan is just that, a plan.
 As Mike says, it's aspirational. We absolutely support that, and we absolutely want to work towards that. But that's a plan. Our zoning is by code, and so I fall on the side of that. And it comes down to, in my opinion, a couple of things. If we want, if it's a by-right use...
 We want the safest project we can have. Staff has identified that these variances give us a safer project. The people that are opposed talk about the safety concerns and that's a concern in any development. But I have to take the facts as they're presented, but I have to take the facts as they're presented,
 and look at it. And if you take those heat maps, take the actual accidents, there's two accidents there in 2023, there's four accidents there in 2022. And the heat maps show a lot of bright colors. But if, and Jonathan, maybe you can correct me if I'm wrong, but if you zoom out from that area, you zoomed in, it highlights that in that area, it's a,
 a more dense accident area, but if you zoom out, would those same areas still be a heat area? Yes, it would show up, but not as significantly. It scales according to the map. The further you zoom out, the less it emphasizes it. Right, so if you zoom out, then they become less intensified. So,
 I've got to, to me, I've got to look, I got to take my desires of what I think I would want in that location and I have to set those aside and I have to look at the facts that's there. Jonathan has says the variants will make this project safer and I feel like I have to go with that and I
 I just, I don't see how we as a city council can deny those facts as our staff has said these variances make this project a by-right project safer. So that's kind of my thought process. And if it, and it comes down to, I feel like we just don't want a gas station there. And I don't think that's right.
 That's kind of where I'm at. Sure. Sorry. Yes, Jonathan, I have a question.
 So, one of the things, well, I'm going to make a statement here first. This is just really kind of unusual because it's, we don't often get, it's not just that it's a gas station, but a lot of it is because it's a gas station and we don't, you know, we want to kind of, in theory, we want to steer away from auto-centric development, but...
 But this is an unusual site. So I think whatever would go in here was going to require quite a few variances. I don't think that's unreasonable to assume that. But did – this did not go through large-scale development. Is that right? That's correct. It did not. Is that because of the impervious surface that, you know –
 Thank you. Everybody needs water tonight. Is that because of the impervious surface that's already there versus what the development is proposing to build and we have a limit on if it's not adding another 10,000 square feet or something of impervious surface, it doesn't go through that additional little bit? That's correct.
 I'm just wondering about, because that's one additional layer there that we have that, you know, usually it goes through large scale development and it will be kind of, you know, discussed at that level. That's a different level of planning condition there. So, you know, when I look at this, I have to think about the big issue is safety. And that's the one thing I can really look at.
 And I don't think Scott is wrong to look up these numbers and go, look, we don't have that many accidents there. But I think we could look more into that, get more information from the police and fire and that sort of thing and try and.
 Because I know we have all of our big intersections around town, you can go, and I can't pull it up right this minute while I'm talking, but you can go and you can pull a number of trips, a number of cars that pass through there. Probably one of our busiest ones was brought up, and that's Joyce and Highway 71 on College Avenue. That's one of our busiest intersections there. So we could look at the volume of cars going through there and kind of get a better idea of...
 the accidents and any pedestrian accidents, and maybe look at this entire area here and then try to apply what we think the number of new trips that are going to be caused if this goes in. And that's one of the ways we can look at this. And that's kind of looking at it practically as far as safety and not just saying, well, it's gonna be unsafe because we know it's unsafe now.
 we can get those numbers to back that up. And I'd like to get some more information on that if I could. Okay. DeAndre, Sarah, is it? Yes, I'm just making sure you have yours on too.
 I'm sorry, I wanted to ask a question of staff since we were talking about in particular the safety and what other projects might need there as well. And it's kind of been stated, staff, from what I understand, the variability in these decisions and these additional factors that are looked into come at council level. And staff has a letter of the law, what the ordinance are in front of them and try to
 advise the applicant on the best way to move forward. And so I guess my question is that this has been kind of said that these variances make the property more safe, but I'm just wondering, do we have data or was there any significant data that would drive to say that like that 41 foot versus our regular drives actually makes it safer for pedestrians in that area? Yeah.
 To clarify before answering the question, I think the statement is that it makes the project safer, not necessarily the property. I think that is a distinction. All of these conversations that staff had with the developer were predicated on the notion that this is a buy-write use. At that point, taking into consideration of this specific property, what variances were
 rationally supported to make it a safer condition, given that use in mind. I just want to make that distinction first. If that's helpful, I don't know if it is or not. And then to make sure I'm clear, your second question is what
 what data is available to indicate that a wider driveway is more or less safe for pedestrian activity? Correct. To say that that would maybe be safer for pedestrians there. Gotcha. Thank you. I don't know that I have a specific KPI or a key performance indicator that I can share for that. We certainly don't have any data on that specific street. I don't have any bike pedestrian injury data on that. We do have it. It shows that there has not been any. But there's also no sidewalks there to date.
 So it's a kind of a counterfactual comparison that we can't make. There's no sidewalk today, so I can't speculate on what it would be like if there had been sidewalk if that helps. So when I make the statement that staff supports these because we find that they make a safer project, we're considering the buy right use, we're considering the property in question, we're considering the existing conditions, which again includes no sidewalks, no trail, none of that in the area.
 evaluating what how those uses interact with each other and what can achieve the best outcome and that's where we feel like we are with those site design variances okay and then for further clarification if the project had to change because these variances were not approved tonight would there potentially have to be variances if there was ask for access to North or Garland yes okay
 Yes, so with the variances that were approved, they were specific to the proposal that's in front of you all tonight, which is to allow a second access point onto Mount Comfort. If that was to be modified in some way, whether it's to North or Garland or a combination of the two, that would require going back to our planning commission for consideration. Okay, thank you.
 So I just kind of have a statement after having staff clarify on that and with you know all the different conversations that we've had tonight feel like you know very strongly we do have grounds to be able to appeal these variances that we really are nullifying really the public's intent around the architectural designs the money we've invested and really wanting that safety with like eyes on the trail eyes on the street with the frontage
 And additionally, I think that, you know, there's been, you know, resounding information that's been presented tonight where, you know, there is the fear, the data, you know, supporting that additional trips coming in and out of this area has the possibility of creating safety in this area. And so I would ask my council members tonight to really consider that.
 saying no to these variances, to appealing the variances tonight, and supporting that we make sure that this area, when it is developed into a project, that we do hold hands on that vision and we make sure that it's safe and it's within the intents of taking care of the needs of this part of our community. All right.
 Thank you, Mayor. I wanted to speak to Scott's comments about the traffic incidents in this area, and I wanted to ask Chief Reynolds if he had any traffic data from this area. Council Member Wicker mentioned, I think I also signed up for this. Thank you.
 What accident information, Councilmember Hertzberg, are you looking for at a specific location, North and Garland, or just in that general area? At the intersection of North and Garland, if you have that available. So currently at North and Garland, if you're just talking about that intersection, it certainly is low volume for our accident response at the Fayetteville Police Department, the Fayetteville Fire Department as well.
 and i'll try to put that into numbers for you in that perspective i think councilmember myrna did a pretty good job of that earlier and so over a five-year period 2019 through 2023 the fayetteville police department responded to about 15 231 accidents in the city and
 And so at this particular location during that same timeframe, we had 22 accidents that occurred there. So I don't know, do the math on that. Was that less than two-tenths of a percent of all accidents occur there?
 at that particular intersection. I did look at the intersection and if you take our top 20 in the city, it doesn't come into the top 20 intersections in the city that are the most problematic. Now, certainly the traffic counts are higher as mentioned.
 You know, our number one problematic area, it's not going to come as any surprise, is right there in that section of College and Masonic going into the flyover right there by Whole Foods. I mean, that's the worst area. And then you move from there and you go to College and Joyce and then you then you come down to MLK.
 And you look at areas down on MLK at Futrell, and then you move over to 2875 MLK, which is the Walmart. And the fifth most problematic intersection would be College and Zine. So that's currently what we're dealing with, with collisions in the city.
 Certainly, I couldn't predict what another development is going to do at this intersection. Certainly, I agree with what Councilmember Stafford said. That intersection there at Garland and Mount Comfort, if you were to take a left turn there, that's very problematic and it's not a wise choice. So I'd still encourage you to use that stoplight, please. I don't know if that answered your questions or not. Yes, sir, it did. Thank you.
 anything else I have I have a question for the chief also you thought you were getting away but you just weren't do we have any do we have any information on I mean I don't think we do but on in this area not just at Garland but maybe over at Leverett about pedestrian accidents or cyclist accidents you know just I
 anything like that. Well, we do, and I prepped the best I could, but just to be honest with you, I couldn't answer that question for you tonight. You know, any kind of data that any council member wants, if you want to just reach out to me, we can run those queries for you. I can expand that. All I gave you tonight, in fairness, is just North and Garland. I didn't look at Mount Comfort in Garland. I didn't look at Lindale and North.
 I didn't combine those areas there, just simply that intersection. But yes, I could get you that information, but I don't possess that information tonight. Okay. Thank you very much, Chief. I appreciate that. You're welcome. The reason I'm thinking about that is because if this is built, it's going to radiate out from, it's not just going to be at this one intersection. It's going to involve the other streets that are the access points for this property. Thank you, Chief. You're welcome.
 Mayor, I do have some information that could answer Councilmember Bunch's question. If interested, there is some publicly available data online, excuse me, similar to the the traffic accident map. There's a pedestrian bike accident map that's available also.
 And just to share that with you briefly, again, to orient you, the site we're looking at are these two parcels here. This data is not continuous from 2015 to 2021. It includes 2015 through 2017, then 2020 and then 2021. I'm not sure what the data reasoning is there, but it indicates two incidents at the intersection of the two.
 Garland and Weddington over that five-year period, with the next nearest ones being Storr to the east and closer to the other section of Mount Comfort to the north.
 And so Jonathan, this was an unusual, it wasn't a contiguous time frame. It was 2017 through what? 2015 through 2017, and then 2020, and then 2021. So the year, it doesn't have 2018 and 2019. Okay. Okay. And so we've had a couple of accidents that were
 Injuries or non incapacitating injuries, right? If I'm reading this correctly. Correct. Okay. Yeah, there's a possible injury, a non incapacitating injury. Okay. All right. Thank you.
 So to follow up with that, I just want to point out that in 2020 and 2021, we really didn't have very many students here. And that is a heavily student area, heavily student used area. And
 you know, the numbers may not reflect. I mean, I'm at that place all the time. It is very unsafe. So maybe the accident counts aren't as high as, but I see it. It's a reality. I've seen a lot of near misses. I saw an accident there the other day when the snow started. So anyway, just thought I'd throw that in. I got one last question for, I guess it would be the
 roadrunner folks about fuel delivery, who might be able to... Obviously I assume that you're talking about bringing the fuel via 18 wheeler. Correct. My name is John Harris. I'm president of Colson Oil and Roadrunner Stores in North Little Rock, Arkansas. Okay, thank you. We're somewhat unique in that regard and that we have our own transportation company. And so, as I explained to a couple of people who I met with,
 Safety is at the core of our mission statement. It's everything we do. The director of transportation reports directly to me. They're our assets, they're our employees. And the last thing I would ever do is have a fuel delivery there during the busiest times of the day. I mean, we have a site in downtown Little Rock that never gets service until 2 a.m. in the morning where there's no traffic in downtown Little Rock. This would be the same scenario in this area.
 I get to control, they're my assets, so I get to control when fuel deliveries are made. And at this site, we would never even think about delivering during peak busy times. I mean, I don't want to impact my customer experience by having an 18-wheeler on the lot, nor do I want my assets and my drivers navigating traffic as well. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Okay, anything else? I have a follow-up question for the city attorney. Are we able to hold Roadrunner to that, that they put that on the record? I mean, does that have any legal standing that they could never deliver during the most peak times?
 So the code does say that you can prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards to secure substantially the objectives of the standards requirements so varied. I don't know that delivery times are necessarily tied to this. I guess they could be. I think the question would be how would you administer that condition? And would staff even be able to monitor that? Thank you. Appreciate that. Okay.
 Anything else? I got a couple of questions, Jonathan. Now, Roadrunner stated that they were collaborative with you all. How long did you work with them on this particular project? I don't remember the specific date. I believe they approached staff in May or June of 2023, and then they submitted the variances, I believe it was in June, for their July hearing. About a year or so. Okay.
 Eight, nine months. Yeah, eight, nine months. Okay. So you were working pretty close with him, correct? The development review staff was. I wasn't directly involved, but yes, there were meetings between our planners and engineers and their design team. And you felt as though the variances that you all came up with would make the project safer? Mm-hmm. That's correct.
 And then it did go to the Planning Commission, is that correct? And the vote was 6-2? For the variances, it was the building design variance was a vote of 6-2. The site design variances were 5-3. And when it was heard more recently in December on the grading permit appeal, the appeal was denied 6-2. Okay. All right. I do want to thank the City Attorney's Office for...
 sending us the memo on the legal standing on Bill of Our Rights and parents' things. So that's all I need. All right. Do we have a, yes.
 Sir, I wonder, too, if council might want to weigh in on splitting the variances. If we made a motion, folks might want there to be a denial of each variance individually, so they might consider how they would vote. That was one thing I know we've talked about in the past, so I wanted to open that up possibly as well. Well, that would be fine, I suppose. We talked about that this afternoon. What you could consider doing is making a motion to –
 approve the resolution followed by a motion to divide the question. Okay. And so if you get a motion and a second, and you're about to vote on the resolution itself, which would deny both variances, you could then divide the question into, you could do the two variances,
 or you could do the one variance that has one, and the other variance you could split into five individual questions. Okay. That is your option. I hope you're doing better than I did this afternoon. I don't want to have that much fun. Choose your own adventures and hide it, sounds like. So I would like to make a motion that we approve the resolution. Go ahead. Second. Okay. So a yes vote would sustain the appeal.
 Correct, and deny the variances. And this would be the appropriate time to make a motion to divide the question, if you would like to do that. Could I please make a, okay, I'm having a head shake with my co-sponsor, so I'm going to say we're going to leave it as is, please. Okay, so if you're for the appeal, you'll just vote yes, and a no vote is against.
 the resolution. Correct. A yes vote would grant the appeal and deny the variances. A no vote would uphold the planning commission's decision. Okay. Alright. Kerowitz, please call the roll. Burner? No. Bunch? No. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? No. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 we'd occur that'd come you guys uh no mayor it's four to four you may vote if you wish then the motion fails all right that concludes our business what announcements do we have i don't have any announcements okay we are adjourned