I'd like to call the City Council meeting of January the 19th, 2021 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Here. Hertzberg. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Jones. Here. Kenyon. Kenyon. Petty. Here. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Here. Here.
 Mayor Jordan. Here. Thank you, Karen. Would you join me in a pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Karen, I'm here. Okay. Welcome, everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Federal City Hall is closed to the public.
 This meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan, and I am present with a limited number of essential support staff. City council members, city staff, and the public are participating online or by phone. Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance to the city of Fayetteville.
 and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting, including contacting city council members, city clerk's office, or city staff prior to the meeting, viewing through federal's government channel online or the city's YouTube channel, joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. To request to speak during the public comment period, you must raise your virtual hand to be recognized.
 If you're accessing the meeting through a smartphone, tablet, or computer, please click the raise hand option to request to speak during public comment period. If you're calling into this meeting by phone, please press star nine to raise your virtual hand for public comment. When it's your turn to speak, please unmute your microphone.
 For instructions on how to use Zoom, please go to the City of Federal website and type Zoom instructions on the search bar. I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record.
 Public comments shall be allowed for all members of the audience who are signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may wish to address being open for public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor.
 Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote. If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The City Council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. Now let us begin. Thank you.
 The first order of business we have tonight is the presentation of the City of Fayetteville Martin Luther King Brotherhood Award by Kit Williams. Kit. Thank you, Mayor. For 19 years, it has been my honor and privilege to recognize a worthy City of Fayetteville employee to receive the City of Fayetteville Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award.
 This award has been given annually in recognition of that city employee whose service to our city and community exemplifies Dr. Martin Luther King's dream of equality, justice, brotherhood, and service. This year's honoree joins a distinguished list of city employees who have embodied Dr. King's dream and have helped fulfill his legacy of service.
 The first recipient of this award in 2002 was Frank Johnson, then a captain and later the first African-American police chief of Fayetteville. Fayetteville's most recently retired chief of police is Greg Tabor, who is now the United States Marshal for the Western District of Arkansas. We have been blessed with excellent leadership in our police department for 20 years.
 Because of our chief's leadership and determination that our Fayetteville Police Department will accept only the highest and most exemplary and ethical conduct, our police officers operate with unparalleled professionalism and respect for the constitutional rights of all of our citizens.
 For over 20 years, not a single allegation presented to the federal courts for alleged police misconduct for violating a suspect's constitutional rights have been found valid. Every case has confirmed that our Fayetteville police officers have acted properly within their constitutional powers. I believe that 20-year perfect record is unmatched in our state and maybe in our nation or any large police department.
 That perfect record does not happen by chance. It requires consistent and determined leadership from our police chief and the chief's leadership team, as well as a personal commitment from every one of our officers. Last year, a true test of that leadership and of our officers' professionalism occurred during the protest of George Floyd's inexcusable and tragic deaths.
 This protest overflowed the Fayetteville Square with citizens expressing their opposition to police violence against unarmed black men that has plagued much of America. Just a couple of days earlier, a Bentonville Square protest erupted into vandalism and violence between the protesters and police. Police Chief Mike Reynolds was determined that such violent and disorder would not occur in Fayetteville.
 Chief Reynolds worked hard and well with protest organizers, including our very own DeAndre Jones, to prevent the violence and disorder suffered by Bentonville. Chief Reynolds prepared our police officers to maintain both order and proper respect for the protesters. Chief Reynolds and his officers were respectful and even knelt with the protesters in memory of George Floyd's tragic and unnecessary deaths.
 I listened to DeAndre and other leaders speak eloquently to our large crowd. Our larger protest was night and day different from the embarrassment in Bentonville. Chief Reynolds and all of our police officers showed that they were truly peace officers by never letting their professionalism and restraint give in to the provocation by a few in the crowd that wanted trouble. Our officers held their ground.
 head high and refusing to bait. I have never been so proud of Police Chief Mike Reynolds and our entire police force. They showed the world the professionalism and honor our citizens rightly expect from Fayetteville police officers. I believe that evening that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. would be smiling down from the mountaintop upon Chief Reynolds, our police officer, and all of us peaceful protesters. Dr. King might tell us
 that while we still have not made it all the way to the promised land of freedom, equality, and justice, Chief Reynolds is pointing the way. And as Dr. Martin Luther King told his congregation the night before he was taken from us in 1968, we as a people will get to the promised land. Chief Reynolds has 27 years of dedicated service to our Fayetteville Police Department and city,
 He had eight years of service as assistant chief before he was wisely promoted to police chief by Mayor Jordan in September of 2019. He has continued his professional education with the FBI National Academy, United States Secret Service, the University of Arkansas Leadership in Diversity and Inclusion, the Racial Equity Institute, Leadership Training, and many others.
 Chief Mike Reynolds is an active and well-respected member of several professional law enforcement organizations and was recently appointed by Governor Hutchinson to his task force to advance the state of law enforcement in Arkansas, in part to help end racial profiling and bias-based policing. Chief Reynolds is loyal and true.
 and a very worthy recipient of the 2021 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award. Now let me present it to him now as safely as we can. Congratulations Chief. Would you like to say a few words? Well I don't know a police chief that is typically quiet Mayor so
 Yeah, I'd like to say a few things. First of all, thank you, Kit. I appreciate it. I'm certainly, you know, humbled and honored by this prestigious award, Mayor. And, you know, I'm also proud, but I'm proud not only for the individual award, but this isn't about me.
 This is about we, and that's the way I've always treated leadership at the Fayetteville Police Department. And it's about we, it's about the men and women of the police department. It's about we, it's about the city council members. It's about we, it's about the city staff and you, Mayor.
 and it's about we, the community, and we could not have made this out, made it together through this past year that's been so difficult if we would not have united. So I'm very proud to achieve or to receive this award kit, and I just want to thank everybody. Thank you so much. Okay. I would like to read a brief statement tonight.
 Today, I was honored to attend our state celebration of the fifth annual National Day of Racial Healing in Little Rock at the invitation of friends from the Arkansas Peace and Justice Memorial Movement. The city of Fentonville was the first city in the state to proclaim today's Day of Racial Healing. Later, 75 other cities around Arkansas signed on through outreach efforts via the Arkansas Municipal League.
 Today in Little Rock, I joined other mayors and speakers to memorialize the National Day of Racial Healing on the day after we celebrated and honored Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s life and service. We pledge today to dedicate ourselves to the principles of truth, racial healing, and the necessary changes in thinking and behavior to become a unified force where racial biases will become a thing of the past.
 Also included in today's event was Pastor Preston Clegg of the Second Baptist Church in Little Rock. I mentioned Pastor Clegg particularly because his words resonated clearly as he described the pain of injury and the additional pain it takes to heal deep wounds as we go through rehabilitation toward recovery. Racial healing is a vital commitment we must all make
 to build an equitable and just society. This is the journey we are all on, my friends, on this day of racial hate. Thank you all. It was a great honor to be there today. All right. Let's look on the consent agenda. Next order of business. Number one.
 a resolution to award bid number 21-04 and to authorize the purchase of concrete from toon trucking incorporated dba toon concrete company as primary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2021. number two a resolution to approve
 and assignment assumption and consent agreement to transfer the lease agreement for office space in the airport terminal building at 4500 South School Avenue to Kramer Pilot Services LLC and to release MK Rockwell Investments LLC from the lease agreement. Number three,
 A resolution to authorize the issuance of two-party checks on the airport beacon and wind cones project to ensure that project subcontractors receive compensation for their work. Number four, a resolution to approve an interlocal agreement
 for continuation of ambulance services through the Washington County Regional Ambulance Authority and to authorize the Ambulance Authority to operate Central Emergency Medical Service as the exclusive emergency and non-emergency ambulance service within the cities. Number five, a resolution to authorize a payment to the Washington County Election Commission
 in the amount of $45,482.91 for election fees related to the November 3rd, 2020 general election. Number six, a resolution to amend the 2021 adopted budget by reappropriating 201,386,000
 and $8,000 in bonded or ongoing capital projects, outstanding obligations and grant funded items. And number seven, a resolution to approve a budget adjustments transferring a million dollars from the general fund to replenish the disaster and replacement fund for expenditures made to address the COVID-19 pandemic. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Burke. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Kenyon. Petty. Yes. Brogan. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Okay. Let's move along to unfinished business. Yes.
 Number one, an ordinance to amend 161.22 community services and 161.24 urban thoroughfare by changing certain permitted uses to conditional uses. Can I believe we have an amendment? Yes.
 Yes. The city council asked me at the last meeting if they could be able to break up the portion related to community services, which changes both use unit, one use unit for gas stations and another use unit for residential property. So I drafted a proposed amended change that would just do that, not change the ordinance, just split those two apart.
 I took it to the Ordinance Review Committee and the Ordinance Review Committee agreed with the splitting it, but making no judgment on the ordinance itself. And actually I defer to Sloan Scroggins, who is the chair of the Ordinance Review Committee, if he wants to go into any further detail on that. I think that was a pretty good assessment.
 We had different ideas about the individual items, so we didn't come up with any recommendations, but we definitely agree that we would like to break this up.
 So at this point, Mayor, we probably need a motion from a council member to replace the current ordinance with the one that I presented to the Ordinance Review Committee that all it did is split up section one into section one and two so that the council will be able to vote on each of those individually. So you basically the amendment would be to replace the current ordinance with
 which has them both together to split the housing end of it and the basically the gas stations. Is that what I understand? That's right. And I did send out this proposed amendment to not only to the Ordinance Review Committee, but also to the full city council. Okay. What discussion do we have from the council on the amendment? We need to have a motion. Oh, okay. I move that we amend as read. I second it. Okay. Now do we have discussion or do you want to just...
 Well, if they want to discuss it, they certainly can. Would the council like to discuss the amendment? If not, then they can just vote. Okay. If there's not any discussion on the amendment, then Karen, would you please call the roll? Burke? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 Mayor, I'm not sure what reading we're on. We're on the second reading right now. I will entertain a motion to go to the third reading on the amended ordinance, if anybody would like to. I believe I can't ask what reading or to verify what reading. Based on my records at the January 5th, 2021 City Council meeting, this item was left on the second reading. Yes, and so I'm asking the amended ordinance if they wish to go ahead.
 to the third reading. So moved. Before we do that, I have a question about what it is we're considering now. The ordinance review committee recommended we split this into two questions. So when we move this to the third reading, are we moving both questions or one question or the other? I think that's a good question, Matthew. It's already been amended to what the ordinance review committee recommended. But let me read just the body of it that was changed.
 um it originally had two sections one dealing with community services one urban thoroughfare this is the body now section one at the city council the city of fable arkansas hereby amends section 161.22 community services
 By removing use unit 8 single-family dwellings and use unit 9 two-family dwellings from subsection B permitted uses and adding them to subsection B2 conditional uses and section 2 that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas are hereby amends,
 Section 161.22, community services, by removing use unit 18, gas stations and drive-in, drive-through restaurants from subsection B1 permitted uses and adding them to subsection B2 conditional uses. Section 3 used to be section 2, but it's the identical language. Section 4 used to be section 3, but it is the identical language that you all approved in your last meeting.
 Okay, I guess my question, since we've basically read that, does that mean it's automatically on the third reading? No, no, I'm just not. Well, no, I don't think so. I think we still need a motion to amend the rules and go with the third reading. I think that was one of the reasons why I wanted to know if they wanted to do any discussion on the amendment before we passed. I'm not sure my question was answered. Maybe I'm not communicating right. But the Ordinance Review Committee's intention was to vote separately.
 on single family and duplex change and then separately on gas station change. And the way you would do that is that if someone thought that one of those use units should not be changed to from a permitted use to a conditional use, then the proper motion would be to remove section one or remove section two
 from the ordinance and that would effectively, then that can be voted on and that's the way you'd vote on each use unit separately. Okay. So if you don't want a single family dwellings and two family dwellings to be moved from permitted uses to conditional uses, you would move to amend the ordinance by removing section one. I'm gonna leave it with you all. Can we not just make a motion to split the question? I'm sorry? Can we not just make a motion to split the question?
 Actually, the proper motion, if you don't want to have any discussion, would be a motion for immediate vote. That requires a two-thirds majority. Otherwise, you can have a motion to approve, which would be approving at all unless someone wants to change that. I feel like we don't need to go to the third reading and vote tonight. I agree. Just based on this discussion.
 So can we just hold it on this reading? Well, do you all not want to just, we've got to take public comment. If we're not going to advance it to the third reading, then you've got to read the whole thing, right? Well, yeah. If we've already had two readings, I need to go ahead and read the whole thing and put it on the third reading. You can always table it if you're still confused. But if there's not a motion to amend, I mean a motion to go to the third reading, then I, since this is the third reading it's on right now, I have to read it.
 So the only part I haven't read was the whereas clauses so I can read them. Whereas the city council adopted city plan 2040 with objectives to promote context-sensitive corridor planning and prioritize multimodal street designs that treat walkability and cycling as core functions. And whereas city plan 2040 includes a growth concept map designating areas of the city intended to develop and to be pedestrian-friendly and mixed-use nodes served by current or future transit service.
 and whereas community services zoning district is often applied to areas where mixed use development is desirable because its stated purpose is to encourage a mixture of residential and commercial uses in traditional urban form
 And whereas recent examples of development in community service districts utilizing only use unit 8 single-family dwellings in patterns indistinguishable from neighboring residential zones have failed to produce the intended variety of housing types and reserve space for future commercial development,
 And whereas recent proposals for community services have drawn public criticism about the safety of traffic associated with use unit 18 gasoline service stations and drive-in drive-through restaurants in areas with high pedestrian traffic or the compatibility of these uses with nearby residential areas. And whereas the conditional use permit process allows the Planning Commission to apply a higher level of discretion to ensure the development of these uses is safe, compatible and appropriate.
 Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1 and 2, I have already read, Section 3, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville hereby amend Section 161.24, Urban Thoroughfare, by removing Use Unit 8, Single Family Dwellings, and Use Unit 9, Two Family Dwellings from Subsection B, Permitted Uses, and adding them to Subsection B2, Conditional Uses.
 Section 4, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, hereby recognizes the vested rights of property owners who have purchased property for development based on existing zoning standards, and hereby exempts all unexpired large-scale developments, small-site improvement plans, large-site improvement plans, preliminary plats, final plats, concurrent plats, and building permits approved within six months following the enactment of this ordinance,
 This exemption shall include any approved renewals or extensions pursuant to section 166.20 of the Unified Development Code and all subsequent phases of PLATS subject to this exemption. So this ordinance is now on the third, has been read for the third and final time and is ready for action, which can be tabling if the City Council is not clear on what they want to do. I have a question.
 So I think the intent of the Ordinance Review Committee, and certainly what I was hoping, was that you would make these separate ordinances. So it wouldn't be one combined ordinance. It would be a separate ordinance that just dealt with Unit Use 18, I think the gas station and drive-through, and then the other ordinance would deal with the duplex and single family unit, single family residence.
 So is that not possible, Kit? Is that not the case? We can't have two ordinances out of one?
 Well, yes, you can, but you're creating a new ordinance, which normally goes to new business. And, of course, this is on the third and final reading. With the city council's approval, I can create three ordinances, one for urban thoroughfare, one for community services with the use unit eight and nine, the dwellings, and one with use unit nine.
 The gas station one, which is UChin at 18. So I can have three ordinances here. If that's what the city council wants and if you'll suspend the rules at the next meeting, then they can all be on old business. I'll have to read each one separately, though, because I do want to read if we're putting in a new ordinance. Yes.
 then I want to read it in full just so there won't be any parliamentary problems. Well, I'll tell you what let's do. If we need to table this, let's table this tonight so we can get everything straightened out. But what I do need to know is if the city council wants me to make three ordinances out of this, I will certainly do that. Is that the city council's wishes? That would be my wish. My wish. Is that going to be the simplest thing to do, or is that what you—
 Go ahead. Is that what you suggest, Kit, is the simplest thing to do? I mean, it seems like when I got the memo, I thought what had gone to ordinance review was fairly easy for me to understand, and now it's not. So I thought the easiest thing to do is that if someone had a problem with moving or moving use unit 8 and use unit 9, one and two family dwellings, which is only in section one.
 that they would move to amend the ordinance by removing section one.
 Then there would be a vote on that by the city council, and if the council wanted to move use unit 8 and use unit 9 to conditional uses, they would vote against that amendment. If they wanted to go ahead and keep it the way it is, they would approve that, and then use unit 8 and use unit 9 would stay as permitted uses. And they could do the same thing with section 2, which is use unit 9,
 18. And so at that point, that's why I moved into a separate section so that you could vote out a section if you're not in favor of it. Oh, OK. Let's just do the three then. I'm in favor of that. OK. Three ordinances. And I will ask you all to spend the real to the next meeting to put them on old business. OK. Well, everybody's OK with that. We shall move on then. You're going to table it, Kit? They'll need a motion to table. All right. I move we table this motion.
 Second. A motion to second the table. Kerwood, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number two.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-0021 located northeast of West Catawpha South Rupert Road for approximately 22.98 acres from CS Community Services and NC Neighborhood Conservation to P1 Institutional. Now that was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion if you wish to go to the second reading.
 So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay.
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezoning petition RZN 20-0021, located northeast of West Catoqua Drive and South Rupert Road for approximately 22.98 acres from CS Community Services and NC Neighborhood Conservation to P1 Institutional. Okay, Jonathan. Jonathan, if you're speaking, you're muted. Okay, Jonathan, you're on. Jonathan, we can't hear you. Still nothing? Nothing.
 Yeah, I got you. All right. I apologize. I'm not sure what happened there. Jonathan Kurth with Development Services. As an update from the January 7th council meeting, city and Fayetteville public school staff met to discuss the school's goals on the property on Ruple and the city's goals and interests with the area's street system and development pattern. The next day, the Transportation Committee held a special meeting where those issues were shared with the council members in attendance and,
 I'll leave it to those committee members, of course, to give their assessments of the outcome. But I have been advised by the school district that they may be presenting an amended proposal tonight. And I have Blake Jurgensen, Dr. Duncan, and I believe a few other FPS staff there in attendance to present anything they have to add. Thank you. Okay. So the applicant wishes to speak. They have 10 minutes before the council.
 Yes sir, thank you very much. If I may on this end, Mayor and Council members, if I can share my screen, is that okay? Sure. Great. Okay, I'm just going to give you a brief rundown, obviously less than 10 minutes, of what we covered and what we discussed in our meetings and also just to reiterate from our end, we are wanting to go through the approval process as we would. We have a lot of
 of other people that we get to go through this process with, including people that are in the city of Fayetteville and a lot of entities that are across the state to become an official approved public school. So we're going to go through that process as we normally would. We do have several considerations that we discussed in both of those meetings, including safe routes to school recommendations, the safety and security of students, along with drivers and students now with cell phones, students with special needs, how to get to
 our emergency vehicles can access our property and other things that really impact the economy of the building in terms of property drainage, utilities, and then our desires for things in the future, like an environmental center and also bike trail components. So if you'll remember, this is where we kind of started the conversation with our property. And you'll notice that the property line is drawn in the white dash line. It's in the shape of an L.
 And we understood from the Transportation Committee some considerations they wanted us to take under advisement, which is master street planning connections, the use of roundabout for circulation and reducing costs, parking in the front, ingress and egress access to broader the transportation impact, and then
 considering some type of out parcel for the property portion and so that happened on friday and then we had meetings on the weekend and we had discussions on on monday which brought us forward with some considerations for our board and our board was kind enough to meet this morning prior to this meeting so that we hopefully don't impact the timeline toward approval and some things that we discussed were some increased landscape options between ruble road and the
 visitor parking. So that goes kind of beyond the city requirements. We also talked about elongating the front parking lot. It would result in a loss of stalls. However, we were able to rotate those to either side of the parking lots along with looking at removing a center curb cut and then contingent that we can get all of those legal matters addressed that we could potentially out parcel a portion of parking.
 Rupert Road 80 feet on the west side of the property for future development at the school board's discretion. So that brought us to this design
 which looks like a little bit different view, but this is a diagram. This kind of pink portion at the bottom shows you this 80 foot out parcel that we discussed. And that is our amendment request. Council members and Mayor, that's what we are asking for is that we have a P1 zoning with this out parcel becoming CS.
 With the understanding that we are going to make good faith efforts as we move through large scale development to make modifications to our parking lot in the front to also accommodate the number of visitors that we've got. So, Mr. Jorgensen, I'm going to turn it over to you. Good evening, council members. Good evening.
 We appreciate this opportunity and I hope that the council recognizes that we're working through so many different avenues of people and boards and committees and the velocity of which we can make these decisions, I hope is taken into consideration. Typically, if there is such a large component of design that we needed to change,
 our move would be to table. I hope that by seeing that we are willing to work with the transportation committee, the city staff, and also the school board members, they jumped on a special meeting this morning to approve this submittal to you all. And so our, we hope that that shows the anxiety we have to get this thing going. And obviously we're dealing with bond money. And so we hope that,
 This revised submittal shows that we want to honor the city's goals for Rupert Road by creating that out parcel to remain a CS. We've revised the legal descriptions, submitted them to the city, and we hope that the council can understand that
 If you all consider this, that it could be potentially approved, and we really, really appreciate a third reading tonight, of course, we want to have a good discussion. And so I just hope that you all recognize the urgency that we're trying to achieve and we're
 we're certainly not trying to bypass anyone, not any committee. Um, it's going to be months and months before we are allowed to do anything. We hope that you recognize the school board has, um,
 made a consensus to try to develop Rupal and leave that opportunity for the future. And so with that, I'm not sure if Dr. Duncan or anyone else has anything else to add, but we certainly look forward to a good conversation tonight.
 So with that mayor I will yield the remainder of our time. I know that we have Dr. John L. Colbert our superintendent on with us if you need to speak with him and we also have Ms. Megan Hurley as a school board member who's also on the line. Well you have five minutes left on your presentation and then there's the public comments segment. Sir I will I will yield the rest of our time back to you. Okay. Okay.
 What questions do we have from the city council for the staff or the school? I have a question. So I thank you so much for putting this diagram up. This helps quite a bit about how you've kind of reformed and reconstructed
 the design of this area. My question is, why are you having that 80 foot out parcel to remain community services service? I don't quite understand that logic and I was not on the transportation committee discussion. I certainly enjoyed answer that question. So during that transportation committee, it was very efficient and
 We, Councilmember Petty was reelected as the chair to it. And in his wisdom, he had the foresight to say, look, if you had a 75 to 80 foot swath of land, it's viable to create any type of business entity that can restructure that vacant property to be a tax basis.
 And I guess probably I should have let Councilmember Petty answer that. But the history of why the school adopted that 80 foot is at the suggestion of Councilmember Petty. He was throwing out this 75 to 80 foot and we thought we want to utilize his experience and say, yes, we will commit to dedicating an 80 foot swath along Rupert Road.
 just a follow-up question um but that still remains the ownership with the school uh district correct yes ma'am okay thank you yes ma'am what other questions do we have or comments mayor i'll make a comment um
 I just want to personally, as deeply as I can, thank the team, Blake and Mike and Clayton, for taking a look at it, but especially Dr. Duncan, who talked with me early and led the project team.
 And, you know, the goal of our special transportation committee meeting last Friday was really just to set the stage that everyone, all the team members at the city and at the school district were approaching this in good faith.
 and especially that we might reframe and caution ourselves against adopting a concession mindset, whether you're on the city side trying to extract concessions or on the applicant side trying to avoid making concessions, but instead to think of things as a consensus mindset.
 And while we invited staff to share their concerns and we invited the school district to overview what their design considerations were,
 And I feel like everyone was fair, very fair, and that we had a good meeting of the minds. And it's obviously resulted in some prospective changes. So I'm extraordinarily grateful. And while I don't think anybody is going to say everybody got exactly what they wanted or that the design is perfect or that we wouldn't do better to meet a little bit earlier on the next one, it does, I think, matter.
 create a solid foundation for us to get together on the next one. And the notion of the out parcel potentially being a source of ongoing tax revenue or even revenue from a sale or a partnership is
 I think this is the kind of leap of faith for the school district to test the waters or put their toes in to the pool of public-private partnerships on this property. It's really timely. And if we can figure out the legal issues and come up with something that's a win-win in the next few months or maybe a little bit longer, I think we'll learn a lot of great lessons to apply on the larger parcels that the school district owns.
 that were mentioned as potential candidates for joint planning. And so I'm excited, I'm ready to vote on it tonight on the basis of this being a good foundation for moving forward. Thank you everyone. Well, questions do we have in the council?
 I just want to make a quick comment to thank Matt for his leadership for the Transportation Committee to come up with this very innovative solution. When we were talking about it in the committee, I could imagine resources and things that would be really helpful for parents and teachers as they're dropping their sons or daughters off, their grandchildren off,
 maybe even a dry clean, dry cleaning or daycare could something coffee could be here. So you don't have to be going to three different places. But you could kind of do it all in one stop shop. I don't know exactly how that would happen. But it would be pretty exciting, I think, to have something like that, that makes it more convenient for all the people using this building. So thanks, Matt, for your leadership there.
 And thank you to the applicant for being so considerate and open to the feedback. We appreciate, we know you were jumping through lots of hoops there to get through the timeline. So we appreciate your flexibility. Okay, what other comments do we have, counsel, or questions? All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody please.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Please unmute so we can
 hear you so who would like to address this first megan hurley okay go ahead hi council it's uh great to get to talk to you tonight um i have very brief comments i just wanted to say that um
 The board is really excited about that out parcel option. I feel like we obviously have a long future together, the city and the district. And I feel like this, the solution that the district and Council Member Petty and the rest of the Transportation Committee came up with there
 really leaves us open to a lot of opportunity for cooperation and an ability to be flexible in meeting the needs of our constituents and our community. That section of RuPaul and West Fayetteville is obviously still taking shape, and I really like that we –
 we have the opportunity to work together to yeah to meet the needs of that community and that part of town as those needs develop and unfold. So I appreciate as everybody else has said all of the work that staff and and council did and the board did to get to this point together. That's it. I yield the rest of my time back. Okay. Who else would like to address us? Al Smith. Okay. Go ahead.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. And I've changed to a different device, so hopefully this is smoother than it was the last couple of weeks. I would like to thank you all and the staff and the school board and the school staff for their patience and creativity on this. This is so much better than what we saw before, and I really appreciate everybody recognizing the importance of
 if not developing the frontage on on RUPL, at least preserving that opportunity for later, like many of our residential developers in the area have been doing. At the risk of throwing a wrench in things, I do have one question about the plan that's been put on the screen. There is a row of trees that are illustrated in these offset from the roundabout just to the north.
 And that is not where those trees are. When you go out and look on the ground, the row of trees and a waterway are exactly where a eastbound leg would branch off of the roundabout. And that may require some creativity in how that road is designed. And so I just hope everybody will take a second look at that. Certainly should not impact the zoning vote, but since that's been out there, it's
 I would hate for the only set of trees in almost a mile strip to get plowed under to do to being overlooked in the plan so again thank you all for putting out the good effort on this one. I'm really looking forward to seeing what this becomes in a few years. Who else would like to address this? Okay I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 Mayor, if the council wants to agree to the new proposal, we have drafted an ordinance, which we sent out to the council already, that would effectuate their changed plan and proposal. So if someone does support that new plan, they need to move to replace the current ordinance to the one that was sent out this afternoon that reflects the school board's recommendation and proposal.
 So replace the old plan with the new or the old ordinance with the new? Yes. This is very similar, but there is some changes that need to be made. Okay. Simple enough. All right. Moved. Second. We have a motion to second to. And let me just read it so everybody knows what we're talking about. Okay.
 An ordinance rezoned that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 20-0021 located northeast of West Catulpa Drive and South Rupert Road for approximately 22.98 acres from CS Community Services and NC Neighborhood Conservation to CS Community Services and P1 Institutional.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from CS Community Services and NC Neighborhood Conservation to CS Community Services and P1 Institutional.
 Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville Arts are hereby amends official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. And I should note for the record that we have a plat that was shown by Blake Jorgensen, and we also have two legal descriptions here.
 one which remains CS and one that goes from CS to P1 that also were supplied by Blake Jorgensen and now would be attachments to the new ordinance. Okay. And so we need someone to make a motion to put that amendment forward or change the ordinance. I move we amend the ordinance to the new one, replace the old one with the new one. Did Matthew and I not already do that?
 No, not on this one. Okay. I made the motion and Council Member Bunch seconded and we hadn't voted yet. I was pretty sure that's what we did. Yes. That's what I have on my records. Okay. Okay. Well, now I've read it for the second time. Or maybe you can count that the third time. All right. We've got a motion and a second on the floor to come in here. So any discussion on that?
 Kerr, would you please call the roll? Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Henyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Are we on the second reading or the third since you've read it? I'll ask the clerk for that, although I did fully read it. Based on the record, I have that we moved to go to the third reading that was Petty and Turk, first and second, and that was approved. Then we amended as read from what City Attorney Kit Williams, and that was approved. That was Petty and Bunch, first and second, and that was approved as well. So we're on the...
 When I read it fully, I think that was the third and final reading. Okay. Well, we'll call it so. Anyway, what discussion do we have? Any final comments from the council? I'd like to thank the Transportation Committee for looking at this. The previous meeting, I said I would probably go with whatever they recommend. Unless they came back with something crazy, I think they came back with something reasonable. So glad we're getting this done tonight.
 i have a comment yes so i appreciate um cal smith speaking up about the trees and so i hope due consideration will be given to retaining those trees during the design process and i would i would appreciate that because they are really few and far between on on ruple and i do appreciate everybody getting together and willing to compromise and come up with uh with a solution thanks
 Okay. Any other final comments? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? I just want to go over one more time. I have that we went through the second reading. Then it was amended, the ordinance was. And then you're saying that you're going to consider the amendment as the third reading. Did I understand that? That's correct. Okay. Was there not a motion to go to the third reading? Okay.
 What I heard was to amend it as read. But everybody told me we were on the third, so. Tara, was there a motion to go to the third and final reading? No, there was not that I heard. I heard amend as read. Then we'll need that. I move that we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Tara, would you please call the roll? Clerk? Yes. Clerk? Clerk?
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. In ordinance, rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-0021 located northeast of West Cotopo Drive and South Rupert Road for approximately 22.9 acres.
 from CS Community Services and NC Neighborhood Conservation to CS Community Services and P1 Institutional. Okay, final comments from the council? All right. Kerridge, please call the roll. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 That passed, Mayor. Okay, great. All right, number three. In ordinance to approve the application of Sammy Amar Haddaji on behalf of the Club Rush Hookah and Cigar Lounge for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of Federal at 550B West Dixon Street. Now, I have this on the second reading. Is that correct?
 On B3 I have that this was left on the second reading. All right cool. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. I move we go to the third and final reading. I second it. Okay got a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Turt Yes Hertzberg Yes Gutierrez Yes Jones
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Butch? Yes. In order to approve the application of Sami Haddad Amar Haddaji on behalf of Club Rush Hookah and Cigar Lounge for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of Fayetteville at 550-B West Dixon Street. Okay. Chief? Yes.
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. As Kit explained and is required by Arkansas Law 39-22, Sammy Hadadji is requesting approval of a private club application for his business, which is Club Rush, Hookah Lounge, and Cigar Lounge.
 And two weeks ago at the city council meeting, Deputy Chief Fields in spirit of full disclosure, explained that Mr. Hadadji also owns the VIP lounge as well. We've had no issues from Mr. Hadadji at the hookah and cigar lounge in which he's applying for this private club permit.
 But we have had a few issues as it relates to the mask ordinance and social distancing and things that are related to ADH guidelines and regulations with the VIP lounge. And so just give a rehash of the issues that have been cited. On July 11th, a warning was issued during a business check by the Arkansas Alcohol Beverage Control Board.
 and the agents found that social distancing regulations weren't being followed. And then on September 20th, a follow-up visit, there was a violation of the good neighbor rules and failure to maintain health and safety and sanitary standards at the VIP lounge as well.
 During the check at the business, the agents located that patrons were not wearing masks and there were no food or drinks that were being consumed by the patrons who were also dancing without masks. There was a fine that was paid on that particular violation of $600 and the business, Mr. Haddadji, was placed on probation by the ABC for 60 days.
 And then on December 5th, there was another ticket issued to the VIP lounge for the violation of the good neighbor rules and failure to maintain health and safety and sanitary standards as well.
 And so during that check of the business, the business was found to be over 66% in capacity, and the bartender was not wearing a mask, and patrons were not wearing masks either. And so currently, that particular ticket is pending a hearing with the ABC that is scheduled for January 26th at 10 a.m., and I'll be happy to entertain any questions.
 Okay, would the applicant like to speak to the council? They have 10 minutes. Yes, please. This is Robert Rhodes with the law firm of Hall-Estill. Good evening, City Council, Mayor, Council.
 I offer as a follow-up to the questions that were posed at the last meeting, specifically what has the applicant done to protect his employees, patrons, and the general public after receiving the ABC Division violations regarding the wearing of masks and social distancing at his other bar. First, if I may give you some background.
 This request for a mixed drink permit is for the Hookah Cigar Lounge, not the VIP, as the chief has explained. The Hookah Club Lounge has never had any kind of violation in its three years of existence. However, the VIP club, as the chief said, has the same owner, Mr. Haddaji. So I can see why the city council would be interested in what's going on in that club as well.
 The VIP club has been in existence for three years as well. And as alluded by City Council Member Kenyon at the last meeting, when Mr. Hadashi applied for, before this council, for an ordinance like this one to get the private club, people were aware that
 that this location under previous ownership had had a poor reputation. Mr. Haddaji, in requesting to open his business, the VIP Club, was questioned very intensely and he promised City Council back then he would uphold the hired standards than the bar that was there before him. City Council took a chance on him and he has followed through on his promises.
 He has changed the reputation of that location completely. And up until before the pandemic, before the tickets that the chief discussed, the VIP club had never received any kind of violation whatsoever. Not an ABC violation, not tobacco, no kind of violation whatsoever.
 As Deputy Police Chief Fields said at the last City Council meeting, Mr. Haddaji has been very, quote, available, accommodating, and helpful to our officers on Dixon Street, end quote. She also indicated that all the conditions have been agreed to and that the police do not oppose this ordinance to upgrade the cigar lounges permit. Thank you.
 Mr. Haddaji does take the pandemic and social distancing requirements seriously. He is in, I'm sorry, he is in his two businesses every night running them. And then he goes home to an immune compromised wife and a three-year-old son. So he tries to be very, very diligent to follow the mask and the cleaning mandates. Here are the things that he is doing, not just in the VIP club, but the hookah lounge as well.
 in order to address the ABC violations and to do the right thing for his community and the patrons. Number one, you must wear a mask to get into the clubs, and if you don't have one, a mask will be provided. Number two, patrons are asked to keep their mask on unless they're actually drinking a beverage. Three, he has created socially distanced areas. Four...
 Although he is allowed to operate at 66 capacity, however, he has chosen to operate at 33% in order to better socially distance his patrons.
 And I realize what the chief said, but we dispute that there were 66% occupancy. Number five, he has installed plexiglass dividers in the VIP club, so patrons have to approach the bartender one-on-one. Number six, in response to the ABC, he has brought in more seating to discourage dancing and large groups standing close together. Number seven.
 In the VIP club, in order to enforce the above protocol, as I had mentioned at the last city council meeting, he has three bartenders, four security personnel, a manager, and he's at the business every night. And so, you know, I guess I can't estimate what I think is the importance of the fact that he's there every night and he has a lot more staff than I think the average bar per capita or per size of the bar.
 He has trained and continues to coach his entire staff, this is number eight, on the necessity to enforce the COVID rules of masking and social distancing in the club atmosphere. Number nine.
 He has voluntarily closed down his business on busy holidays, and he also closed it down for a five-week period after the initial COVID mandate had come out from the state because he wanted to do his best to protect the community. He reopened his business because his staff and his business needed the income, which is also why he's trying to upgrade his beer and wine permit at the hookah club to a mixed drink permit.
 As the change in smoking laws from 18 years old to 21 years old, that makes for another reason why he needs this to be a private club.
 In conclusion, Mr. Haddaji is here before you requesting this ordinance because his two businesses are financially strapped, and this is what he needs for his business to survive. He understands the seriousness of the ABC rules and regulations, and he is implementing things that I've just mentioned –
 And some of those are new, and hopefully that will keep him free from any violations ever again. And again, remember, at the hookah bar, he's never had a violation whatsoever. It also might be interesting to note that a number of bars in the Fayetteville area and across the state were joined as plaintiffs last week in a curfew ban lawsuit.
 mr hadaji and his two businesses were asked and refused to join that as pursuant to your protocol um the city attorney and the police have put forth the seven conditions uh that were stated in the last city council meeting and again i want to read i want to re reaffirm mr hadaji has agreed to those i hope you consider this to be a thorough discussion and i hope this protocol
 is you believe is sufficient to prevent another ABC violation. And also I hope you believe it sufficient to uphold the spirit of the COVID masking and social distancing rules. I thank you in advance and I hope you can pass this ordinance. And I'm here with Mr. Tadashi socially distanced in my conference room and we do our best to take your questions. Thank you.
 Okay, what questions does the council have for the chief or the applicant? I have a question. Okay. So, Mr. Rhodes, when were these new provisions, the lower number of people in there, you know, more training, providing the mask, when were those implemented? Or was that after the third violation? Yes.
 The masks have been in place, I think, the entire time, pursuant to every sign they see around Fayetteville. The lowering from 66 to two-thirds were done after the violations. And were there any additional? I'm sorry, I said that wrong. The lowering from two-thirds to one-third. Okay, thank you.
 Okay. So, and he's here, he's there every single night. So I'm supposing that when the ABC came in and these three times when they found some irregularities, he was present at that time? They came in four times.
 He was there. Were you present every time they came in? Yes. Yes. Okay. And mind you, he goes back. The VIP is across West Avenue. And so he goes back and forth, but he's at both of his places.
 OK, I just I'm concerned because since he was there when they came in and that he didn't they saw something that I guess he wasn't enforcing at the time when he was there. That's what's concerning to me.
 Well, I can tell you that he is, you know, he's going to do all the things that I just laid out for you. The other two violations are pending. And as I'm sure you respect, he has not pled guilty to those. And I am still in the process of getting the state's information and I'm investigating those. And again, those were not at the hookah lounge. Those were at the VIP club. Okay.
 But that distinction, you know, I guess it has some importance. But Mr. Haddaji realizes that you have every right to look at what he's doing in either one of his clubs. Yeah.
 I mean, I just, you know, we've got such a pandemic going and this variant that's coming here and that's going to allow even more rapid spread than we have right now. I guess I don't want to I don't think there's any way to overstate how important it is to ensure that all the masking requirements are followed and the social distancing. And so.
 Previous track record is very important in my consideration of this decision, even though it was at the VIP club and not at the hookah lounge. But thank you for your comments and making those increased safeguards to our community. What other questions do we have from the council? I have a question. I guess whenever you look at the two clubs and I live in this area, the patronage is very different.
 One club is a dance club. You know, you're getting down on it. It's fun. People are maybe in a different mode than they would be in a hookah lounge where they might be in a more zen groove. So when I look at the patrons, I can see it might be different. And managing patrons at one place, whereas managing places at the other place, would be a lot tougher. I'm trying to...
 make my decision on the merits of the hookah lounge. That's what we're talking about today. And I think that that VIP club, I'm very familiar with it because I walk by it a lot and it's, it's not a hookah lounge, but even regardless of that,
 they've got to get their stuff together at the VIP club and it's the VIP clubs responsibility and the owner to get it together but if the hookah lounge you know it's just different and you you know that if you've ever been to to either one of the places so I'm trying to look at them as the business that has come to apply for this permit so that's what I'm thinking about
 Okay, well then the comments... I guess I was going to ask Mr. Haddad if he sees the patrons as very different. Yes, he does. Right now at the hookah bar, people don't dance.
 Now, at the club VIP, he is discouraging that dancing as much as possible. Now, I think it's legal for people in the state of Arkansas to dance at a club if they engage in social distancing. And I'm guessing if two people that live together dance, then that's still following social distancing. Right.
 His putting the chair or taking out the, I'm sorry, putting in the tables and doing things like that is meant to physically discourage as well as just, you know, through his conversations. Well, in no way am I trying to make light of anything that would...
 put the health of the community at risk because this pandemic pandemic is real and it's it's uh got to be taken very seriously so that is part of my how i'm going to make the decision too but i do see the patronage is two different types of crowds okay anything else mark that's it okay what other questions do we have in the council comments all right let's take some public comment
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents will speak first please press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you so who would like to address this first
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. We are on the third and final reading. Is there any final comments from the Council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Burke? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Thank you all.
 Moving along to number four, an ordinance for a zone that properties describe in zoning petition RZN 20-0022 located at 3670 West Mount Comfort Road for approximately 6.05 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. I have in January 7th, 2021 City Council meeting, this item was left on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Thank you.
 Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Erk? Yes. Erksberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Butch? Yes. Erk?
 Anonymous to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-0022, located at 3670 West Mount Comfort Road for approximately six acres from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. Okay. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Hopefully I'm audible this time.
 Yes. All right. Thank you. Appreciate it. I don't have any new information regarding this request since the January 7th meeting, except to advise the counselor who did not have a chance to review the documents that the applicant sent there. In a nutshell, there were expressions of support for their request broadly and specifically the potential for supporting a gas station on this property.
 With that said, I do have Suzanne Clark here representing the applicant and I'm available for questions. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? They have 10 minutes.
 Yes, Mr. Mayor, thank you. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm Suzanne Clark with Clark Law Firm. I'm here tonight representing Tony and Sherry Hardin and Landmark Custom Homes with their request to rezone these six acres at the corner of Mount Comfort Road and Ruppel Road. And as you are aware, this is a request to rezone. There is no development plan in place on this project.
 But there has obviously been a great deal of discussion around the use of that property, potentially for a gas station. And it was suggested that my client, despite the fact that there is no development plan in place, should perhaps agree to restrict their options in terms of what they might be able to do under CS.
 because there has been some opposition raised to the concept of a gas station. As their representative and attorney, I certainly would not recommend that they restrict their options in advance of trying to move forward to develop this property. Originally, when the Hardens, the applicant was Come and Go on the two acres that was originally proposed. After Come and Go pulled out of that,
 They sat down and looked at what can we do here to discuss our options and decided in conjunction with Landmark to propose a bigger lot of land, the six acres as opposed to the two, to open up perhaps options for what other things, what other commercial opportunities along that
 that road, since it is right on the roadway there, might they be able to explore? But after going through what they did, wanting to get that zoning in advance of dealing with developers. That being said, they certainly do not want to restrict their options moving forward. And at that corner,
 it may be a very good use to have a gas station there. In fact, Commissioner Gorlock, when we were going through this specifically said that corner is perfect for a gas station, considering the road plans that are in place that the city has developed as part of 2040.
 And in addition to that, a lot of the drivers to say that my clients should just agree to this, to just agree that they would not put a gas station in place or anything under that use 18 NCS was because there were neighbors who were concerned and had raised objections. Right.
 Now, what Jonathan just mentioned, we submitted, and I don't know if you have had a chance to review it, but we have got individual households and not individual.
 signatures from three people in the same household trying to pad that, but individual households. And I think between what I sent in on Friday and then today, it's about 65 different residents in Fayetteville who have said that at that corner, not only are they not opposed, they would be in favor of
 a gas station convenience store or perhaps drive-thru restaurant. So I hope we have demonstrated that it is not just overwhelming opposition, but as in most cases, whenever there is a development where there has not been one before, you're gonna have folks on both sides of that. And I think what we've offered is pretty strong support in favor of it. And I'm hoping that the council will certainly give as much weight
 to the residents here who say they are in favor of it as they are to those who are saying they are opposed.
 And what I am requesting with this zoning, the zoning request, is that my client essentially just not be handcuffed in the same way that literally the neighboring properties are being considered. Because as we discussed last week, it is CS across the street and about 40 acres. It is CS to the southwest corner. It is CS to the east.
 CS is the correct zone here. And even the folks who have spoken in opposition have admitted that CS is the correct zone, but they wanna take a use out of it. And we're here tonight to ask you to vote on making CS the zone. And CS is the correct zone as supported by staff, as supported by the planning commission, and really even as acknowledged by some of the folks who have spoken in opposition to this.
 And in the idea that my clients shouldn't be handcuffed, even when Mr. Hazen was getting his CS zoning, and in fact, my client, Tony Harden, spoke in favor of Mr. Hazen's request. When former Alderman Smith was advocating for Mr. Hazen, the discussions about the CS and the distinctions were raised in the same way that they have been with my client. And we heard last week
 a couple of people say we don't want for this to be like Weddington. That's what we're trying to avoid. We don't want it to be like Weddington. And when I went back and listened to those meetings where Mr. Smith was advocating for Mr. Hazen, he said that was a discussion with the neighbors, but it was, but he specifically explained to them that,
 Weddington had been done under C1 and C2 zoning, not CS. And CS is very different. There are heightened design standards and hopefully alleviated that concern for the neighbors. That's still true today. That is still true today. So some of those concerns, I think,
 I think the concerns that were in place then are the same concerns that are in place today. And I don't think my clients should be handcuffed any more than Mr. Hazen or any of his other neighbors have been with that request.
 And getting back to the specific request to rezone, Mr. Mayor, considering I ran into some technical difficulties last time trying to share my screen, if you will permit, I sent Jonathan just a couple of slides I wanted to ask the council to take a look at if you're willing for me to have him pull that up.
 well you have 10 minutes suzanne that's that's that's the rules if they want to give you more time the council can give you more time but you have until 6 50 on my timer where where am i on time mr mayor you got three minutes three minutes okay i'd like to jonathan if you don't mind just looking at the major interstate intersections if you could pull that up
 There's been a good deal of discussion about wanting to be sure that my clients do not have the same options that the other CS owners have because of concerns about traffic and walkability. And this particular slide on the left-hand side where that star is, is the intersection. And it shows the major non-interstate intersections. This intersection obviously is part of the mayor's box.
 This was part of the bond package to be able to develop those roads. This is an intersection that is specifically being developed by the city for vehicular traffic. It is not just a sleepy neighborhood. There's a ton of development going on around it, and I won't have time for my other slide. But that developing is happening consistent with the city's plans, right?
 And CS zoning is absolutely the right zoning. And we're asking tonight that you consider all of the neighbors who have put forward that they would support my client's request, even including CS as it exists today. They would be in favor of that zoning and that use. Many,
 of them are not happy about the idea of the 365 apartments going in across the street. But that's what happens when folks develop. Some folks are going to like it, some will not. But CS is the right zone for this property and we would ask that you vote to approve it tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have for the applicant or staff on the council? Okay, well let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five-minute duration broken into three and two segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will speak first. Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. So who would like to address us first from the public?
 Luke Schaefer. Okay. All right, thank you Marion City Council. Luke Schaefer, 4313 West Mount Comfort Road here.
 I am a resident, have been on this side of West Fayetteville for over five years now, just about, and also been an educator at Holt Middle School, which is just about a stone's throw away from this area. And as mentioned, there has been a lot of talk about a gas station and everything like that. My concern, first and foremost, as a resident, is...
 with the idea of gas station or even just a drive-thru restaurant is just the amount of traffic that it will continue to flood on that in that area.
 in that intersection um and especially since like i said it's very close to the school uh then there's the opportunity there for um congestion whenever during school zone times because holt sits right on uh ruple and as already with the expansion that we've already done we're already seeing um an increase in traffic uh that we did not see before the expansion and so i know that uh
 our administration has done a wonderful job of working with the city and I'm, I'm been impressed and thankful for what the city has done and working with, uh, our administration, our school. But, uh, as far as this goes with the property, whenever we have, uh,
 and students who are coming to school in the mornings and everything like that, continuing to add a turnout or onto Mount Comfort or even Ruppel, as well as all of the buses, which is probably anywhere between eight to 10 or more buses that come to our school, especially all at once, sometimes in the morning drop-offs off students. That's a lot of traffic. And I'm a...
 PE teacher within the school and I've worked with our community of bike NWA as well as local businesses and as far as receiving grants for new bikes and increasing our bike program at the school which includes utilizing the city's bike paved trails that are running in front of the school which we have already enjoyed this year and so continuing to add that added traffic
 also creates a concern for me as safety for my students as we hope to increase our time on the bike. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address us? Andrew Chance.
 Good evening, and thank you for letting me speak. Andrew Chance, 2536 North Surtees Place. That's on the west side. It's actually just off of Ruppel as well. I am a colleague of Mr. Schaefer's, and thank you, Luke, for speaking up. And I want to echo his sentiments about the
 The consideration between the city council and your support of the schools. Thank you so much. And of our administration and working together. I can't think of a better symbiosis. I appreciate the support. Considering this, both in the first in the first.
 Time around in whenever we thought this was going to be a come and go gas station and now hearing about this. It's I feel like what what Miss Clark said is without a doubt true that there are, you know, 65 easily residents who would be in support of something like this, but when I'm when I'm on our neighborhood sites.
 uh there are quite a few who are not in support of it and we're not talking about three people in the same household and i'm not trying to say that that doesn't happen but there are quite a few in the neighborhood and in the within the schools that don't think this is the right move and that even though commercial might be the right way cs might be the right thing limiting or at least some some prohibitions that would limit the amount of traffic a uh a uh
 A gas station is not meant for people to stick around for a long time. There's going to be a lot of people coming through and in and out quickly. And this is a place where we want to see kids using these safe pathways to school. In addition to that, I simply hesitate any time we put business near a school building because we compel people to go to school, which means we compel in some ways the route and the things that they see on their way there.
 And we service, even though the West Side is thriving and wow, just booming, we also happen to service some of the poorest neighborhoods in Fayetteville. And I hesitate, I hesitate any time we put a commercial in front of their eyes.
 I do that as a both as a parent and a teacher there at the whole middle school for the last 16 years. I love the plan to develop the west side in terms of making sure that people have resources near. I don't think a gas station at this site is the same thing as some of the other resources that we might see. That's that's simply an opinion, but it's supported by a great number of staff members and a great number of neighbors. OK, I yield the rest of my time.
 Next, Jim Hazen. Go ahead. Good evening, and thank you for this opportunity to speak to the council again. My name is Jim Hazen. I live across the street at 2160 Ruppel Road. I'd like to clarify a few items tonight. I think that this is a big issue, and we've gotten a bit off track. The main issue is whether a gas station is appropriate for this location. We believe that a gas station is too commercial, too auto-driven, too unsafe, and opens the door to be another Weddington.
 We don't oppose the applicant from making a profit as some have suggested. It's the negative effect of a gas station on our neighborhood that we're fighting. Stopping CS rezoning right now seems to be our only option. If we had some assurance that a gas station was not in the mix for this location, the opposition would go away. But every indication suggests that a gas station is still on the table. And if the applicant really valued the heritage of Mount Comfort, wouldn't they try and guide the development to honor that heritage?
 Everyone looks at Mount Comfort as an undeveloped agricultural location, but let me tell you a few things of the history of Mount Comfort. Mount Comfort is one of the bedrock settlements in northwest Arkansas, along with King Hill and Fayetteville. Mount Comfort was settled in 1828 when brickmakers Solomon Tuttle and William Cunningham brought their families here from Tennessee. They donated land for a church, a school, and a cemetery. The Cunningham House on Salem was the first brick building in Washington County.
 Their lands became Holcomb School, University Farm, Gary Hampton softball fields. They're buried here in Mount Comfort Cemetery. Mount Comfort was the second school chartered in the county, followed by Far West Seminary, Ozark Institute, and Mount Comfort Women's Academy. They met in the church and in the fellowship house. These closed when Arkansas Industrial University opened in Fayetteville, which became the U of A in 1871.
 Captain Ephraim Dixon, a veteran of the War of 1812, is buried here. His son bought 20 acres north of the square. It became Dixon Street. Cherokees on the Trail of Tears camp near the church in 1837 and 1839 on their way west. Sarah Bird Ridge, wife of Cherokee John Ridge, is buried in the cemetery. And there's a whole history of John and Sarah and the Ridge House influencing our area.
 During the Civil War, the church and fellowship house were used by both sides as a hospital. Each time they were burned when the side withdrew, these bricks were moved to Fayetteville to build the barracks there. Troops from both sides bivouacked along Hamstring Creek. Kerry Alexander, who came here on an orphan train, is buried here. The Kansas and Memphis Railroad came through this property from 1900 to 1917. The last of three poor farms in Fayetteville was across the street.
 I can go on and on about the Deans, the Pittmans, the Applebees, the Carians, and the Hannahs influencing our area and buried in Mount Comfort Cemetery. We're not just an area to be casually developed. We have a rich heritage that should be protected. Isn't that something which Fayetteville prides itself? Isn't that what makes Fayetteville different? Simply, a gas station and all its consequences in this location dishonors our heritage and what we are trying to do to revitalize the core of Mount Comfort.
 It's important that we carefully shape the direction we choose to go with Mount Comfort. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Will Dockery. Go ahead. Will Dockery, 4149 West Bradstreet Lane. I'm sorry that I was late for the community services thing, but you know, we keep talking about how like the rules have changed in midstream, but you know,
 The word for council members can attest to, we've been talking about the purpose of community services for the last 30 years. And so it's like, there's been a big disagreement about what community services are and you know, and I'm sure I've become a little bit insufferable to some of the council members because I speak so much about this, but like we need to decide what our zoning is.
 and what the purposes are of those zonings before we keep rezoning things towards the future. And we've been talking about this for three years. So I just wanna have that as like a point of contention. It's not that it's just this location. And like it has been talked about multiple times in multiple places across the city. And it's just something to keep in mind. Thank you. Thank you. Hunter Buick.
 Hi, Hunter Buick, 1841 Best Friend Lane, about a 10-minute walk from the site. Mayor, City Council, thanks for allowing me to speak again. I've said in previous meetings, I'm
 developer on the south side of Mount Comfort across the street from the site we're in question right now. We are obviously zoned CS, as mentioned before. We're all for CS zoning across the street, but I want to reiterate probably the importance of getting
 some clarity on this conditional or conditional or approved uses on the gas stations and single family. I think
 Just to reiterate some of the points I've made before, a gas station just really sets a much different tone than a different type of use. And, you know, I honestly, I spent some time this week trying to look up a urban gas station and what that looked like. And it's really hard to find. Some of the conversation has been around, well, we haven't seen it in CS zoning yet. So it's hard to really judge it. But, you know, if you do a Google search,
 um, I'd, I'd be certainly happy to see something that was done in a, in a very positive way. And, and really at the end of the day, obviously a gas station is a use focused on the automobile and, uh, and not people. And so it's, it's my opinion that gas stations belong near near interstates and, um, high traffic roads and not, uh, we're a place where you're trying to make it more walkable, more bikeable. Um,
 In addition to that, I think if you look at some of our more cherished places in Fayetteville, Mount Sequoia, Markham Hill, and several others, you won't see a gas station in those places. I think that's a pretty good example. We also believe that the...
 the, uh, sorry, I lost my train of thought there. Oh, the, uh, the, I just wanted to bring this back to that. We're, we're not talking about a, a, uh, completely getting rid of gas stations from CS zoning. We're just talking about moving it to a conditional use. And so I, you know, I wouldn't be speaking if I didn't believe this was appropriate across, uh, all, uh, all of Fayetteville and not just a site that we're, um,
 more particularly interested in. In addition, I just want to add our development across the street is not 365 apartments. It's a mix of apartments and townhouses and single family and commercial. So it's a much different, I guess, a little bit different than what was described earlier. I just wanted to point out. So appreciate the time and that's all I have.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Kyle Smith. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. I promise I will not refer back in the agenda to the other community services issue for tonight, but instead...
 I'd like to take a second to look forward in your agenda to the last item on new business. Sorry, next to last item on new business tonight, EV charging stations, because I believe that that would be a welcome accessory use for folks wanting to fuel their vehicles at any of the businesses that could be built in a CS zone. And that would be fully appropriate here.
 Tomorrow, we're going to see a change in leadership in our country with a pretty strong promise for changing the way we approach energy. And I think that it shouldn't be that shocking that we'd be moving away from and hear neighbors wanting to move away from quick in and out fueling stations forever.
 out at the out at the edge of the city limits and this is an opportunity later tonight to uh
 um ensure that they can still get those sorts of services uh albeit with a method that requires a slightly longer stay and maybe contributes a little more to a sense of um of place and connectedness to the neighborhood that you stop to to plug in and fill your car at so that's all i will say i think you'll know how i feel about the rest of it um the uh
 I will add, I suppose, just in the historical context that I did advocate for the community services for the Hazens in distinguishing it from the commercial development on Weddington.
 But that was also after they made some pretty strong promises, not the bill of assurance that we asked for, but made some strong promises one-on-one with neighbors, both in the hallway outside the city council chambers and at several ward four meetings that they were not pursuing gas stations. And I believe the development plans they brought forward have borne that out. So I would ask that you...
 keep this area consistent with the the way it is headed and I do believe that CS will be appropriate in about eight months or so but right now it is not compatible or at least risks not being compatible with the area. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay I'm going to bring it back to the council. Well we're on the third and final reading so what discussion do we have from the council?
 I believe that the neighbors would be okay with this and it would be good for the area under the zoning minus one use. And it seems like that use is gonna stay on the table. So I'll be voting against this. I have a comment.
 so i do think that because that use is still still remains in there and this area is so different than many other areas of our city there's a school close by right across the street is a cemetery and a historic church we are trying to make it more walkable a more walkable neighborhood area and by
 retaining that use unit 18 that I've gotten a lot of emails about, a huge number of emails about.
 I do find that it's incompatible with that area. I have gotten maybe one email of somebody that wants to support it. So while I know Ms. Clark has presented a long list of neighbors that say they support it, I certainly haven't received those emails directly, maybe one, maybe two at the most. So I will not be supporting the CS zoning for this particular location.
 Okay. What other comments do we have? Well, when I look at this, I think that there's something very unfair. It's CS all around that area. And one of the people that got CS is the ringleader to try to get this property, not zone CS, and that really rubs against me in a bad way. This is a few acres compared to a lot of acres that we've already in that area.
 agreed that CS was appropriate. And we have vilified gas stations a lot. Well, if there's such a villain, then that's not the perfect place for it, looking at the neighborhood. But there's also a lot of things associated with the convenience store. Convenience store, it's a service in an area that doesn't have anything like that.
 when they talk about compatibility how could you be more compatibility if all the property surrounding it on all sides is cs seems like if it's cs it'd be compatible for this to be cs and i think when i look at this now when i was on thinking about our form-based codes there's a lot of ways to look at it but go back and look at the city council meetings this was to make it so that
 It would be easier to develop in a form with some controls. And I don't want to mess with that. That's really why we went forward with it, in my opinion. And I was there. I mean, regardless, how can we deny the CS-
 On these few acres, when we did this vast approval of CS right in the area, I think that we need to reconsider. You know, there's e-charging there at these stations, too. It's not just gasoline. And there are urban stations, if you go online, that have been compatible with a more urban neighborhood.
 If you travel internationally, you well know this. So I am supporting this on the matter of fairness, on the matter of compatibility with the surrounding properties. And I think that it is the right zoning for this few acres. I would like to also make a comment. Sure. My vote is...
 I'm sorry, my vote tonight will not be based upon whether or not a gas station will be placed there. My vote is strictly going to be based upon whether or not CS zoning is appropriate for the area. And like Mark said, the property across the street is on CS. And so I really do think that this is the most fair choice. And then we can vote on whether or not gas stations are appropriate for CS at the next meeting. Okay.
 Okay. What other comments do we have in the council? Um, I'll make a brief comment, mayor. Um, I've been, uh, I've been back and forth on this several times, but I keep coming back to, um, the notion of fairness and what is on the adjacent properties. Um, so I think I'm leaning towards voting in favor. Um, however, uh,
 I have very little faith in our design standards to produce a good fueling station under community services zoning. We've watered them down whenever every gas station applicant came through before, insisted they couldn't get it done under our old design guidelines.
 And we never had the stomach to insist that they try to develop under the old community services design guidelines for fueling stations. And so we watered them down to try and put ourselves in this exact situation that we're in today. There's no such thing as a gas station development oriented for walkable development that has 17 pumps installed.
 Those gas stations have two pumps or maybe four pumps. So I think we're kind of kidding ourselves to say that a fueling station that comes in under CS is going to meet our goals, even though it's going to be held to higher design standards. There are fueling stations out there that do that.
 do a fine job of addressing the context of the community and walkability goals, but they're absolute unicorns. They only get constructed when the cities make them be constructed that way. So in any case, I'm very double-minded about this one, but I'm leaning towards voting in favor on the basis of fairness and the surrounding properties, right?
 And I'm eager to be proven wrong on my characterization of our design guidelines, but I'll take a wait-and-see approach. Okay, what other comments do we have before we vote? Okay. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Burke? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No.
 Yes. Scroggins? No. Bunch? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. All right, number five.
 An ordinance to approve the annexation petition of Patricia Lynn Severino as trustee of the Robert Eugene Burge Irrevocable Trust and annex 59 acres of land located at 3435 East Zion Road. Now, according to my notes, this was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Hurd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. An ordinance to approve the annexation petition of Patricia Lynn Severino as trustee of the Robert Eugene Burge Re-Revocable Trust
 and annex 58, 59 acres of the land located at 3435 East Zion Road. Okay. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. The request remains as previously proposed. I'm not sure if Mr. Williams would like to read. There was a revised title to the amendment given the issue that had come up with the accurately representing what was in the PZD.
 So just to touch on that again briefly, I believe the previous request had noted something like 200 housing units. The PZD is broken down. I'm sorry, we're in the annexation. Excuse me. Yeah. Let me start over. I've been treating them as the same. You lost me there for just a moment. Obviously I lost myself, I'm sorry. The annexation request remains the same as previously.
 A tour was held at Friday at the council's request. Despite the weather, the attending council members did have the opportunity to see the property, including Zion Road and Hilton Creek.
 I don't have anything to add to that. The council members can, of course, speak for themselves. There is one item I would like to touch on that I had the opportunity to get clarification on from our engineering staff regarding the streamside protection zone in particular. I believe I'd previously misinformed the council that the streamside protection ordinance would apply to Hilton Creek.
 i've since learned that a nuance of the streamside protection zone ordinance when it was adopted in 2011 was that it was tied to a very specific exhibit a map that indicated what streams and creeks within the city limits that would apply to
 And despite annexing this property that would not inherently change the boundaries of the streamside protection zone to apply to Hilton Creek that runs through this property, I believe the streamside protection zone ordinance itself would have to be amended separately. So I do apologize for that misinformation. And I am happy to take questions on that or other items. Otherwise, I do have Allie Quinlan here, Mr. Mayor, as the applicant who's in attendance. Yes.
 Okay. Jonathan, are you telling me so if we annexed in the land that our streamside protection ordinance would not apply to this property? That is correct. Well, then what we probably need to do is to modify the streamside protection ordinance, make it clear that if it drains 100 acres, regardless of where it comes from, or if it's not on the exhibit map at the point in time that the wording in the ordinance takes precedence over the map. I'm going to go in a little bit of a change to that.
 Okay. Go ahead. The applicant has ten minutes. Hello, council members and city staff. It was very late when we last reviewed this project, so I'll just do a quick repeat of the high-level elements. This presentation will also suffice for both this agenda and the following item. I'm Allie Quinlan with Flintlock Limited. The project engineer, Blake Murray, is also on the call to answer any technical questions you may have. The project is currently under construction. We are currently working on the project's final design. We are currently working on the project's final design. We are currently working on the project's final design. We are currently working on the project's final design. We are currently working on the project's final design. We are currently working on the project's final design. We are currently working on the project's final design. We are currently working on the project's final design.
 The project boundaries with corrected annexation boundaries for clarity are shown on the 2040 future land use map. As you may recall, several variations of the future land use maps were considered when last adopted recently. Two of the three options did leave this property out of future land use future development. The selected and adopted future land use map though does include this property as well as those all the way east to Old Wire Road in the residential neighborhood area.
 So we've designed this proposed annexation and PZD fully in compliance with those most recent documents. And I've got just a couple of slides. Sorry, that first transition is always slow. This site has significant access to goods and services within walkable or bikeable distance. In contrast to many of the residential neighborhoods on the west side of Fayetteville, the bulk of the uses in the immediate area are commercial services, including a wide range of restaurants, professional offices and churches that are not individually called out on this map.
 I'm also just realizing, I bet that share screen's not working. And I bet that's why the transition didn't make sense. No, I'm not seeing anything. Sense. There we go. OK. Well, at least I figured it out on the first slide and not the seventh.
 So as you can see, there's additional trains that access directly across the street from the site that's shown in that dotted blue line. Further transit connections to downtown and the University are available via connecting buses from the Mall. I believe with the changes we proposed to make this neighborhood a more traditional form, we're putting forward a neighborhood entirely in line with the city's goals and standards.
 Neighbors expressed serious regret at the loss of agricultural character of Zion Road and the potential for increased traffic along their narrow country lane. Responding to this concern and in line with conservation development best practices, we proposed that no intensive development would occur north of Hilton Creek. We would include several large farm lots in keeping with the existing character of the neighborhood and would propose a large parkland dedication on some of the best farm lane of the site.
 We'd eliminate neighborhood street connection up to Zion Road and connect only a trail with emergency vehicle access up to Zion. This would protect the neighbors to the north from any increase in traffic or change in their neighborhood character.
 Water quality and storm flow have been the primary conversation topics around this project. I believe one of the best reasons to support this annexation and rezoning applications are that this land is likely to be developed in the immediate future, either within the city or within the county. If annexed and developed within the city, our development codes will provide significant protection to the water quality of Lake Bay.
 The proposed rezoning plan will also place nearly 20% of the land in permanent open space. If developed within the county, in addition to being able to be developed without Fayetteville's protective codes, the neighborhood would also be on septic systems, which prevent a significant source of potential E. coli contamination to waterways. Lack of erosion control within the county specifically would also increase soil-bound phosphorus runoff into Lake Fayetteville.
 We will note that the proposed parkland dedication has been strongly supported by neighbors and advocates for the water quality of Lake Fayetteville. The Planning Commission and Engineering Departments have both expressed support of our suggestion that this land be dedicated not just for natural conservation, but to provide ecosystem services for Hilton Creek, including widening the channelized stream bank and providing additional safe flood water storage. In the last two years,
 The team is coordinated with the Illinois River Watershed Partnership and City Engineering, both of whom I believe you'll hear from directly, to propose a funded path forward for stream restoration and planting of this area in high phosphorus uptake native grasses.
 Combined with a pay contract for those areas to be mown annually, we believe that this area could be provided to the Parks Department in restored condition with little to no ongoing maintenance burden. However, if the Council opts not to support this future dedication, as I believe City Council has final say on acceptance of parkland dedication, we'll respect that guidance from the Council during this session on whether that area is proposed during the LSD stage to be developed instead of being dedicated as parkland. Thank you.
 We've additionally been working through understanding existing flooding concerns we've heard from neighbors. There's several structures located in the floodway that have experienced repeated flood damage, but flooding has also increased in the past decade, both with progressively intense rainfall patterns and with the build out of the Copper Creek neighborhood. The detention ponds in this neighborhood to our north were designed under the old drainage manual before extended detention was required.
 So as downstream residents have noted to us, the ponds within Copper Creek are empty within two hours of a storm event, which is increasing pressure on the small channel of Hilton Creek, causing it to flow out of the banks more often than prior to development of the neighborhood. As you all saw on site, the water from those ponds also drains into the county, resulting in serious erosion and negative water quality impacts as that water crosses into unprotected area.
 The detention ponds in the new development, however, will be designed under the new code with extended detention requirement and will not similarly contribute to additional peak storm flows in the creek. There are existing flooding and water quality issues in the watershed that won't be solved by leaving this property un-annexed or undeveloped. We're confident that by annexing and developing this property, we will be able to improve, though obviously not entirely solve, some of the existing water quality and flooding issues.
 In short, we've reimagined this project as a compact, complete, and connected neighborhood in a traditional pattern. We've increased the density by reducing the development footprint with the same number of total units proposed. Only the outer lots are proposed without alleys to minimize development pressure on the adjacent properties. In addition to the PZD's design standards, we've included a clause that prevents snout houses by limiting the width of the garage door facing the street to 25% of lot width.
 By annexing this land and accepting the proposed PZD, we ensure that the land is developed following best practices in all of Fayetteville's development codes, including stormwater, volume and quality, tree preservation and planting, and the proposed design codes. We hope you'll agree we've taken this project firmly into the kind of traditional conservation development pattern that the city needs to meet our rapidly growing population. Thank you guys. Okay, what questions do we have for the applicant or the staff?
 I just want to clarify, do we need to take care of the storm side protections before? Because if we approve the PCC, they're not in there. And then we say that they have to do those standards. Would that be a taking?
 I just heard about this problem with the streamside protection ordinance the same time you did just a couple minutes ago. Yeah, me too. However, I do think that the fix is not going to be that difficult. I think I can do it quickly, but I do agree with Council Member Scroggins' concern. The annexation is what I'm concerned about. I would rather have the streamside ordinance fixed.
 before any property is annexed into the city, so that when it is annexed into the city, the streamside ordinance is already in place and therefore it would avoid a taking, possible taking. I mean, I don't know if there really would be a taking, but certainly it would put us in a better position as a city if we had the streamside ordinance fixed.
 and I would draft something with an emergency clause that would need to be passed, in my opinion, prior to the passage of the annexation ordinance. Okay. I appreciate that.
 I like PZDs. I like being able to see what's going on. I think neighbors like to be able to see that. Now, there's some neighbors that are going to disagree no matter what you do. But I think having this under our control and under our stream side protection is better for Lake Fayetteville and other downstream properties than not.
 So I look forward to voting for this, but I recognize that we may not be able to do that tonight for the reasons just mentioned. Okay, what other comments we got? More questions? I have a comment. I agree with Sloan. I'd like to get rid of that ambiguity that might exist with whether the streamside protection ordinance actually
 you know, is relevant here or is enforced here. So maybe we could table this item tonight and the next one since they're linked together, I hate to delay it, but I think we should clear this provision up before we move forward.
 Well, the council needs to know this. This is on the second reading right now. So it's going to be two weeks out before you hear it again. So I'm sure I'm as concerned about that as you all are about the Spain Side Protection Ordinance. So that would be something I would, yes, we need to go to work on that right away. And I'm sure the city attorney can get something put together within two weeks.
 Yes, I can get something put together and I would ask that it be passed first. In more of an abundance of caution, it might be better to have it passed in a city council meeting before the council in another meeting would pass the annexation ordinance. I'm sorry for that. Applicant for Allie. Allie, can you explain to us, have you already planned for the streamside protection in your design? Yes.
 We have and we would additionally, we were hopeful for a vote this evening and would be happy to extend a bill of assurance that we will be happy to follow all street side protection guidelines as that glitch in code is fixed. So if that's something also that we fully expect to comply with that and are happy to offer that bill of assurance to prevent any administrative issues with passing this project before that code is corrected.
 Thanks, Allie. The only reason I feel okay and then talking to the designer and to the owner, Ms. Severino is an avid watershed advocate. And it's not she's not in any, she's unlike any owner that I've met where she's, she's a member of the Illinois Watershed
 I believe, I don't want to misquote that, but she is very incredibly involved and she talked to us extensively about the prairie mounds and that she's talked about how now with this potential pandemic.
 you know, development that the land and the property could be, there's parts of it that can be preserved and approved for water quality for the lake. So it's not, it's a very unique situation. And I know that this is already in the second reading of,
 So I would hate to delay that for Allie and Ms. Severino. Is there, I mean, the main thing is, Kit, do you feel that a bill of assurance would be something that we could work with in court if that ever came up? I don't think that that's something they're going to bring up against us. But would you feel comfortable using that or having that in place? Yes.
 Well, there's two problems with that. Number one, I haven't seen a bill of assurance. It hasn't gone through the process and been signed. And secondly, you have to pass the annexation ordinance first. And then comes up the rezoning ordinance where they want to rezone it to this PZD. And it's a zoning ordinance that carries the bill of assurance, not the annexation ordinance.
 And therefore, if the rezoning is not actually completed, then we have an annexed in, but we don't have a bill of assurance. I just think it's much safer for the city to make sure that the fix to the streamside protection ordinance precedes the annexation ordinance in passage. Thank you, Kent. Sorry, Allie. I think probably we're going to have to hold it here for you guys.
 When you say proceeds, is that like it can happen at that meeting? Like have it as a prior item, do the clause and then? I think that would be okay. I'm always cautious. And so the more cautious things to do would be that it would be in the meeting before the annexation ordinance would be passed and
 However, I think as long as it preceded it in the same, even in the same meeting with an emergency clause on it, then I think that that would probably protect us, but we would be more protected if there was a meeting in between.
 Kit, could it be included as a condition of approval of one of these applications? I mean, again, the applicant has no expectation or disagreement with the Streamside Protection Ordinance. And we were not aware of that until this meeting either. We certainly would have gotten that to you quickly had we been aware. But if there is an administrative way that that can be put through, that certainly we are amenable to.
 i just think the safest thing for the city is that you fix the code before you uh adopt the annexation ordinance i have a question for the applicant that's that's slightly different than what we're discussing right now um in the previous meeting um one of the
 One of the speakers, one of the citizens brought up the possibility of there being a wetland on that property. Has any kind of wetland delineation study been done to confirm or clear up that, if that area is a wetland? I mean, it seems like that is something that's a big question that needs to be solved before we move on to many questions.
 to annexing or actually approving the rezoning and the PCD.
 There are no known wetlands on the site. There is a leaking pond that's on the farm directly to our east right over the boundary that has a dam that's leaking. And Ms. Severino spoke with us about that at the tour. And so that is a spring fed pond and there is slow drainage from that. That's just because of the leaking dam that comes across the property. So it's not a wetland area, but it
 it does have water on it seasonally due to that spring on an adjacent property. Our plan design wise is to route that spring water through it's located at the south end of our linear park that then runs directly north to Hilton Creek. So the plan is to wrap that spring water as sort of an irrigation alternative through that linear park to Hilton Creek.
 Just as a follow up, thank you for that. But there's actually been no formal study that's been done. You just suspect that that's why it's wet is because you've got the leaking dam. But there's been nobody out there actually conducting a study that has the proper background or information to make that determination?
 Not yet. My understanding is there is a wetland field study that has been scheduled after conversation two weeks ago, but that's not been able, that field work has not been completed yet, but there's been no prior designation of any wetlands on the site. So do you have a date when that study might be done or maybe when a report would be out? Because it would seem that that would be an important item in us making some of these decisions, determinations.
 We don't have a date that that will be available yet, but it sounds like we may be tabled. So we'll have that information for you at the next meeting. Okay, thank you. And I'm getting texts from the engineer that it sounds like that's also a preliminary type of study. So if further information is needed, we can certainly look into that. And I believe that that information would be required prior to development plans, as if there is a designated wetland on the site that would limit development under our current codes.
 What other questions do we have for the applicant or the staff? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Please don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will speak first. So be sure and give us your name and address.
 Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Please unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us from the public and be sure to give us your name and address? Joseph Robertson. Go ahead. Mr. Mayor, I'm in the county. Well, you have to wait until federal residence. So, so far, do we have any federal residence? Joseph is the only one with his hand raised. Okay, you go ahead then, Joseph.
 thank you for hearing me my name is joseph robertson i live next to the adjacent property at 3397 east zion road um i wanted to point out that you guys were talking about miss severino's relationship with the watershed and she is selling the property so i don't believe she's representing the developer
 Um, and I can, I had a concern about the adjustment of the code as well, that, um, that would be new business where this would be considered old business. So wouldn't that come first? Um, so I was worried about that being in the same meeting. Um, but my main concern with the annexation is, um, the way that it's drawn and how it affects the neighbors. Um, so it's,
 has some notches out of it that kind of make it technically not creating an island, but it practically is. So you guys were out here recently to tour the property. You stood next to the corner of David Lashley park, um, right next to,
 um, Mr. Pinion's land. So he has a corner of a land that would be touching the rest of the county. That little bit of property there is the only thing that makes, um, the rest of what's in Compass technically touching the county. And that's 12 homes or 13 properties, um, that would be
 almost fully encircled by the city if we were to allow this annexation in its current form. So I would urge you to follow your own protocols and require the studies up front before annexation and to consider how it affects the neighbors. I think if we were to annex that northern portion of the land,
 I think it should include all of the neighborhood that it would be encompassing, and they should have a say in whether or not it's annexed or not. So that's all I have about the annexation. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Next is Travis Chaney. Travis, are you a Fayetteville resident or in the county? I'm not a Fayetteville resident.
 Okay, if you'll just wait a moment and let me call on some others to see if we have any Fayetteville residents. So Griggs, are you Fayetteville or County? Let's do it this way. County, sorry. That's okay. Margaret Britton. Okay. I don't know. It's all right. We'll figure it out here. Hi, I'm Margaret Britton, 1931 North Wheeler Avenue in Fayetteville. Great. Okay, go ahead.
 I'm really speaking in defense of the lake. I would really like to see a completed independent wetland delineation before, before the annexation. Generally I have been thinking that the annexation is probably a really good idea because I believe the city can protect the lake better by having access to this land. If, if the right things are done with it. Um,
 We have to remember Lake Fayetteville is our backup water supply. It's a recreational destination for all of Northwest Arkansas. This could be, it could be a chance to help clean up the lake. It could also be a chance to,
 to let the lake go downhill some more so it could go either way. So let's get this wetland delineation, which is a whole process, a whole separate study that needs to be done legally. Let's get that done and finished up and then look at this again. Thanks. Thank you. Okay. Travis Chaney, back to the county. It's all right. We'll just take them as they come. Okay. Travis.
 Hi Travis Chaney. I work for Illinois River Watershed Partnership and Allie mentioned us in her comments. I just wanted to to let you all know that we our organization does consider this area a priority for water quality improvement. We've been working in the Clear Creek Watershed for the past several years implementing riparian restoration projects
 We've worked at BGO. We've worked just upstream of this project site. We worked in a couple of neighborhoods. And so we have funding available through our riparian restoration program to see water quality improvements.
 And so I just wanted to make clear that we would be willing and interested in talking with the City of Fayetteville developer to make sure that best management practices for water quality were implemented on this project. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Carrie and Tony Griggs. Go ahead. Yes, Carrie Griggs, 3349 East Scion Road. Okay.
 I just would like to bring up again the runoff pond at Copper Creek. We have been told since they were building that that it would be a 40-hour drain cycle. And as we've spoken earlier, it's two hours. If you don't fix that first, then I don't see how you're going to...
 keep the creek in its own banks, especially with the donkey bridge on the property in question, because you've got too much water coming through. And then that bridge forces the water out of the banks of the creek. I think with the creek being a foot deep and a foot wide in several places, we need to look at making it deeper and wider to carry the water that, that has to come through there. If this is what's going to happen, um,
 But something has to happen so that the city of Fayetteville is no longer causing damage to these neighbors that live in this small community here. That's just not right. I think we should be supported and worked with, not ignored and not told to sit down and be second class.
 We should be very much a part of this so that this can be done right and we can all support it. I really think that we have to look at everything through the entire flow from that creek to the mentioned ponds that are east of us now. We have to look at the all-encompassing flow. That is correct engineering procedure, not to engineer in a...
 Anything but a closed loop system. If you engineer components at a time, you do not know for sure that your overall system is going to work. And as we know from our last 22 years here, that system does not work. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us? Colleen Gaston. Go ahead. Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is Colleen Gaston. I live at 3270 North Rom Archard Road, Fayetteville, 72703. And I just want to quickly support the recommendations made by City Attorney Williams that this matter of the annexation be left on the second reading and not be brought up again until
 after, till the meeting after appropriate amendments to the stream side ordinance have been made. And I would extend that also to the rezoning matter that it also be delayed until that time.
 I'd also like to second what Ms. Britton said about the need for an independent third party wetlands delineation to be performed, not just a preliminary assessment, but a full wetlands delineation. And that...
 we don't really have anything uh at this point uh despite miss quinlan's assertions that she thinks it's not wetland because it's a leaky pond um or because there's a spring offside that spring may in fact be creating a wetland and so um i i i think that the time that it takes to uh
 properly amend the streamside ordinance can be used to get a wetlands delineation underway but i don't know that it's going to be sufficient time and i would encourage the council to wait until that is done to see if in fact this problem property can be developed and how it can be developed and what mitigation mitigation measures might be required before proceeding further with
 Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Michelle Lang. Go ahead. This is Michelle Lang at 3322 East Zion Road in the county. I'm calling tonight on behalf of roughly a hundred residents who live adjacent or near to the subject property. To put it simply, we are feeling pretty frustrated.
 We organized in protest last August when the issues of annexation and rezoning first came up to the Planning Commission. Since then, we've been joined in our efforts by citizens who live elsewhere in the city or county, some who you heard tonight, but who are concerned about protecting the environment, especially as it relates to Lake Fayetteville. In the last six months, we have emailed the Planning Commissioners and the council members many times,
 We sent photos showing the flooding that occurs along Hilton Creek and Zion Road each time there is a heavy rain. We sent a petition against the development signed by neighbors on the north and south sides of the subject property.
 We have called into each public meeting with our comments. We submitted a study of Hilton Creek done by a registered geologist. We collected money to pay for three water sample tests, which proved the pollution levels of Hilton Creek. We received the help of an environmental toxicologist and a fisheries and wildlife professional. Our neighborhood group has done all of this, but we still feel like our concerns are being completely ignored.
 We were not even invited to join the tour last Friday, yet a television station and a newspaper were invited, which basically generated free publicity for the developers project. We don't know if any of our emails and scientific reports have been read. We haven't had any feedback yet, except for the few comments that have been made tonight or our questions answered. For example, when will the flood study be done?
 When will consideration be given to the new FEMA flood map? In closing, I will say that we agree wholeheartedly with Colleen Gaston and Margaret Britton and Teresa Turk that the wetlands delineation study needs to be done by a professional engineer, a third-party independent. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Nicholas Anthony. Okay, go ahead. Thank you.
 Well, thank you very much for your time. I just want to make some comments, give a little background. In my most recent letter to the city council, I described the impact of an algal bloom in an Ohio lake, Grand Lake St. Mary's. I grew up next to this lake. So over the years, I've paid attention to what was going on with this lake in 2009.
 There was a first shutdown of the lake, which was associated with unsafe water conditions associated with algal blooms. And the impact of the shutdown was immediate. Tourism dropped right away. They estimated approximately $11 million a year in losses due to tourism. Property values in the area dropped in the area of 23 to 32%.
 costing approximately $50 million in loss of property value around the lake, and this is within a quarter mile perimeter of the lake. And essentially they dump $5 million a year into this lake to try to solve the problem. Now 10 years later, Grand Lake St. Mary's experienced the largest fish kill-off associated with blue-green algae, and this happened in July of 2020.
 So I present the summary of Grand Lake St. Mary's because Lake Fayetteville is on the edge as well. For the past two years signs were posted at Lake Fayetteville because algal blooms have created unsafe water conditions and concerned citizens have presented data you know in these groups as was mentioned and you know really I almost wonder if we're being ignored. Here's the point whatever is done on this land with regard to the development will impact Lake Fayetteville.
 As a faculty member at the University of Arkansas, I've worked with threshold traits in poultry for years. Essentially a threshold trait is one that, you know, an individual can tolerate and look perfectly normal for a period of time until the insults accumulate to the point where the adverse trait is expressed. Okay, so this algal condition in Lake Fayetteville is clearly a threshold trait and everything that is done around this lake
 will impact this lake. Now, we may do things with this development that are positive and it'll have a positive effect, but can you honestly think that putting 360 units in a high density development is going to be something that's gonna have a positive effect on the lake? I think the land is currently zoned for two acre lots, and that would allow water to pass as a normal flow as it normally would in this area.
 putting a high density development over the top of the hills and swales area, putting a high density development over what is, you know, something that is supposed to filtrate the water that goes into Lake Fayetteville. Can you possibly think that this is a positive step for Lake Fayetteville? So I present these numbers, these financial numbers, because, you know, five, 10 years from now, when Lake Fayetteville blows up,
 we can appreciate that we tried to make an effort to stop this from happening as a community, as a concerned community member. So I challenge you, this item hopefully will be tabled until some of these studies are done, but I challenge you to really think about the cost that could be impacting Fayetteville by improper development of this land.
 Think about the investment of a couple million dollars to buy this and preserve it as a grassland, as a prairie, as it previously was, as a hills and swales region, as a park and extension from the botanical gardens, versus spending $50 million trying to clean up a problem that we created by tipping this threshold trait, Lake Fayetteville, over the edge. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Now, I assume we're going to hold it right here. There was one question about how we could get the ordinance passed to fix the streamside protection ordinance. The city council has tremendous power and discretion over their own agenda. And so if I can draft up an ordinance that would be satisfactory, something the city council would support,
 They certainly could move it up, make it first on any agenda. They'd have to suspend the rules. It would take six affirmative votes to do it. As I said before, I should put an emergency clause on it. That also requires six votes affirmative from the city council. But with proper city council support, we can get the streamside protection ordinance fixed pretty quickly.
 And my position still is I would like to get that completely fixed and signed by the mayor really before we firmly decide, the city council decides on the annexation ordinance. Okay. Well, what's the thoughts of the council here? I assume we're just going to leave it. What's y'all's thoughts here? So we leave it.
 I think leave it here or table it. I want to make sure that we have all of our ducks in the row. And as I mentioned before, I'd really like to see that wetlands delineation study. And that will take a little bit of time. OK, so you would. So if I'm hearing what you're saying, Tracy, you just want to table it for a certain amount of time.
 That would be what I would like to do so that we wouldn't feel rushed. We would make sure that all of our code is correct, and we would give the applicant a little bit of time to have that wetland study completed. Okay. I would agree with that suggestion. I think it gives us time to, like Teresa said, not feel rushed. Okay.
 get the code all straightened out and see that we have that correct. And then if they can get their wetland study done, that would be really great if we can have that before our next, before we cover this item the next time. Who knows how long that takes? Chris might know, but I don't know. Jonathan, Chris, do you all know?
 No, guess not. Sorry, Mayor. Well, the first step is really what's called a jurisdictional determination. It's basically a determination if there are all of the elements for a wetland on there. And that doesn't take very long to do. It can take a while for...
 the Corps of Engineers to agree with it and all that sort of thing. But, you know, that determination, or at least, you know, the opinion of whoever is making the determination can be done fairly quickly. But typically –
 in these types of situations where we do see soils or other things that may look like a wetland, that is part of the development process. And Jonathan, maybe you can help me out. It's, I think it's little ways past the annexation and the zoning, it's more part of the development review. Correct, Chris is right. That's a study that we typically see at the time of development submittal.
 I will say, Mayor, that the City Council has great discretion when it comes to whether they want to annex or not. They can look at many different things to decide whether they think this land should be in Fayetteville. So if the City Council as a whole, not just one or two, but if the City Council as a whole decides,
 Wants to see some sort of study like this then certainly they're entitled to do that and and to wait for it if they want to. They just they have almost no more discretion in an area besides annexation. That's one of their most powerful tools.
 Because the area has got so many issues, the flooding that the neighbors are experiencing, the proximity, the drainage in Lake Fayetteville, all of those things, I think, are really, really important that we
 We figure out the complexity and the components of this piece of property. So I would ask my colleagues to really have a lot more information than we would typically do because of the nature of this particular property.
 in other events and other times I can see waiting for this kind of information to come out during the development process. But I think we need to be extremely thoughtful. We've heard lots and lots of comments from citizens about the flooding that they're experiencing. And I am very concerned about those algal blooms on Lake Fayetteville.
 I think we need to get this right. We have an opportunity here, and I don't think we should rush it. I think we should have as much information as possible before we make a decision. I support Council Member Turk's point of view also. Well, okay. So how long would you all like to table it for? Let's start with that, if we table it.
 Mayor, I'd personally like to see how much progress can be made in the next two weeks. And in that time, I'd especially like to see a map of the extent of the watershed for Lake Fayetteville so that we know the relative impact that we can assign to this particular property. Anybody else got an opinion here? Okay, so...
 Let me throw something out here. We just leave it where it is for two weeks and see where we are. And after two weeks, if you want to table it longer or we still, we can still do that. In the meantime, we will look at what do we need to look at here, Teresa?
 Well, I think we definitely need to make headway on the streamside protection ordinance. And then also, we really need to encourage the applicant and city staff to work together to see if we can't make some progress on the wetland determination. Okay.
 So I do understand this can this can be complicated. It can take a while. But let's if we could make some good progress on that and also have an independent person to make sure that we're following all the rules and in with the right background. Not that the staff doesn't have that, but independence is a good thing.
 Okay. Well, we know we've got an agenda session between now and whatever we do. I can go to work and look at some stuff tomorrow myself and the staff. Then we can make some determinations or something. Well, I think we could probably at least start what Chris was talking about with that initial look to see whether there's anything there.
 that would indicate more study is needed. Certainly something like that would not take forever. But I don't necessarily have that tonight. Oh, no. Mayor, if I could clarify on that, that's not something that our staff would do. That's something that we require of the developer and their consultant. I understand that. I'm just trying to get us to the next item here.
 Mayor, I have one more suggestion, too. You know, Sandy Formica, who obviously we do a lot of business with, she's a consultant for the city on many projects. It might be worth reaching out to her. She may have some expertise in this area or may have people that she could suggest that the applicant or the city reach out to.
 that would facilitate moving forward on this topic? Well, I understand, but I don't know if I can just go out and hire somebody. No, actually, the private business can move much faster than government. We have purchasing rules and selection rules that we must follow to hire experts and just other people, budgets that are needed and all that kind of stuff. So as Chris said, this is really...
 uh, the responsibility of the affidavit if they so decide to do it. And if they decide they won't do it, well, then it's up to the council to decide whether or not that's important enough for, for them to say yes or no on this annexation. But I think the decision before us tonight is this. We either let it sit here for two weeks, which I'm sure everybody seems to be agreeable to that. Or we table it from some, um,
 for some unknown time period which I don't know what you all might have in mind but I'm just saying I'm we need to move along. I would suggest that we let it we just let it sit here and then we see where we're at in two weeks you know as and then we see if we need to table it for a definite time period. I think that's a good idea.
 That is certainly what's going to happen unless there's a motion to table that is approved. It does not seem apparent to me tonight that this is going to go anywhere much further than where it is right now. I don't know if I'm speaking out of turn here, but we will gather up.
 tomorrow and see what we can do. I certainly had some concerns about the streamside protection ordinance. I thought we annexed in land that it would be under the streamside protection ordinance, but if it's not, we need to fix that for starters. And then we'll see where we are. I'm not in a rush. I'm just, if you want to table it, I need to know how long you want to table it. I would move that we table it to the February 16th meeting
 Okay, well now we have a motion. Do we have a second? I'll second that. Okay, we have a motion and a second to table it to the 16th of February. Do we, Kara, would you please call the roll? Burke? Yes. Gertzberg? No. Gutierrez? No. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Scroggin? No.
 Bunch. No. Motion failed. Okay. So I guess we'll let it sit here for two weeks and we'll see where we are. Okay? Sure. Sounds good, Mayor. All right. Let's move along to number six. And we'll go to work on this tomorrow. I promise we will. Okay? Okay.
 Number six, an ordinance to approve a residential plan zoning district entitled RPCD 2020-0002 for approximately 81.80 acres located at 3435 East Zion Road to allow the development of 260 mixed-use lots. I assume that you all would like to hold it.
 Except, Mayor, as Jonathan told you, it needs to be amended. Some items were left out. Just amend the white. Well, I'll give it to Jonathan. This is his. Jonathan, you amend the white then.
 I'll just submit the suggest the amendment, if I may. Based on the comments made from the city council, we did revisit the ordinance and
 uh did sort out where the conflict had occurred between a previous proposal and now the ordinance has it's been revised makes reference to the three planning areas that are in the project the first of which is a long crossover predominantly allows for non-residential multifamily use
 the predominantly single family portion that's planning area two that represents the interior of the project with over 300 single family units and planning area three, which is intended for open space or low density residential. And then I don't know, Mr. Williams, would you like me to read the revised ordinance? Well, actually, I think we have sent this ordinance already out to the city council. Has the city council received this revised or the potential revised ordinance?
 Have you all seen it? Everybody, is everybody muted? Everybody good? Good. That was a yes? I'm going to assume that everybody's read it and if you hadn't. If you haven't then I can read it but if you've already read it then you know what we're talking about. If not I need to read it. Well you might want to read it, Kip. Okay.
 It's an ordinance to approve residential plan zoning district entitled RPCD 2020-0002 for approximately 81.8 acres located at 3435 East Zion Road, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby approves RPZD 2020-0002 as described in Exhibits A, B, and C attached to the Planning Division's Agenda Memo, which allows the development of 5.35 acres for commercial and multifamily uses.
 39.63 acres for 340 residential units, and 36.06 acres for low-density residential and agricultural. Section 2, that the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville is hereby approved to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1 above. Okay. Well, now that's official. Thank you. All right. So that's the amendment. And that's the proposed new ordinance. Proposed amendment.
 What's the wishes of the old council? I move we accept the amendment as read. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the amendment as read. Any discussion on it? Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, now I assume the council's going to leave the amended ordinance here, unless you have a disagreement with that. Yes. Okay, great. So we're going to take a break for a moment because the mayor needs a little break. And then we will be back in about, oh, that's six or seven minutes thereabouts. Let's move on to new business.
 Number one, resolution authorize acceptance of 2021 Justice Assistance Grant in the total amount of $134,915, which will be used to pay a portion of the salaries and benefits of the fourth judicial district drug task force officers with the Federal Springdale and Prairie Grove Police Departments and the Washington County Sheriff's Office. Chief.
 Good evening again, Mayor, Council. So this is a resolution to approve some of our annual funding from the Justice Assistance Grant Program and the State Drug Crime Enforcement and Prosecution Grant to help reimburse personnel expenses for the detectives that are assigned to the 4th Judicial District Drug Task Force. This grant award is for $134,915 with a local match of $18,264.
 The city of Fayetteville's share of this grant is $76,165 with a local match of $10,310, which is already budgeted.
 The City of Fayetteville has been the fiduciary of this grant for the past 30 years and the remaining funds of $58,749 will be dispersed to the Springdale, Washington County and Prairie Grove Police Departments. This grant will take care of the DTF personnel expenses through July of 2021.
 For our new council members, I just wanted to remind them that we do seek funding three times a year, and I do anticipate in April of 2021 that we will receive HIDA funds, which is High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area Funding, that will provide an offset of overtime vehicle and purchase of evidence and information expenses for the Fayetteville Police Department. It's anticipated that this funding will provide about $153,800 for the Fayetteville Police Department.
 I anticipate in August of 2021 that the state drug director's office will award another JAG grant to fund funds to cover DTF personnel expenses through December of 2021. As a reminder, the Fourth Judicial Drug Task Force is a multi-jurisdictional task force that covers all of Washington and Madison counties.
 And in the year of 2020, the DTF seized 25 pounds of methamphetamine, 270 grams of cocaine, 664 prescription pills, 140 ecstasy pills, 1,080 dosage units of heroin. We dismantled 18 drug trafficking organizations and seized 106 firearms. 93% of the arrests in 2020 were for cocaine, methamphetamine, and heroin.
 The DTF made no misdemeanor marijuana only arrest in Fayetteville in 2019 or 2020. In the year 2020, the Drug Task Force made 154 arrests with the average age of those arrested being 35 years of age.
 Mayor, what I'd like to do at this time, the council had a lot of questions at the agenda session in regards to state funding and federal funding. Our state drug director, Kirk Lane, is joining us virtually. And so I would like for Kirk Lane to talk about the federal funding and the state funding. And then I'd like to yield the rest of the time to Lieutenant Tim Franklin to talk about violent crime that we've experienced in Fayetteville that's related to drug offenses. Okay.
 Mr. Mayor and members of the council, this is Kirk Lane. I'm a state drug director. As I presented last time, this funding is available to the city of Fayetteville and mainly to the drug task force. The city of Fayetteville has been the fiduciary for this task force because of its leadership ability and its efficiency in processing the paperwork and everything that has been done.
 It covers not just the city of Fayetteville, but the Washington County Sheriff's Office, the Madison County Sheriff's Office, Fayetteville Police Department, Springdale Police Department, Prairie Grove Police Department, Lincoln Police Department, Farmington Police Department, Greenland Police Department, West Fork Police Department, Goshen Police Department, and partners with under the coordination of the Fort Judicial District Prosecuting Attorney. If...
 The City of Fayetteville chooses not to go forward with this. The Council's recommendation, which is the Alcohol Drug Coordinating Council, which I chair, would be for one of the other MOU partners that I just mentioned to take over that as the fiduciary of this grant. And they would control basically the Drug Task Force.
 that is the option available to you and to us. There is no option for the city of Fayetteville because we're not actually giving you a bucket of money. We're reimbursing allowable expenses that were applied for from our federal partner and through the state funding apparatus, which is outlined under 1217-102 of the state code.
 So there's two funding apparatuses here, one federal, one state. They were applied for by DFA, which is the single administrating agency, and also the single state authority, which is myself. We were the recipients of this grant and formulated this under the guidelines of the rules and regs of the Alcohol Drug Coordinating Council, which approved specific funding for these drug task forces.
 So with that, I'll yield the rest of my time to Lieutenant Franklin and any questions that the council may have. Looks like you have about four minutes. Okay, Mr. Mayor. Hello, Mr. Green, Mr. Mayor and Council. My name is Lieutenant Tim Franklin. I'm the lieutenant over the Criminal Investigation Division of the Fayetteville Police Department. I've got 29 years experience with the Fayetteville Police Department and most of that time has been in the Criminal Investigation Division.
 I've seen a lot of crime over my time and in the last two years crime is continually increasing at Fayetteville. We need a specialized unit that works these type of crimes. The drug business is transit by nature, clandestine by nature, and criminals do not cease boundaries. We need a multiple agency division that can investigate these things. In 2019, Fayetteville had 10 incidents of violence where shootings took place.
 That's 10 people that were shot in Fayetteville. Five of those were drug-related. In 2020, we had 18. And of those 18, 13 were drug-related. Eight people got shot, and two of them resulted in homicides. In 2019, we had five drug-related home invasions. In 2020, we had four drug-related home invasions. Drugs and guns just don't mix. Every time we have these situations,
 it results in a bad outcome. Of the 18 shootings in Fayetteville, they have been increasingly violent. We've had seven homicides this year in 2020. In 2019, we had three. These homicides and suspects are becoming more emboldened, they're becoming more violent, and we have to have a specialized unit that can go after these criminals and put them down and stop this violence.
 Violence is up across the nation. It's because of the pandemic as well. Just like businesses are pivoting and changing because of the pandemic, so are the criminals. And so must we as investigators. We have to change our tactics and work differently. I won't go into those details, but a lot of drug transactions are taking place across different social media platforms. And we have to have specialized guys that can monitor that and try to put this type of crime down. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, what questions do we have from the council? Mayor Jordan, I have a couple of questions. Sure. This is for Chief Reynolds. And Chief Reynolds, congratulations on your award. I guess my primary question is, you mentioned that we will be receiving this funding, I think you said quarterly? Yes.
 That's almost correct. So we receive it three times a year, twice from the state, from Director Lane's office, and then once from the high-intensity drug trafficking area office. Okay. And so, excuse me, these funds are intended for what purpose? There's nothing else that we can do with these funds except use them for what they're supposed to be used for, correct?
 These funds are intended and directed for drug enforcement. There's other monies that are out there that are available for prevention and treatment. OK, so when we meet again to discuss this, it'll be the same thing, right? This never changes as it relates to the use of the money.
 The use of the money does not change as it relates to the JAG or to the state drug crime enforcement and prosecution grant through Director Lane's office. But as I mentioned, in April, we'll be receiving some funds from the high intensity drug trafficking area. And those are specifically allocated for the Fayetteville Police Department. We're not the fiduciary of those funds. They come directly to us and they're directed to us to offset funds.
 um expenses for overtime uh for vehicles and for purchase of evidence and information and that equates to 153 800 and there's no matching funds that are associated with that okay so last year and i wasn't on the council but i'm thinking this came up last year right and it was the same thing that you could not use this funding for anything else
 That's correct. We had a special city council meeting. I believe it was in August, maybe around the 18th or 20th of August, if I remember correctly. Okay. And you did mention that there is other funding out there for other purposes, correct? Yes.
 There's numerous grants that are out there for law enforcement purposes, but there's also grants out there for social services as well and prevention and treatment. And director Lane can speak on it more intelligently than I can, but there's three times, if I remember correctly, the amount of money at the state level through his office for prevention and treatment as compared to drug enforcement. Okay. And my last question, if,
 with the violent crime and what's happening in our city. If we were not in, if Fayetteville wasn't involved with the drug task force, could you keep us safe, Mike? I could not provide the same level of safety to the community without the drug task force and without narcotics enforcement, no. Okay, thank you so much. Thank you, thank you. Okay, what other questions do we have in the council?
 Mayor, I have a question or two. Sure. Chief or Mr. Lane, I wanted to follow up on what was just said about our special city council meeting before and about our agenda session. Is this better for the chief? I'm not sure. So I'll just frame the question for everyone. Chief, the way you've explained it in the past is that there may be other allowable reimbursements.
 the JAG offices, but that at the state office, they only allow reimbursements for a subset of those expenses. Can we get some clarification tonight on whether or not there's any difference between the federal list of allowable reimbursements and the list that gets sent to you at the Drug Task Force by the state? Sure.
 Director Lane, are you able to answer that question at the state level as specifically as it relates to this particular grant? Sure, I'll try. You know, there's money that comes through for the drug task forces coordinated through the Alcohol Drug Coordinating Council.
 Part of that money is from the burn JAG, which is the federal grant. And part of that money is from the drug crime assessment fund, which is the state funding part of that grant. It's all brought forward and combined into a justice assistant grant offered by DFA under the coordination of the Alcohol Drug Coordinating Council. And with that becomes a very specific list of allowable expenditures
 that the state combining these funds will fund to the 19 drug task forces in the state. The fourth judicial in the city of Fayetteville is one of those recipients as we outlined earlier. Okay, I want to make sure you answer my question very clearly. What I understood you to say was that yes, you restrict the list of reimbursements farther than the federal grant requires.
 No, I don't think so. I think it's a combining of what the federal provider requires us to restrict what allows that. It's similar to that. I think what we do is we restrict reporting, not so much what the funding can be spent for. It's kind of outlined by the federal part of this grant. But what we do is we add some parameters so we can pull in
 data resources that are required to us to report back to the federal partner of how that grant is doing. So, okay, if I understand you correctly, do you mean to say that the full list of allowable expenses from the feds is maintained and then it's up to the drug task force, individual drug task force, to take advantage of that list, how they see fit? It's outlined by DFA in accepting the grant. I would sure like to see a side-by-side comparison in our next memo.
 Sure. That is the parameter of DFA. DFA would be the keeper of that list. And part of that agreement that's signed outlines what those expenditures can be for. Yeah, that's exactly the information that I feel like we've been asking for since that special city council meeting last year.
 And would help me, maybe I'm just not smart enough on this issue to really see through to the actual answers, but it would sure help me seeing a side-by-side list in black and white. I feel really similarly to how I did back in August, which is I don't see how I can support transferring the fiduciary away from Fayetteville, given what we know about the other jurisdictions. Right.
 However, I hear things like there's three times as much money for other efforts that aren't enforcement, but we aren't actually spending three times as much of our resources on other efforts as compared to drug enforcement dollars. So I still feel conflicted fundamentally. And I...
 You know, on one hand, I feel I'm just being totally transparent, genuine right now. Maybe that's impolitic, but I feel a little conflicted because on the one hand, you know, we have these reports of what's been taken off the streets in terms of the firearms and in terms of some of the hardest, most damaging drugs in our communities, and also, you know,
 I mean, violent crime isn't going up because people are suddenly more violent. It's going up because they're more desperate, right? And we all know it. It's stating the obvious to say it. And taking however many hundreds of pounds of meth off the street doesn't make any difference whenever there's tens of thousands of pounds of meth out there in the community. So it feels kind of like...
 We're trying to use a bail bucket to drain the lake or to drain the river or the ocean. And it fundamentally just seems like it's not working. We take 50 firearms off the street. How many firearms are still out there as part of drug deals, right? And we all know this. It's probably one of the most frustrating parts of the job. I can only imagine.
 But, you know, on the one hand, we get told there's three times as much money out there for these other efforts, but we're not spending three times as much. Anyway, one more question. Chief, at that special meeting, you volunteered that you were going to take a number of changes to the Drug Task Force Board or Committee for Consideration.
 including changes to policies around confidential informants and consistent use of force policies across the different participating jurisdictions and maybe some others that aren't coming back to my memory. Could you give us an update on progress on those issues you plan to bring forward? Sure.
 Yes, absolutely. And your memory is spot on, Councilmember Petty. I did bring those forward to the Drug Task Force. And just once again for our new council members, just to understand how the Drug Task Force Control Board is comprised. It seats the Washington County Sheriff Tim Helder, also the Springdale Police Chief Mike Peters, the Prairie Grove Police Department Chief, which is Chris Workman and myself. And I serve as the chairman of the Drug Task Force.
 And so I did agree to bring those issues forward. And some of the issues I brought forward that we talked about was the use of confidential informants between the age of 18 and 20. And the requirement in order to use those confidential informants was to get the Washington County prosecutor's authorization for that. So I brought that forward and that was approved. Also brought forward the juvenile. So a juvenile informant.
 cannot be utilized without the authority of a parent or without the authority also of the Washington County Prosecutor. I can tell you as Kit Williams mentioned early on tonight that I've been doing this for 27, almost 28 years and I don't remember one time that we ever used a juvenile as a confidential informant. So I hope to continue to hold that up. We also spoke in that special city council meeting about confidential informant agreements
 and the wish that those confidential informant agreements would be recorded. And so we added that as well to our policy and it was accepted by the control board and also adding a,
 emphasizing that the confidential informants should contact or consult an attorney. We can't force them to do that. We can't force anyone to do that, but we can certainly emphasize that they should consult with an attorney before they engage with us as a confidential informant. The other thing that I brought forward was no-knock warrants. And so that's something that we don't
 Rarely, I say, I wouldn't say we don't, we rarely utilize a no-knock warrants. And so I thought it was important that the agency CEO where a no-knock warrant would be utilized, that that agency CEO would give that authorization. So I brought that forward and that was also approved. I can tell you as my time as the chief, I have not approved a no-knock warrant since this was passed.
 Also, something that the community asked for was more transparency, more forward-facing meetings. And so we put everything on the city clerk's website. We have the recordings on there, just like we have the recording of this meeting on our city clerk's website. So that's out there as well. And then lastly, I think the thing that comes to mind is use of force. So, you know, the president...
 and the Department of Justice required that we come forward, not only as a police department, but as a drug task force, and affirm that we do not use chokeholds unless it's a deadly force situation. So we had to prepare that. We had to send that in for certification through CALEA or through the Arkansas Chiefs Association, and both the Fayetteville Police Department and the Fourth Judicial Drug Task Force received that certification. The deadline for that was January 31st.
 of this year and so those are the things that serve my memory and I'll be happy to try to answer any other questions you have Councilmember Petty. Thank you Chief that's truly meaningful progress and I appreciate and other community members who ask for those things to be done also appreciate it. I'm sure there will be of course more to do and you know I stand by what I said you know I support this
 on the basis that I don't want to transfer the fiduciary elsewhere. And in the future, I feel like I would be a lot less a lot less conflicted or questioning if we could present this as a portfolio of things that we're doing with respect to drug treatment and prevention and drug enforcement and show where this fits.
 uh, in the, in the portfolio of, of things we're trying. Um, I, I know we're going to get there together. Um, Mr. Lane, I noticed you had your hand up. Was there something I said or something came up in response? I wanted to make sure you had a chance to answer if so.
 Yes, sir. Absolutely. I wanted to get a chance to respond. But first of all, I'd like to say that the Fort Judicial Task Force is one of the most progressive task forces out of the 19 task forces we have in our state and often stand as a model for the other task forces we have in the state. And you should be proud of that fact because of the leadership that you have collectively within that region. But most importantly, I want to remark on something you said about
 law enforcement and just law enforcement. But know that the task force operation in the state is about a $3 million endeavor for the state to fund in our portion.
 But on a yearly basis, I oversee over $45 million that goes into prevention, treatment, and recovery, not just law enforcement. And that is outside of that $3 million. If you'd like to email me, I'll give you a list of all the programs we have. And if the city of Fayetteville or the council wants to partner with somebody that has an interest in doing specific things,
 we can help them, guide them in that purpose. We have met with several groups in your area that have an interest. They say they have an interest, but they have yet to come before the council to present a program to us, even though we have guided them in that direction. So the question is, is what do you want to do? And we can help guide you do that because as a single state authority of the state,
 And with the Alcohol Drug Coordinating Council and the SAA, the Single Administrative Agency, which is the DFA, we can help and guide you in that pathway to get that funding, whether it's the city of Fayetteville alone or a progressive group inside the city that wants to make a difference. And we'd be glad to partner with that. My authority on that is to make sure that those programs don't overlap and don't duplicate services.
 So that's part of what the governor tasked me to do, is to make sure that those programs don't duplicate. So that's really important. Thank you so much. And Mr. Lane, if you would, I would like a copy of that as well. I think that I can identify some groups in Fayetteville who would really be interested in
 and doing what they can to help the drug task force. Mike, have you mentioned to the council about the social workers, the social work internship and the partnership with the U of A School of Social Work?
 You know, I have not mentioned that to council. It was something we just released today. The mayor and Susan and I have been in discussion for months about this internship program. And we're extremely, extremely proud of this opportunity.
 And so we launched that last week and we announced it today. And what we hope to do is provide those mental health services to our community that they desperately need. As you know, we certainly asked our police to do more and more and more, and we can't be all things to all people. And we certainly understand that. And we're certainly looking for avenues on how we can help folks
 that aren't involved in criminal behavior, things that were never meant to be criminalized in nature, and also victims, victims that are associated with crimes and the trauma that they experience. We want to be able to help them. But before I come back to the mayor and come back to the council with a long-term recommendation, I certainly want to consult with the subject matter experts, which are the professors at the University of Arkansas Social Work,
 program, sit down with them, look at our data, and come up with a plan on what that looks like, if that's a primary response from social workers, if it's a secondary response from our social workers, or if it's a mixed response. And then do we want to embed the social workers into the police department, or do we want to embed them into another division within the city? And so those are some discussions that we're going to have.
 But I think it's very judicious of me to certainly look into this program over the next 18 months and then come forward to council with some type of recommendation and a potential FTE headcount.
 Well, Chief Mike, I really appreciate that. And you're right. We must have we must have the subject matter experts lead this. And so I really appreciate what you're doing and how you're being progressive as it relates to politics.
 helping create resources and looking at a solution to the bigger problem and i think that the school of social work is really going to help guide you my other concern is when we since we've since we we know that the money that it's it can only be used for a certain purpose well we have to continue to have this conversation every time it comes up well we have to discuss this every quarter
 Because I feel like this conversation has been going on for some time now, and the response is the same. So in April, will we have to say the same thing and then say the same thing again? Help me with that, because I'm a little confused about that.
 So certainly, Councilmember Jones, that'll be a decision of the council and of the mayor as well. The mayor sets the agenda and the council makes a determination as to if anything is on the consent agenda, then it's left on the consent agenda or it's pulled off on the new business to have.
 discussion about it. And so, you know, it's my job, my responsibility, it's the law to bring, you know, these, these grant funds forward. So I will be bringing those grants for grant funds forward for the Haida in April, as I mentioned early on for acceptance, and then I'll turn around and I'll bring the grant funds forward to council in March.
 probably July, August, September, and then towards the end of the year, first part of next year. So that's kind of the time cycle that I have to work with, and I'm operating under a deadline for, you know, an acceptance of these grant funds that I have to turn around and either say we accept it or we deny the funds. So it sounds like to me that you guys are utilizing social workers and you're also addressing –
 the criminal issues that have that are our cities experiencing so you guys are doing and and from what i understand too you have a limited manpower that we're down a few officers as well and i didn't know if the city council was aware of that that you know crime is growing but we are down a few officers so that's i'm not sure if the council members were aware of that
 So, Councilmember Jones, I've mentioned that a few times. The mayor's mentioned that a few times as well. So I believe the council is aware of it. And I talked about the uptick in violent crime over 2020 from 2019 and how we saw, you know, a 25 percent increase in violent crime and how we saw a 16 percent increase in property crime. And I've also talked about the 25 cities in Arkansas that we surveyed.
 And we have 1.55 officers per thousand. And when you look at the other 24 cities, the average there is 2.26 officers per thousand. So you can see we're doing more with less. And of those 25 cities, as both I and the mayor have mentioned, we're number 24 out of number 25. Bella Vista is the only city that has fewer officers per thousand than the Fayetteville Police Department.
 Well, Chief Reynolds, thank you so very much for the work that you're doing and we appreciate it. But again, I was just alarmed when I realized that what we were experiencing here as it relates to an increase in crime. Thank you. Go ahead. I'm pretty sure the increase of crime is in line with other cities with the pandemic. Yeah.
 And it's not a surprise that Fayetteville has less police officers per capita. We have the flagship university. There's this high correlation, not necessarily causation, but correlation between education and crime. There's also a correlation between...
 Income in crime and a lot of people have lost their income in the last year. So I do believe that we need some more police officers, but when we start looking at metrics to track It needs to be more than just a linear correlation. It's got to be very multi variant and it has to relate to
 education rates, it has to relate to income. There's a lot in there. I'm not surprised that Bella Vista has the lowest rate. Old people don't commit crimes at the same rate young people do, and Bella Vista has an older population. So if we are going to start looking at what number to make, it needs to be pretty complicated. But I do agree that we're probably down two or three.
 what else go ahead jim mayor just like to respond to council member petty as well and he had some concerns about prevention and treatment and some of the things that we're doing i've asked that our prosecutor washington county prosecutor matt durrett and also his assistant courtney cassidy who's in charge of the drug court
 Join us this evening as well. And so they're linked in as attendees and maybe during the public comment section, they could provide some insight for Council Member Petty and the rest of the Council members on some of the things that our community is doing outside of the Fayetteville Police Department or the Fort Judicial Drug Task Force.
 Okay. Thank you, Chief. I appreciate you coming back to me. I was just about done, but I didn't want to thank Mr. Lane for his offer. I know that somehow, maybe not me specifically, maybe not an outside group, but we're going to find a way to follow up with you and
 I think this goes to what you just suggested as well, Chief. You know, I feel what's missing is, at least from a council member's perspective, and maybe this is just mine alone, but we don't have a strategy that is apparent. We have funding that we're trying to take advantage of, and we have an ad hoc strategy that we've developed around the available funding. But...
 And when have we ever sat down and say, you know what, here's how we're going to tackle drug problems and violent crime problems in our city and actually look at the inventory of strategies and tactics and programs that we could employ and come up with a portfolio and of solutions to attempt? Yeah.
 And I know we talked about that a little bit at the last, uh, at the last, uh, uh, the August special meeting. And, you know, we have a comprehensive land use plan. We have an economic development plan. We have a, we have a solid waste and recycling plan. Um, but one thing we don't have is a public safety plan. And, uh, I, I still don't know exactly what that process looks like, um, to, to, to get one. Uh, but, um, I, I feel like it would, um,
 it would take us to a higher level and a level where everybody in their community on staff, elected officials at the state where everybody could say, okay, you know what? We're, we're finally on the same page. And I think that could be a really beautiful thing. Council member, council member Petty in response, I,
 please contact the chief and get my email address. I'll be glad to provide you with that. There are several state strategic plans that come with a partnership of different people that the state put together, that cities and jurisdictions can look at and find out what works best for them. So again, I offer that up. We would love to have groups or the city of Fayetteville partner in some of our programs,
 whether they want to lead on a grant and we can support them or vice versa. That's part of what we do. And so there's a lot of programs that are going on that you probably don't know about that I'd like to provide to you so you can see the big picture. Thank you. Okay, any other questions from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five-minute duration in three and two segments. Okay.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, federal residence first. Press star 9 on your phone or right hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. So who would like to address us first? Robert Kalin. Go ahead. Robert Kalin.
 Okay, I'm sorry. Could you hear me now? Yes. Okay, thank you. I want to thank you all for allowing me to speak tonight, and thank you for just everybody on the council and everything that you all do. Approximately five months ago, we were here addressing the same issue with the Drug Task Force. And what I'm speaking about is the funding for the Drug Task Force, which was overwhelmingly supported by the residents of Fayetteville.
 the drug task force which is funded by a group of grants as you all know and every time a new grant comes up with this issue has to be readdressed this the same issue that was supported by the citizens of Fayetteville comes up for discussion multiple times it seems like there's a small group of people that
 maybe have an axe to grind with the Drug Task Force, and they don't seem to have the same vision as most of the citizens of our community. All I'm asking is that the Fayetteville City Council please vote and accept this grant, and let's please stop bringing this up for discussion multiple times. Thank you, and I yield the rest of my time. All right, thank you. Courtney Cassidy. Go ahead. Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is Courtney Cassidy and I live in Ward 1. I am a deputy prosecuting attorney for Washington County. Currently, I am responsible for prosecuting the majority of the drug task force cases for our office. And those cases make up approximately 95 percent of my caseload.
 The 4th Judicial District Direct Task Force represents both Washington and Madison counties. Each detective comes from a local law enforcement agency and joins the task force with one common goal in mind, to make our community a safer place. While I am proud to know and work with each of our local law enforcement agencies, I am especially proud to know this task force and its members. I'm honored and feel truly privileged to work with them on a daily basis.
 I'm incredibly proud of their professionalism, integrity, and dedication in all that they do. These men and women consistently exceed any and all expectations that I have of them, and I don't doubt for a second that they will continue to do so.
 It does not surprise me in the slightest that Mr. Lane believes the 4th Judicial District Drug Task Force is one of the most progressive drug task forces in the state and that it is a model for other jurisdictions. These detectives and this task force are an asset to our community. They're good at what they do, and they do make Fayetteville and all of our neighboring communities throughout Washington and Madison counties a safer place to live and work every single day. Chief Reynolds advised his counsel of some important statistics this evening, and I would like to highlight a few of those myself. Thank you.
 In 2020 alone, the Drug Task Force was responsible for disrupting or dismantling at least 18 different drug trafficking organizations. In that year, they removed 106 firearms, 25 pounds of methamphetamine, 1,080 dosage units of heroin, 270 grams of cocaine, 644 prescription pills, and 140 ecstasy pills from our community.
 65% of the crimes they charged were for delivery of a controlled substance, possession of a controlled substance with purpose to deliver, trafficking of a controlled substance, or possession of a firearm by certain persons, most likely felons in possession of firearms. 93% of all of their cases involved firearms, methamphetamine, cocaine, or heroin.
 Drug trafficking organizations, a significant number of firearms, and a substantial amount of drugs were taken out of our community. This is something we should all appreciate, and I would encourage you not to underestimate the impact this has.
 Although the 4th Judicial District Drug Task Force operates under the umbrella of the Fayetteville Police Department, it is critical that we consider the implications of tonight's decision on our neighboring communities. This grant aids the Drug Task Force in successfully continuing its operations throughout Washington and Madison counties and allows them to maintain sufficient staffing to continue these operations in a safe and efficient manner.
 As both Chief Reynolds and Lieutenant Franklin noted, violent crime is up across the nation and Fayetteville is no exception. A large majority of that violent crime is connected to drug trafficking. Targeting these armed offenders remains a top priority and our community needs a specialized task force to aid in bringing those individuals to justice.
 Chief Reynolds has been explicitly clear. We need the Forest Digital District Drug Task Force to keep our community safe. To do their jobs, they need sufficient funding. This is a simple equation, and I urge you all to authorize acceptance of this grant tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Steve Smith. Go ahead. Thank you, Mayor. I'm going to talk to you all just like I did a few months ago. Oh, I'm sorry. Steve Smith, I live in Ward 4 here in Fayetteville. Thank you, Mayor.
 We beat this horse to death, like the first caller. Guys, we can't keep holding these grants hostage so we can come up here and talk about how we don't like the drugs or illegal or how –
 We need to have some sort of treatment programs or something. All of that is well and good. You know, if you want drugs to be legal, then you need to talk to your state legislature. It worked for Oregon. We'll see how that works out for them. I'm all for treatment programs, but that's not what we're talking about here tonight. We're talking about a grant to give tools to the men and women that we have tasked with enforcing our laws, the tools that they need to do their job. And that's what it's about tonight. That's what it's about. That's what it was about in August. That's what it will be about tomorrow.
 in April. So I beg you, please leave this stuff on the consent agenda. Let's quit wasting the people of Fayetteville's time. And so we can move on to the important business of the city. If that includes a treatment program, fine, bring that up separate, but let's let these grants go through, let the chief and the police department do their job, and then we can move on to other things. Thank you and I yield the rest of my time. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address? Sarah Moore. Go ahead, Sarah.
 Hi, Sarah Moore, Ward 2. I appreciate us having this conversation tonight, Mayor, and I've appreciated a lot of the thoughtful dialogue that's come forward between Councilman Petty and the things Chief Reynolds and Mr. Lane have shared here tonight. But I agree with the comment that was made earlier, you know,
 We haven't really vetted out and talked about what a full strategy is for the direct task force and what it really looks like to create a community that is more safe in spite of drugs being present or being able to reduce their availability in our area as well as firearms.
 Every year, we apply for these grant programs in a very similar manner and fulfill the duties of the task force in a very similar manner. However, this pocket of time.
 the state is one of the biggest in overdose deaths. That doesn't make me feel like our community is as safe as it should be for every single person in Fayetteville and Washington County. Additionally, Fayetteville prides itself on being progressive. And I do feel like most of the time we do this. However, having a conversation too, as the fiduciary and as the chair about what these overall strategies are, which, um,
 I have never seen any strategy involve just one avenue only for achieving your goals. Once the goals are actually defined that we're trying to achieve within our community, sitting down and figuring out different ways that we can go about achieving those. The JAG program does have areas for prevention and education. Those are proven to work. We have never applied for a JAG grant and asked the state to be able to fund that area.
 Additionally, there's an area for like behavioral health and things like we could ask for things like peer recovery specialists. If the state declines it, I agree. There's potentially other programs we can look into. But I have FOIA'd all of our applications over the last several years and we apply for this JAG money the same every single time. And so the state awards us the exact same manner each time because that's how we request it. I haven't seen us strategize. I've attended all of the monthly meetings.
 And I urge the public to do that and invite city council members too, because it isn't, it's, it's an education to hear, you know, what those interactions are. One of the first things I asked because my background is in business, I managed $38 million worth of business on my desk. And so I've, my first question was like, okay, what's our goal? What's our strategy. And I was told by the control board to get the big guys. And so I'd sent month in and month out for the last couple of years to
 And I rarely see someone that they bust that's over $5,000. Many times these individuals are a few hundred dollars. And so I have to wonder, I mean, many times these are individuals that are users. They need help. We know there are pockets of our community that are not doing well, especially with the stressors of the pandemic that are known areas of users.
 Could we not go there and offer prevention and education? Could we not offer a peer recovery specialist to try to go walk that walk and get somebody besides just being punitive and punishing, which we know doesn't work? We've heard that by our law enforcement agency saying what we're doing today doesn't work. Let's listen to them. Let's arm them with some other tools. Let's have a conversation as a community about what's out there. I just was talking to DFA. I've talked to them numerous times.
 and I was talking again with them today. There was a comprehensive opiate abuse grant that just closed and the city of Fayetteville did not apply for that. I heard some mention that, you know, community groups and organizations can come and get active and apply and I would love that. I would love our community to do that. I,
 I know myself, I'm one community member. I don't get paid for this. I'm a stay-at-home mom. I have a five and a nine-year-old. The reason I'm interested in this, why I think this is important for my community is because I have people in my family who are addicts. I have people in my family that struggle with mental illness that will then self-medicate with drugs.
 So I want there to be avenues to create a safe community for everyone in Fayetteville. And so I really urge, I know that this is money that we're going to accept tonight, but I feel like let's put some caveats. Let's say, let's set up a strategy meeting. Let's talk about all of the avenues that we can be exploring together of ways that can look at prevention and education, rehabilitation. Additionally, in all my time of sitting through the meetings,
 I have yet to hear anything in regard to the crossover between the drug trade and human trafficking. It's huge. I individually have run into women lately, a 21-year-old recently who's a schizophrenic who was being sex trafficked locally and had drug charges. There's another lady I've just run into, another in her mid-20s, who's being human trafficked and currently is entangled with the drug task force and has been approached numerous times to become a criminal informant.
 What this woman needs is she needs mental health treatment. She needs community support. She needs housing. She's homeless right now. She needs housing. And she needs a long-term plan at how she's going to get away from those entrapments that she's so vulnerable to. I will tell you the one woman I spoke to a couple of minutes ago that I worked to get her an attorney.
 We were able to get her charges taken care of, and ultimately, we're able to work with the Department of Human Services, getting her in a medically frail status because she is so severely schizophrenic. And she now has an ongoing place to live at Birch Tree Therapeutic Communities. These are not things that individual members should always have to do, but we should also be able to say that our city and our Fort Judicial Drug Task Force could be involved in making these solutions as well. Thank you. Okay.
 Who else would like to address? Stephanie Kendall. Go ahead. Hey, can you hear me? Yes. 3490 East Fredericksburg Circle. Y'all have heard me speak multiple times. I just want to say congratulations to Chief Reynolds. I'm so proud of him, and I'm so happy for the things that he does. Okay.
 I just want to kind of reiterate what Sarah Moore said, but give everyone a challenge. I looked up some grants that could really help, and it took me about five minutes to find multiple grants. And so I think that there needs to be someone to take charge of that. I think Matthew Petty would be a great advocate for that. He seems to be really wanting to find other options.
 And I just really think that rather than beating this dead horse, let's move on to something else. How do we improve our,
 the system, how do we keep it getting better, not taking money away or bashing the police, but instead of doing that, working with the police and just finding the social work grants, the drug abuse grants, the things like that, and just keep it going and be progressive like we are known to be, because this is getting old. It's getting old trying to sit here on Tuesday nights when my family has things to do and
 And defend our police and try to come up with options. I mean, I found lots of grants. And so and I talked to Kirk Lane. And I mean, it's easy. It's out there. We just have to have someone that's willing to do it.
 And I just think questioning everything and putting more on the department to find, oh, well, you're doing law enforcement, but we also need you to look into the prevention and treatment and all of these things. That's not fair. If you want to do it and fix it, come up with an option to help these people because they're doing the best they can. Our police department is doing a great job.
 fantastic job and so to ask them to do more just seems a little bit counterproductive let's help them find them more money find them more grants and just help our city to become a safe city and that's i mean let's let's stop this business every couple months because it really does get old thanks thank you who else would like to address us scott burner go ahead
 Yes, back in August we did the same exercise and the citizens of Fayetteville overwhelmingly supported accepting this grant. Here we are in January and we're going through the same exercise, but what struck me is in all this conversation,
 We have the folks that are speaking about prevention and treatment and restorative justice. That's not the police department's responsibility.
 That's not Chief Reynolds' responsibility. That's not the Fourth Judicial Task Force's responsibility. Now, it may very well be the city of Fayetteville's responsibility for its citizens, but it's not the police department's responsibility. So for holding these funds, for lack of a better word, hostage over those type of issues, I don't think is appropriate. And I think...
 Tonight, with Chief Reynolds getting the award that he most certainly is deserving of, and also today we're talking about the partnership with university, it shows that the police department is very progressive in what they do and how they think.
 And I think we need to give them credit for that. I think we need to say the fourth judicial task force money is there. The grants are there for that use.
 We're more than willing to step up and apply for the grants for the social services issues, but it's not the police department's responsibility to do that. And let's get past this every three months, having to go through this same exercise again. And one thing that struck me, I forget his name, the state director, he made a small comment that
 A lot of folks that have spoke out against this task force money or how it's being spent, wanting it to be redirected to social services and such. He's spoken to those folks and given them opportunities and options for applying for grants. And they always talk about it, but they never do anything about it.
 You know, Chief Reynolds in this last meeting in August agreed to several points that he would take to the Fourth Judicial Task Force. He didn't just talk about it. He did it. He went to the task force. He took our concerns to the task force, and they agreed to those points. You got to give the guy credit. He's doing what you ask him to do. And I think it's time to stop this back and forth
 let's get it if the city wants to do something with social services let them apply for the grants but approve this acceptance of the grant and let's move forward thank you okay thank you who else would like to address this alexandra brown hey go ahead hello yes go ahead okay hello local public teacher on leave um ward four uh i want to commend chief reynolds with not using um
 no-knock warrants and following up on those chokeholds. I come as a humble person, but I'm also confused. Maybe Mr. Lane can give more insight on this. I'd like to refer to another source of information. I'm going to refer to the Arkansas Alcohol and Drug Abuse Coordinating Council and their strategic plan for 2020 to 2025.
 Within the Department of Finance and Administration that directs the allotment of some of these JAG funds, I'm right now on my surface looking at their strategic plan that in year two through five of this five-year plan that there can be a 5% allotment for prevention and treatment. So I guess I don't understand the hardline distinction I'm hearing about the allowable use of funds and what I'm reading here.
 Clearly, citizens, or I can't be too incredulous or talk about our JAG grant with too much disbelief when our state leadership has set aside such a small percentage. So I guess my question is, where is the forethought and current sense of urgency to secure funds for prevention and treatment? The strategic plan by this council highlights there are painful gaps between law enforcement, prosecution, courts, treatment. When it comes to reentry and recidivism, it is absolutely unthinkable.
 intellectually and morally lazy to try to separate treatment and prevention from law enforcement. Looking at the strategic plan requested by the government, you can see that substance abuse is the biggest issue facing juvenile offenders, according to the plan. I can't help but think about those non-custodial interviews. And the top eight challenges facing JAG, according to the survey results, were children needing services due to the trauma they've experienced,
 The list of challenges cited in the report is extensive and it begs for services provided perhaps in specialty courts or pre-child services.
 Sadly, serious narcotics like opioids and synthetics are up. But what is really disturbing is that the arrests for possession of marijuana have increased by approximately 42 percent from 2010 to 2017. There are so many people that use this drug recreationally without the frightening and menacing experience of being arrested for it. We all know who is likely to be arrested and prosecuted for that. So, no, we are not going to leave this issue alone.
 Have we seen a sharp increase in citations being given out for marijuana possession? I know that Chief Reynolds gave a comforting statistic last year involving marijuana arrests for us locally. If he can maybe reiterate that at some point, I think that would help the conversation. We keep hearing about the extensive statistics of drugs apprehended. I know that we are seeing violent crime is up.
 We are in the top five counties for drug arrests for the state, just behind Greene County, but I'm not convinced. We're turning into New Jack City just yet. Now I'm going to connect this to our Washington County criminal justice assessment recently done. Most of our defendants, in fact, 75% of the cases involved indigent defendants. Is it a stretch to connect indigency with drug addiction? So most of our defendants require, um,
 services beyond a public defender. So why aren't we seeing grant applications that reflect this need? There is absolutely a sect of people that will dedicate their time to doing this. There's a growing paradigm growing locally and nationwide that is wrong to criminalize drug users and take huge chunks of their life away from them and their family. We are tired of seeing funds used for these purposes. Why is the scope of processing people that are addicted to
 to drugs, limited to arresting them, watching them fail to appear in court, which just sets up the awful cascade of events that really just entangles them further with County jails and corrections. If we keep doing DTF funding as is, and don't change how we apply for JAG, really what is the nod to citizens from leadership, from the council, from the chief that tells us they understand that shifting money away from personnel to pretrial services, um,
 is the pragmatic and responsible thing to do. Pre-trial services is mentioned in our criminal justice assessment at least 10 to 15 times in just the first 50 pages. I really appreciate your time. Thank you so much. Thank you. Beth Koger. Okay.
 Go ahead. Okay, thank you. I'm sorry. I'm Beth Coker. I live in Ward 3 and 3661 Embrey Drive, Fayetteville. And I just want to say that I've heard comments about how we shouldn't be having these discussions, but these discussions are very important.
 I think that they need to be had, they need to be had in public. And I haven't heard anyone bashing the police or Chief Reynolds. As a matter of fact, I highly respect Chief Reynolds, and I've met with him often. And I've met with Kirk Lane, the state drug director. I just think that we need to look at other things that we could be doing that would help the drug task force. I mean, every arrest that the drug task force makes...
 surely puts them in danger of some type of danger. And so if we could cut down on that and have less arrests, that would seem to me that that would be a good thing and that would benefit everyone. And as far as someone said it was getting old, but what is getting old to me is that we aren't taking full advantage of the JAG grant to do all the things that it could.
 And I don't understand some of the things that have been said tonight about how the funds can be used. In doing my research at bja.ojpgov, there's a list of questions that are answered. And under on page 14, it says use of funds when JAG funds can be used.
 can be used. In general, if you let me read this, please. In general, funds may be used to provide additional personnel, equipment, supplies, training, technical assistance, and information systems for criminal justice, including for any one or more of the following law enforcement programs, prosecution and court programs, prevention and education programs, corrections and community corrections program, drug treatment and enforcement programs. So,
 I think that having these discussions will maybe bring about change. And for the next time, maybe we can explore some of those other alternatives. I agree that this will be passed tonight, but I think it's something that we need to not
 not just push aside and forget about because it is going to come up again, as Steve Reynolds has said and some others have said. So let's be prepared next time and look at other things that we can do. Studies show that for every $1 spent on drug treatment, there's a savings of $4 to $6. So I would like to see us step back and look at this from a different perspective. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. Okay.
 Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I have a final comment. Okay. I didn't really plan to say any of this, but I got called out by name so many times. I feel like I have to go back and play the tape and see where the cops were being attacked because I didn't hear it. I have to go back and play the tape and see where we failed to praise Chief Reynolds for doing what he said he would because I feel like we did, right?
 You know, I was raised to believe that we had to be cautious in our policies and deliberate and that we had to avoid relying on the police for absolutely everything. And we had to create a society and diligently maintain that society so that we didn't end up relying on police for absolutely everything. And you know what? Every police officer or administrator I've ever talked to agrees that.
 Somehow, we got in a position in Fayetteville and in a lot of the country where even asking a question is taken by a subset of the population as criticism. But it's our job to do these kinds of diligent investigations. I mean, look at some of the other grants that aren't even life or death that we debate up or down. That's our job.
 That's what we're elected to do is to question, trust and verify and and revise if the verification doesn't come through. That's that's normal. That's that's the normal way of accountability. I just I guess I'm in fundamental agreement with somebody who watched this meeting and concluded that the cops were under attack. I'll agree with that. I think that's not that's that's divorced from reality.
 Here's I guess here's here's the philosophical philosophical point that I feel that I'm going to make tonight and I want to keep making. You know, it's necessary to have police. It's necessary in the society we have to make arrests. But in my worldview, there's no such thing as a good arrest. Every arrest is a failure of society.
 We failed to take care of someone and give them what they need. And they ended up in a lifestyle or in a situation of desperation where they made poor decisions and we were forced to arrest them. And, you know, there can be well executed arrests. I don't mean to say that cops are making mistakes when they make arrests all the time. What I mean to say is that arrests are a failure of society. It's a symptom of not taking care or doing what we need to not being strategic. Right.
 So the fact that we are going to view that conversation with open eyes and that we have a chief who's viewing that conversation with open eyes. And if the governor is to be believed, even a governor who is viewing that conversation with, with open eyes as of the last week, um,
 You know, that's an opportunity for us all to build on. And for anybody who wants to come up here and say, well, these are all good ideas, but if it was real, then a council member would actually do it. I mean, I'm sorry, but council members aren't in the business of writing grants and developing org charts and like putting together programs for the city. We're in the business of.
 doing the due diligence and helping set the strategy and making sure that the mayor and his team have the resources they need to implement the policies that we set. Um, so that's why these conversations are, are important. I mean, every dollar we fund in one thing is a dollar we're not funding in something else. It's impossible to divorce these questions into separate categories. And in any case, um,
 I'll say it again. Thank you, Chief, for doing what you said you were gonna do. That's really meaningful. It's real progress and it's not lost on anybody. Okay, so we have a resolution. I move we pass the resolution. Okay, I second it. We have no second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? I have a comment. I just wanna thank everybody for their time tonight. I know we had a long agenda before we got started.
 Mr. Lane, thank you for your time. All the participants, people that came to speak, I appreciate your time. I think it's a very meaningful, worthwhile conversation.
 and I needed to hear a lot of what was said tonight, maybe rehear it and kind of reiterate it for the city on behalf of the people, because a lot of people do have these questions. And when we have a public conversation, it's really important for the process. So I appreciate everyone's patience while we did that, and I will second the resolution. I think DeAndre has seconded the resolution. Is that correct? Thank you. Yes.
 Mayor Jordan, I would just like to add that I think that we have two different issues. The first issue was accepting the grant. And then somehow we started talking about the police should do almost social service work. That's not the job of the police department to do social service outreach.
 It's not. It's the I think it's it's a joint effort effort. And so I do appreciate the interest and the feedback, but I just believe that, you know, this is an opportunity we've heard from the citizens. And I think we all want the same thing. And I think that's a healthy and safe pay it bill. But I do think that we have to take as a council some.
 form of responsibility as it relates to partnering with another group and helping identify resources so the police department can do their job effectively. And that's what I've been, that's what I'm saying. And that's, I'm hoping that we're able to get there. I've realized that there are a lot of challenges and we identified tonight that the police department, that they're understaffed, they're overworked.
 They are applying for this grant to help keep us safe. And I do believe that
 again, the council and other groups, if we're able to come together, to partner together, to help address some of the social problems, then I think that we should. But I don't think it's the responsibility and the burden of the police department to address social problems. What they have done, they have, they're working with social workers and the University of Arkansas Social Work Department to help identify and to strengthen
 they're in identifying social problems and what they can do as it relates to restorative policing. So I think that they've done a great job of doing what they can with what they have. But now I think the ball is in our court. I think it's up to us to identify funding and resources to address the social challenges. Okay, any other final comments and accounts? All right, Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's move along to number two. A resolution to approve change order number one to the construction manager at risk contract with Flintcoe.
 llc in the amount of 1 million 287 thousand 675 dollars for the earthwork bid package related to the construction of the new police headquarters and fire station number eight to approve project contingency in the amount of a hundred thousand dollars and to approve a budget adjustment this is police headquarters and firefighting facilities improvements bond project
 Uh, Wade, I believe you have this. Yes, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor, Council. This change order will kick off the construction of our police headquarters project. It's for the earthwork trade package that was advertised and bid through the purchasing division and in accordance with their procurement policies. The scope of work in this package includes excavations required to construct the site and building pads.
 Subsequent bid packages will be forthcoming for the foundations, structural steel, building envelope, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, and building finishes. These phased bid packages allow the construction to begin as the building plans and specifications are being finalized. We'll also allow the project to stay on schedule for completion in August of 2022 to be in compliance with our bond disbursement deadline.
 With that, I will answer any questions. What questions do we have in the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. We have a five-minute duration. I've broken into segments of three and two. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents first.
 Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring you back to the council. This is a resolution. I move we pass the resolution. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right, Carrie, would you please call the roll? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Let's go on to number three. A resolution to adopt the 2021-2025 five-year capital improvements plan. Paul?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. What we have before us is the capital plan for the next five years from 2021, moving this year through 2025. I want to reiterate a couple of points that I made at the agenda session when we did a presentation on this.
 One of the key points is this is a plan. This is not an appropriation. It's not in a budget. It's not an authorization by the council to spend any money. What it is is a mid-range tool, mid-range plan to begin a starting point for future budgets over the next five years. It's the administration's plan of what's necessary for capital procurement for those five years.
 The plans adjusted annually depending on conditions and funding on an annual basis at that point in time. And each year we discuss that as we bring the budget forward and provide for any adjustments that we need to make, again because of environmental conditions, changes in priorities, or changes in funding.
 Even though this plan includes roughly $132 million over the next five-year period, it doesn't include over $7 million worth of requests that were made by administrative departments because there wasn't enough funding at this point in time to do that. Multiple funds are used for the capital program, largest of which is water and sewer, which is very capital intensive.
 airport recycling collection, which is again an enterprise fund. Vehicles and equipment are a very large portion of this, and this is replacement for vehicles and equipment, not for expansion. And transportation and streets are over 10% of this budget. That's where we pay for the resurfacing projects, etc. With that, I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 Four questions we have for Paul on the Catholic Improvements Program. Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into three and two segments.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us first? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. I move we approve the resolution. Yes. Go ahead. I just had a question for Paul about process. Okay.
 I think every year that I've been here, we've had a run-up of meetings with Council to develop the five-year capital improvements plan. That didn't happen this time. I'm wondering if that's for a particular reason and if it's a change in policy or if we plan to do those meetings the next time we look at a five-year CIP. No, I will apologize for that. Normally, we do reach out a little more to Council.
 The reason we didn't do it this year, Matthew, is primarily because of the funding and the coronavirus in the back off there. We're most concerned about having to pull back the funding, as we discussed in the 2021 budget.
 We had to pull back a lot of the funding that we had previously planned. So at this point in time, we felt that there was a minimum of funding for the next years. We'll certainly correct that in the future and go back to that particular plan. Again, we do discuss this every year at budget time and make adjustments to that point. Does that answer your question, Matthew? Yes, it answers it. I think what my concern is...
 After 12 years, I've seen a five-year CIP get approved on the basis that it can be adjusted later. And then I've also seen it be used as justification for not adjusting it whenever it comes back in, which is why I hold that initial input with such high importance. But I do appreciate your answer. Okay. Any other comments or this is a resolution. Whatever you all want to do.
 I move we pass the resolution. Second. We already have that. I don't know. Oh, do we have that? I thought so. I'm not sure if it's on or not. No, I think because Council Member Petty needed to ask some additional questions, Sonya said hold on just a second and we went into that. And now we're back to show that Council Member Kenyon has made the motion and that Council Member Gutierrez has made the second. Okay. Good.
 All right. Any other final comments from the council? Carrie, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Petty? No. Grogan? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Let's go on to number four.
 An ordinance to approve vacation 20-009 from property located east of 662 West Taylor Street to vacate a portion of street right of way. Kip? Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes...
 And whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2. Section 2.
 A copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached as a given aid to the planning department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities.
 shall be at the owner developer's expense and section two and easement shall be dedicated over the vacated street right of way to ensure access for maintenance of existing utility infrastructure okay jonathan thank you mayor
 This particular piece of property is north of the main University of Arkansas campus. If you were to head north from Maple on Gregg Avenue to the point where it crosses over the railroad, but instead of crossing the railroad, you continue north to where the property turns to Taylor. As you can see in the aerial here, there is a piece of existing unbuilt paper right-of-way that would extend clearly north from Gregg Avenue there.
 A more clear example of where you can see how that sits is it continues all the way northward from Taylor to the south, the Cleveland Street to the north.
 None of this has ever been built according to any sort of historical aerial imagery that can be identified. It's been existing in its current plated state for about 100 years. The main use of it is for a fairly significant major overhead power line, which currently runs along the same location.
 What the applicant's proposing is to vacate the portion you see here in red, not the entire extent all the way from Taylor to Cleveland, just the portion immediately east of 662 Taylor. You can see again in the image shown here.
 When considering the item, staff identified three main issues. The one and perhaps most important one for staff's consideration is the potential that this right-of-way could serve public benefit and provide some degree of connectivity in the future.
 On this topic, it is important to consider some of the existing conditions beyond this particular piece of right-of-way. Those include the fact that Skull Creek runs across the northern extent of this right-of-way, not being proposed to be vacated. That includes floodway and 100-year floodplain areas.
 Another consideration when staff looks at these is sometimes even if a piece of right-of-way is not feasible to be used as a vehicular connection, could it be used as a pedestrian connection of some manner? With the Skull Creek Trail running immediately on the other side of the railroad tracks, staff feels as though this would be redundant and again not necessarily serve the public benefit.
 And then as perhaps not surprisingly with this creek in this area, or if you happen to visit the property, you saw that there is a significant amount of topography that could limit the feasibility of using this for any sort of public benefit.
 other considerations as with vacating any right-of-way or easement is whether the utilities have any issues in this instance they have all signed off on the proposal as mr. Williams noted in the conditions of approval there is a condition that the right-of-way of vacated will be replaced by an easement for the existing overhead power lines that became quite a topic of conversation at the Planning Commission meeting because of course it would have
 begs the question, why vacate the right-of-way if it's just going to be an easement? Both of them have the same prohibitions on development for the most part. At that time, and the applicant can speak to it more, it became apparent that there was interest in some public property east of this right-of-way that runs along the railroad right-of-way that may present the possibility for an overall development plan if taken as a whole.
 And the last item staff looked at and that I spoke to at the agenda session is the concerns about adjoining property owner consent. As of this morning, the applicant did receive this approval. The adjoining property owner to the Northwest has agreed to the vacation and does not have any issues with that. So whereas staff had previously recommended an indemnification statement be approved,
 included as a part of this so that the city cannot be accused of taking access to this right away. It no longer appears to be an issue from what we received from the applicant.
 so taken as a whole staff is recommending approval to vacate this right away again there are two conditions uh one of which would be easement dedication over the existing right away the second is that any damage to the any utility infrastructure that's in the area would be at that developer's expense the planning commission generally agreed with staff it was a split vote however of five to two uh the most vocal opponent to the proposal uh
 express concerns that vacating this right of way could potentially compromise the ability to have a double track in this area and then the implications that may have for a larger regional rail network.
 if the potential for adding again, another secondary parallel track to this with vacation of this right away. So again, staff is recommending approval. We've not received any public comments on the item. I'm happy to take questions and I believe Mr. Blake Jorgensen is available as the applicant for other questions. Thank you. Okay, does the applicant wish to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Yes, sir. Good evening, Mayor. Hold on. Let's try this one more time. Yeah, I really don't have much more to add. It may be an awkward request, but I can certainly expand more on it. We did get that final adjacent owner's signature this morning, so I was glad to get that. And if you have anything else, I'll try to answer it. Thanks.
 Okay, what questions do we have for the applicant or staff from the council?
 I have a question. So I drove by there today and looked at that piece of property and it looks like there's a creek running right through it. And so I went back and looked at the kind of the background information and it talked a little bit about Skull Creek, the floodway and then a sanitary sewer main. So I was a bit confused about I just wanted to make sure I understood if.
 if this piece of property is over the sewer main or over the creek? Because there certainly looked like there was a creek running right through there. Yes, Council Member Turk, there is a creek that runs on the east side between the row of tracks and the right-of-way. The sewer main lies to the west of that, but all of that would be
 redirected through a dedication of sewer easement and drainage easement. So that's part of the utilities, you know, sign off from the other divisions, the provision that that will be accommodated. So anything that does occur would be accommodated through dedication of easement.
 So my follow-up question to that is that if we vacate this right away, I suppose you all could build on top of that. And would that impact that stream that's running, I think you said, to the east of there? How would you deal with that? And do you all have any plans that you'd care to share with us tonight? Sure.
 Any development on that property would go through either a site improvement plan or a large-scale development. And so any impact to the stream or the trees that are in that area would be displayed within that, you know, the large-scale development process. So there's no immediate plans right now at all. Okay. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
 Blake, Jonathan explained that there is potential for development combination with publicly owned land to the east. I didn't follow that exactly. I hope that you might expound upon. No, that's a great question. So I'm not sure if Jonathan can share the, maybe a parcel map or one of the, you know, vacation exhibits, but
 We have this awkward opportunity between the property at 662, then there is a right-of-way that's unused, and then the city of Fayetteville owns a very large swath of land that runs north and south along the railroad tracks. Yeah, perfect right there.
 And so the goal is to vacate the easement, well, vacate the right-of-way, and then enter into an agreement to purchase the property from the city of Fayetteville that's immediately west or east of that, and that would open up an opportunity for development. Okay, understood. Thank you. Thank you for explaining that. Go in there and get a cough drop. What are the questions we have in the council? Cough drop. Government? Government.
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. We have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Name and address. Residence first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to be first?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What discussion do we want to have or what would you all like to do? Well, I think due to the unique nature of the property, I've got to go look at it again. I didn't understand that bit about the city's property to the east, and I need a better understanding of that. And the sewer main does run through there. We know that.
 And then Skull Creek, the way it cuts across the top of it, I want to be sure that it doesn't have much impact on the stream side there on the north end. It's not as simple as just filling in where that runs through there. So I do want, we can go ahead to the second reading, but I would like to have just a little more time to look into it. Sure. Well, we're leaving it on the first one.
 I was waiting for somebody to go to the second. Are we going to the second? And when we spin the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Do we have a second on the second? Well, if we don't have a second, then I guess we'll leave it on the first. Back to the first. Back to the first. Okay. Let's move right along to number five. Did we take public comment? We did. Yeah. There was none. Didn't get any. It was pretty exciting. Okay.
 you want me to ask for public comment again though man i will no sir okay well i'm going to move on to number five um an ordinance to amend 75.10 operation of scooter share programs to increase permit fees and update operational and pricing requirements and to approve a budget adjustment
 Whereas on November 16th, 2019, the City Council passed Ordinance 6205, authorizing the use of electric motorized scooters and the scooter share program. And whereas staff's proposed amendments will increase the permit fees from $20 to $30 to better align with peer markets, provide clear authority for administrative increase,
 increases to existing fleet sizes and modify operational and pricing requirements. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 7510, subsection D4A,
 and enacts a new subsection a as follows quote subsection a the initial application for an operating authority permit must be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee of 150 dollars a fee of thirty dollars per share and scooter is the op in the operator's fleet fleet excuse me shall be paid prior to issuance of any permits
 Applications to renew an operating authority permit must be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee of $100. A fee of $30 per shared scooter in the operator's fleet shall be paid prior to the issuance of a renewal permit.
 Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville are required to repeal Section 7510, Subsection G1 and 2, and an Act of Replacement, Subsections 1 and 2, as follows. Number 1, an operator's initial fleet must be a minimum of 100 shared scooters and shall not exceed 250 shared scooters.
 Operators may request an increase to their existing fleet of up to 250 additional shared scooters as part of any permit renewal. A request for an increase in fleet size shall include a rationale and analysis to justify the additional fleet size. Authorization of additional units is at the sole discretion of the city.
 Subsection 2, the total number of deployed scooters in an operator's fleet must maintain a minimum average of one trip per scooter per day determined by monthly usage. Should this demand not be met, the city may require a portion of the scooters to be relocated or removed. Section 3, the city council, the city of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal Section 7510, subsection H,
 and enacts a new subsection H as follows. Subsection H, all customer pricing, including promotional options, must be approved by the city and shall be specified on the operator's permit. And section 4, that the city council, city of Fayetteville, hereby approves a budget adjustment, a copy of which is attached to this resolution, to recognize the increase in permit fee revenue. Okay. Peter.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Fayetteville has had e-scooters since 2009 and we currently have two vendors operating in the city. Their names are VioRide and Spin. Together, they are permitted to operate up to 1,000 e-scooters in the city. As I'm sure you may have noticed, scooters have definitely grown in popularity since they were first introduced in 2009.
 And they do provide several benefits to the city, including jobs, up to 25 full-time jobs, revenue to the city in the form of permit fees. And they provide economical and low-carbon footprint transportation options for residents and visitors to the city, which helps further our transportation sector carbon emission goals and our 2018 energy action plan. The proposed...
 ordinance amendments will do a couple of things. They will first increase revenue to the city and a portion of that revenue will be used to pay for safety and infrastructure improvements for e-scooters and bicycles.
 The changes will clarify the rules for vendors to request changes in their fleet size. They'll relax our strict pricing restrictions, although the city will maintain final approval over pricing. And then finally, they'll restrict the strict rules that we have on the requirement of number of rides per scooter. And that's to allow for greater seasonal variability in ridership of the scooters. And with that summary and overview, I'll be glad to answer any questions that you all might have.
 What questions do we have for Peter on this? Peter, I don't have a question for you, but you said twice that the city permitted scooters in 2009. 2019. I apologize. Just a decade off. No big deal, right? This felt like a long year last year, you know? Apparently so, yeah. Yes. What questions do we have for Peter on this? All right. Let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us first on the scooters? Okay, let's bring it back to the council. Council.
 This is an ordinance. This is on the first reading. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Burke? Yes. Burke? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 in order to amend section 7510 permit required to increase electric scooter permit fees and update operational and pricing requirements and to approve a budget adjustment i move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final readings okay we have a motion in a second to go to the third and final reading care which please call the road yes erdsberg yes it's here as yes jones
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. In ordinance amend section 75.10 permit required to increase the electric scooter permit fees and update operational and pricing requirements and to approve a budget adjustment. Is there any final comments from the council? Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Number six, an ordinance to amend 151.01 definitions and 164.02 accessory structures and uses of the Federal Unified Development Code to permit and regulate electric vehicle charging stations. Whereas electric vehicles are increasingly common and are primarily being purchased by consumers in an effort to be more environmentally sustainable,
 And whereas a city is receiving inquiries by commercial property owners that are interested in installing electric vehicle charging stations. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 151.01 definitions by enacting a new definition, electric vehicle charging station as follows. Electric vehicle charging station, supplementary district regulations.
 Publicly accessible electric vehicle charging stations shall have a minimum amp reach of 30 amps on a 240 volt circuit and shall be, quote, level two, unquote, electric vehicle charging station or higher. Publicly accessible electric vehicle charging stations shall be networked for remote access to online management tools through an online portal known as an electric vehicle supply equipment network.
 Section 2. At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arks, I hereby amend Section 16402, Accessory Structures and Uses, by enacting a new Subsection A-8 as follows. Subsection 8, Electrical Vehicle Charging Stations.
 Electrical vehicle charging stations that are publicly accessible shall be considered an accessory use in all commercial, mixed-use, industrial, and institutional zoning districts. Publicly accessible electric vehicle charging stations shall be reserved for the parking and charging of electric vehicles only, and information shall be posted indicating that the space is reserved for electric vehicle charging purposes only.
 Electric vehicle charging equipment must be designed and located to not impede pedestrian, bicycle, or wheelchair movement. Property owners may collect a service fee for the use of an electric vehicle charging station. Information shall be posted identifying voltage and amperage levels and any type of use, fee, or safety information related to the electrical vehicle charging station. Electrical vehicle charging stations must be maintained in all respects, including the functioning of the equipment.
 A phone number, email, or some other contact information must be provided on the charging equipment for reporting when it is not functioning or when other problems are encountered. Okay. Peter? Yes.
 Electric vehicles, as you all may be aware, are becoming increasingly common and popular in Fayetteville and across the country. And supporting their use is a strategy that is in Fayetteville's 2018 Energy Action Plan due to the reduction potential that they offer for vehicle-related carbon dioxide emissions.
 Currently, the city has no standards or regulations for installing or operating electric vehicle charging stations. So these ordinance amendments would set standards for installation and operation of EV charging stations located on private property that are available for public use, such as those that you might see in a grocery store parking lot or other commercial business parking lot throughout the city. And with that, I'll be glad to answer any questions you all might have.
 What questions do we have for Peter on this? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes. We're opening a segment of three and two segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior.
 Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star 9 on your phone or raise your hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us on this issue from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance, and we're on the first reading, so what would you all like to do? A move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Kerridge, please call the roll. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Bunch. Yes. In order to amend Section 15101 Definitions and Section 16402 Accessory Structures and Uses of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code...
 to permit and regulate electric vehicle charging stations. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hurt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Hurt?
 In Ordinance of Med, Section 151.01 Definitions and Section 164.02 Accessory Structures and Uses of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to permit and regulate electric vehicle charging stations. Okay. Any final comments from the council on this? All right. Carol, would you please call the roll? Tarrant? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Ness? Jones? Yes. Ness?
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move on to number seven. An ordinance to amend 111.07 outdoor refreshment area by converting limited outdoor consumption
 district pilot programs to more permanent districts subject to rules established by the city council and to approve an emergency clause. Kit. Whereas on June 4, 2020, the city council approved Ordinance 6322, pursuant to Act 812 of 2019, which established the city's first entertainment district permitting alcohol possession in outdoor public spaces.
 And whereas the ordinance contains a sunset provision allowing the mayor to approve limited outdoor consumption district pilot programs only through January 31st of 2021. And whereas based on the success of the downtown outdoor refreshment area, staff recommends amending the ordinance so that the city council can establish more permanent districts with such regulations as the city council deems necessary.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 111.07, outdoor freshman area of the Fayetteville City Code by enacting a revised Section 111.07, as shown in the attached exhibit A.
 which removes the sunset provision for limited outdoor consumption district pilot programs and converts them to more permanent districts subject to the rules established by the city council. Section 2, that the city council and the city of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby determined that this ordinance should become effective without delay
 because it will provide opportunities for Fayetteville business establishments, residents, and visitors to comply with the directives issued by the Arkansas Department of Health regarding limited occupancy and social distancing, which are necessary for the public peace and health and safety of Fayetteville citizens. Therefore, the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists, such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval. Okay. Deb?
 Thank you, Mayor. Is my screen coming through okay? Yep. Thank you. Good evening, Council. I'm excited to have this item before you tonight for your consideration. As City Attorney Kit Williams mentioned, this removes the sunset provision from the pilot program, allowing it to continue in the past 12 days from now.
 To briefly recap and for our new council members, the outdoor freshman area was adapted to help accommodation and service industry survive the pandemic. While its original intent was about downtown placemaking, it became clear very quickly that this tool could be used to allow bars and restaurants to safely increase sales while adhering to social distancing measures. Thank you.
 The ordinance does three things, and it's bound by what Act 812 allows the city to regulate, and that is possession and consumption, not serving, like we talked about with Evelyn Hills. It has opened the door for sidewalk cafes and parklets, and you've seen organizations like Georgia's Majestic, Roots, Experience Fayetteville use the events facet of this during the pandemic. And the final component of the ordinance is what we're talking about tonight, and that's the open consumption district.
 that allows beverages to be consumed by patrons who leave the establishment, so long as they follow a certain set of rules that are outlined within the law. Following the ordinance's passage in June, staff got to work building in and putting down the infrastructure for the open consumption district to begin. And I will say that does feel like a decade ago from staff's perspective with this.
 It's grown in popularity by both businesses and users, hitting 200,000 cups provided by the city by the end of the year. Those are BPI certified compostable cups. There were 60 businesses now in the program. We wanted to extend a huge thank you to Mayor Jordan and the City Council. This helped a lot of businesses. Once it was passed, there were some very hard times, hard times which we're still in. The program has operated smoothly under the following outputs, and we believe an extremely conservative sales estimate is $1.5 to $2 million dollars.
 The city, again, over 200,000 cups provided. It's the largest district in Arkansas, and the district has operated in an extremely calm manner. And we attribute that to all the sessions that we had with stakeholders and all the great management and stewardship from the program that we're seeing now from our businesses. And we are really thankful to all of our partners that put all the time in in drafting this ordinance and what they'll do as we move forward.
 This program was used in ways that we really didn't envision back in June. It's been used by all of our anchor institutions. George has used it to bring back live music weeks before they otherwise would have had they been relying on an ABC permit expansion, which they do now have. Theater Squared has been an active participant, and the Walton Arts Center teaming up with the folks at Holidays used the program to bring a lot of joy back to downtown safely when we really needed it.
 And Roots was actually one of the first after George's to bring safe concerts back to the square. And I don't think that's the last from them that we've seen with this tool. What this pandemic has taught me is that trying to pin a date down the road is extremely difficult. And we know it's going to need tweaks. We know this is going to need changes. And rather than setting a date down the road, staff is really recommending that we take this idea or take the opportunity to identify these key intervals.
 and use the same wide range of stakeholders that we use to craft the ordinance. And while we know the program is operating successfully in the pandemic, we know increased capacity across a range of uses can influence that, which is why we'll keep monitoring the program. It's not only an opportunity to maintain a strong line of communication with our businesses, but also when new public education towards the program is needed. Our first look back and looking ahead meeting is being scheduled right now for early February, as we originally outlined.
 In a moment, I'm going to turn it over to our Assistant City Attorney, Blake Pennington, who's been a huge help to us in drafting this and making this program possible. But this amendment removes the sunset provisions and allows the program to keep going. All rules, laws, parameters are retained. And by opening the program, we do a lot of things. First, we give a signal to our businesses and our anchor this program is going to be in place.
 and it gives them some certainty as they're buying cups, but it also allows others to know that this program is going to be in place as we think about the creative adaptations to this pandemic we continue to see by our city.
 So, Ida was supported by the Fayetteville Independent Restaurant Association, Experience Fayetteville, the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce, Startup Junkie Consulting, Mayor Jordan's Small Business Residency Task Force, and was given the green light by the Dixon Street Merchants Association, to which we presented to their leadership and their full membership last week in a whole lot of businesses.
 I referenced this in the agenda session. I wanted to take just a second to share it. This is NAICS Code 72, our accommodation, food, and wholesale sectors. Down $60 million in sales in 2020 compared to 2019. And this is a big part of staff's line requesting the continuation of the program. This coupled with our need to continue to have our residents and the patrons of businesses spread out, especially as new risk rise in the community, because it is safer outside.
 I'm happy to answer questions in a moment, but I'd like to take this opportunity to turn it over to Blake Pennington, Assistant City Attorney. Thank you for your consideration, counsel.
 okay blake you got about five minutes left in the presentation i'll take less than that good evening mayor and council um i i feel good about the changes that are in front of you i would recommend one more change in c3 i would recommend adding the mayor shall also have the authority to implement such rules and regulations as are necessary for the administration of such districts
 This will provide the mayor with explicit authority to maintain all the existing rules and regulations that are working well in the districts. And it's going to allow the administration to react more quickly to issues than if we have to bring everything back to you to make changes. I think this could address some of the issues that that have been raised in the past.
 and would allow the mayor to take action immediately if an issue arose. The other alternative that Councilmember Turk discussed at the agenda session would be pushing out the expiration date on the pilot program. That is another option available to the council. Thank you. Okay. So –
 Mayor, I have some comments. Sure. I've been thinking about this quite a bit more. And, you know, we hear...
 comments all the time about a taking. And so I kind of am a little bit concerned about if we approve this permanently, and again, I think we all acknowledge that what we've seen right now has been very successful, but not very representative of the number of people that will be down there once, hopefully very soon, we're post COVID. But I'm concerned that if we make this permanent,
 And a business comes in here and says, well, I was counting on the aura for my business. And now, for some reason, we're going to scale it back or it's going to be removed. Then that could be considered a taking. Now, obviously, I'm not an attorney, but we keep hearing these kinds of things. And I...
 I would appreciate either Blake or Kit commenting on that, if that's just my crazy imagination, or if something like that could be pursued down the road, say, in five or six years. Well, there's always a vanity of attorneys. I did talk with Blake about this a little bit, and there doesn't seem to be a tremendous danger, although with the presentation...
 that was presented, it talked about how the businesses could rely on this. And so if they do rely upon this, that they have this right,
 And it makes a lot of money for them and they do investments for it. And then we decide, you know, it's causing too many problems. And so we want to not allow it anymore. Potentially, there could be some pushback on that because we would basically be regulating something that we had authorized in a permanent nature. And we're removing that, which could potentially cost the business a lot of money, at least what they would allege.
 And so that could be a problem. I don't see it as a terrible danger, but that could be alleviated also if we had some sort of sunset provision built into this. So at the same time, we're making it or authorizing them still to do it for a number of years. But then after three or four years, it would come back to the council for renewal.
 And that way, if they didn't want to renew it, there would not be any liability, I don't think, because at that point in time, the right to, you know, everyone would have known that,
 They can only continue it as long as the city council renews it, and therefore we would not have any potential danger at all. So that would be a safe way to do it and not too inconvenient on the council to hear it every four years or so, or at least in four years or in three years, whatever you want to do. And you would eliminate even the relatively small chance that this could be a problem for the city.
 And, you know, as the city's attorneys, we're always looking to eliminate almost any problems that could arise that we see, because what we're trying to do is always keep the city out of court rather than waiting and defending the city once we get into court.
 I also have another concern too. Thank you, Kit. You know, as we've all seen in 2020, we had no idea where we're going to have a pandemic. So the world is unpredictable. And you know, if, if somehow this beautiful program that, you know,
 that's been designed, you know, turns into a Bourbon Street. I want to be able to figure out a way where we can kind of control that and reassess it. So if we had this sunset provision, we would be able to do that, to make a correction immediately if it turned into that and limit or reduce
 or eliminate our possibility of having lawsuits for takings or some other kind of similar claim. So...
 I'd love to hear everybody else's opinion. That would give me a lot of alleviate a lot of my concerns. We could enact it immediately, but also have a have a way to control it if things got out of hand or went went south. That wasn't consistent with the way we want to live in Fayetteville. I'd like to share some thoughts, please.
 Uh, first, um, maybe I'll respond specifically to the question about takings, um, and then some more general thoughts. Uh, I was watching Devin, your, your presentation very carefully. I noticed that at the beginning, you said, you made a point of saying that the law only enabled us to regulate consumption. It didn't allow us to regulate, uh, sales or anything other than consumption. And, uh,
 I think that's the whole answer to the takings question. When we look at takings with respect to property rights, it's with respect to rights that are granted to property owners.
 And that run with the property from owner to owner, those being taken away. But this isn't a right that's granted to businesses. We didn't give businesses a new right to sell alcohol in a different way. We gave consumers a new right to consume alcohol in a new way and to leave the establishment where they bought it, right?
 So I think that's that's to me, that feels like a really critical difference, a significant and material difference. One of my favorite places to take my family on vacation is New Orleans. And every time I talk about taking my family there, I get weird looks from people who don't understand why you would take little kids to a community like New Orleans. Yeah.
 But you know what, as a dad and as a mom who can't really afford a babysitter because we're spending money on the vacation itself, being able to push a stroller while we have a casual glass of wine or a casual beer and see the sights on Jackson Square or the Garden District and look at the magnificent homes is pretty special.
 And is is really, frankly, relaxing and empowering and it's memories that I'll never forget. And not everything that goes with open consumption, of course, is going to become irresponsible behavior. Right.
 When I've been to New Orleans without my family, I've walked through Bourbon Street and Royal Street and so on and so forth. And I've been to places where only the locals go that aren't anywhere near Bourbon Street. There are no other neighborhoods and everything.
 bourbon street kind of sucks i mean in my opinion it's not my thing uh there's a strip club every other building and a jazz club in between every strip club and i hey i like the jazz clubs but i don't like staying up until three in the morning shoulder to shoulder um and the streets are closed to traffic uh every evening uh every evening um they're pedestrian only um
 I really don't see that happening here. We would have to enact so many other laws and other programs on top of the ORA to turn Dixon Street into Bourbon Street. We'd have to approve changes to the law because those kinds of things are not allowed right now under the zoning law that's down there. And so.
 So I think there are a lot of extra layers of protection that are keeping our ORA from turning into an open consumption district that is like Bourbon Street.
 It looks much more akin to me with the same kind of open consumption you see in New Orleans around Tulane University and Loyola University, where it's really just neighborhood residents and their friends and family who are visiting them and people who are at the universities and the colleges and who are attending those. It's a very familiar experience.
 thing to Fayetteville, to this Fayetteville resident, to see how open consumption was parts of like New Orleans. Bourbon Street feels very alien to the Fayetteville experience. And I don't think it'll happen here unless we have a city council that's way different and encourages it or even pursues it.
 I'm supportive, I think, getting back to general comments, Blake, you listed two ways forward, extending the pilot or giving the mayor explicit powers.
 could you maybe list some of the things that the mayor might do in response? Not saying that I don't want you to kind of I don't want to be presumptive about what's going to happen, but I wonder if you might list some of the potential things that might come up for discussion that you envision the mayor being empowered to respond to. Sure. So I guess an example would be if we had a big event in the entertainment district,
 And, uh, there were some concerns about drinking alcohol outside on the streets. The mayor would have the power to limit that. Uh, the mayor would have the power to limit a business's ability to participate in the aura if they violate the regulations that are in place. Um, he could change the operating hours of the entertainment district, um, and
 I know one of the things that Devin has done is implemented an education program. So any business that wants to participate has to sit through a lovely little lecture from Devin about the rules and they have to agree to follow them. So any of those could be changed by the mayor. Could he change the map boundaries? No, the map boundaries are set by the ordinance. Okay, great.
 Okay, well, I had one other general comment, and it's about the future of ORA. Right now, we've done what we thought was right for Fayetteville, and also cross-referencing that with what we thought was very, very –
 exceedingly safe and intended by the legislature. And that has meant that we have drawn the boundaries according to explicitly commercial zoning. But I am foreseeing a value in changing our internal policy or in recognition that we have other zones that are used commercially. And I'm talking about P1 zones.
 Um, we have a world cyclocross championship that is coming in a couple of years. We're going to need an ORA to pull that off. And that's P1. And we had an internal, uh,
 determination that P1 wasn't considered to be a district that was used for commercial purposes, but I don't think that's correct. We have beer gardens in every park at almost every event. We have vendors during festivals that sell goods in P1 zoned areas. We have ice cream trucks and food trucks and so on and so forth.
 It seems to me quite a bit of commercial activity that happens in P1 has been disregarded. So I just wanted to put that out there and suggest that this is something that we might want to get ahead of with respect to the Cultural Arts Corridor, the World Cyclocross Championships, the Gulley Park Concert Series, those sorts of things. I think we've got all the justification we need. And at this point, maybe we could acknowledge that and turn it into a policy discussion for the future.
 Totally. Mayor, can I respond to a few items?
 Mayor Redekopal. Sure. Thank you, Mayor. In regards to one of the points that I just wanted to put up for discussion too in regards to what facets of the outdoor freshman area actually touch private property, you can see that come up in events. It talks about it there but also on the sidewalk cafe provision. We're permitting some of those where you see it on private property. Maxine's Tents is a great example of that and those are not subject to the sunset revision
 They never were. They're here. And so I just wanted to make aware of that. And another item, too, that we do have on our website that I know we shared, sounds like many, many months ago, when we researched these districts, one of the things that became clear was it was incredibly hard and very uncommon to generate a road like Bergen or Beale.
 And I kind of joke through that process, I'm not that good in regards to trying to do that if that was our goal. But the fact that there are hundreds of these districts that you've never heard of that are operating very calmly. And to Council Member Petty's point on the zoning, Act 812, specifically under Section E,
 And point one, it says the determining factor there is, quote, is zoned for or customarily used for commercial purposes. So there is an or in there differentiating the zoning and then that use. Just want to provide clarity on that. Thank you, Devin.
 So, Devin, I have a follow-up question. When you did your research, did any of those other places that you looked at, did they have sunset clauses or any other kind of, I guess, review processes to ensure that it is that great hometown fun place?
 nice sort of cultural experience and not a, you know, I love New Orleans too. By the way, I was born there. I visit there. I visit New Orleans all the time. So it is a great place. It's just that Berman Street is the extreme example. So I just wonder if there were other safeguards that you saw within your review process.
 Absolutely. And thank you, Council Member Turk. And we're talking about New Orleans. I'm a Café Beignet, not Café Du Monde person myself when I go there. But in regards to the safeguards, one of the items that I'd like to, we talked about actually was in our study, we found one.
 district like this that had been turned off and that was in Alabama and I was actually in Georgia excuse me and that dish that city started out with two or three at one time and one just wasn't in the right place and they turned it off it was not doing their intention there was one in Colorado that I don't have my notepad or my excel book in front of me that did have a sunset revision where what we kind of got that idea from and I believe it was a small one in Fort Collins and
 Colorado is a little different, though. Colorado does not allow these where traffic can flow. And so that's the overarching state requirement that state enacts on. In regards to piloting, I have not. The only other pilot program that I saw was that in Eureka Springs. But that is a whole different topic for that district there that happy to talk about. But do that in private. Nothing bad. You have businesses that want it and concern there. So.
 Thank you. Okay. I think I'm interested in doing the sunset policy, just hope that Mayor Jordan can be our mayor forever. This is not the reality though, and so I would like to be able to bring it back to the council if we wanted to kind of check back in on it.
 you know, otherwise I would, if mayor could be mayor forever, I would default to that option. But I think being able to come back and check in on it on a reasonable time, that's kind of what I would like to do because we know it's going to be different now.
 then it will be in whatever three, five years. So whatever sunset clause you think time period would be reasonable. Pandemic-wise, it seems like maybe a year, but maybe that's too soon. So somewhere in between. I know Mayor Jordan has another four years, so maybe that all doesn't matter. Yeah.
 Well, the benefit with the sunset clause is that the city council remains in control. There's never an issue. And even though this has been termed to be, well, this is a right for people to go outside with their drinks, I guarantee you the bar that is selling those drinks knows people that are going out and what kind of percentage of their sales are that. So when we stop that, if it would be stopped –
 then they would feel that and they might want to make claims against the city whether it would be successful or not. And if we had a sunset clause, they just would not be able to do that. So the reason I think that makes a little bit of sense is it keeps the city council in the driver's seat
 With no problems, if they want to stop something, they want to adjust it down or whatever you want to do. It is the city council decision and they can make that decision without any fear of any litigation against them. And that's why I would recommend that. OK, if we do a sunset clause, who's going to be in charge while it's under the sunset?
 I mean, I mean. Now, just a minute. Sunset Clause would mean that in three or four years it would come back to the city council. The city council would either renew it or not. Yeah. Yeah.
 Okay. And, Mayor, I would still recommend that we adopt the language explicitly granting you that authority to make additional rules and regulations for the districts. Until the sunset clause comes back around again. No, just that stays in there. But when the sunset clause hits, then it's just up to city council whether they want to renew or not. Oh, okay. That's okay. I got it now.
 So where would that language go? Because Blake's already proposed the section for the mayor's clause. And Blake, where are you going to place that last language? And that probably ought to be the first amendment we'd be looking at. The language about the mayor's authority? Yes. That would be in C3. Okay. Does the city council have more questions about that, or do they want to take that issue on, or do we want to ask for public comment? No.
 I move we amend the ordinance with the clause in C3 as described by Mr. Pennington to grant the mayor authority to as described. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Or I think we've pretty well discussed it. Karen, would you please call the roll? Burke? Yes. Ernst-Bern? Yes. Okay.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bench? Yes. Okay, the ordinance now includes that power for the mayor and so the only other issue I'm aware of is whether or not there would be a sunset clause. Oh, okay.
 So I move to amend to allow a three-year sunset clause where the City Council would take up and Devin or whoever is in his position would provide a review to the City Council on whether the aura should continue or not. Second. Okay. I do have a question. Is that like three years it would phase out, but when would it kick in?
 us needing to talk about that. Because I would hope that we talk about it, you know, significantly before that, so people don't have to go, is my business model gone next month? I think it'd be very reasonable to begin that process nine months out, six months out, to give a heads up.
 And I'm sure you'll see us again on it before that time, but we'll keep providing that information out. But I think nine months, doing it far in advance is good. Okay. Thank you.
 And I might actually ask Councilmember Turek if it wouldn't be a straight three years, but because having something at the very start of the year like this is awful busy time sometimes. So if you would make an actual date like April 30th of 2024, which is a little over three years.
 And that way, I think it'd be a lot easier for we don't have a brand new council or anything like that. And we're coming in and it's not the end of year when sometimes things get pushed together. And that might make it a little bit easier to make sure there's plenty of time to get it back before the city council. I know it's been pretty easy on these new council members. It's just that it's started.
 That sounds like a really great suggestion. Yeah, so we're not so jammed up. So April 30th of 2024 would be the time that we need to be renewed. Exactly. That would be great. Okay, so we got April the 30th is the sunset clause in three years. A little over three years. A little over three. Okay, yes, three years later.
 Okay. Well, let's vote on that, shall we? Kara, would you please call the roll? Ertz? Yes. Ertz-Gertz? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Scroggins? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Ertz-Gertz?
 Okay, so that passed too, and now we have the ordinance has been amended twice. Yes, it has. Are we still on the first reading? Yes, we are, and I haven't taken public comment either. All right, let's do it. I think we're ready to take some public comment, unless you all would like to add something else. I do. You do. This phase is out in 12 days. Is that correct? So if we don't vote to extend this tonight, do we lose it?
 I think that's why it has an emergency clause on it. Okay. Okay, thank you. Okay. Anything else? Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. We have a five-minute duration. You have a five-minute duration in segments of three and two segments or so. And don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member.
 Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. So who would like to be first from the public? No. Well, we got one. We got one. Molly Braun. Go ahead, Molly. Hi there. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes.
 Thank you. I'm Molly Ron, CEO of the Fayetteville Advertising and Promotion Commission. I live in Ward 3, and I'm pleased that Devin is bringing this forward today.
 to be extended. It's important for our hospitality community. It's important for tourism and for economic development. I will say I'm a bit disappointed that we are moving forward with it with another sunset clause attached. I'm not an attorney, so I won't pretend to understand all of the reasons why that might be important. But it does occur to me that
 at any time it seems like members of the council could bring back an ordinance and discuss it or review it. And so, um,
 I'm not quite certain why this one in particular needs a sunset clause any more than any ordinance that we might bring forward needs one. So I would like to see us in the future be able to make this more permanent, but I am pleased that it sounds like the council is moving toward extending it at least for another three years. I think that that is very important and I hope to be able to be back to talk to you again soon about some of the events
 that Council Member Petty alluded to, particularly cyclocross and how we can expand this to fit some of those needs. So thank you all so much. Do we have anyone else? Okay. Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. We need to pass it tonight. What's the wishes? Well, okay. Then we need to pass it tonight. So let's scurry along here.
 I move to suspend rules and go to second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Ert? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Yatirez? Yes. Jones? Jones. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 In Ordinance Amendment Section 11107, Outdoor Refreshment Area, by converting a limited outdoor consumption district pilot program to more permanent districts subject to rules established by the City Council and to approve an emergency clause. Moves to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. I second. There we go. All right. We have a motion to say to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Heard. Yes. Heard. Spurred.
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. An ordinance amends section 111.07 outdoor refreshment area by converting limited outdoor consumption district pilot programs to more permanent districts subject to rules established by the city council and to approve an emergency clause.
 Okay, any final comments from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Dirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. Now we need a separate vote on the emergency clause. Yes, we need a motion to second for the emergency clause.
 I mean we have an emergency clause? Second. We have a motion and a second to do the emergency clause. Kara would you please call the roll? Hart? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Okay. You have some announcements, Susan? Just one. So we issued a media release on this, and Council Member Turk wanted me to make a point to make it verbal here at the council meeting about the –
 First Mayor's Environmental Stewardship Award. Yes. So the Environmental Action Committee has announced they're calling for nominations for the inaugural Mayor's Environmental Stewardship Award in the categories of...
 environmental stewardship, pollution prevention, environmental advocacy, recycling and sustainable product lifecycle, environmental sustainability or resiliency, education and outreach, energy conservation, clean energy production and or innovation, resource conservation, rehabilitation and reclamation, and environmental sustainability.
 and a City of Fayetteville Environmental Action Committee will review nominee packets and forward recommendations to the City Council for the approval of the award. The deadline for nominations is March 1st. All the nomination forms and additional information are available on the website slash stewardship award, and you'll see the media release on the front page of the website as well. Thank you, Mayor. Okay. Any other announcements? No.
 Well, I want the council to know that you all proved me wrong. I told Susan that this meeting would last between 11 and 12 o'clock. It is now 1057. So you all have beat my prediction by three minutes. So anyway, thank you all. Good work tonight. We're adjourned.