I would like to call the City Council meeting of January the 15th, 2019 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Here. She's here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Here. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, with liberty and justice for all. The first order of business we have tonight is the presentation of the City of Federal's Martin Luther King Brotherhood Award. Can I believe you have this? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. Some persons seem to grasp the significance of important issues and begin to work to resolve those potential problems before most of us become truly aware of what needs to be done. A few such persons become so competent and accomplished that they are able to have a major impact on such problems, which for them are not really problems but opportunities to make a community better. Fayetteville is lucky that we have such a farsighted, dedicated, and capable person who has made it his life's work to improve not only Fayetteville, but our region and state. For the last 17 years, it has been my honor and privilege to recognize a worthy city of Fayetteville employee to receive the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award. This award has been given annually in recognition of that city employee whose service to our city and community exemplifies Dr. Martin Luther King's dream of justice, equality, brotherhood, and service. This year's honoree joins a distinguished list of city employees who have embodied Dr. Martin Luther King's dream and have helped fulfill his legacy of service to community. This honoree has devoted his professional life to improving the environment, that all of us rely upon and cherish. He has led our Keep Fayetteville Beautiful chapter, which is an affiliate of the Keep America Beautiful. He has consistently worked not only for our city's beautification, but also for reduction of waste and litter by increasing our recycling efforts. Immediately after receiving his college degree, Brian Pugh began his efforts to improve recycling and reduce trash as the recycling coordinator for Conway. He soon saw the light and moved to Fayetteville in 1999 to accept the position of recycling coordinator for the four-county solid waste district. Three years later, the city convinced Brian to be our waste reduction coordinator, where he has excelled for over 16 years. Brian has devoted much time and energy to community outreach and education. He has presented programs to Head Start, our public and private schools, the University of Arkansas, and civic groups. Brian has often informed the City Council about trash reduction efforts and programs to expand recycling and composting. The City has received both recognition and awards for recycling and trash reduction spurred on by Brian's unceasing efforts. Brian Pugh established the Curb the Clutter program, now known as Adopt a Street, where he works with community groups to beautify neighborhoods one street at a time. To combat graffiti, Brian developed a utility box art program for city utility boxes. Brian's sustained and effective work to improve recycling, composting, and reuse of materials, and thereby to reduce landfilling of trash, has been of great community service for Fayetteville and all of its citizens, and exemplifies Dr. Martin Luther King's dream and example of brotherhood and service to others and the community. It is now my honor to present the 2019 City of Fayetteville Dr. Martin Luther King Brotherhood Award to his worthy recipient, Brian Pugh. Thank you so much. I really appreciate this honor. You know, Getting up, coming to work every day, it gets to be a grind at times, and you wonder if anybody's paying attention. And then you get something like this, and you realize that they do. So I really appreciate this, really appreciate the kind words. And we do have a great city. We do have a lot of things going for us. And I really enjoy working for Fayetteville. You guys and these people out here, they make it worthwhile, and they make my job a little bit easier because we have that environmental ethic in Fayetteville. So thank you so much. Congratulations, Brian. Very well deserved. The next order of business we have tonight is the 2019 State of the City. The mayor's a little bit under the weather tonight, but this is an important event. I've stayed in the city and I certainly wanted to be able to deliver this tonight. So bear with me. So let us begin. To the city council, the city attorney, the city clerk, city staff, and all our residents, I offer you the following thoughts on our 2019 State of the City Address. I would like to open my remarks by saying the state of the city is sound. In preparing these comments, I was inspired by the following quote from John F. Kennedy in 1963. And he says, Tonight I'm going to speak about what we accomplished in 2018, where those accomplishments put us in the present. and more importantly, where those accomplishments will lead us in the future. This city is forever looking toward the future, never content with where it is, but rather where it's going to be. So tonight I want to speak more about the future, our vision, our hopes, and our dreams. And we must always take just a moment to celebrate our successes and thank the community who makes those happen, who moves this city forward. I would like to thank our city clerk, Sondra Smith, and her staff for their excellent work in making our government transparent and accessible to the people and for keeping our records organized. Thank you, Sondra. I would like to thank our city attorney, Kit Williams, and his staff for providing sound legal guidance and their work on behalf of the residents of Pebble. Thank you, Kit. I would like to thank Judge Bill Story and his staff for their excellent work on ensuring a superior district court and providing justice for our community. I would like to thank you, the City Council of today, and the City Council from last year for your hard work and for serving your constituents and the city with your financial stewardship and strategic leadership. Thank you, Council, very much. Thank you. And I want to thank our dedicated city staff, our volunteers, and all our residents for their hard work and support. We are fortunate to have the most talented and hardest working staff and volunteers of any city anywhere. Thank you all very much. And finally, I want to thank our many partners in this city. Our experienced federal team, the Federal Public Library, the University of Arkansas, and Federal Public Schools, along with many other organizations that serve the residents of our city, promote its economic and social well-being, and provide services for people in need. Let's take just a moment to celebrate some of our 2018 awards and accomplishments. For the third year in a row, we were named one of the five best places to live, by US News and World Report. We received the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality Tech E Award for a high-dose disinfection system at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility. For its annual Trendsetter Cities program, Arkansas Business honored FedVIL with awards in the environmental category for our Energy Action Plan and the infrastructure category for the FedVIL Mobility Plan. and in the federal public safety category for our fire and public safety training facilities and their community engagement practices. For the third year in a row, we maintained our position as the top water resources utility of the future today. People for bikes named Fedville as the best place for bikes in Arkansas. The Arbor Foundation again designated Fedville as a Tree City USA community Our 23rd consecutive year. The Arkansas Parks and Recreation Association presented six awards to our Parks and Recreation Department for natural resources and youth programs. Soft Surface Trail of the Year for Kessler Mountain Bike Trails. Facility of the Year for Lake Sequoia. Festival Event of the Year for Ladies Do FedEx. Volunteer of the Year for Parks and Rec Board Member Laura Underwood for her fundraising efforts for the Yvonne Richardson Community Center. Engagement HQ recognized FedVIL for its Speak Up FedVIL platform. And we also received honorable mention at the Governor's Digital Transformation Awards for Speak Up FedVIL and her online systems. The City of FedVIL Public Library received the following recognitions. The 2018 Best Public Library and Cityscapes Magazine's Best of Northwest Arkansas' Reader's Poll. Excellence in Business Award for Green and Sustainable Practices from the Federal Chamber of Commerce. A prestigious silver-level bicycle-friendly business certification by the League of American Bicyclists. Also, Congressman Womack nominated Federalist Public Library for the 2019 National Medal for Museum and Library Science. In July, site preparation for the library expansion started, and the final design was approved in December. The expansion will feature 82,500 additional square feet of space, and it's expected to open in the fall of 2020. I'd like to talk a little bit about our other major partnerships in this city and accomplishments of 2018. With our University of Arkansas and experienced federal partners, we launched the region's first bike share program, VO Ride, which has seen nearly 30,000 rides with more than 7,500 riders in its first four months. This healthy transportation alternative complements our trail system. and represents 6,500 pounds of carbon emissions saved. This month, the O-Ride will add 150 new electric bikes to assist with our hilly terrain, making our fleet one of the largest in the United States. While our city has much more work to do to define its future transit infrastructure, we made good progress in 2018 with our University of Arkansas Razorback Transit, and Ozark Regional Transit Partnerships. By reducing duplicate routes, we increased frequency of pickups and created the first fare-free routes in federal for Ozark Regional Transit, increasing ridership by 13% from this time last year. We look forward to continued partnerships with federal public schools and the Boys and Girls Club to provide educational and extracurricular activities for our youth. The Yvonne Richardson Community Center Board of Directors continues to discover new opportunities to grow youth and adult programming at YRCC. We sincerely appreciate our partnerships with the Federal Natural Heritage Association, for their help with the purchase of Kessler Mountain and the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust for preservation of that mountain, as well as the recent preservation of the environmentally sensitive wet prairie and oak savanna habitat adjacent to the Woolsey Wet Prairie. Preserving federal's most significant natural resources will always be a hallmark of this administration. As I told you last year, I promised that this administration would serve as a bridge between our younger generations who bring new and great ideas about urban competitiveness to our traditionalists who hold very high standards of what this city is and all it can be. I truly believe we kept that promise as we laid the foundations for our future with several initiatives and master plans. While each one of our efforts in 2018 combined to create intentional and deliberate progress, no matter their size or scope, I must acknowledge one of the single most strategic decisions that has ever been made by this city. Just a few short weeks ago, we signed an agreement to develop, construct, and develop. and operate Arkansas's largest solar power system with onsite utility scale storage at our wastewater treatment facilities. With this action, we take a monumental step toward the energy action plan steep goal of 100% renewable clean use by city facilities by 2030. The project is expected to be completed this fall. raising the rate of clean energy consumption by city facilities to 72%. The system has a 3.1 year return on investment and will save our city $6 million in energy costs over the next 20 years. While we continue to make strides, we must not rest in the safe zones. We must expand our vision in other areas, such as our digital infrastructure, our welcoming initiatives, our social services and housing initiatives, and economic and workforce development. Our digital inclusion plan will ensure everyone has internet access at the speed you need and at a price affordable to you, so you can participate in education, health care, jobs training, and local and national policy discussions. Last year, the city added Wi-Fi free to the public in 10 new locations. We began review of infrastructure to support future smart city technology initiatives and passed an ordinance to provide for the permitting of next generation small cell wireless facilities to improve residents' wireless access. University of Arkansas and federal public library staff and stakeholders joined city staff to create the Digital Inclusion Task Force. The group works to raise awareness, to identify gaps in access and affordability, and to provide expanding digital readiness opportunities for federal households. Another great partnership has been working with Canopy, 4th West Arkansas, and the Ozark Literacy Council to help us implement several goals of the welcoming plan adopted by the City Council in April of last year. One of our short-term goals is to establish welcoming hubs to share information, offer classes, and serve as gathering spaces. Working with Ozark Literacy Council staff created the first virtual welcoming hub a part of the city's website designed specifically for use by international residents new to our city and our country. The website is empowered by Google Translate and offers clear, simple information guarding city services, plain language explanations of how to navigate everyday American tasks such as enrolling children in school, paying taxes and setting up a bank account, plus links to resources such as English language classes, citizenship information, and legal services. Additionally, I will support inclusion of legal immigrants into our city's volunteer committees to create more diverse participation in city government. I want to thank Council Member Kyle Smith for bringing this forward. You will have my support. By providing welcoming services, multilingual materials and resources, and thoughtful approaches to programming, we hope to increase our community's foreign-born population to at least double-digit numbers, raising the level of diversity and local participation. New Americans contribute a great deal culturally and economically to our beautiful city. and every single one of these new Americans is welcome in this city. A common thread that runs throughout our goals is to do more for those in need. We depend on our community development block grant funding and city operational budget for housing and transportation, assistance programs, homeless services, case management, and to aid numerous agencies that serve several similar missions for our neighbors who have difficult hurdles to overcome. We will continue to work with and support the private and nonprofit options for housing through staff support, development policies, and partnerships with public lands to help foster more attainable housing. But as you know, the topic of attainable housing cannot be looked at in isolation. We must continue to raise the quality of living for everyone by supporting workforce development and recruitment of living wage jobs and new and better skills training and educational opportunities for all our residents. And toward that end, I believe this year's economic vitality efforts, including our emerging workforce development plan, will help with wages and housing opportunities for all. Our expanded promotional efforts to market Federal as a great place to do business are peaking the interest of prospective businesses. The quality of life in Federal is what draws talent to our city, thus attracting new employers paying living wage jobs. Federal continues to grow as a great place to live, Work, play, learn and do business. The city's robust economic development plan, Federal First, continues its path toward implementation to benefit the economic health of Federal. Success from the implementation of the Federal First plan include Pinnacle Foods completed a $30 million expansion of their manufacturing and cold storage facility. The largest film project in Arkansas history, HBO's True Detective, was headquartered and produced in federal during 2018, hiring hundreds of individuals and developing expanded capacity in our creative economy. Tyson's Mexican original began a $30 million expansion. The Chancellor Hotel in the downtown square area was acquired by Garden Hotels, a small boutique hotel chain specializing in university towns. The Old Post Office, an anchor of the historic downtown square, recently sold and will soon be home to a new dining experience. The city acquired 221 acres and West Federal creating Centennial Park at Millsaps Mountain for future development of a new trail system to serve local hikers, trail runners, and mountain bikers with an emphasis on events for the region's growing mountain biking tourism industry. In 2018, the city of Fayetteville saw more than 370 new businesses open their doors, creating 1,000 new full-time jobs. Our economic vitality goals and metrics for the year have not only been met, but have reached 150% of their targets. We're on track for $100 million in taxable sales growth for 2018. Thank you. Our economic base has grown to approximately 3,850 businesses operating in federal. Those businesses provide more than 43,000 full time jobs in our city. So I have a question to ask you city council and residents here listening to this and elected officials with all those facts and figures. I presented you, doesn't it seem like business is not only doing well in this city, but is booming? With your help, the council's help, the citizens' help, this city is open for business and will continue to lead with our economic development efforts. This year's workforce development focus will be on employment opportunities through the expansion of skilled trades and apprenticeship programs and strategies that aim to assist those with barriers. will create the opportunity for every resident of our city to find a career making a living wage. Also, I have a great announcement to make tonight about a totally new opportunity for our workforce, something that we have worked on for over a year. In 2019, we will welcome the Arkansas Coding Academy to Fayetteville. an affordable alternative education program that offers fast-paced workforce development solutions for the information technology sector. The organization has a track record of helping populations with barriers obtain gainful employment, earning well above a living wage after just three short months of full-time training. The pros... Parity and sustainable growth of our city will extend to everyone equally. And speaking of city growth, Census 2020 preparations are moving forward this year, and we need everyone to stand up and be counted. An accurate census helps ensure fair representation of all levels of government, congressional districts, and ward boundaries are determined by census numbers. Census results directly impact the funding federal will receive over the next decade and play a critical role in determining how $800 billion of federal funding will be distributed and allocated annually across the state and local governments. Please encourage all your friends and neighbors to stand up and be counted. As a matter of fact, federal's population is projected to increase by 50,000 people by the year 2040. We have a lot of getting ready to do. Federal's rapid growth and vibrant economy was proven in 2018. We issued almost 1,400 building permits, totaling nearly $415 million in investment. an approximate 30% increase over the average of the previous five years. That's tremendous. As promised last year, we began implementing the lean government plan, all while keeping up with our growth and building permitting. We double down to spend valuable staff time and training sessions, learning to improve our process workflow, eliminate waste, and increase quality and customer service for all permitting and zoning. As a result, customers will begin to see a shorter timeline for the permitting and certificate of occupancy. This work will streamline processes to be implemented during the migration of a new permitting software system. Our comprehensive development plan, City Plan 2030, is being updated to City Plan 2040 as we prepare for federal's growth. Using public input from residents and stakeholders, staff is creating tools to help decision makers attain the plan's six primary goals. These tools include an infill development scoring matrix. a growth concept map that identifies key growth areas, and a map with new layers of data to aid development decisions. The Future Land Use Map was also updated to serve as a broad land use guide for federal's growth. While residents of Fayetteville continue to indicate broad support for Fayetteville's infill growth policies, we know many residents desire improved design standards to ensure that infill development complements the character of established neighborhoods. To respond, we will revise design standards for city council's consideration in 2019. After a survey of property owners indicated support for creating a local historic district in the Washington Willow neighborhood, the City Council approved funding for design guidelines to enable the district's creation. That process kicks off this month and will be completed by mid-2019. Next year, we will seek options for infill density and we will evaluate our annexation policies. to ensure they provide growth management in an appropriate manner to promote orderly and efficient development and expansion of our city. And so, my friends, how do we plan our growth for the future? With growth comes great responsibility to expand all city services and amenities. In the past, our voter-approved bond initiatives have funded capital projects and infrastructure improvements, allowing us to grow at a pace that our current and future residents need and expect in order to make Fedville the best city possible. Let's go through some of those infrastructure improvements tonight. Work continues on O'Wire Road, Highway 112, and Ruppel Road. The O'Wire Road cycle track will connect to upgrade trails in Gully Park. The Neocosco Creek Trail will extend to Mud Creek Trail, completing a major bicycle and pedestrian connection from East Fedville to the Razorback Greenway. Miles of water line and drainage improvements, sewer rehabilitation, and pavement overlay continue in 2019, as well as vital new and repaired sidewalk installations. We kicked off our stormwater study this fall, analyzing services. currently provided and what is needed to keep our residents safe during flooding and to reduce contaminants reaching our waterways. Years of continued infrastructure improvements and maintenance help to keep the city on track, and we continue to implement our master plan, such as the 71B corridor plan and the recycling and trash division's master plan. The reason I say all of this is because we will always promote the efficient expansion of city services and infrastructure to keep our cities safe and clean, while also promoting a high quality of life with a unique sense of place. And toward that end, we launched phase one of our Parks and Recreation 10-Year Master Plan. In multiple listening sessions all over town and through public feedback, you, our residents, told us that you want to be able to have an active lifestyle, have access to natural areas and spaces to interact with fellow community members. And you told us you love the trails. In 2018, we created two miles of new trails. bringing our total shared-use paved trails to 45 miles, natural surface trails to 38 miles, and on-street bikeways to 30 miles. During our parks planning, we learned that our community parks, such as Wilson, Walker, Gully, and Bryce Parks, Lake Fedville, and Kessler Mountain Regional Park are your favorites. Our park system is one of our crown jewels. And I can assure you, we will make it shine. And now let me tell you about what I'm truly excited about tonight. It's the bond initiative. We bring this extension of our one penny sales tax to you, the people, on April the 9th of 2019 to allow us to continue to build our city and keep it moving forward. We have paid the sales tax bonds down. to the point that we can now finance, without raising taxes, another round of funding for the city's infrastructure projects to meet our growth and continue to build our city's future. The last time voters approved a sales and use tax revenue bond was in 2006 for $110 million. Today, today, for the same penny taxed, we will be able to fund approximately $214 million worth of projects. Projects that will continue to help us retain our leadership as one of the top places to live in the United States. This bond package includes investments in every major infrastructure area we need. It is a result of years of master planning and hard work with a keen eye to future economic vitality interests. To begin with, $70 million will go toward building roads and improvements such as traffic capacity, sidewalk, transit, and bicycles facilities enhancements. Funding for infrastructure improvements in the Dixon Street and downtown square areas. Focusing on increased and improved sidewalk connections, lighting, and wayfinding. Increasing walkability and pedestrian comfort with signal upgrades. Continued expansion of the city's sidewalk network. Intersection and signal improvements for more efficient traffic flow. developing and implementing a traffic calming policy. Some of the following corridors and intersections being considered are completing the last missing segment of North Ruppel Road for the arterial loop, improvements to Zion Road from Vantage Drive to Crossover Road, improvements to the Porter Road, Dean Street, and Sycamore Street corridor from I-49 to North College Avenue, Improvements to North Street and Mission Boulevard from Garland Avenue to Old Wire Road. Improvements to Highway 71B to implement the recommendations from the Highway 71B corridor plan currently in progress. Improvements to 15th Street and Razorback Road intersection near Baum Stadium. improvements to Millsap Road and College Avenue intersection near Whole Foods. Hardware and software upgrades for the traffic signal network will make it easier to respond to changing traffic conditions. Increased funding for pavement overlay and pavement management programs to fix our potholes and maintain our roads. As all of our road improvements also take into consideration a walk-friendly environment, so shall these new roads provide pedestrians with sidewalk improvements with additional lighting, wider sidewalks to improve street crossings. Transit stations and safety upgrades will also be there. Next, let's talk about trail improvement projects. They total $6.5 million for a growing pedestrian and cycling network, including completion of the Chalagee Trail, connections to Centennial Park via the Shiloh Trail, and connections along Old Farmington Road. Creation of the Sublette Creek Trail to make connections from North Street and Mission Boulevard to Evelyn Hills Shopping Center area. to College Avenue near Woodland School, extension of the St. Paul Trail to the proposed Paddle Park and Pump Station Road across the West Fork of the White River and connecting neighborhoods east of the river. We're looking at drainage improvement projects also that will total $15 million. After the major flooding event... In April of 2017, more than 100 projects of all sizes were identified throughout Fedville. Some of the larger, more critical projects include the Little Missouri Creek near Old Missouri Road and Mud Creek Trail, areas near Fairlane, Elmhurst, and McClinton Streets, East Country Way Road, and Ferguson Avenue close to Gully Park. the area of Sunbridge Drive and North College Avenue, and other areas where residents are impacted by flooding. Next, also we know we have growing public safety needs and top quality public safety programs. So let's be sure to provide the necessary infrastructure for federal police and fire departments to do their jobs. help keep people and property safe, and improve police and fire response times as calls for service increase. Our police and firefighters work diligently with compassion for our residents, building relationships with neighborhoods they serve and providing community engagement opportunities year-round. Public safety projects include two questions totaling $50 million – $35 million is going toward the purchase of land and construction of a new federal police headquarters. $15 million will be spent on firefighting facilities. A new police headquarters building will provide the capacity for public safety to keep up with our growing city. The new facility will be a campus concept. And it will include three buildings, one for the main police department housing all personnel, another for training with vehicle and evidence storage, and finally, an indoor pistol and rifle firing range. Firefighting facility improvements will provide three additional fire stations and apparatus to support ongoing growth for fire and emergency response. The new fire stations will be staffed with existing personnel and fire companies. The stations will be positioned in the south, northwest, and central areas of the city for quicker response to those areas. In addition, the fire department will replace two firefighting engines and a ladder truck to complete the apparatus replacement program. Next thing I want to talk about is city facilities improvements. totaling $3 million, will create more efficient working spaces and energy use, containing the internal implementation of our city's energy action plan as a role model for other cities to follow. At the end of the day, we are going to stay ahead of call volumes and response times to provide services to our residents and keep them safe while they enjoy the amenities of our beautiful city. Next thing I want to talk about is our park improvement projects for the bond total $25 million for regional and community parks. And we'll add new features and land acquisitions to include completion of the Kessler Mountain Regional Baseball Complex, improvements at Lake Fedville, camping amenities at Lake Sequoia Park, enhancements to our community parks, including Yvonne Richardson Community Center, A paddle park on the west side of the West Fork of the White River. Acquisition of future parkland to include a partnership with Federal Public Schools for the purchase of Lewis Fields. Next, I want to talk about our economic development projects. They will total $3 million. $3 million. For workforce development, these funds can be used to foster public-private partnerships, to provide flexibility for recruiting businesses, and to broaden the federal's incentive program. And last but certainly not least is the construction of the Cultural Arts Corridor. It is also a considerable investment in our city's economic development, including potential for new or replacement parking facilities. This project will total $30 million and will transform the downtown area into a destination experience for residents and tourists. The Cultural Arts Corridor is a public investment on public land for public use. The corridor will create a community hub for large and small performances, festivals, visual arts, and so much more. It will be a catalyst. for additional shopping and eating in the downtown area, while also increasing bike trails and connections and improving streets and walkability. The Cultural Arts Corridor project will ultimately put our community's cultural values on display for generations to come. It will celebrate our local arts culture, preserve the environment, urban forest and watershed and create accessible and enjoyable gathering spaces in Central Federal for residents and visitors. And that, my friends, is the summary of the questions residents will be asked to vote for on April the 9th of this year. And as I close tonight to the City Council, elected officials and the residents, this city is and will always be on the cutting edge. pushing the envelope, leading the pack, and making what other places would call impossible our very own version of possible. This city never rests, never stops, and will always be moving down the road of progress to the place we will finally reside, which is called the future. Ms. Kennedy also said... In the same speech in 1963 referenced in my introduction, he said, We cannot rest on our achievement or resist the pace of progress, for time and the world do not stand still. So you see, progress in time and the world does not stand still, and neither will this city. It will always be moving forward. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Moving right along. Thank you all. I look forward to the future. I look forward to working with all of you. Number three, Housing Authority Board Appointment, Ezra Beshears. Mark, I believe you have that. Do you have that? Oh, you have that. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need to wait a moment. I need Yes, we do have a nomination for Ezra to fill the Housing Authority Board, and he will be representing the residents of the Housing Authority. And I would like to present that to be approved this evening. So we have a motion to approve Ezra Beshear's Housing Authority Board appoint. Sarah? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to approve Ezra Beshear's. Any conversation? Okay, so would you please call the roll? Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes, okay. Thank you all next order businesses consent agenda the one approval of the December 18th 2018 and January 3rd 2019 City Council meeting minutes and Number two, resolution award bid number 19-15, authorize the purchase of waste disposal services for construction debris from Holst Claw Excavating Incorporated. Any amount of $15 per load is needed through the end of 2019. Number three, a resolution to approve transportation divisions overlay and sidewalk projects list for 2019. Number four, a resolution authorize the purchase of annual software maintenance MSI Consulting Group LLC for virtual justice software used by the district court, police department, and the city prosecutor division in the amount of $21,600 plus applicable taxes to approve a 5% project contingency in the event additional licenses are needed. Number five. A resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $25,000 recognizing revenue from the court automation fund for upgrades to the servers, software, computers, and related technology equipment used by the federal district court. Number six, a resolution to authorize the purchase of annual software maintenance from governmentjobs.com incorporated DBA NeoGov for the city's human resources software in the amount of $24,707.03 plus applicable taxes. To approve contract with Seven Hills Homeless Center to provide funding assistance in the amount of $57,000 for maintenance and repairs at the Walker Family Residential Community Complex in 2019. Number eight. A resolution to authorize a 10-month contract with something different LLC with automatic renewals for up to four one-year terms pursuant to RFP 18-16 and to provide for operations of the concession stands at Kessler Mountain Regional Park, Soccer Complex, Gary Hampton Softball Complex, Lake Bedville Softball Complex, and the Wilson Park Pool. Number nine, a resolution to approve amendment number five to the contract with Environmental Consulting Operations Incorporated in the amount of $66,255 for wetlands mitigation site monitoring and management in 2019. And number 10, a resolution to approve an amendment to the 2018 contract with CH2M Hill Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $95,339.16 to reconcile costs incurred in overhauling belt filter presses at the Nolan and Wayside water resource recovery facilities and to authorize payment in that amount. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as well. Senator, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Swoggin. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Yes. Thank you all. Under unfinished business, we have none. Thank you, council. Under new business, number one, a resolution to approve amendment number one to the professional Engineering services agreement with Garver LLC and the amount of $80,100 for additional design and construction phase services related to the Meadow Creek parking deck rehabilitation project and approved additional project contingency in the amount of $8,010 and to approve budget adjustment. Who has that? Justin? Thank you, Mayor, Council. The Meadow Street parking deck, which sits behind the now graduate hotel, was constructed in the 70s, along with the original construction of the hotel. It's undergone a number of restoration projects over the years, most recently in 2005. In 2016, we contracted with Garber Engineering to perform a structural evaluation of the deck. Their overall analysis found... it to be structurally sound. However, they did identify a number of improvements to be made and to add to the longevity of the deck going forward. In 2018, we contracted with Steve Bean Construction to begin implementing those improvements, and two unforeseen items have arisen since that construction began, the first of which is the north stairwell, which is an independent enclosed structure. It's not actually connected to the parking deck itself, but it was found to have no reinforcement within it once it was exposed. So the engineer, we x-rayed it, confirmed that there was not sufficient reinforcement within the structure and engineers recommending that it be demolished and that a new open air stairway be built in its place. The second item was the exit ramp on the southeast corner of the deck. The original scope of work called for some patch repair to some concrete that had been deteriorating over the years. Once the contractors got in there and began to do that patchwork, they discovered that the concrete was deteriorating at a greater rate than originally anticipated. And so they're recommending that the... Entire concrete slab be replaced, which is where this amendment comes in to amend the scope and funding associated with the design services phase in the amount of roughly $88,110. The engineers estimated an additional approximately $140,000 in construction costs. to be forthcoming at a later date in the form of a change order with the contract portion of this. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Questions do we have just about this? Okay. A public comment do we have on this? Okay. Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. What's wishes to the council? Mark. I move we move forward with the resolution to approve the contract with Garver LLC Amendment Number 1. Okay. Sarah. Sarah. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any discussion? Final comments? Senator, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Swoggin. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Kerr. Yes. Thank you. All in number two, an ordinance to waive formal Petty bidding and accept a repair quote of $33,497 plus applicable taxes under Andrews' separation of... incorporated to repair belt filter presses at the Nolan and Wayside water resource recovery facilities kit. Whereas the belt filter press units at the city's water resource recovery facilities, which are used to process the waste-activated sludge or biosolids produced by the facilities, are systematically pulled for inspection and repairs. And whereas the vendor was required to take apart and inspect the units for damage, and it's determined that they are in need of routine rebuilds, which can be done at a cost of $33,497 plus applicable sales tax. And whereas formal competitive bidding is not necessary for repair of, quote, hidden or unknown damages, unquote. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that because of Arkansas Procurement Law R6-19-11-203, Subsection 14-EE-20, repair of quote hidden or unknown damages unquote the repair of the belt filter press units does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore waves of competitive bidding and Accepts the repair quote from and rich separation incorporated in the amount of thirty three thousand four hundred and ninety seven dollars Plus Apple sales taxes and authorizes a payment of that amount who has this Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm Mark Rogers, Water and Sewer Operations Manager. The Nolan Westside Treatment Facilities operate a total of four belt filter press units, two at each facility, to process the daily production of waste-activated sludge, which is known as WAS or biosolids. The equipment age ranges from 10 to 15 years for these units. These most recent belt filter press repair expenses combined with approximately $95,000 of repair expenses late last year will represent an investment leaving two presses, one per facility, in a state of substantial rebuild, ensuring continued daily processing of the WAS solids. Andritz Separation Incorporated provided the roller inspections for the Nolan facility and quoted $15,721. to repair the worn rollers plus an estimated $425.50 for shipping and andrette separation. Also completed the roller gear motor inspection for the west side facility and quoted $17,120 to repair the worn rollers and replace the gear motor plus an estimated $230.50 for shipping. Because it was necessary to have the company disassemble and inspect the unit to determine the extent of hidden and unknown damage to the equipment already purchased, a bid waiver and a formal sealed bidding is not necessary according to Arkansas procurement law that Kit referenced on hidden and unknown damages. Staff recommends approval of equipment repairs from under separation in the amount of $33,497.00. for overhaul of the belt filter presses at the Nolan and Westside water resource recovery facilities, and funds are available in the plant, pumps, and equipment project. I'm available for any questions. Okay, what questions do we have from the council? Anybody good? All right. What public comment do we have? Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Mark. This has been through the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee, and it had unanimous approval to bring it to city council. And so I would like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Thank you. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to waive formal competitive bidding and accept a repair quote of $33,497 plus applicable taxes from Andrette Separation Incorporated to repair belt filter presses at the Noland and Westside water resource recovery facilities. Mark. I request that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second. We'll go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Second. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kinnian? Yes. Peake? Yes. Spivey? Yes. French? Yes. Turner? Yes. And ordinance to waive formal competitive bidding and accept a repair quote of $33,497 plus applicable taxes from Andridge Separation Incorporated to repair belt filter presses at the Nolan and Westside Water Resource Recovery Facilities. Okay. Any final comments from the council on this one? Good. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kingman? Yes. Petty? Yes. Smoggy? Yes. Batch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Number three, in order to sway the requirements for uncommitted bidding and to approve the purchase of two macular pumps for the Westside and Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facilities from Opivo, USA LLC in the amount of forty seven thousand eight hundred dollars and one cent plus political taxes kit Whereas the city's water resource recovery facilities use a preliminary treatment process in which most inorganic solids are first screened, then processed through a macerator unit before further processing. And whereas one macerator pump at each facility has experienced internal failure, leaving this important preliminary treatment process without the backup redundancy. And whereas OVO USA LLC is the sole source provider of the screen handling technology in use at each plant, including the macerator pumps, and they are not commercially available through any other vendors. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby fines the above circumstances to make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves the purchase of two macerator pumps from Movivo USA LLC in the amount of $47,800.01 plus applicable taxes for use at the Westside and Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facilities. Staff recommends the purchase of two macerator pumps through Ovivo USA LLC for the Nolan and Westside water resource recovery facilities in the amount of $47,800 and a penny plus applicable taxes. At both the Nolan and Westside facilities, all wastewater first goes through the preliminary treatment process where most inorganic solids are removed from the process stream. These screen solids are further processed through a series of three modular units that first grind, second wash screenings, and lastly removes most of the water from screenings prior to the final dumpster disposal. One macerator pump at each facility has experienced internal failure, leaving this important preliminary treatment process without backup redundancy. The cause of failure is believed to be normal wear. Each facility's screening handling technology system is sold by Ovivo USA LLC under its own trademark, under a license agreement which makes system components such as the macerator pumps not commercially available through vendors outside of Ovivo USA LLC. Ovivo USA LLC has submitted a quote in the amount of $47,800 in a penny plus tax for two replacement macerator pumps, Staff recommends replacement of the failed pumps with two new pumps considering rebuild costs are estimated at 80% the cost of a new unit. Funds are available in the wastewater treatment plant CIP, plant pumps, and equipment project. I'm available for any questions. What questions do we have, counsel? Everybody good? All right. Do we have any public comment on this? See, none. I'll bring it back to the counsel. Second. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Mark. I will second that. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Senator, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve the purchase of two macerator pumps for the Westside and Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facilities from Ovivo USA LLC in the total amount of $47,800 and a penny plus applicable taxes. Warren. I move that we go to the final reading. Suspend the rules and go to the final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion to say we go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Swoggin. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Turk. Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve the purchase of two macerator pumps for the Westside and Nolan water resource recovery facilities from Ovivo USA LLC in the total amount of $47,800 and a penny plus ethical taxes. Any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Cady. Yes. Wagon. Yes. Dutch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Thank you all. Number four, an order to waive competitive bidding through 2022 and to approve the purchase of utility locating services for 2019 from Arkansas. one call system incorporated in an amount not to exceed $30,000. Kit. Whereas Arkansas Code Annotated Section 14-271-107 requires the City of Fayetteville as owner of an underground utility system to be part of the Arkansas one call system, and whereas Arkansas Code Annotated Section 19-11-203-14W requires the City of Fayetteville exempt utility services that are defined, recognized, and regulated by the Arkansas Public Service Commission as monopoly offering, such as the Arkansas One Call system, from the requirement of formal competitive bidding. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines that because of Arkansas Code Annotated Section 19-11-20314 W, a purchase of utility locating services does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore ways formal competitive bidding for these services through 2022 and approves the purchase of utility locating services in 2019 in an amount not to exceed $30,000. Okay, who has that one? Okay. Fayetteville's a member of the statewide system to process notices from excavators of their intentions today, drill or blast, and to promote digging safely. And we're notified by the one call system so that we can go paint or flag the locations of our water and sewer facilities to protect them against damages by excavators. Membership fees include a base fee for municipalities and a fee for each call. Our calls for this service continue to grow annually with all the construction ongoing in our water and sewer service area. Funds are available in the water and sewer operations program. Okay. What questions do we have, council?
 Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. We'll bring it back to the council. Mark. This also has gone through water, sewer, solid waste with a unanimous vote to bring it forward for approval so i would like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading sir i'll second that we have motion to second go to the second rate sundridge please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and orders to waive competitive bidding through 2022 and approve the purchase of utility locating services for 2019 from Arkansas OneCall System, Incorporated, in an amount not to exceed $30,000. Fork. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. We have motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? May I? Yes. Good, Terrence. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding through 2022 and approve the purchase of utility locating services for 2019 from Arkansas One Call System Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $30,000. Final comments we have with council. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you, Council. Number five, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding into authorizing the extension of the contract for parking payment services with pay-by-phone limited through 2022. Kip. Whereas in 2010, the City of Fayetteville entered into a software service agreement with various mobile technologies, now pay by phone, limited, to provide parking payment services. And whereas the cost of these services is expected to exceed $20,000 for the first time, thus requiring City Council approval. And whereas formal competitive bidding is not necessary for renewal of software contracts. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Oxhara hereby determines that because of Arkansas Code Annotated 19-11-20314-AA, which exempts software renewals, the extension of the City's contract with Pay by Phone Limited does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore waives competitive bidding and authorizes Mayor Jordan to extend the contract with Pay by Phones Limited for parking payment services through 2022. Thank you, Mayor and Council. This is the software service that allows patrons to purchase parking or extend their time within the entertainment district via mobile phone, mobile phone application. smartwatch applications it was entered into in 2010 number of transactions have grown exponentially over the years increasing some 300% between 2014 and 2018 for example which has triggered the $20,000 threshold there is a transaction fee that's associated with each transaction that's paid by the user. The city then collects that $0.35 as revenue and we pay it back to the service provider on a monthly basis. So those transaction fees have exceeded $20,000 for the first time, triggering this requirement that we have before you. We're asking to waive competitive bidding in addition to the reasons the city attorney laid out. We also feel like it would provide a pretty big disruption in service if we up and stopped this service from being provided all at once. It accounts for about 17% of all the transactions within the entertainment district, so it's a pretty popular feature. What questions do we have? All right. What public comment do we have? I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Mark. I'll second that. I will motion and second to go to the second reading. Sundridge Police Call. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And in order to waive competitive bidding and authorize an extension of the contract for parking payment services with pay-by-phone limited through 2022. Mark. I move that we go to the third and final reading to suspend the rules. Second. We have a motion to second the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hinton. Yes. Petty. Yes. Spuggan. Yes. Yes. Yes. yes and ordinance to waive competitive bidding and authorize an extension of the contract for parking payment services with pay by phone limited through 2022 what kind of comments do we have in the council am i good all right son would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes Okay, number six. Thank you all. Number six. An ordinance to rezone that property and describe it as an invitation to RZN 18-6380 for approximately 1.20 acres located at 1882 North Star Drive from RSF 4 residential. Single family, four units per acre to NSL Neighborhood Services Limited. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of properties shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4, residential single-family, four units per acre, to NSL, Neighborhood Services Limited. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arch are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. And Kate Garner. Mayor and Council, this is an appeal from a planning commission denial of this request. The location is on the east side of Star Drive, about a block and a half south of Mission Boulevard. And in the center of this one acre plus parcel is an 1800 square foot office building that was constructed in the early 90s and has been used for office or like commercial use ever since. The property was annexed in 2004 and it has retained its legal non-conforming status by virtue of its continuous use as a business or office. The applicant is seeking to make it a conforming use by requesting this change of zone. To give you a broader perspective of the zoning in the area, there is an office district, RO district, occupied by a bank at Mission Boulevard and Star Drive. There's a P1 district occupied by the St. Joseph's School and Church, a large school and church to the south. The remaining property around this parcel is on RSF4. The adopted plans, future land use plan designation is residential neighborhood area, which anticipates residential uses or, as is appropriate, along connecting corridors, some convenience business uses or office uses, non-residential. Issues that were identified, it's been a nonconforming use built in 1992. It was built prior to most of the surrounding development. An issue that was discussed by the Planning Commission was the fact that if this were rezoned, additional development could occur. And that is true. It would be restricted to 3,000 square foot or less per building. for non-residential uses. The surrounding property is being developed by this property owner for single-family uses and we created a little map so you can see the relationship. Here's the subject property, here's the existing single family on the north edge and then there are the infrastructure. Preliminary plat has been approved by the Planning Commission. The infrastructure is being installed. I was out there today and they're busy installing this street and utility network to accommodate 20 single family homes in that configuration. So that does kind of circumscribe the property in terms of future development. As I mentioned, Planning Commission denied on a five to three vote. Staff does recommend approval. And I believe the applicant is present if you have questions for him. Would the applicant like to say a few words? Thank you, Mayor and City Council. This was a dental office in about the approximate time. I think it might have been just a couple of years earlier. For the remainder of 2000 and then 204, I purchased the property, and it was a legal office. So it was annexed without any input from me. And I thought it should have been RO from the start. by the usage that has been established. So they recommended that I get this zoning for the, what the city would recommend it. Garner has been very helpful. Okay. What questions do we have from the council? Council members from the area heard anything from anybody? I haven't heard any complaints or affirmations or anything, honestly, which I'm surprised at. Larry Long, I believe, is the president of one of the property owners associations around there. I'm surprised he's not here. I believe he probably doesn't know that it was appealed and brought back. I don't know what the rules are for re-notification, but I can promise you he would be here if he knew about it. Okay. Dr. Hayes, could you introduce yourself for the record, please? Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, I'm J.B. Hayes. Do we have any questions for J.B. or staff? Okay. Well, do we have any public comment then? Well, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Leave this with you all as wisdom. Thank you. Sure. I just want to clarify. So the staff is recommending that we approve the rezoning and the planning commission was split three to five against it or? Yes. Okay. Yes. Five votes against three, four. Okay. And was that based solely on their determination that it could be developed further with the zoning? potentially two more structures of up to 3 000 square feet yes um i think it's a valid point but the nature of the site really makes that uh not exactly probable yeah there's a large like moat there the building is in the middle of the site there's a drainage corridor that goes across the site And the reason I wanted to show the surrounding development is that that's kind of circumscribing it. I'm not saying it's impossible to put additional buildings there. Yeah. The building there is in good condition and has been recently occupied. Thank you for clarifying that. I'm sorry. Mark. Mark. Garner, what I was wondering about, with this new development that's going around, and when I drove out there, I could see the infrastructure, is this going to be pushing more water across that drainage corridor? Or how are we handling, I can tell how we're handling the infrastructure for the stormwater runoff of this, because it's certainly higher than the property we're talking about. I did read the staff report for the plat discussions today and there were conditions added. I believe the retention may be where the former home was. Is that where you added the detention facility? where i had bought where the where the formal house was that you yes there's a house there right now and there was a condition that the water retention facilities would need to be added uh according to our drainage requirements well i see that this uh you know i'm going to support this uh primarily it is an established property the topography is going to be restricting as far as a concern of some other development that we discussed earlier. And, I mean, it's nonconforming now. Why not deal with it? and let's just move forward because even even under this new zone classification it's very compatible with 20 homes uh right right around it for all sorts of opportunity in the existing building so i i'm uncertain why the It just seems to me like it's a good fit. It really does. So that's from the information in the packet that we have, from the information that I got when I went and looked at the property, from what I know about the property, I think it's very compatible, and I support this rezoning. Council Member Vaughn, shut up. Yes. Seeing as I have not heard any complaints about this, and I look at the – With the restriction of it, on it, of 3,000 square feet, I feel like this is compatible with what's going to be around it. It's limited in size, and the land itself limits what could go in there. But at some point in time, let's say someone decided to convert this from a business into maybe a farm. Remove the existing structure and put a cluster development in there or something like that I think that fits in very well with the neighborhood of the the permitted uses under the applied for Zoning I think it is a good fit and I'm going to be in support of it I might mention the applicant mentioned the RO district and The RO district is the conventional district that is the closest to the Neighborhood Services Limited District. The uses are very similar. The RO district doesn't have a Bill 2 line. And it also allows five-story buildings rather than limited to three-story buildings. Actually, the neighborhood services limited district limits the height to what the surrounding buildings could be. Okay. All right. Thank you. Jim. I was on the planning commission when we discussed this. I think... um most of the planning commissioners were okay with bringing this building in line um the concern was three three thousand square foot buildings which i understand it would be difficult to do that but that that was a concern 9 000 square feet of space there on star drive um did concern the citizens there and the other planning commissioners. I believe we talked about doing a conditional use permit to make this in line or rezone just the area of interest so that that building could be brought back into use. Okay. All right. Anybody else? All right. Do I have any public comment on this? No. All right. We'll bring it back to the council. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Mark. I will second that. I'll second that. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Guterres. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hinton. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6380, for approximately one and a fifth acres located at 1882 north star drive from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to nsl neighborhood services limited okay sarah i mean we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading mark i will second that okay we have the motion second goes the third and final rate I do. I have a comment. I mean, since the person that you said was very interested, I would ask that we not go to the third and final reading and actually allow some more public comment since there was interest and since the Planning Commission did have a five to three vote. Okay. So does the motioner and the second one do anything different? I'm pretty familiar with the property and I feel confident that this is the right decision so I I'm going to move forward all right more I also feel confident that this is a good move for the property okay we have a motion of second then we need to vote on it please call the road no yes yes no No. Okay. This must remain on the second reading then. So we leave it on second reading. Okay. There we go. Teresa, do you have something else? It'll be at the next meeting in February. What? This will be heard again at the next meeting in February. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Well, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? A couple of announcements. Okay. The digital inclusion committee that you spoke about in your state of the city address has currently launched a survey. We continue to be in survey mode at the city. We want to encourage our citizens to provide public input and brainstorm on Fayetteville's digital inclusion planning strategy. It's on our city of Fayetteville website under Speak Up Fayetteville. So we encourage citizens to go out and provide us that feedback. Second, there is also going to be a meeting on January 24th from 530 to 7 at the Fayetteville Public Library Walker Room for input sessions on this as well. So for those of you that don't want to fill out the survey but want to give your input by coming to a meeting, you can do that on the 24th of January. Additionally, we have the public studio sessions for the City's 71B corridor plan where we're gathering ideas for the Uptown Region portion of 71B. The city invites the public to participate in the two studio sessions to discuss possible design elements for the northern part of 71B corridor. They're highly interactive meetings, giving participants an opportunity to discuss the ideas and draw maps with city planners and designers from RGG Planning and Design. There is a meeting on January the 15th. 5 to 7 at Christian Life Cathedral. Actually, I guess it's tonight going on while you meet. So if you're seeing that part, you've missed it. Wednesday the 16th, which is tomorrow, same location, 5 to 7 p.m., when the public is invited. There's also, again, a survey online available at Speak Up Fayetteville for your input. Remember your 71B corridor plan encompasses the entire area of 71B in this particular session or focused on the northern part of 71B. Also want to remind citizens who are planning to make payment processes for your utility bills that this Thursday we will not accept payments after 3 p.m. in person and we will not accept payments on Thursday between 3 and 7 p.m. on the web payment. We are in the process of upgrading and changing the system so they'll be unavailable for that if if for some reason you bring your payment in we will Take it when we are able to accept payments We'll do the receipts and get those to you But we would prefer that you wait because on January the 18th that following day will resume all normal activities related to payment processing of utilities. It is not a cutoff date, so there's no one impacted by not making a payment on that particular date or time for those of you who might get that question. And then just because the mayor highlighted in his State of the City Address the information on the bond issue, I just want to let citizens know that want to see the detail of those questions, that that information is on the city's website. If you click on your tax dollars at work, the very first bullet point is the 2019 bond information. There's information on that site that relates to the questions, the ballot language, things of that nature. So you can find that detail. And then lastly, for those who want to go back and maybe see what the mayor said or you heard him say something, his State of the City address is on the mayor's page under State of City Addresses. So you can also receive a copy of that there if you'd like. Here was one more announcement. The third stormwater – I'm so sorry. Okay. There's one more stormwater feasibility study meeting, and that'll be Thursday night at the Boys and Girls Club at 6 o'clock. So we want to make sure everybody knew that that was coming back around for one more time. Thanks. All right. Kyle, I thought you had something. No, that was what I wanted to make sure we got. Okay. Also the... Thursday night there will be a discussion on the jail fees at the county courthouse. I will be attending that one. So I can't remember. I can't remember what time it is. We'll try to find out and send that out to the council. Hopefully it's on their site and we'll find that. Stacey, do you have any idea? You do? I don't know. Okay. Six. Looks like 6 o'clock, right? 6 o'clock Thursday. I'm sure we'll have several folks there. Okay. All right. Anything else? Thank you. All were adjourned.