I would like to call to order the city council meeting for January 18th, 2022. Karen, would you please call the roll? Roggett. Present. Here. Tarrant. Here. Hartsburg. Here. Harvey. Here. Jones. Here. Ayan. Here. Mayor Jordan. Okay. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, well the first order of business tonight we have is the presentation of the City of Federal Martin Luther King Brotherhood Award. Kit will be presenting this tonight, City Attorney Kit Williams. Kit? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 For the last 20 years, it has been my honor and privilege to recognize a worthy City of Fayetteville employee to receive the City of Fayetteville Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award. This award has been given annually in recognition of the city employee whose service to our city and community best exemplifies Dr. Martin Luther King's dream of equality, justice, brotherhood, and service.
 This year's honoree joins a distinguished list of city employees who have embodied Dr. King's dream and have helped fulfill his legacy of service. One reason I have enjoyed serving Fayetteville as City Attorney for 20 years is that virtually all of our City of Fayetteville employees, from clerks to maintenance workers, from patrol officers to truck drivers, do their jobs with professionalism and efficiency. They serve our citizens with courtesy and competency.
 It has been very rewarding to work along with my fellow city employees. Our honoree tonight is a water distribution maintenance worker. He has done such good work that he has been placed in the role of interim crew leader supervising his repair crew. Utilities Director Tim Nyander reports that this honoree displays natural leadership and inspires his crew by his own example.
 He has created an atmosphere of brotherhood and friendship within his maintenance division and motivates others by his positive attitude and work ethic. Water maintenance crews must be ready 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to repair serious water main leaks to ensure our citizens have safe and reliable water to drink and use. On September 20th of last year, his crew and others got called out
 when one of our principal transmission mains, a 36-incher, ruptured. He, as well as others, worked 22 hours straight to get this massive main rupture repaired in the shortest time possible. This was especially difficult and unpleasant because of the torrential downpour that occurred most of that night and into the early morning of the 21st.
 However, despite the storm and the deep and dirty hole they had to work in to repair that essential water transmission main, Michael Strong not only persevered, but he led by a positive, can-do spirit until 22 hours later, the main transmission line was repaired and clean water was again flowing. Then on Christmas Day, Michael Strong and a fellow employee were notified of a drainage
 They left their families on Christmas Day and responded to our citizens' request for help. They discovered our citizen's kitten had been trapped in a storm drain. The kitten's leash had been come caught and stuck on a drain tile and the kitten could not free itself. Michael and his partner jumped, or more likely crawled into action, and quickly rescued the kitten to the relief and delight of our citizen, a Christmas gift to the city of Fayetteville.
 Michael Strong and many other city employees treat all of our citizens, rich and poor, young and old, with genuine respect and the best possible service. Michael Strong displays dedication to our citizens' welfare, whether it's a stormy night repairing a difficult rupture of a water main or responding to save a kitten for its owner on Christmas Day.
 Michael Strong is a worthy recipient of the 2022 City of Fayetteville Martin Luther Jr. King Brotherhood Award and I have a plaque that I would like to present to him now Congratulations Mike Okay, next order of business we have denied well done kit is the consent agenda and
 number one approval of the january 4th 2022 city council meeting minutes number two a resolution to approve a one-year extension to the contract with craft rentals construction company in the amount of five hundred and ninety thousand seven hundred and eighty nine dollars for rehabilitation of sanitary sewer manholes throughout federal and to approve a change order providing
 for a 5% price increase on item costs. Number 3. A resolution to approve an increase in project contingency funds any amount of $25,000 for scope of work modifications as needed for the water and sewer site study being performed by Black & Bees Corporation. Number 4.
 A resolution to approve Federal Fire Department Administrative Operating Procedure Policy, AOP 101, General Information Introduction. Number five, a resolution to amend Resolution 343-21 and to approve the budget adjustment increase in the 2021 budget.
 by the amount of $19,274 to reconcile actual expenses on checks given to employees as part of the service appreciation pay.
 And number six, a resolution authorizing Mayor Jordan to renew a program to encourage unvaccinated employees of businesses and federal residents to get vaccinated and to establish a COVID-19 sick leave bank for city staff with a COVID-19 diagnosis to cover a five-day quarantine period. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read.
 So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to accept the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Roggin. Yes. Banks. Banks. Turf. Yes. Herzberg. Yes. Hardy. Yes. Jones. Yes. Mann. Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go on to unfinished business.
 Number one, an ordinance to approve a residential planned zoning district entitled RPCD 20-21-0005 for approximately 13.65 acres located at 1032 South Razorback Road. This was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? So moved. Yes. Second.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to approve a residential planned zoning district entitled RPZD 2021-05 for approximately 13.65 acres located at 1032 South Razorback Road. Okay. Jonathan, do you have anything new on this one?
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurtz with the Development Services Department. I don't have anything new on this one, Mayor. I'm happy to take any questions the Council has, and I believe, well, Calstrom or Jeff Bates are available tonight as the applicants on this item. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak for the Council? Please come up to the mic if you would. I mean, just say what you need to say for the record.
 Good evening. My name is Will Keltram, and I represent the applicant on this item. You can take your mask down. Be sure to put it back on once you're done speaking, if you want to. So, good evening. My name is Will Keltram, and I represent the applicant on this item. A brief history of this. This comes from a recommendation from the Planning Commission with a unanimous 8-0 vote.
 The plan that you guys are looking at today is a result of several meetings in which we brought it in front of the Planning Commission, got feedback, went back to the drawing board, made revisions, and what we've done is we've really done our best work to work with the PC and work with the Planning Commission and bring a proposal that is attractive and makes Fayetteville a better place. So at the last meeting there were some comments made about tree preservation.
 So what we're proposing is a residential plan zoning district, which has a minimum 30% tree preservation requirement. As it's currently zoned right now, it's I-1 industrial, and the tree preservation requirement is only 15%.
 So someone could apply for a, someone could put in a large-scale development application right now and develop the site with only 15% preservation and all they need to do is get planning commission approval. Rezoning this to RPZ today has two benefits. One, it gets rid of industrial zoning, which is not compatible at all with any of the adjacent properties. Secondly, it increases the minimum amount of required tree preservation.
 uh as for the tree preservation easement that we're proposing i think it's nowhere to point out the location that we've chosen uh jonathan if you could pull the site plan up or if whoever's in charge of that mayor would you like to have that pulled up yes please certainly allow me a moment please you have 10 minutes so i want you to be sure that you don't waste a lot of time waiting on jonathan i won't waste too much of y'all's time okay i mean
 But in any event, while he's pulling that up, our tree preservation easement you'll see on the site plan is on the southern end of the property, and it kind of wraps around the eastern side as well. And I think that's noteworthy because if you're driving north on Razorback Road and you're looking up at this development…
 you're going to see our tree preservation easement between you and the development. And I'll also note that the Views tree preservation easement is immediately next to ours. So the point I'm trying to make is that with the tree preservation easement that we've put in, a good amount of the side of that hill is preserved. There you go. You've put up your stuff. It's there.
 So you can see on the diagram what I'm talking about. So if you can imagine you're driving up Razorback Road and you'll be looking at trees in between you and the development. And that's also right next to the tree preservation easement on the view. So again, I think a good amount of kind of the natural part of that hillside is going to be preserved with the placement of where we put that easement.
 So, at the end of the day, this property is nearly surrounded by medium to high density student housing and it's in close proximity to the university. It's the right development in the right location.
 Approving this PZD is a good opportunity for the City Council to get to see what it's getting in advance. You guys are going to get to see what the development looks like before you approve it. You're going to get to get rid of an industrial zoning in the middle of the city where it doesn't belong, and you're going to get to increase the minimum amount of trees that have to be preserved on that site to develop it.
 So with that, thank you for your time. And me and Jeff Bates with Bates & Associates are here if you guys have any questions. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this for the staff or the applicant? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in the room after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Susan. No one has their hand raised for this item. Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak to us on this topic? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. This is on the second reading.
 So what discussion would the council like to have or what action items would they like to take? Mayor, I have some concerns, some comments. So I asked last week about if anybody could from the city could go out and actually kind of figure out how many trees were on there or how many acres of trees. And I guess that that's not available at this point. So I did a little Google map calculation and it looked like.
 with this development we're going to lose seven acres of trees. I mean even with a 30 percent tree retention requirement under this proposed rezoning. If you google map the area or google earth you'll see that there's hardly any treed areas left around the university or really within the city except Markham Hill and we know where that's going. So it I think
 I do think this is in the right location, absolutely. But I think there's too much impervious surface. It's too large of a project. It's right close to Chick-fil-A. And even though they've redesigned Chick-fil-A, there's still lots of traffic jams right there.
 The new project right across the street, Marshall is going to create some traffic concerns with this amount of congestion. And I'm also concerned about five people per apartment. While that might be allowed in a PZD, it seems to undermine our four units, our four apartments.
 and I think from some of my comments last week, you all, or two weeks ago, those were my concerns that were understood. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point.
 So I, again, I think it's too much impervious surface. It's too dense. There's also a slope back there where the parking deck is. And the parking deck, my understanding, is going to be five stories high. And so we'll be sitting on that slope. And I believe we'll be very prominent. So I'll stop right there. Okay. What other discussion would the council like to have? Or action items or whatever you want to do.
 the uh per person loss of trees would be far better in a situation similar to this than um you know some of the subdivisions that we approve on a regular basis out at the edge of town um so we've kind of known since the 50s and 60s that if you want more trees and you want to care about the environment you build denser so i'll be approving this or voting for it well we're still on the second reading so um but thank you sloan
 What other comments or discussion would the council like to have? This is on the second reading. It is in order.
 I just have a comment as well, you know, I was looking at the trees and as well, and this is really a difficult decision because it is already zoned the way that it, you know, for it to be developed. We're going to lose a lot of trees, but it is in the middle of town and right at the university. And so it's a, it's a, it's a dilemma, you know, for me.
 I don't want to lose the trees, but we also are right in the middle of town. So it's a hard decision. In the end, you know, I believe our ordinances allow this and it's the location's right. So I'll probably, you know, continue to support it. So if anybody doesn't have any further questions, I'll move it that we go to the next reading. I second. Thank you.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Robert? Yes. Banks? Yes. Sharp? Yes. Parspark? Yes. Arnie? Yes. Jones? Yes. O'Brien? Yes.
 In order to approve a residential planned zoning district entitled RPZD 21-05 for approximately 13.65 acres located at 1032 South Razorback Road. Okay, now what final comments do we have from the council? What discussion would you like to have? Because we're on the final reading now. Jonathan, again, what is this mostly zoned now? Does it have two zonings or just one zoning on it?
 It's currently zoned the I-1, which is a heavy commercial and light industrial. Yeah. And that has 10% maintaining, 10% canopy, is that correct? It's 15% canopy, except in areas of HHOD, of which a portion of this property is, which increases it by 5% for that area. Okay. Okay. Thank you.
 I want to have another go at this. Just because it's I-1 right now, I can't imagine an industry would be moving in in that location to put up a big plant or something like that. I do think it's the right location for student housing or apartments. Absolutely.
 However, I think they could build taller, like you were saying Sloan, and have a much smaller footprint. They could also use impervious stones or bricks. So there are low-impact development features that the applicant could use that would make this less impactful to trees and water quality.
 And again, I think the five people per apartment, the five beds is actually very high, very dense, and it's gonna cause traffic issues and possibly other social issues with that many folks packed in there. So I will not be supporting it for those reasons. Anybody else? Okay, if there's not any other final comments, Karen, would you please call the roll? Frogley? Yes. Banks? Yes. Turd?
 No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go to number two.
 An ordinance to amend 151.01 definitions 164.19 accessory dwelling units ADU and 164.22 cluster housing development of the federal unified development code to amend requirements for accessory dwelling units. This was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Ruggins? Yes. Mack? Yes. Burke? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Arby? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kingman? Yes.
 And nor is to amend section 151.01 definitions section 164.19 accessory dwelling units ADU and section 164.22 cluster housing development of a fully unified development code to amend requirements for accessory dwelling units. John.
 Thank you, Mayor. Following on last week's agenda session, I do have a follow-up presentation to share with you all to hopefully address some of the outstanding comments or questions. And then I'll summarize with some of the public comment that has been heard since the last City Council meeting. Taking the item first, and just as a brief reminder, there are five overall pieces to what is being proposed.
 Justin Cappos- The first is to amend the accessory use definition of our development code to exempt accessory dwelling units from a cap that's incorporated there on how big an accessory use can be compared to its main use the impact of this would be that a house.
 does not predicate or determine the size of an ADU. You could have a 1200 square foot house and a 1200 square foot ADU, whereas today it has to be half or less the size of the house with which it is associated. The second piece is to allow ADUs with duplexes.
 Again, there is an ADU cap based on lots. So even if a property has two units on it for a duplex, it would still only be allowed two ADUs of the current ordinance or three as the ordinance is proposed, which
 to that point, the third piece of this amendment is to propose allowance for three ADUs per property, one attached and two detached, while still maintaining that 1,200 square foot combined cap of the square footage between all of those units, whether you have one, two, or three. The fourth piece of the proposal is to allow attached ADUs to exceed the height of the house that it may be being built with or built on or attached to.
 And lastly, is to permit accessory dwelling units as a conditional use in the cluster housing development.
 and getting into the items that council identified as as interests um here is a a brief overview of some of the cities staff looked at here in other cities is how i described it i know typically given size cities like little rock and tulsa may not seem like pure cities but for proximity's sake we definitely wanted to include some of those uh those that relate more or more uh
 rationally to Fayetteville, Lawrence, Kansas, Fort Collins, Colorado, and Asheville, which I apologize I misspelled there. And then what you see on the right hand column are largely or entirely in the Northwest. I certainly realize that it's not necessarily a pure region, depending on your perspective or your topic, but for better or worse, the Northwestern United States and British Columbia, Canada,
 are definitely leaders in accessory dwelling it and incorporating it into their cities. And it seemed appropriate to include here, given all the research that they had done and has been done on their efforts.
 From that, there were a number of questions about how these cities are handling ADUs. And the short answer is no two cities do it identically. Unfortunately, there's not an easy answer to that. When it comes to the number of ADUs allowed on the lot, one or two are the most common. Some cities have no specified limits. The size of the ADUs varies from one to the other.
 very widely. 280 square feet is the smallest I can find. Many cities, again, have no specified limit on how big they can be. The heights of ADU is almost uniformly two stories, which is probably not surprising given that your typical accessory dwelling unit is thought of as a mother-in-law suite or a carriage house on top of a garage, which puts it at two stories. Some cities measure this in feet. Some, of course, the ones in Canada, like to measure these in meters, so there is some discrepancy there.
 Parking standards vary. A lot of cities, it's almost an even split, but a lot of them don't have any parking standards and a lot of them require at least one space. There are some instances where it's set at one per bedroom, which oftentimes with accessory dwelling units, given their size, there is only one bedroom.
 Occupancy is where variety became most extreme. Some cities do it by lot, so you can have X number of unrelated people on a given piece of property. Some do it by unit, which is somewhat more similar to how Fayetteville was set up, where we allow in single family districts, three for the main unit, and then two to be split among the accessory dwelling units. Generally though, the most common theme was an allowance per lot with five to eight unrelated people allowed.
 Some other interesting regulations and incentives that I thought were worth sharing. A couple cities require that every accessory dwelling unit be registered with the city. This seemed to be in instances where there was concern about emergency access, actually understanding where those are.
 Some cities do require conditional use permits for ADUs, although this, as I note there, is increasingly removed. A lot of states are mandating that cities allow ADUs by right. I think Oregon's the most famous. And so that effectively preempts the municipalities' ability to do otherwise.
 A fairly common regulation scene is to limit the proportion of the overall lot that can be used for accessory buildings. So you get a bucket of square footage or percent of your lot area that you can use for sheds or ADUs or otherwise. You can draw from that as you want to add these buildings to your property.
 Some cities trying to promote ADUs have waived impact fees. Another common one as far as proportions go is that a unit has to be a certain percent of the size of the main house or just a simple less than the size of the main house.
 And lastly, it is very varied again about how and at what time ADUs can be built. I know this was a conversation about when they could come before or after the house. Some cities allow them to be built before. It makes no distinction. They allow during the construction of the house itself or after it. Again, they make no distinction between those.
 Justin Delacruz, A question was asked about how some cities handle a use when they want to add some more nuance or finer grain to a city currently Fayetteville is broadly citywide any zoning district that allows a single family home allows that. Justin Delacruz, Homeowner property owner there to build accessory dwelling units to our development code standards.
 This is common. It's not unusual to find this either in some instances in our region, but most commonly in the Northwest.
 Almost every city did have a specific association that the ADUs could be built with. Of course, as you'd expect, it's mostly single family homes. Some cities allowed it with two family homes, some allowed manufactured homes. A few in Canada allowed them in association with condominiums, which sounds like you would basically subdivide your condominium unit, be able to lease that.
 Some standards were set based on the, they said that you could only have them on lots of a minimum size. Some went the complete opposite direction and said you could only have ADUs on lots of a maximum size. So you got both ends of the spectrum there, depending on what the community is striving to do. And lastly, some cities did work to allow accessory dwelling units
 the most common of which was to only allow single-family zoning districts. Some went a little bit further. Some cities had zoning districts calibrated to historic portions of the city where they wanted to encourage accessory dwelling units, either because those properties were platted with alleys, which of course is most synonymous with carriage houses facing the rear of the property.
 One question that came up from public comments in the agenda session was the difference between covenants and ordinances, which is a very good question and one that you probably all feel that at some point or another from from your constituents. And the broadest term possible and ordinance are the rules regulations that you have a bot as a body of codified in the local laws that we enforce either through our development standards or the police department or however it may be.
 Covenants, on the other hand, are private agreements and contracts that are recorded in private deeds. Those are made between property owners without the municipalities involved typically.
 T. John McClellan, Covenants are voluntary and more often than not, at least as I've seen in Fayetteville, they're more restrictive than ordinances. T. John McClellan, With how this would look with accessory dwelling units is the city may permit ADUs, as we do now in zoning districts that have single family homes, but if a covenant prohibits them and a property owner has signed and agreed to that covenant,
 they cannot build an ADU. So in effect, it supersedes our ordinances. So if one of your constituents lives in a neighborhood that prohibits ADUs, what is done to this ordinance or not done to this ordinance today or tonight or in the future may not have any effect on them.
 And the last thing I don't go to go to is the relationship of the ADU ordinance to stormwater and our new stormwater standards. As a brief reminder, many of the common concerns that we heard from council were about the thresholds we had in our development categories between single family homes, two family homes, and everything else.
 It used to be if you built single or two family, you didn't have to comply with any stormwater threat standards. These were evaluated by staff, proposed to council and adopted. There are three levels that these are associated with, each one with increasingly more stringent standards. For the purposes of this conversation, I'm only going to talk about the first two. Level one allows up to 1200 square feet of imperviousness on any property based on what you have now.
 And you can do that exempt. You're not required to meet any particular standard, either our current stormwater standards or the previous ones. 1,200 square feet was deliberately selected because it aligns with the current accessory dwelling unit ordinance. Your time's up. Thank you, Mayor. Unless you all would like to give me more time. I'd like to give him five more minutes. Second. Okay. Well, Jonathan, you have five more minutes.
 I'll try to go faster than that. Thank you. Will that give you enough time, you think? Yes, thank you. The level 1 again was deliberately calibrated to exempt up to 1,200 square feet, which aligns with the current ADU allowance for 1,200 square feet, whether you're building one or two.
 level two which would be the next step up if someone were to add additional driveway or anything else with the ADU along with the ADU would kick a project into our level two standard which they're very minimal.
 or what has to be included with that is they have to demonstrate preservation of canopy or sensitive portions of the property, reducing the limits of disturbance, so how much grading you're going to do. Sorry, that sentence dropped off there, but again, it was avoiding sensitive areas and then incorporating pervious surfaces wherever possible. So in other words, the way that the framework was set up is it was meant to disincentivize unnecessary imperviousness.
 How this looks in diagrammatic forms. This is one common arrangement with an ADU. You'll see an ADU added to the footprint of an existing house. On the left-hand side, you can see it plan view or bird's eye view. This would just be building it over the footprint of the house. There's no new imperviousness, no stormwater standards would need to be met. A second way it could be done is attaching it, doing an attached ADU or a side-by-side ADU.
 This would typically include new perviousness up to 1,200 square feet before triggering any stormwater standards. Of course, if the ADU was built over a driveway and incorporated a garage, it could end up having an equal amount or not necessarily a larger amount of perviousness altogether.
 And the last example is the detached ADU. On the left-hand side, I included a couple different ways this could be done. This would likely have new imperviousness with it unless it was built on top of a garage, as you see in the plan or the architectural drawings there. Again, you would still only have 1,200 square feet to, for lack of a better word, play with on your property before triggering the stormwater standards.
 And finally, the last comment I wanted to share, I just saw this a few hours ago. I want to circle back on the public comment. There were a couple pieces received by council at your previous meeting on January 4th.
 one spoke in favor of it, or both spoke in favor of it. One resident commented on an interest in seeing the cap, the allowed size of ADUs, the square footage be increased and the occupancy limits be removed. At this point, staff prefers to see those remain in place for a lot of the concerns that have been brought up so far, including that this needs to be done incrementally to make sure we understand the impacts of what's being done.
 Since that time there have been several public comments submitted by Fayetteville residents and the residents of unincorporated Washington County in opposition to the request. There were a lot of concerns expressed about loss of tree canopy, that people were building these in their backyards. Also concerns about parking and not having adequate parking to accommodate additional people on a property.
 And then an overall concern that the proposal would undermine zoning, effectively increasing the inherent density on a given property, even though it's not actually changing the number on paper. And with that, I'm happy to take questions. I appreciate the additional time. Thank you. What questions do we have for Jonathan from the council? On the garage, I mean the ADU above a garage, does that require a fire barrier? No.
 Not typically. That's a good question. I'm not familiar enough with building code. Typically, if the ADU, typically a fire barrier would be required if it's separating the ADU from another habitable portion of a house. So if somebody totally separated it out to rent above a garage, that would then probably need one? I don't know the answer to that, honestly. I can look into that, though. Okay. Thank you. So, Jonathan...
 I've had some questions from people. I'm glad you brought up the difference between an ordinance and a covenant because that's really important. I think some people live in subdivisions that have covenants that would not allow this sort of thing, and they're concerned that anyone can just slap down anything anywhere. And we do have setbacks also, and I'm sure that the ADUs would have to comply with any setbacks there.
 That's correct. Okay. If I have a single family house on a lot and I want to build the biggest house I can on that lot, is there anything to stop me from cutting down trees now if it's in RSF4? The short answer is no in most situations. No. If you were to go above 6,000 square feet of imperviousness,
 There are certainly some more. There's an abbreviated tree preservation plan that's required. If you're staying in that level two zone between 1200 and 6000, there is certainly credit to be taken for the stormwater standards for preserving tree canopy on the property.
 and then above and beyond either of those examples is if a house is being built in the hillside hilltop overlay district there are more there are higher standards for tree preservation there as well and just as a one other additional note if i may
 Most of our zoning districts, especially the single family districts, have what's called a lot area coverage maximum on them. So taking the RSF4 zone district for example, only 40% of a property in a zone RSF4 can have buildings on the property. So that's built into our zoning code. That's completely exclusive of ADUs, but ADUs would contribute to that number. Okay. Okay.
 Okay. So what if someone had, so someone wants to add on 1,200 square feet onto their existing home and they add, they extend their driveway, let's say they build a garage underneath the new addition that they're adding. They're adding some driveway. As long as it's less than 6,000 square feet, they're not, it's still in that level two range for stormwater runoff, is that correct?
 Correct. Yes. But if they stay below 1,200 square feet, it would be fully exempted from stormwater standards. Okay. So if someone has a duplex, or let's say they have more than one duplex on a piece of property, can they build ADUs on that as well, as long as it stays within that? Does it have to be the 40% of the lot at that point, or does it have to be the 1,200 square feet?
 That would depend. Well, the 1,200 square feet is the maximum allowance for ADUs on a lot, period. That area of a lot that can be built with buildings varies by zoning district. The more intense the zoning district, the larger that amount is allowed to accommodate the intensity. And I had someone that asked about requiring, someone called me and wanted to know if we could require privacy fences there.
 around ADUs and I don't think that that's something that if there's already a fence around the backyard, I don't know that you have you can require an ADU be fenced off. Is that correct?
 That is correct. Some of the very few standards, design standards, we have for accessory dwelling units do revolve around privacy, though. It is worth noting. If it's a second floor ADU, again taking the garage example, if you built an ADU on top of a garage, any of the primary windows for the ADU or staircases, external staircases, have to be either facing the house with which the ADU is associated or interior to the property.
 and that's intended to prevent again to protect privacy of having a living room window looking right over somebody's backyard yeah okay okay um i think that's i did have some other now these are not really questions these are just kind of like i'm just kind of trying to reiterate some of the complaints that i've i've heard and concerns i've received from people about parking
 Now, most I'm getting some people calling or emailing that are basically saying that if anyone parks, they have an issue with anyone parking on the street. Do most of our streets allow on street parking? No.
 i don't know if i would say most but most of our residential streets certainly do if it's if it's over i believe i think 26 to 28 feet wide that is where we allow street parking and it won't interfere with fire code of course there's exceptions all over the city if you drive particularly in our historic district we our fire marshals try to be accommodating for for the historic nature of those streets and any of their parking needs
 Okay. Okay. Thank you. What are the questions we have in the council for the staff? Jonathan I have a question just to clarify a little bit about our stormwater Could you go back to some of your slides? I just want to make sure I understand this really fully So my question is the if the primary unit that you have in the top if it's let's just say it's 1,000 square feet so it's exempt and
 and then the one below it, you add an ADU that's 600 square feet. So that would be 1,600 total. Wouldn't that be a level two at that point? Or are you exempt for 1,200 of additional impervious surface?
 in in this example specifically it's exempt because it's using the footprint of the existing house but i think if you if i were to answer your question more broadly the amount of imperviousness is based on above and beyond what you have the date of that ordinance's adoption so if you had 1200 feet the day the stormwater ordinance the new one was adopted you would have 1200 feet of
 uh imperviousness to add your property before the city would start looking for those improvements or low impact development standards okay thank you for clarifying that um and i've received uh quite a few emails that are very concerned about undermining um the rsf4 and and potentially moving it to an rsf12 um so there's there's been a lot of traffic on this one thank you
 what are the questions we have in the council okay let's take some public comment then everybody has one turn to speak you have five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first then those in person in the chamber after that who do we have on zoom susan lisa orton okay go ahead
 Hello, I'm Lisa Orton and I live at 1663 West Hossel Road in Fayetteville in Ward 4. And I'm opposed to these amendments to the ADU ordinance. I think it's lenient already. I think
 I'm for having a, you know, someone living on a property and if they want to build a smaller house for the caregiver or their mother-in-law, you know, I think that that sounds like Fayetteville, but this
 This just sounds like it's a sneaky way to get up zoning. Like what Teresa said, it just sounds like it's, if we're going to sneak in, you know, the people don't want to up zone their low density neighborhoods. So let's just, you know,
 be able to let them build 12 living units per acre. And that just doesn't seem quite fair for the people who live in the neighborhoods who've invested there, that lived there for many years. I can see how a corporation or a wealthy person or a developer could buy a property in a lower density neighborhood and
 and then the city would have to pay for it. And so I'm just really concerned about that. And I think it's really important that we have, you know, 12 living units. Per acre and not to live there, but to just, you know, make money. So anyway, I'm just really concerned about. About this. It just feels like sometimes.
 and it's just not the way it's supposed to be. And I think that's just the way it is. And I think that's just the way it is. And I think that's just the way it is. And I think that's just the way it is. And I think that's just the way it is. And I think that's just the way it is. And I think that's just the way it is. And I think that's just the way it is. And I think that's just the way it is. And I think that's just the way it is. And I think that's just the way it is. And I think that's just the way it is. And I think that's just the way it is. And I think that's just the way it is.
 without forcing, you know, without allowing wealthy people and corporations to just make money off of neighborhoods, you know, buying property and building a bunch there and not living there, but just making money off of it. So anyway, I hope that you will be opposed to anything that makes these ADU ordinance more lenient and lax. Anyway, thank you. Bye.
 Paxton Roberts. Go ahead.
 Hi, Paxton Roberts, 411 West Holly Street. I'd like to just voice my support for the changes in the ordinance. I think looking at the city's 2040 plan and reading all the information on the city about planning that we need more density, we need more inflow. We simply will never get to affordable housing if we can't increase the number of units.
 And providing more options beyond just multi-story apartment complexes, I think will help get us closer to this goal. And so I really encourage the council to keep making this ADU ordinance better. And when I say better, I mean more conducive for people. There's been such low numbers of people taking advantage of this ADU ordinance.
 And I believe the city should do everything it can to make it even easier to get more of these this housing. It's infill housing that's density. The city has great policies in place. I say let's let you know you already cannot build on more than 40% of your lot of your billable area in an RSF4.
 So I know let's let the existing policies do the work. If I can build a 6000 square foot house on an RSF4 lot right now, whether that's, you know, one big family of 12 people living there, or if it's three families of four people living there. I think we're splitting hairs and it really gets into who people want living there versus actually the number. So
 Just please, I hope that you all consider and keep making the changes that you brought up. And we've got great, like the stormwater policies and the recent changes on development. You know, I think there are ways that you can beat those up if it's trees that you're worried about cutting down or if it's runoff or impervious service. We have all these other ordinances in place that do its job. The only difference is...
 whether it's an apartment over a garage or if it's just a bigger house so let the parking and the other ordinances suffice thank you thank you who else would like to address us there are no more hands at rate raised at zoom at this time okay who would like to address this on this topic that's in the chambers okay i'm going to bring it back to the council
 This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. What discussion or action items would the council like to take? When we first looked at this, there's a lot of people that said that we're effectively doubling the density everywhere, especially in RSF4. That's just not happened. There are the majority of lots you can't even really add everywhere.
 anything to. I know developers who look across the city and for the most part they're like, we can't really put in almost any of these anywhere. So the idea that RSF4...
 is going to somehow magically turn into RSF 12 or 16. Just isn't going to happen. And I assume that if it did start happening, well, one, it would be kind of slow because construction is kind of slow. And I think the council would be willing to revisit this if somehow magically we started adding too many houses. Since I've been on city council, the prices of houses have almost went up 50%.
 So we're pricing people out and then people are either getting priced out, they're getting kicked out of their rentals. Some of them realize that it's best to sell their house and then move somewhere else, which is problematic because we would like people to be able to stay here. And anytime that we have a one or two bedroom rental, they rent immediately, especially one bedroom.
 You can almost get 80 the cost in one bedroom as you can two bedroom because there's just not many of them there. So hopefully we can start adding some. I think there is some fear of the three units and I'm actually willing to, you know, possibly look at that number.
 um because i don't think we're magically gonna get three but if people are fearful of that then maybe we should have that conversation um but but we gotta add more houses um i know a lot of people want to protect the integrity of rsf4 but basically you can protect the art integrity of rsf4 or you can help homeless you can't do both and i know a lot of people are trying to say let's be creative
 No, if you just don't allow houses, then you have decided houses should be more expensive or you've decided that you want people to drive through your city. So if we keep pushing all the development to Goshen and Prairie Grove and Lincoln, we're going to get some major, major highways through our city.
 Some of these roads that are two lanes are going to become four lanes, they're going to become six lanes if we don't figure out how to put people closer to where they want to be. I did look at some of the complaints and looked up the addresses where they were. Some of the complaints were from people, their houses are where people could walk to the U of A and that's exactly where you want to add density so that those people can walk or bike
 or skate or or whatever e version of getting over there um i think those where they where they they belong so um i i'm happy to talk about the numbers of my fellow council members but i think this is needed and i don't think there's going to be some doomsday situation where we're just going to make tens of thousands of new units it's not going to happen um it's just not so thank you
 I'd like to add on something onto, you know, what Sloan said about the possibility of having major highways coming through our city. That's a real big possibility there because we have, you know, we have lots of highways, state highways that
 intersect through Fayetteville and lots of time, you know, frequently we don't have a lot of say-so on what happens on those state highways, you know, so we're getting Highway 16 is going to be widened possibly pretty soon to four lanes all the way to Elkins and I'm not sure where exactly, I don't remember exactly where it stops, you know, as it gets into Fayetteville where it starts to change, but that's a big highway.
 And so what if that goes out to Lincoln, too, or out to Prairie Grove or out beyond those places? So that's something to really consider here. Jonathan, how many ADUs do we anticipate that we have across the city? Or I should say, how many people have applied for these permits? Yes.
 It's been averaging about 10 to 12 since 2018. Before that, it was between 1 and 3 from 2008 onward. So I think taking an optimistic number, it's probably 60 in, what is the math there, 13 years or so. 60 in 13 years. I think I did the math right. Sorry if I'm not quite on. 16 in 13 years.
 60. 60. I didn't quite hear. 60 in 13 years. Okay. Thank you. So I feel that we've made some real significant changes in 2018, and we've increased to about 10 to 12 per year, and that seemed adequate, but now we're wanting to do much, much more, and I could see, um,
 I don't really have a problem with the ADUs with duplexes. I think that's fine, or the cluster housing. But exceeding the height, the number of ADUs going from two to three, and then lifting that 50% restriction on the primary dwelling, I think those could be handled through a conditional use permit.
 you know, routing those through. So they're not prohibited, but there's a different path that could be taken to allow those. And we could come back and revisit this and see how that worked in two or three years. But I think making these changes now after only really three years of data is too quick, is too much and too quickly.
 And we do want to preserve our neighborhoods. You know, why do people move to Fayetteville? They like our culture, they like our tree canopy, they like our walkability, they like the feel. And if we get too dense,
 without proper planning and proper constraints, we're gonna lose that really draw of Fayetteville. And I've had people tell me several times that we've already lost it. Now, I don't think we have, but I think we need to be very concerned about that. So that's what I would like to do is to change this, to allow this not by right, but through a conditional use permit.
 are you saying any adu conditional permit or other above a certain number is that what i heard i'm i'm um i'm suggesting the changes that we're talking about the were if you wanted to have um if you wanted to have uh do exceed the hype restriction like putting uh adu over garage that that would go through the planning commission with the conditional use permit rather than it being by right which is what we're talking about now uh
 The same thing with if you wanted to have more than 50% of the main house. So you wanted to build up, you know, one that's 70% larger or whatever. That would go through the Planning Commission with the conditional use. And the same thing with having three units rather than just two that's allowed now. So, Jonathan, if I wanted to build a...
 over, if I had a garage, if I had a garage that I could build over, let's just say, and I wanted to build a room over that garage and put a bathroom in it, what's to stop me then from, you know, I mean, I could always do that, couldn't I, without calling it an ADU? I mean,
 Is it going to be, if I do that and my neighbors complain, then I would assume if I rent it out, that's an issue. But if they don't complain, then what's to stop me from doing that?
 The big distinction I think to be made there is between what makes among the characteristics that make an ADU an ADU is that they have a separate entrance from the house. So you can make an addition above your garage and have a stairwell go from your house to the addition and it would just be an addition. There'd be no distinction. Right. If you had a separate entrance to it, staff would review it as an ADU and it may be that that's where it can fall afoul.
 And if I may make a brief point of clarification to Council Member Turk's comments, there are some items that can currently go to the Planning Commission as a variance. So I mean, if that's what, is that a concern? Right now applicants can go to the Planning Commission to ask for variances of the size and square feet, the height of the ADU and a few other design standards. We do see those periodically, but there's not currently allowance for the number of ADUs.
 So if I wanted to build one of our public comment had had mentioned if we had if someone had an acre lot, they were saying you could build six or eight or whatever basically units on there. Is that is that really possible? I mean, if it's if it's zoned in, if it's zoned RSF for and you have an acre lot.
 What's the maximum you could build on something like that? If it's a single lot of record, you could build one house and currently two ADUs or as proposed three ADUs. Three ADUs, as long as they weren't above 1,200 square feet. Right, that square footage limitation is still there, correct? How many permits do you think we get for houses that are 400 square feet?
 or 500 square feet. Do we get a lot of those? Yeah, no we don't. Enough that I could probably
 Justin Brant, I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. Justin Brant, I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a
 because there wasn't a lot of market viability for the much smaller units trying to be sold fee simple, where it could be different for accessory dwelling units on a property in association with a proper or a main house. Okay, all right. Thank you very much. Jonathan, about how many units of housing are in Fayetteville? In the entire city? Yes. There's an alarm that went off. Sorry.
 I don't have the new numbers memorized. If you can give me a second here. If you're making a point and can give me a moment to look it up, I can find that pretty quickly for you. Okay, so while Jonathan's looking that up, I'd really just like to make a point of of why zoning laws were made, you know,
 They were made so that people would know what the density is of their neighborhood and could rely and count on that. And so when we start kind of monkeying with it with ADUs and allowing a lot more density, I mean, that kind of undermines the history of what zoning is all about. I mean, I just went online the other day and I think it all started in New York City. But that's why they were developed. And I think we should keep that in mind.
 When we're when we're discussing these things councilman we're struggling I don't have a unit count, but the household count is just over 35,000 as of 2019. 35,000 we're talking 10. I thought it was like 20,000, but even if it was 20,000, my math is that we at 10 a year we're adding point. Oh, 5%, which.
 if it's 35,000 or not even adding that. So it would take 20 years or at 35,000 probably 40 years to add one percent. So I don't think 10 is an issue at all. We could increase that by quite a bit. And I disagree with the reason zoning started. Zoning started to make sure the Tanner and the Butcher
 weren't next to your house. So you didn't smell that. It wasn't really about density. And then it then it became about keeping black people out. So there, the history there isn't so that people have about the same density. It had, I think initially, it started out with good things, people's health went up when the factory wasn't next to them.
 Since then, it's actually hurt people's health because now they can't walk to the things that they need to go. They have to drive. So it's been actually pretty detrimental in that aspect. But I'm still willing to talk about the two and three total units. Seems like we haven't started that.
 So, Jonathan, you mentioned that there were already avenues through the Planning Commission for variances. So the only one that is not that you haven't had through there is the is the three versus the two ADUs. Is that correct? That's correct. And so there's already an avenue for people to...
 build more than the 50% of their main house. Do you have any idea how many of those have been denied of the variances for ADUs? We have not seen a lot of those requests. I can share that
 T. And I know this gets into more of the anecdote side of things. So please give it as much salt or not, or as you see fit. T. A lot of the people that approach staff are property owners who want to build them on their property. I know some public comment expresses concern about large corporations, but the individual property owners
 are often deterred by public hearings. They're often deterred by discretionary approvals, items where they have to come forward with some sort of prepared documents either by an architect without knowing they can get it approved has served to dissuade many of them in my experience. Again, that's anecdotal. I don't have numbers of how many people I've had those conversations with
 But certainly going for the Planning Commission has put off a number of people from that route. Thank you. I just, my concern is the by right, because...
 You know, I think the neighbors, there should be some kind of public understanding that an ADU is going in, especially if it's 1,200 square feet. I mean, that's large. And so the buy-write and expanding upon that, I think, is one of some of my concerns. Thank you. Well, what other discussion would the council like to have?
 on this where you are this is an ordinance it's on the second reading or another discussion or action items from the council like I just uh I just have a comment you know I do think we need to come back to one of our core tenants that we've been working on for a while is creating affordable housing and having a house with an apartment or another rule you know space in it would have been really helpful for me when I was looking for a space for um
 you know, my mom that had dementia. So this is, and this is unfortunately a giant, you know,
 thing that plagues are, plagues people. And I think a lot of people would like to be able to have their ailing family members or aging family members, maybe disabled family members, have a private space amongst their space. So it's not just only about affordable housing, but it's also about just taking care of people.
 There's a lot of checkboxes that this is hitting for me that's positive for Fayetteville, and I think it makes it friendlier. Yeah, you know, if it does become a problem, I think that...
 we can revisit but as you can see the numbers have been pretty low and I think allowing people flexibility to to live you know with dignity with their family could be a really awesome thing so unless other people have questions I'd really like to test this out and go ahead and say that we take this to the third and final reading second yeah good
 we have a motion a second to go to the third and final reading here would you please call the road yes yes church yes yes party yes james yes yes an ordinance amend section 151.01 definitions section 16419 accessory dwelling units
 and section 164.22 cluster housing development of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to amend requirements for accessory dwelling units. All right we're on the final reading now what final comments do we have in the council? I have one question here about the height limit Jonathan. Right now we're saying there's what we're saying there's no I mean like we had a height limit it couldn't be taller than the original structure.
 Right? Correct. That's what we had. And we would be changing it to no, there's no limit. Is that correct? An ADU still cannot exceed two stories. I mean, it can't, it can't exceed two stories. That's what I'm trying to, what I meant to say, but it's not, but it's not like tied to them. Like if my house is one story, I could build an ADU that was two stories.
 Correct. Yeah. What's being proposed with this ordinance is for attached ADUs. So again, if you had your hypothetical attached garage, you could build it on top of that. And it can be taller than the roofline of your house if your house is one story. But I can't build just a two-story ADU that's not attached. You can do that today. That is allowed.
 But I wouldn't be able to build like a giant silo that's five stories tall and 50 feet, you know, like a little bitty tiny footprint like the tree house over on Rolling Hills. I wouldn't be able to build something like that, though. Correct. Not my right. Okay. Thank you. What other final comments do we have from the council?
 i want to be sure i was correct on that number jonathan that was 60 and 13 years yes that's again that's an approximation i don't think we did a great job of documenting them for the first few years of the ordinance the years i've been able to track down 2009 we had three 2010 we had zero 2011 we had one
 And it looks like there's a gap of two years, 2012 and 13, where we're not certain. And then it goes back up to between one and three until 2018. And then the last three years we've had nine in 2019, nine in 2020, and 11 last year. So again, 60 is probably a high estimate. Okay. I got it. All right. What are the final comments to add in the council?
 So Sloan, I'd really like to hear your offer or potential discussion about going from three or taking three off the table, three units. Yeah, I mean, I mean, we haven't even gotten two yet. I don't believe two ADUs or maybe there's a there's a few of them. So saying max, you know, one.
 detached well one detached one internal or two detached I'm okay with something of that nature I think some of the people are fearful that we're just gonna pop up like Kovan which isn't the case but I'm okay with with sticking it to and I think that would probably be we can make tonight still vote on it is that a motion
 Yes, Jonathan, did you get my cumbersome attempt at that? And I'll second it. I just have a quick comment before we vote on that. I think that this would be such a rare occurrence that it wouldn't be a problem, but it might actually help someone who, say, would have, you know, a caregiver who needs to stay with an aging parent. I think that there might be some random situation like that that this could actually be helpful. So, thank you.
 So if you wanted a caregiver and an aging parent and you live in the house, that would be allowed if we limited it to two detached ADUs. Jonathan, is that...
 If I followed that scenario, yes. If you're concerned that it would, I think one thing council member Turkin mentioned was the potential to give the planning commission discretionary approval for the third. But yes, I'm not sure how that would look with council member Hertzberg's suggestion, sorry. Thank you. Okay. And then if we went with my amendment, if somebody did need a third amendment, I would say yes. I would say yes.
 an internal ADU and two detached, if there was an actual situation, they could go and ask planning commission or no? Not as currently written. Okay. So could we amend that to where they could go to the planning commission? Is that possible in this process? I believe I understand the intent of what the council's proposing. I think I'd like Mr. Williams to comment on whether he has concerns about how that's done at this point.
 The only concern I have is I really haven't seen an actual amendment to the provisions. Although I think I understand what you all are talking about, but I know I haven't drafted up any code provisions here that would do what is being requested, and I think if you're going to go forward with that, unless, Jonathan, you want to draft up what you think is necessary because you've been the one drafting this ordinance anyway, do you think you can...
 just come up with the language right now so the council knows what they're actually doing at the risk of drafting ordinance on the fly i think this may be a straightforward one and i'll take a stab at proposing it as proposed currently before the council is to change the maximum number of accessory dwelling units per lot from the maximum or from one detached to one attached to do detached and one attached so in my mind the amendment would
 remove that change. So it would stay as one detached and one attached. And then towards the end of Chapter 164.19 under E, planning commission approval, the language could be changed in the first sentence to say
 uh an applicant may request approval from the planning commission of a variance from the maximum requirements for size and square feet heights comma materials comma and number of adus up to three i think that would capture it perhaps if the council's agreeable that sounds like my motion good job yeah good job okay so we have an amendment
 to have two detached, am I right here, two detached? They're actually removing the two detached and making that have to be a conditional use because the wording that Jonathan gave said it's kind of the current wording where there's one attached and one detached is all that's allowed. And if you want to get two detached, regardless whether you have one attached or not, you have to go to the Planning Commission and get a conditional use for that.
 and as a point of clarification it would be a variance not a conditional use as written thank you okay so if somebody had now so somebody had a small house and they wanted to put two the way it reads right now if you've got a small house then you can build up to two-thirds of what that house is in the backyard is that correct jonathan am i off or wrong or right right now you're limited to 50 percent the size of the house okay
 Okay, so what you're proposing in this first round was one attached and two detached? Correct. Okay, so now the council has amended it to where— Well, they're talking about amending it. Well, I'm trying to get my bearings in case I have to vote here or something.
 So with the amendment, the amendment, Sloan, if I understand what you're saying, is that you can have one attached and one detached, right? That's right. Sloan? Oh, okay. Thank you. I can't see you. I'm sorry. All right. Yes, I can. I just wanted to be sure I was clear on that. What we would be basically is taking away one detached. Instead of getting two, you get one.
 and making that a variance if they need the two detached but you could get you could get two with a variance i got you okay i'm good i'm good i just want to be sure i understood that i'm having a little trouble following that so the amendment right now before the council is one attached and one detached okay well let's vote on that amendment first karen would you please call the row
 Yes. Fetch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? No. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. The amendment passed. Okay, now we have before you the amended ordinance that's got one attached and one detached, correct? Right. All right, I think we have discussed this for a while. Does anybody have any other final comments before we vote?
 All right, Karen, would you please call the roll? Bravo. Yes. Branch. Yes. Yes. Harpsichord. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Edlin. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Easy enough. All right, let's go on to number three.
 A resolution to amend the rules of order and procedure of the federal city council concerning public comments. Teresa, I believe this one was yours.
 Thank you, Mayor. There are two components to this. The first one is just simplifying the public comment session. Instead of having the countdown from to three minutes and then an additional two minutes, we would just eliminate that and it would just be one five-minute countdown. I've heard from residents that it's very confusing. Some people think they only have three, so this would just simplify the process.
 The second one would be to allow citizens to present during their five-minute public comment session, you know, videos or photos or PowerPoint presentation at the meeting, but they would have to provide those materials in advance to IT so that IT could ensure that there were no viruses.
 And that would really be only IT's role is to make sure that there were no viruses contained in the information. Right now, in my opinion, we're a little bit vulnerable because if a citizen comes up and says, hey, I've got a PowerPoint on this jump drive and I'd really like to show it to you all today.
 we almost always allow that to happen because we want fair and open discussions, but there could be a virus on there. So this is a way to do a little bit of advanced planning and also making sure that the citizens know that they can present those photos or that media to us rather than it just being subject to our approval when they come to the podium.
 So I'm happy to answer any questions that anybody may have. What questions do we have for the council? I have a question. I would like to know the role that the city clerk staff would play in this or if they would play a role at all.
 Well, Councilmember Jones, right now, I don't believe they would play a role because this is during the public comment session. It usually in person, but it can be, and that would be the vulnerability would be where it would be in person and they just have a jump drive. I think that the city clerk, and correct me if I'm wrong, is,
 because you you know your role you know you're you're the expert in this not me uh Ms Paxton um is that online if they submitted a comment online then the city clerk has control over uh over that information about whether it's appropriate and displayed and attached and um
 I don't know what the virus prevention is with that sort of arrangement that you have now through your laser fish. Thank you, Council Member Turner. And thank you so much, Council Member Jones, for those questions. That is absolutely correct.
 The reason why that form was created online was to be able to streamline that content and report to go through all the proper channels without having, for lack of a better word, gatekeepers to be able to address each and every one of those public comments.
 you know, with the increase of technology, I mean, you know, with it being able to go through that process without having to have one person, you know, look at those individual comments. The laser-based technology and our network that is established on is able to take a look at that and identify any potential viruses that may come up. That's the way it's been explained to me whenever we initially created that, that form.
 Okay, there you go. Okay. So what exactly does all of that mean? Somebody explain to me if somebody wants to do some sort of presentation at the city council on a Tuesday night, where does that go and how does that get done? Well Mayor, it's just going to be like it has been with the applicant and with staff is that they, uh,
 We'll have to get with IT enough to make sure there are no viruses on it or anything like that. But beyond that, then the gatekeeper in the city for the city council meeting presentation is you. If someone is speaking and they're not on topic and they're violating the rules of order and procedure of the city council, then on that rare occasion, you stop them.
 The same thing would happen if they have an audiovisual presentation that doesn't have any viruses or anything like that in it, but then when they start playing it, it has the same problem that it's not addressing the agenda item or that it's directly attacking someone, disrupting the meeting. Right. You would have the same rights with that as you do with someone standing before you and speaking. You as the...
 mayor and chief executive officer and chairman of the City Council basically running a meeting it is your responsibility To be the gatekeeper and so if someone violates the City Council rules of order procedure It is your responsibility to stop them. I have that skill set I can do So nothing really changes
 And I just want to say thank you so much for that deep explanation. And I get, you know, like you stated in those rules of order and procedure, and that's why I did my best to provide it during the class meeting. I mean, when we're in these settings, I mean, Mayor is the chair. He is the one who has to follow the ordinances and follow the rules of order and procedure when something is happening in the council meeting that shouldn't be happening.
 And that's why I did my best to explain. I don't feel like that should go through any other department for denial or approval of whether that content should, that should be something that goes directly to the mayor. I'm so sorry, Susan, I think you're shaking your head. Did I say something incorrect?
 No. I'm so sorry. I just wanted to make sure. So, you know, all of the public comment is filtered through our office. We do not deny any public comment or any type of documents that are provided to us. We filter and facilitate those directly to the council. Okay.
 So, you know, that is a separate role when it comes to that. So I really appreciate it for you, you know, explaining that and providing that information. Again, you know, as I told all the council members, thank you for reaching out to me for your comments and questions. You know, I am not a public speaker by nature, but I do my best when I can. So thank you so much.
 all i want to make sure is if some thumb drive is sent in here that my staff can look at before we before we get a virus in this in our system is that going to be taken care of mayor and the only thing that i would add is that we will make sure and that i t security okay first and foremost and we will work internally to deliver the best product during the meeting that sounds great i can work with that okay
 I have a question. I think while we're doing this and talking about security, maybe Keith would have insight on this, how it could be handled well through IT. Well, that's a great point, Mark. I think Keith is here. If you'd like to hear from Keith about... I would like to hear from Keith. Well, the only thing that I can state is we don't have a lot of these. So, you know, in my history of being here, I can only recall maybe five or six
 six years of people coming in from the public and asking us to, you know, put a public presentation, whether that's as Councilmember Turk mentioned, some photos or maybe a video or a PowerPoint presentation. This is not a very common thing. Yeah, I'm not asking them to come to you to develop it. I'm saying is there a way that we can have security in this process so they don't bring in a file that is infected or something that's inappropriate? Well, there's two kind of
 ways that those presentations would come to us. I guess three. One of them would be somebody walks in with a thumb drive and hands it to us. And if that's the case, the first thing we do is scan those. Like I said, it rarely occurs from the public. It does happen from people that do present, applicants.
 So we do, this is our current process right now. We've been doing it ever since I've been here. We'll take it. A lot of times I'll run it down here and we'll scan it. And then we'll view it real quick to make sure there's nothing inappropriate in the document. And then we'll post it. So that's something that we've been doing for years. It works pretty well, especially with the volume that we have. It's so low. It's really not really on our radar because the volume is so low. When it comes up, we address it. Something that we address on a daily basis when somebody comes in from another department. It's no different.
 how we handle that as we would in a council meeting. The other way is if somebody submits that online. So there's several ways that that can happen. We rarely, like I said, an applicant may send us something right now. By default, if an applicant does email us an attachment, that's scanned by our Microsoft Office 365 email. So when somebody sends an attachment, it's automatically scanned.
 And then if somebody sends us a presentation, once it's scanned for malware, then we can look at it quickly to determine whether there's some – I mean the only thing that we look at is make sure there's something inappropriate in it. It's we've never censored anything or we've never – I mean that's not our job as IT. I mean we're Xs and Os and try to get information as quickly and efficiently from A to B.
 So that's how we've handled it for years. It seems to work. You know, there's a couple multiple ways to, like I said, scan for this virus is whether it's through email, it gets scanned automatically, or if somebody hands us a jump drive or a thumb drive, we scan it on a computer.
 Oh, I just wanted to, I'm so sorry, to add on to something that Keith just said. And I think it's very important on the discussion that you're having regarding, you know, denying something to go before the council or not. You know, in my time here at the city, I mean, Keith and I have had multiple discussions where for several months I was actually blocked.
 Access from accessing the records that I needed to have access through from laser edge to be able to fit. To do my job daily and that that access was actually blocked by. So, you know, and I've discussed that with Susan and Susan, I apologize. I've done my best to not.
 All any specific personnel, but that is something that that I have great concern about not only being here at the city, which I'm the keeper of the records for, you know, the agenda is that I just want to make sure that everything is clear and transparent as it can be. So, you know,
 As I talked to y'all individually, I worked very hard in this position. And I just want to say again how uncomfortable I am giving the authority to someone other than us, the state's mayor, to deny content.
 so i just want to make sure that that that's clear that no department should have the ability to deny content until you get to that meeting and i agree with this mayor is the chair he is the chief executive officer of the city and i do agree with the rules of order procedure that once that content gets up here he can redirect that person and say this is off topic so those are just a few items i would like to thank him
 thank you for you know reaching out to me and thank you for listening to my concern i have a quick question if it goes through i.t can we not just send it back to kara what was your question again if we send if we have a file that comes to us we send it to i.t can i.t not just send it back to kara for her to review that and council member herzog in fact that could happen if there were times sometimes these are very last minute things and then the meeting is starting so that's okay
 Okay, thank you. I think I'm going to go with the suggestions of the IT department and the city attorney on this. I don't think that we're doing anything wrong. I don't think that there's anything that's been suggested that's inappropriate or doesn't allow a person to have access. We are unique in our desire to actually hear from our citizens.
 Lots of cities don't do that. And frequently we end up with the mayor having to drag somebody back onto the subject at hand because they've gotten off topic or they brought some pictures of something that they want to show us that really doesn't really relate to what we're talking about, but they think it does kind of, you know, so they're kind of going in that direction. I feel very comfortable with what's been suggested by the city attorney. And I think
 I think that's fine. If it turns out to be a problem, we can always adjust it later. I have a follow-up question for Keith. Would you be fine with, if there is time, would you be okay with sending whatever you receive to Kara for her approval? That'd be fine. Well, unless the... I guess I question what the rule of approval is, but yes. I mean, it's easy to forward information. Maybe approval is the wrong word, just like review. Okay.
 Keith, I need to make this clear. You are only to look at viruses. You're not a clearinghouse. You're basically just looking to make sure that there's no problem from a virus or ransomware or anything like that on the video. Anything beyond that about whether it's appropriate or not is the mayor's call. The mayor is our gatekeeper, not IT department.
 And the mayor can make that call when the video starts. If there's something improper on the video, he will stop it at that point in time, just like he would stop a speaker. And it doesn't have to go through. I just want to make sure that we understand it is not a department that's going to review these and see what's appropriate for you to hear. That is not correct.
 It is a technical thing that we want IT to do just to make sure that it's not going to be something that will damage our system. They can't do anything else. If they think it's inappropriate, too bad. As long as it's still not hurting our system, then it's up to the mayor to enforce your rules. The mayor is the gatekeeper here, no one else.
 And I would add one thing. A lot of this is not malware or anything. This is not a lot of what we do is making sure the audio works or making sure the video works or making sure that the person put it on a landscape, but we got to change it to portrait. I mean, we, we really do try in IT to showcase whatever the public wants to present to the public in the best way possible. So it's, it's not necessarily some,
 think that we're doing just security. We're just we're trying to present that information in the best possible way that they intended. I know we had the flooding issue that somebody demonstrated on the east side of Fayetteville and they the video that they had the sound wasn't right so we worked with them to get the sound right to where we could hear what they were saying and we changed we also changed it from portrait to landscape or vice versa. So that was we actually used some software we
 we may have is generic software but to get it to play properly because we don't necessarily have a standard and we talked about that we don't think we need a standard for what people submit yeah that's exactly right that's exactly what they should be doing and then leave any discretion about whether it's appropriate or not up to the mayor thank you what else do we have
 Okay so just just to make sure I just want to clarify so everything that gets submitted from a person who wants to have a you know some kind of extra visual aid it's going through IT because we're just checking to make sure that technically it's not going to take down our city system and with a virus or anything like that but the integrity of the actual content
 then eventually does become part of the public record, correct? Then it goes to city clerk, and I understand if something comes in an hour before a city council meeting, but eventually it goes back to the city clerk and it gets documented. But if in the meeting it's inappropriate or not on topic, then it can be stopped. Is that all correct? Actually, since this is something that's been represented live to the city council,
 It does not need to go to the clerk's office for anything unless she wants to put it in her agenda, and she controls what goes in the agenda, and she can do that if she wants to. But basically, IT just makes sure it's not dangerous and it's presented as well as it can be, and then it is presented live to the mayor and city council and the public all hearing it. If there's any problems with it not being relevant,
 or being personally abusive, that our rules don't allow, then the mayor, at that point, being the gatekeeper, can stop it. But it's not ever, you know, that's the first time that any decision will be made about whatever's being presented, about whether or not
 It violates the rules of the city council, rules of order and procedure or not. So it's really been, you know, that's what we've done with these audiovisual A's that have been presented by applicants for years now. And we really, you know, we don't actually have to have the second sentence in there that says IT will do that because IT is already doing it.
 And if you would feel more comfortable to remove that sentence so it's just done like it's always been done in the past, no change, except now we're letting citizens do it during their public address, then you could do that. It really wouldn't change what's going to happen because we're trying to follow the procedure we've been using for years. Okay. Thanks for the clarification. Thank you.
 My goal for submitting these changes to the rules and the order of procedure were to make it simpler so that the public would know in advance that they could have, you know, visual images or whatever. I really did not anticipate this being so complicated. I hope that this improves our process and has clarified our process a little bit.
 Council, this is your rules of order and procedure. I'll run her any way you want me to, just like I always have. So whatever you all want to do, I will do however you want me to run the meeting. So I just, you know, I await your decision. I move we pass the resolution. Second. Okay. All right. Did we get public comment? Yeah, you sure can. We got, I sure will. Sorry. Okay.
 I got kind of lost in all the conversation. Public comment on our public comment revolution. Yeah, I got it for you. I'll get it slumped. Sorry, I should have done this. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those in person in the council after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Susan.
 No one has raised their hand, Mayor. Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak to us on this item? No? Okay. Well, I'm going to bring it back now to the council. What is the wishes of the council? I believe we have a motion and a second to pass the ordinance. I mean, sorry, resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? No. No. Yes. No.
 abstain i didn't catch that abstain okay harvey yes jones no yes i believe that is four votes in favor do i have that right carol so based on my account that is three to three i think it's three in favor one abstention i don't know what's the count care it is three to three
 I can't understand. She said four to three? No, I said three to three. Okay. So let me get this straight. We're working on the rules of order and procedure, and we've got a three-three tie and an abstention, correct? That's correct. I thought I heard that Councilmember Bunch, Turk, Harvey, and Kenyon voted yes, but I guess I misunderstood someone.
 Okay. So the record shows just to ensure that I heard that correctly. I have Sproggins voted no, Blanchett voted no, Herb voted yes, Herzberg at same, Harvey voted yes, Jones voted no, and Kenyon voted yes. So it's three to three then you cannot vote Mayor.
 Well, okay. I had my mute on, and I think I'd like to change my vote. If I can, I'd like to change it to yes. Okay. I have that updated, so that is now worked through. Okay, well. So now I can say, do you care to vote, Mayor? And it's four to three? Well, it's four to two to one, and an abstention goes as a no.
 Well, I'm going to vote for it just to move us along. So, you're welcome. Well, that takes care of old business. Let's go on to new business. All right.
 Number one, an ordinance to amend 118.01 applicability of Chapter 118, business registry and licenses, Chapter 151 definitions, and Chapter 161 zoning regulations of the Unified Development Code to permit short-term rentals in additional zoning districts and to increase the allowable number of short-term rentals in attached residential units where adequate fire protection is present. Kip?
 uh mayor i'm going to abstain sorry to interrupt but i'm going to abstain from okay okay whereas in april of 2021 the city council passed ordinance 6427 adopting operating standards for short-term rentals and whereas staff has identified opportunities to broaden the zoning districts that allow short-term rentals by right and to revise the density regulations for attached residential units that are owned separately
 and whereas many older multifamily buildings in Fayetteville, whether under single or individual ownership, were not built with fire protection elements that are now standard, and staff recommends that the proposal to allow more Type 2 short-term rentals within an attached residential building also include evaluation by staff for adequate fire protection. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeals the subsection 18A of section 11801, applicability of chapter 118, business registry and licenses, and enacts a new subsection 18A as follows, quote, more type 2 short-term rentals than what is allowed by citywide density cap.
 Type 2 short-term rentals in commercial and mixed-use zoning districts where hotels and motels are permitted by right shall not contribute to the citywide density cap. Section 2, that the City Council City of Fayetteville Arkansas, heard by men, Section 11801, applicability of Chapter 118 Business Registry and Licenses by repealing Subsection 18D and enacting a replacement of 18D as follows. Subsection D...
 where attached residential units are held separately through condominium association, horizontal property regime, fee sample, or similar ownership structure, no cap shall be applied to buildings with attached residential dwellings. Structures of attached residential dwellings where applicants seek more than 10% of the total units for licensing as type 2 rentals shall be evaluated by the building safety director and or fire marshal.
 for adequate fire protection as defined by the adopted Arkansas Fire Prevention Code. Where inadequate fire protection is identified, improvements may be required prior to issuance of a business license. Section 3. At the City Council, City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 151 definitions by enacting a new definition of apartment complex, multi-family complex as follows.
 apartment complex multifamily complex one or more multifamily dwelling structures occupying a single lot operating under a common name and having a common owner or manager section for the City Council City of Fable-Oxhart hereby amends section 161 to one district c1 neighborhood commercial by adding use unit 46 short-term rentals to subsection b1 permitted uses
 Section 5 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends section 161.23 District C2 thoroughfare commercial by adding use unit 46 short-term rentals to subsection B1 permitted uses Section 6 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends section 161.30 District I1 heavy commercial and live industrial by adding use unit 46 short-term rentals to subsection B1 permitted uses and
 Section 7 that the City Council City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend section 163.31 District I-2 general industrial by adding use unit 46 short-term rentals to subsection B1 permitted uses and Section 8 that the City Council City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend section 161.32 District P1 institutional by adding use unit 46 short-term rentals to subsection B1 permitted uses Okay, John
 thank you mayor and thank you mr williams for describing the ordinance i i don't think i need to go and do the full detail of it so i'll try to provide a brief overview uh this hopefully won't be again a surprise to any council members this is what i shared with you all at the december 14th agenda session uh in presentation form and described to you all on tuesday uh what this ordinance uh work is intending to do is uh address an inadvertent uh
 and the
 complex and buildings. As a result, we have 20 applications on hold as we approach the late February startup period ending. And so the proposal includes three pieces. The first is to add an exemption for buildings, multifamily buildings that have a horizontal property regime in place or a condominium association or similar arrangement, as long as they are meeting some baseline life safety standards.
 Many of our buildings in town, especially condominiums, have been refitted over the years, have sprinklers, and do meet these standards. The second two pieces are a bit more administrative. One, during this process, all its references to apartment complexes and multifamily complexes, we identified that that was not actually identified in our development code. So we crafted the definition that's proposed in the ordinance.
 And lastly, we did find that several zoning districts, C1, C2, I1, I2, and P1, did not allow accessory dwell units, or excuse me, still on the previous item, did not allow short-term rentals inadvertently again.
 Irvington Board of Education and there may be instances where a religious institution or something needs to operate that or a caretaker's building could be converted. So we felt that was an appropriate amendment. With that, staff is recommending approval of this ordinance.
 Two pieces of public comment, main pieces of public comment that staff has received are concerns that, again, any broadening of the short-term rental allowance could have impacts on our housing in the city. And kind of the inverse of that or converse of that is that it may be appropriate to increase the allowance.
 in multifamily buildings, especially in the downtown area, if it is the intent to have short-term rentals closer to some of our more prominent amenities. With that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have for Jonathan? Let's take some public comments then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating with Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Logan Humphrey. Okay, go ahead. Hi there. Uh, did everyone hear me all right? Yes. Can you hear me?
 Thank you guys. First of all, thank you Jonathan for working on this and you know, I think the ordinance itself is moving towards a really great destination. One thing I wanted to point out that I did point out in the email was that there is a typo in the memo here that might show some alarm. In the background section of the first it says that there's approximately 6% of the housing cap is being met. The
 The actual amount is 0.06%. It says that there's only 280 applicants that have applied out of the 43,000, which comes down to the math of 0.6%. That would have to be 2,800 units to be 6% of the current housing cap. That's more administrative.
 I did want to bring up something that's been a concern. The original ordinance, as it was drafted, I had a large part in working with the city on, you know, a side that favors short-term rentals within the city, how much tourism it can produce and, you know, paying of HMR taxes, all of that.
 is that I see two big problems with the ordinance that has been removed from the original process. And I think that these proposed changes are trying to fix something that the original ordinance had already had corrected. So one of them is substantial and the other one is more procedural. The first concern that I have is that currently the way that the ordinance reads is that there's
 type 2 short-term rentals, which is where they're not owner-occupied rentals. They do not count towards the density cap if they're located in commercial or mixed-use districts. However, the ordinance was changed. That's original to the ordinance, but the ordinance was changed from the original adaptation that these units now do require a conditional use permit
 TURN AROUND AND SEE IF THERE'S ANYTHING THAT WE CAN DO TO ANYTHING THAT WE CAN DO TO APPLY FOR. APPLY FOR. SO EVEN A PROPERTY THAT'S SO EVEN A PROPERTY THAT'S LOCATED DOWNTOWN WHERE A HOTEL LOCATED DOWNTOWN WHERE A HOTEL IS ALLOWED BY RIGHT, THE SHORT IS ALLOWED BY RIGHT, THE SHORT TERM RENTAL IS NOT ALLOWED BY TERM RENTAL IS NOT ALLOWED BY RIGHT. RIGHT. YOU HAVE TO GO THROUGH THE YOU HAVE TO GO THROUGH THE CONDITIONAL USE PERMITTING CONDITIONAL USE PERMITTING PROCESS.
 that are being addressed in this ordinance could be fixed by going back to the original adaptation, which stated that type 2 short-term rentals where commercial and mixed use is allowed by right or hotels, motels are allowed by right, are just allowed by right as well.
 That would that should fix problems with the independent ownership. Potentially I'm not going to make those claims exactly, but I do see that as being problematic because all other businesses, including hotels and hotels are allowed by right. But short term rentals do have to go through the conditional use permitting process. The second point that I have on this ordinance is it's a little. It's more procedural.
 I did want to point out some simple math here. If there's 280 units that are currently registered out of the 43,795 available housing, this leaves us at 0.6%. Currently, I don't know exactly how much the 280 are going to be omitted from the density cap of 2% because they are in downtown general or in commercial or mixed use zonings.
 But there are currently, I have the number here, 582 active short-term rentals that are listed. This is public knowledge. You can go to a website called AirDNA, which basically just takes all of the listed properties in the city limits of Fayetteville and says how many there are. These 582 units are all individual properties. They're not bedrooms, apartments.
 That leaves that there is 302 properties that are currently unlicensed. That means that when February 21st hits and the
 HAVING A CODE VIOLATION AND THEY NEED TO OR ZONING VIOLATION AND THEY NEED TO APPLY FOR THIS. THAT MEANS THAT IF THERE'S 24 PLANNING COMMISSION MEETINGS THAT HAPPEN A YEAR, THAT MEANS THAT THERE'S A LONG-TERM PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING THAT HAPPENS A YEAR, THAT MEANS THAT THERE'S A
 302 properties would need to get licensed or they could potentially see zoning fines. That leaves it to about 12.5 applications considered every single planning session. That potentially is a number that needs to be considered as something that could clog up the planning commission's agendas. And there's a fear procedurally that there might be a rubber stamping involved, which isn't a good ordinance. So I hope you'll thank you for your time. Time. Time.
 Okay. Who else do you have, Susan? There's no one else on Zoom with their hand raised. Okay. Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber who'd like to address us on this? Okay. All right. I'm going to ring back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. What discussion would the council like to have or action items? I would just like to provide, Mayor, I believe this is on the first reading, since this is C1A business.
 I think I heard you say it's on the second reading. I just want to make sure I heard that correctly. I can't understand anything City Clerk said. I don't think we've suspended the rules and gone to the second reading yet. I think we just read it. I just read it for the first time, if I'm not mistaken. OK, did I ask to suspend the rules and go to the second reading? You can, yeah. OK, well, let's do that. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading.
 So moved. Second. All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Gagin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Turk? She is recused. She's recused. Thank you. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Inger? Yes. An ordinance amends section 11801 applicability of chapter 118 business registry and licenses
 Chapter 115 definitions and chapter 161 zoning regulations of the Unified Development Code to permit short-term rentals in additional zoning districts and to increase the allowable number of short-term rentals in the attached Residential units where adequate fire protection is present and what solutions the council? I will suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Yes, is that where we are? Yes, that's where we are.
 Okay. Second. Okay, we have a motion second to go to third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? We're all in. Present. Sorry, here. Is that a no? No, that's a yes. No? Here. Is that a yes or a no? It's a yes. Sorry. People running around my room. It's okay. It's okay. Yes. Yes.
 Terpsford Hughes at Herzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 In order to amend Section 11801, applicability of Chapter 118, business registry and licenses, Chapter 151, definitions, and Chapter 161, zoning regulations of the Unified Development Code, to permit short-term rentals in additional zoning districts, and to increase the allowable number of short-term rentals in attached residential units where adequate fire protection is present. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? Okay, Caravage, please call the roll.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number two.
 a resolution to approve a budget adjustment of twenty one thousand four hundred and forty two dollars to partially fund emergency shelters for homeless persons provided by seven hills homeless center genesis church central united methodist church in northwest arkansas continuing their care when when the salvation army shell when the salvation army shelter and other shelters are fully occupied during dangerous cold nights deandre i believe this is yours
 Yes, Mayor Jordan and City Council members. This is a resolution.
 And it is a winter weather emergency shelter collaborative. And this collaborative is made up of Seven Hills Homeless Shelter, Genesis Church, New Beginnings, Northwest Arkansas Continuum of Care, Salvation Army, Central United Methodist Church, and the United Way. And they have made tentative plans to assist the homeless residents of Fayetteville when it is too cold for them to safely sleep outside.
 And of course, that temperature will be 15 degree wind chill or colder. And we know that that could endanger persons who only have tents for housing. The collaborative has analyzed the situation and determined its budget to provide safe and warm places to sleep during those cold nights.
 and needing $21,442 in funding from the city of Fayetteville for their emergency nighttime shelter program. And I believe that we have, the applicants are online, Mayor Jordan, and I believe that they are ready to speak if necessary. Okay, if the applicants want to speak, they have 10 minutes before the council, but I got to keep everybody on 10 minutes, DeAndre.
 i'm waiting for a hand to be raised for okay we have stephen mills from seven hills okay go ahead hi there uh stephen mills seven hills homeless center um this is a this is a great opportunity that um several of
 the organizations that are working to end homelessness and provide for those that are suffering from homelessness have kind of come together in this collaborative to ensure that there's a gap, especially when it's extremely cold outside in overnight shelter in our community. So coming together, several organizations are able to kind of build a plan, rotate staffing, ensure that these individuals who in our community are most vulnerable are provided care during that time. So I'm...
 the the uh the collaborative's uh case for support uh has been made available and i'm happy to answer any questions um i know that um you know in the past
 This has been kind of a goal of ours, this collaboration, and it's something that we've kind of built up to. And there were some questions about, you know, the emergency nature and planning for this next year. And I want to assure the council and everybody watching that this is something that's top of mind for us. And that emergency winter weather planning for next year begins directly after warmer weather shows up this year. So planning will start immediately. And I can guarantee that this won't be an emergency concern going forward.
 Okay, any of the other applicants want to speak to the council? I don't see any other hands raised Okay, I will bring it back to the council. What questions does the council have on this?
 Mayor, I'd like to note for the record that we do have a written contract now that has been signed by Stephen Mills who just spoke here. And this is a contract for services outlining what they have said needs to be done. And so it is now ready for the City Council to approve the contract and authorize Mayor Jordan to sign it. Okay. There's copies of the contract been sent to the Council. So you all have the contract.
 Any questions from the council? So we just want to make sure we're just receiving the contract or we didn't already receive it?
 Yeah, we did receive it. Of course, with the holiday and everything in between, first I had to draft it, and then we got it out to them. But we did get it to Stephen Mills, and he has signed it, and I sent it out to the council this afternoon. And I think Kara also put it in additional information in your agenda packet, so you can see the signed contract there also.
 Okay, I just want to make sure I didn't miss it. Just one quick question. So what's the duration for the 21,000, or is it just with the degree of weather that we're looking for the additional services? Is there like a time period, or is it more just based on the temperature? The time period is basically for this year, and of course every time you do a budget it's only for the year you're in.
 They won't necessarily have to spend all the money depending on what the weather's like. And if they don't spend it all in this part of the year, in this winter, then actually there will be some money that they could reserve and spend next year, not next year, this year, but in the November and December area when there's also other cold times. So this contract is for a year.
 but it won't necessarily all be spent now. Some of it could be spent later on in November and December. Okay, great. And then I guess my other question is, you know, we've already had some really cold nights. I'm sad that we haven't already put this into place, but are we going to end up doing an emergency clause on this, Kit, or how do you? No, this is simply a resolution, and so it's immediately effective upon your passage and the mayor's signing.
 Okay, so we don't need an emergency cost. No, you don't need it. Okay, that was just kind of more of an order thing. Okay, I personally don't have any questions unless somebody else does. I've literally passed the resolution. Well, hang on there, but I've got to take a little public comment here. I have one question for DeAndre. Oh, yes, thank you. DeAndre, do you know if this is going to be mostly for staffing or for supplies?
 They should have provided us an outline of what this is going to be used for. If I understand correctly, then it is going to be used for volunteers.
 I think that they what they have done and they've done a really good job of providing other forms of resources. But I do believe that this is going to be utilized for staffing. And if I'm not correct, I do believe that someone, maybe Steven can correct me if he's allowed to do so. Well, we incorporated as part of the contract the statement from the group that was asking for the money. It includes the money that was
 $4,305 for staffing, $7,050 for security, $1,000 for utility reimbursement, $4,500 for COTS, $500 for cleaning supplies, $3,000 for client outreach, and $1,083 for miscellaneous. Thank you, Kit. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the council? Okay. Let's take some public comment.
 If I get one turn to speak, you have five minute duration broken in segments three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and those that are in person in the council after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one has raised their hand, Mayor. All right, do we have anybody in the chamber who'd like to speak on this item? Okay seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Council, this is a resolution.
 So what's your wishes? I just want to make a quick comment. DeAndre, thank you so much for working with the collaborative to bring this forward. And I'm glad to hear that there'll be some, you know, moving forward kind of planning for the next year because we do.
 As we have learned through this, there is this procedure that we want to go through with the nonprofits of applying for the funds. But we can't always do it perfect every year. So we definitely do not want, there's a need for that. We want to take care of that need. So I appreciate your energy and effort to work with those individuals.
 and bring this forward. So with that, I just wanna move that we pass the resolution. I second. And we have a second. And motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Kerrivich, please call the roll. Roggin? Yes. Bunch? Bunch? Yes. Turt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 So long. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number three. An ordinance to require persons to wear face masks in public service areas in city-owned buildings and places of public accommodation subject to reasonable exemptions. Teresa, I will turn this over to you. I've got to read the ordinance. Oh, sorry. Whereas COVID-19 infections of Arkansas residents are surging to higher levels than ever before in this pandemic.
 Because of the highly contagious Omicron variant of the COVID-19 virus and a large number of our residents who are not fully vaccinated. And whereas there are already over 60,000 active cases and now that's over 90,000 active cases of COVID-19 in Arkansas and hospitalizations have more than doubled since Christmas.
 And whereas the Pulaski County Circuit Court issued a final order finding Act 1002 of 2021 unconstitutional and joining enforcement of Act 1002, which had limited the state, counties, and cities from enforcing broad mask mandates for private places of public accommodation and school districts from protecting their students during this pandemic. And whereas Washington County has recently had the second largest number of daily cases of COVID-19 in the state,
 including 434 reported on Sunday, January 9th, while the state reported 4,300 new cases, which is 10 times the number of new cases reported just two weeks ago and not nearly as many as they're reporting right now.
 Whereas the most important duty of the city of Fayetteville is to protect the safety and preserve the health of its citizens residents and visitors And whereas the Fayetteville City Council expresses its appreciation of the University of Arkansas and the Fayetteville School District For their wise and important decisions to continue their mask mandates for their students and staff During this Omicron surge now therefore be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1 and 2
 that the city council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas by determines that a renewed pandemic caused by the omicron variant of covid 19 is surging in Fayetteville with the unvaccinated victims threatening to overwhelm hospital resources and staff and causing grievous infections hospitalizations and deaths of even young and previously healthy unvaccinated persons
 Section 2 that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby determined that the health and safety of Fayetteville residents require that all persons within public service areas in all places of public accommodation, including city buildings, are required to constantly wear face masks covering the nostrils and mouth of such persons, subject to the following exceptions. A. Masked bay room removed while consuming food or drinking a beverage if social distancing and disinfection best practices are followed.
 Subsection B, settings of 10 or fewer persons present, such as small business offices which do not serve the public in person and areas without normal public access, such as semi-private offices and workshops, do not require masks unless persons cannot follow social distancing best practices. Subsection C, reasonable accommodations may be made for individuals with a disabling condition that prevents wearing a face mask.
 Subsection D, masks may be removed in outdoor settings generally while best practices to maintain social distances are followed. Masks shall be worn at managed events where attendance and format prevent social distancing. And subsection E, children of less than two years of age shall not be required to wear face masks.
 Section 3, sunset clause, taking into consideration the Omicron variant's history in other countries of both its much greater infectious ability, which is causing so many new cases now, but also its rapid decline after its initial and unprecedented surges, this mask mandate will likely not be needed to be enforced nearly as long as previous mandates caused by earlier variants.
 Therefore, this ordinance mask mandate will automatically terminate on March 2nd, 2022, unless the City Council extends this ordinance by passing a resolution by the March 1st City Council meeting setting a new date for the termination of this ordinance and its mask mandate. Okay. Now, Theresa. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Kit, for reading that long ordinance.
 You know, the headline this afternoon was that Arkansas had the highest number of hospitalizations ever. This Omicron variant is overwhelming our hospital system and is exceeding some of the thresholds that the Board of Health put in place. You know,
 This variant is just running rampant. We've got, I can't remember how many more cases today, 4,000 more people were infected, 15 more deaths happened today. So anything that we can do to encourage people, to require them to wear a mask, to
 to lessen or slow the transmission so that we don't continue to overwhelm our hospitalization system, I think is a good step forward. You know, I'm tired of wearing the mask. I know everybody else is. We're so tired of COVID. But I think these steps are necessary so we don't burn our health care workers' lives.
 out. I mean, they're already burnout, but at least we don't have our health care system collapse. And so this is why I'm bringing this forward. I think it's really important that the city send a strong message to our citizens where we stand on this issue, and that we also support our colleagues at the U of A and also at the public schools. So we have somewhat of a consistent policy. As mentioned in the ordinance,
 If the Omicron variant is still running rampant on March 1st, we have the ability to extend this, but if it's lessened substantially, this will automatically expire. So, you know, I hope we follow the same pattern as New York City, where we have a rapid decline, and also South Africa. I'm happy to take any questions. Okay. What questions do we have for Teresa on this?
 Mayor, I know that you said on the last week at agenda that you had a concern about the enforceability of this ordinance, which I think is a concern for me as well. And I think that if we are saying that this is only going to be practically enforceable within city buildings, I think that it would be more.
 beneficial for us to have a city buildings policy rather than an entire city ordinance because I just don't think that it's gonna be Beneficial and I don't think people are gonna follow it and I think that we're risking Possible lawsuit for selective enforcement and I mean we've seen how this has played out before within the city city buildings so I Am not really in favor of this. So let me what you're saying Holly is that I
 you're okay with the buildings, but you have some issues with it being citywide. I'm fine if we have a policy within city buildings. I feel like that's reasonable and it's enforceable. But I don't think that we have enough enforceability within the city ordinance to say everybody has to wear masks. There's no way that we can enforce it. I think that's a relatively accurate statement, Chief. Would you agree, Chief Reynolds? Yes.
 But there is no enforcement in the ordinance. Is that correct, Kit? Mayor, that's correct. There's no enforcement provision in the ordinance. Right. So city buildings, we can enforce that.
 You think, Chief? Yeah, that's correct, Mayor. I think that, you know, I'd have to agree with Councilmember Hertzberg and thank you, Councilmember Turk, as well, of not having an enforcement component in this. You heard me outline, you know, throughout the past year of the
 the difficulties with the police department, and I don't want to belabor those at all, just the lack of capacity that we have. But also, I mean, I think everybody's paid attention and, you know, a good law, in my opinion, is a law that gets about 75 to 80% compliance or better just because people want to do the right thing. And we're not seeing that with this masking mandate and masking ordinance.
 And it's just too widespread for the police department to enforce citywide. But if you're asking me the question of do we have the capability and the capacity to enforce a policy that you enact in city-owned and city-maintained buildings, absolutely. That would not be a problem at all for the police department. Yeah.
 I think that it really matters where we have these types of policies. I mean, I work in a hospital. I wear a mask all day. It's easily enforced in the hospital. It's easily enforced in schools. It's easily enforced in city buildings, but it is not practically enforceable within an entire city. So based on the conversation we had, I think an agenda, I thought this was only about city-owned buildings. Is that not how it's written up? Is it everything? Yeah.
 Yeah, it was written up according to what Councilmember Turk wanted. It was very similar to the second mask mandate, except we removed the punishment provision within that.
 And also we removed the emergency clause because this is obviously not a permanent ordinance. And to have to wait for 31 days, that means you have a general and permanent ordinance. This one has a very short time period that it's going to be in effect. Therefore, you don't need an emergency clause. It will go into effect immediately. But it also has no punishment provision within it. Okay. Hopefully we can adjust it.
 I think we need it at the buildings. I really feel like this almost should be like a resolution and an ordinance, an ordinance for own buildings and a resolution encouraging outside of it. Just I don't like having things that aren't enforced. It's just bad law.
 even though everybody should wear a mask, everybody should get vaccinated. They're not, but they should. But that doesn't mean that this law will have any effect on it. So hopefully we can make these changes and get this passed tonight. So I would argue that this law is important to be implemented
 inclusive of businesses because many businesses would like to have, would like to require a mask, but they feel vulnerable if we don't have a mask mandate policy. So this actually assists them in getting compliance from their customers and
 So, and I would say the same thing is true at large venues, maybe at the Walton Arts Center, at Theater Square, or some of these other areas. Without the city having a mask mandate, they feel, or some of them feel, that they may not be able to effectively enforce it within their own business or area.
 So I think we should look at it from that point of view as well. And since there's no enforcement provision in there or punishment, I don't see the harm in making it citywide. I've got some questions for the chief. How many people have we arrested for not wearing a mask? Well, we have not arrested anyone for not wearing a mask to this day.
 How many people do you say per month we arrest for trespassing? Oh, gosh. Without those statistics in front of me, I'd take a stab at it. I would say less than 10 in a year would be my guess. Okay. But we do. If a business says that this person needs to go, y'all show up and escort them out or arrest them or...
 Whatever is needed, correct? Yeah, that's correct. The most common thing that we see, just to use an example for you, is shoplifting. And so we'll respond to one of the local merchants, and they'll have a shoplifter. If we choose to write them a citation, typically what they do at that point is they have us warn them of criminal trespass, and that information goes on a log.
 And if that individual returns to that store and they call us and contact us and we respond and locate that individual out there, then we would arrest them for criminal trespass. And similar to the example I used at the agenda session last week as well, the mayor controls the city buildings, as we all know. And if someone came into a city building and wasn't abiding by policy, he could ask them to leave or his designee could ask them to leave. If they refused to leave, we would warn them of criminal trespass.
 And if they refuse to leave at that point, we would issue them citation or arrest them. And I think that that situation obviously played out months ago here in Council Chambers. Yes. Okay. Yeah, I hope that we can modify this to be only city-owned buildings, but then reaffirm our commitment to support businesses that decide to make their own rules.
 So, you know, it's a weird situation. I get all these, I get emails on both sides and usually it doesn't matter which side they're on, their arguments are so bad, I'll vote against it. But, you know, I think, I think enforceability is important and it makes us look kind of silly to have laws on the book that we don't enforce. Yeah.
 Well, I think another thing that might make us silly is that, you know, we reconfigured or reconvened the Board of Health a couple of years ago. And their recommendation is is mask mandates. And we've exceeded greatly those thresholds that they identified in terms of hospitalizations and number. And I believe the other one was percentage positive. Um.
 So if we don't follow their recommendations, sure, that's our choice. But we basically have ignored the expert's opinion on this issue. And I think that was why we really wanted to have a Board of Health, so we could have an outside group of experts advise us on this pandemic. Okay.
 I just, I really just want to give a perspective from a worker's perspective who may end up, you know, they're having to go to work and interact with the public. They need that job for, you know, their paycheck and
 I think having the city step up and say, we want to protect workers who are having to interact with the public. And I understand that the business can choose to do that for their employees. But I think as a city, it's a responsible thing to do in a worldwide pandemic to say, we believe the numbers are high enough.
 to reinstate the mask mandate. Yes, you can't get arrested. Yes, we're not going to fine you, but we do in fact support
 you business and especially to protect your workers. You know, not everybody has a job, but they're not interacting. A lot of people are interacting with the public. So I just want to think about those people. And instead of just, you know, if it's good and convenient for each of us and also, you
 you know we do have people on both sides and i agree with you so you know i'm getting you know hearing information on both sides but at the end of the day um you know people can make a decision where they shop where they they go to to eat or or or or do whatever they need to do but but but
 It's just responsible at this point as a city to stand up for workers who just have no choice. They have to interact with the public all the time. And to have the city support that, I think, is the right thing to do. Same here. Teresa, I have a question. What has the Board of Health, what has been their recommendation?
 So they've actually recommended mask mandates for quite some time. However, we didn't exceed those thresholds, those parameters that were set by them until probably in the last three weeks or so.
 So that's what's really changed, I think, here is they've always thought that masking was very good, was very prudent, was needed. But we had, you know, we had kind of a dip after the Delta. And so we had gone below those thresholds I mentioned until about three weeks ago. OK. And so numbers have now increased, correct?
 Oh my gosh, they're off the charts. Right. Yeah, they're way off the charts. Yes, numbers have very much increased. And while some experts say that the severity of Omicron is much less, just the sheer volume of extra people that are getting it compared to other variances is very high.
 You're still going to have the immune compromised. You've had more breakthrough cases. So yes, the volume is very high. The numbers are the highest they've been.
 And because of that, I really think that we should do whatever we can from the city. And I do believe that if the city of Fayetteville, if we are more proactive, then I think that they would encourage business owners to do the same. Because I've heard some of the similar, I've heard similar comments as it relates to protecting, making sure that, wishing that business owners could protect.
 in fact, have masks. And so I just think that this is an opportunity for us to do whatever we can to ensure the health and safety for everyone, even though it's not enforceable. I do think that it's showing that we are responsible and that we care about the well-being of our citizens. I really, this is something I've thought a lot about. And, you know, it's,
 Most of you know, I've traveled overseas in the past year and been to places where wearing a mask was not a problem, that people could do that without, and they would not be allowed in, you know, businesses if they didn't have their mask on and everybody just wore the mask, you know. I hate that we can't, you know, we don't have anything that's really enforceable.
 But I also agree with the comments from Sonia and DeAndre about, you know, Sonia's perspective of let's give this tool to our businesses that they can ask, they can use this if they want to.
 And it sends a message that we are allowing them to use this tool and not, we're gonna back them up to the full ability that we can. Even though it's not really enforceable, it sends a message to our community that we do care about their health and want to keep them as safe as possible. I'm in support of this. I think that this issue has been made political for way too long, and
 that it is time for us to follow the guidance of the Board of Health. And I just think that we have a responsibility to do everything that we can to keep everyone safe, because we don't know what this is going to look like tomorrow, unfortunately. There could be another wave or another type, who knows? And so I do believe in being proactive and being responsible.
 So I'm in full support of this. And I have one more comment too. You know, I think we learned a lot about the economic impact, you know, keeping everybody, you know, all the businesses open. We're not asking any businesses to close. We're not asking anybody to go, you know, to not, to shop. We're just saying, you know, when you do, if the business has the mask, you know, posted, please wear your mask.
 that you comply. And I'm sure that business will make a big decision of whether or not they're gonna do that or not. And so it's up to them, but the economy needs healthy workers, healthy people shopping, and it's just the right tool to keep the economy rolling. When everyone's healthy, everyone can get out and do their shopping and everyone can go to work and not lose their jobs.
 So it's just the responsible thing for the economy as well. Have we done public comment? No. I don't want to do that. I'm waiting for everybody to get done, and then we're going to go to public comment. Okay, great. Well, I won't make the motion yet then this time. Okay. Okay.
 All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person in the chambers after that. Who would like, who's on Zoom, Susan? There are no hands raised on Zoom.
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council chambers who in the council chambers like to address us on this All right, there's nobody to address us on this so I'm gonna bring it back to the council What is the discussion of the council or what action items would they like to take? I move we approve the resolution Well, it's not a resolution. It's an ordinance. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading I second it. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Call the roll. Yes
 Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Herzberg? No. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to require persons to wear face masks in public service areas in the city-owned buildings and places of public accommodation subject to reasonable exemptions.
 I move this is been the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have motion second to go to the third and final read. Carriage please call the roll. Coggin. Yes. Batch. Yes. Turf. Yes. Kurtzberg. No. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 in order to require persons to wear face masks in public service areas and city-owned buildings and places of public accommodation subject to reasonable exemptions okay this is our final reading what final comments do we have in the council
 i have one final comment sure um i think that we think that we have the power to change public opinion on this issue and i don't think that we do i think that everybody's made up their mind on this um i don't think that this is uh i don't think that this should be about whether masks work or not i think this is about good policy or not and i don't think that this is a good policy um i think that we need to have something that's enforceable that doesn't make us look like you
 know we can just put out a law that nobody abides by so that's all that i have thank you okay any other comments from final comments from the council okay go ahead mark i have a couple of comments uh
 I understand the argument that it's not enforceable, but I think for me it comes down to what you value as right in your values. And it's absolutely right. People have already made up their mind on this. And they also know...
 I'M SUPPORTING THIS TO SHOW THAT I DO CARE ABOUT THE HEALTH OF THE COMMUNITY.
 I've mentioned this before, I worked for 23 years with Smithline Biologicals primarily in vaccines. So yes, I'm biased. I'm biased because vaccines work. This doesn't have anything to do with vaccines except for the fact that people who are not vaccinated are at the higher highest risk of passing it on to someone else. So
 My personal values say that we should be wearing masks, and that's why I'm supporting this. And I'm very well aware of the legal implications, but this is the personal support of what I think is. What are the final comments we have in the council? Yeah, I will. I will vote for this mainly because.
 of the buildings, I think outside is silly. I noticed that more people wearing their mask after December 23rd than before. So like literally if you're running a regression or mask mandate actually did the opposite of what it should, although that'd be a terrible statistic. But people are making their own decisions. This is that best virtue signaling and I guess I'll do it with y'all. Okay, any other comments?
 Well, I want to say. Yeah. Oh, sorry. No, go ahead. Sorry, Mary. Okay. Just the last comment that I just wanted to thank Council Member Turk for getting this together and for Kit as well to get the language right. So that I think it allows the correct flexibility for people to make their decision. And so I appreciate that. Thank you. Okay. What other final comments do we have?
 Okay, as we, before we vote, we're talking about the Board of Health. I actually sit on the Board of Health. I'm a voting member of the Board of Health. And we discussed this issue at the last Board of Health meeting. And the Board of Health recommendations, there was two recommendations. They believe that everybody should be vaccinated and everybody should wear masks.
 I don't think I missed a whole lot of words. I think that summed it up rather well, because you were in that meeting. So Lisa was there as well. Chief Harden was there as well. But their recommendation was that everybody mask up and everybody get vaccinated. That was their recommendation, and it was again, I'm supposed to be on the Board of Health. Now, as far as the enforcement goes,
 it's very difficult to ride herd on 94 000 people with the amount of officers that i have and i think that needs to be real i do believe that we do need to make state i believe that um and and i go back to a time where we were looking at a smoking ordinance at one time years ago when i was on this city council
 And I didn't know how I was going to vote on that. I didn't know what we were going to do. But I had to ask myself, if everybody in the world smoked, would we have a healthier place? Or if nobody smoked in the world, would we have a healthier place? I asked myself the same question about the masking. If everybody wore a mask, would it be safer? Yes, it would. If everybody was vaccinated, would it be safer? Yes, it would.
 And so with that, that was some of the decisions that I came to as it went before the Board of Health and afterwards. Now, I can assure this council of one thing, that we may not be able to enforce this citywide, but I can enforce it in these buildings, and I will. So if you come in the door, you're going to have to have a mask on because the council has voted that in.
 I will make sure that's enforced because I am the manager of these buildings as far as I know until someone decides they don't want me here no more. But until that occurs, I run the buildings and control the buildings and this place will be masked up starting tomorrow. So if you come in City Hall or you're in some of my city buildings, you're going to have to have a mask on. If not, then I will call the...
 Police department and you will be removed from public trespass because we're going to ask leave if you don't have a mask on. If you come into city council, you wear a mask. If you don't wear a mask, you come into city council, I'm going to ask you to leave. If you do not, we will escort you out of here. Now I want to be clear to the council on that. I can't enforce it everywhere, but I can enforce it in my buildings. So I support it. I voted for it. I think we need to support it and
 So with that, Kara, would you please call the roll? Roggin? Yes. Pratt? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? No. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Oh, and by the way, Teresa, I want to thank you for bringing it forward because this is the statement we need to make as a city. I forgot. Thank you. All right. Okay.
 That concludes our business. Any announcements, Susan? Okay. All right. Thank you all very much. It was a good night. We're adjourned.