I would like to call the City Council meeting of January the 19th 2016 to order Lisa would you please call the run mature present long here gray yes Mars here Kenyon here Eddie here tenant here shot my mayor Jordan here would you join me in the pledge of allegiance
 liberty and justice for all. Under the Mayor's Announcements, Proclamations, and Recognitions City Council Meeting Presentations, Reports, and Discussion Items, number one is the presentation of the City of Federal 2016 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award by Kip Williams. Thank you, Mayor. Since Martin Luther King Day in 2002, I have been privileged to
 and honored to select a City of Fayetteville employee to receive the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award. This award is given annually in recognition to that City employee whose service to our City and our community best exemplifies Dr. King's dream of equality, justice, and brotherhood.
 For the first time in 14 years, I have decided to honor two city employees who together went beyond the call of duty to serve our community and provide hope to one of our less fortunate citizens. I have to admit that a few police departments in our nation have brought shame and disrespect upon themselves when their officers used more force than was really needed and sometimes even unjustified deadly force. Such actions poisoned community respect and support for the police today.
 and make keeping the peace even more difficult. We in Fayetteville are lucky that our Fayetteville Police Department is highly professional, community-oriented, and respectful of our citizens. Indeed, in not one case this century has any of our police officers ever been found to have acted with excessive force or otherwise violated the constitutional rights of our citizens.
 Every allegation filed in court in this century against our officers have been proven to be without merit. Every such case has been dismissed by the federal district judge. All of our police officers have been exonerated. This perfect record for our police department is not lucky, but well-earned and hard-won and has required our police chief to occasionally fire a police officer who has failed to meet our high professional standards.
 The perfect record and professionalism of our police department are not just testaments to Chief Tabor and his management team, but to every police officer right down to our youngest patrol officers. Indeed, tonight, I would like to honor two of our Dixon Street patrol officers, not for solving a crime, but for personally curing the ill effects of that crime.
 Police officers Renner Benson and Justin Faubus were assigned by Chief Tabor to attend this City Council meeting, and I don't know if they realized they were going to be honored or not. I ask that they come forward now and stand on either side of this podium as I explain why I believe they should receive the 2016 City of Fayetteville Dr. Martin Luther King Brotherhood Award. Use your side. Okay. These officers...
 Walk the city Dixon Street beat, which requires a pretty thick skin and even temperament and good judgment to keep everybody safe and acting properly in our entertainment district. They learned that Jason, the guitarist who plays for Tips on Dixon Street, had had his guitar stolen and so lost his ability to earn a living. Officers Benson and Faubus had informed Jason that there were no real leads on that case about who stole his guitar.
 This was understandably distressing to Jason as he really had no other way to earn a living, buy food, pay his rent. So what did Officers Benson and Favis do? They used their own money to purchase guitar, which they gave to Jason. When questioned about this, both officers acknowledged what they had done, but neither desired any recognition. Well, sorry, officers.
 Our Mayor, City Council, City and I shall recognize you for epitomizing Dr. King's dream of equality, justice and brotherhood. It is my honor to award both of you as co-recipients of the 2016 City of Fayetteville Martin Luther King Brotherhood Award. And I have a little plaque down here. Certificate signed by me and the young people. Congratulations. Thank you for attending this meeting. Thank you, gentlemen. All right.
 The next order of business is the state of the city by myself. Not necessarily by myself, but it's the one time a year that the mayor gives a long speech. Usually I'm pretty short and to the point, but tonight we're going to take the time because there's been some tremendous accomplishments done by this city this year, and I certainly want to thank the city council for your work, the staff, and citizens, and with that, we will start the state of the city.
 Ladies and gentlemen of the City Council and my fellow citizens of Fayetteville, tonight I'm proud to report that the state of our city is sound. 2015 was a great year, and we expect 2016 to be even better. Though 2015 was not without controversy in this city, but our differences don't divide us. They make us stronger and more prosperous as a community. The economy of Fayetteville has been exceptional recently.
 The sales tax collections for 2015 are expected to be more than 5% over budget. Due to increased revenue collections and good money management, we believe that we will see a surplus for 2015. Federal citizens should know that this administration and this city council continue to be good stewards of your tax dollars in order to maintain and enhance our infrastructure and quality of life.
 and build a strong foundation for the future of our city as we continue to grow. I always enjoy recounting the honors, awards, and accolades garnered by Federal's hardworking public servants and volunteers who shaped the very soul of this city. This year, Saundra Smith received the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award in 2015,
 given in recognition to a city employee whose service to our city and the community best exemplifies Dr. King's dream of equality, justice, and brotherhood. Saundra was also honored in 2015 to receive the Arkansas Municipal League's Municipal Clerk of the Year Award. Our city attorney Kit Williams provides wise legal counsel and helps navigate the city through negotiation and avoidance of litigation risk.
 Kidd also brings recognition to the city by serving his 14th year as the state chair of the International Municipal Lawyers Association. Thank you, Kidd. The Federal Police Department was inducted into the Federal Public Schools Superintendent's Honor Roll for its steadfast commitment to the safety of the students, faculty, and staff of the Federal High School.
 Our Media Services Department received a 2015 Bronze Telly Award for excellence in video production for the Recycle Something Media Campaign. Friends of Gully Park won the Arkansas Recreation and Parks Association Award for Volunteer Group of the Year, and Fed Bowl citizen Frank Sharp received the Volunteer Individual of the Year Award. Fed Bowl was recognized by the International Mountain Bike Association
 as a bronze-level regional bike center, and cityscapes named Wilson Park, the best public park, and Gully Park as runner-up and the best of Northwest Arkansas award. Federal has been designated as a Tree City USA for the 20th year by the Arbor Day Foundation. In other categories, council, I want you to hear this tonight. In other categories, federal was named number three.
 Best city to found a company outside of Silicon Valley and New York by data. Fox number four, best college town in the nation, and number one in the SEC by livability.com. Quite an accomplishment. We're the winner of the Green Energy Conservation Initiatives category, an honorable mention in the Quality of Life category for the Arkansas Business City of Distinction.
 We're in the top 100 best places for business and careers in Forbes magazine, and in the top 100 best place to live by livability.com. Again, an Arkansas Volunteer Community of the Year Award for the sixth consecutive year.
 and astonishing 681,000 hours of service were given by tens of thousands of volunteers in 2014, creating an economic impact of $15,720,000. We were second in the small city population category by the Center for Digital Governments Digital Communities. The Tour of Federal Historic Properties website
 as the Achievement in Technology Award from the Arkansas chapter of the American Planning Association. The city with the fastest growing population in Arkansas, as named by the U.S. Census Bureau, and the only city in Arkansas to receive and retain a star rating from the Star Community Sustainability Tools for Assessing and Rating Communities.
 Also in 2015, the Federal Public Library was named the Best of Northwest Arkansas by Cityscapes and Northwest Arkansas Best of the Best by the Arkansas Democrat Gazette. These accomplishments and many more are a vital part of what makes this city great. In Federal, we believe in a partnership-based government. We are all part owners together.
 The power of community, volunteerism, education, livability, and infrastructure creates a synergy for Federal that continues to propel its economic engine. Both as a City Councilmember and as Mayor, I have always been a strong proponent for infrastructure improvements as a foundation for Federal's quality of life and economic development. In this city, we build infrastructure.
 A physical infrastructure made up of roads, parks and trails. A technical infrastructure for government accessibility and delivery of services. And a social infrastructure where everyone is served and all feel a part of this great community. First, let's talk about the physical infrastructure. As mentioned earlier, through prudent financial management combined with revenue growth, this city has had an exceptional year.
 Our capital projects have moved forward at an unparalleled pace. Projects completed and underway in 2015 bring enormous potential for our city, promoting alternative transportation, healthy lifestyles, and economic growth. I want to thank our citizens for participating in infrastructure development as well through public meetings and service on city committees.
 Our fine engineering team is to be commended for development of new standards for street construction. These new standards impact pedestrian and bicycle facilities, bike lanes, and neighborhood traffic calming. Street and intersection design standards have been revised for being more pedestrian-friendly as well. Well, let's start with the first project we want to talk about tonight, the Van Ash Drive Extension Project.
 Part of the transportation bond program approved by the citizens. Now provides a direct connection from Garland Avenue, Highway 112 to our uptown restaurant and retail center. This project is a great example of voters, the city council, and staff all coming together to build and connect our community. In 2015 work began on the first segment of the Ruppel Road Improvement Project.
 the largest project of the Transportation Bond Program. When completed, Ruppel Road will serve as an alternate north-south route, improve traffic flow, and complete connectivity with the emerging trail system. The Old Wire Road Improvement Project includes an overhaul of the intersection at Mission Boulevard and Old Wire and improvements from Mission Boulevard to Ash Street.
 allowing for protected movements and safer pedestrian and bicycle trails along the roadway and better traffic flow. The City has partnered with the University of Arkansas and the federal public schools for stadium drive improvements and with the University for Razorback Road improvements. These roadways will help define significant through streets and boundaries of our city. The preservation of historic bridges.
 The City of Pebble has now begun repairing and rehabilitating the downtown Maple and Lafayette Street bridges, using specifications as close to original design as possible. To preserve the integrity of the historic Art Deco structures, the bridges originally built in the mid-1930s crossed over Arkansas and Missouri Railroad tracks between West and Arkansas Avenues.
 The Spring Street Municipal Parking Deck. As your mayor in 2009, I promised area business owners and the entertainment district that I would pursue a parking deck project to support the growing number of visitors and employees in the entertainment district. In partnership with the Walton Arts Center and University of Arkansas, the four-level parking facility project now includes 235 parking spaces for automobiles and secure parking.
 covered bicycle parking with convenient access to the entertainment district. Thank you, Council. That was quite an accomplishment. Bikeways and trails. In 2015, the city completed 3.6 miles of new on-street bikeways and 3.4 miles of new shared-use paved trails, including the southern extension of the Razorback Regional Greenway.
 Major trail accomplishments include two sections of the Town Branch Trail and one section of the Claver Creek Trail. The city's urban trail system now includes 28 miles of multi-use trail paths in this city. A trail usage study recently commissioned by the Walton Family Foundation shows that usage
 And Northwest Arkansas is on par with cyclists in San Francisco and pedestrians in San Diego County. The study showed that three sections of the Skull Creek Trail in Fedville are seeing more than, listen to this council, more than 150,000 cyclists a year.
 And all three sections are among the five busiest places for cyclists on the 37-mile Razorback Regional Greenway. And in 2016, we will see the construction of an additional 5.8 miles of new shared-use trails. Sidewalk and storm drainage improvement projects.
 Sidewalks are an essential part of the city's infrastructure, providing connections for pedestrians and bicyclists and carefully engineered storm drainage. Over 14,000 feet of sidewalks were constructed in 2015, including both replacement and new construction to complete important connections around town.
 Federal also tripled sidewalk funding adding to the city's walkability and connections to the trails system in the past five years the city has built over 60,000 feet or 11.4 miles of sidewalks throughout this city the new College Avenue sidewalk project is
 The plan for 2016 is a necessary part of the City's continued effort to make Federal's neighborhoods walkable. The enhancements will provide much-needed upgrades along College Avenue from Maple Street to North Street, and will include 10 feet wide concrete sidewalks along both sides of the highway. The project will also include installation of decorative street lights and trees,
 Modification of traffic signals at Maple and North to accommodate four-way pedestrian crossings. Reductions in driveway curb cuts, removal of overhead electric lines where feasible, and evaluation of a pedestrian crossing in the vicinity of Trenton and Rebecca to be approved by the Arkansas Highway Department. Our water and sewer utility work. Water and sewer projects are critical to our city's infrastructure.
 The city has begun construction on the Upper Skull Creek Drainage Improvement Project to alleviate flooding in the area. The Utility Department replaced or installed over 17,000 square feet of water pipe and over 6,000 square feet of sewer in 2015.
 Six new generators were installed. You remember when we had the ice storm and we didn't have any power? Six new generators were installed at water pumping stations, enabling 100% of our system to maintain water pressure and service in the event of a total power outage. Parks projects underway.
 The City of Fayetteville manages over 4,200 acres which includes 35 parks, 16 natural areas and 17 trails. We are constantly adding new programs and building new parks to keep up with the needs of our residents. This year the City participated in the Northwest Arkansas Regional Open Space Plan to identify natural landscapes and open spaces that make this region
 an attractive place to live and to identify a strategy for conservation of these natural assets. In 2016, public meetings will be held to begin the design of the master plan for the additional 10 acres at Cully Park. The new Regional Park construction of the Regional Park Phase 1 is well underway.
 This park will provide a consolidated venue for league and tournament sports, as well as many other attractive and passive recreational opportunities. This is the largest project the Parks Department has worked on in over a decade. Located off Cato Springs Road in Southwest Fedmil, the property is comprised of over 232 acres.
 Due to strong HMR tax revenues in 2015, the city was able to add a fourth baseball field to the original plan and also lights for the six soccer fields. Also in the plans are two concession restroom buildings and associated parking. Soccer will be played on these new fields by the fall of 2016. This park will offer tremendous benefits
 economic development opportunities as we bid on state and regional tournament events. The Regional Park is immediately adjacent to Kessler Mountain, an approximately 376-acre forest which will be preserved in its natural condition and open for public use. This nature preserve coupled with the developed recreational area of the Regional Park will provide the people of Fayetteville and surrounding areas
 unparalleled outdoor recreation, education, observation, and appreciation. The final draft of the Kessler Mountain Project will be taken to the Parks Board and then to you, the City Council, for approval in early spring. Citizens are already enjoying the almost seven miles of nature trail accessible from the new trailhead located at the site of the regional park.
 Our city facilities projects in 2015 also included maintenance and upgrades in over a dozen city facilities. Expansion and improvement of recycling and trash facility on Happy Hollow Road is currently underway. The project will add over 5,000 square feet to the facility and renovate the existing space. The new facility will relieve space needs for staff and parking shortfalls for the public.
 The Recycling and Trash Division, the Yvonne Richardson Community Center, and the Airport Tarmac all had lighting retrofits, utilizing incentive funds from SWEPCO, and ultimately saving over $13,000 per year in electricity and maintenance costs. The Federal Airport received $500,000 in state grants,
 to conduct a much needed terminal apron repair and a $200,000 state grant to repaint and repair runway and taxiway surfaces. In 2016, our work continues. I am focused on making sure that we continue to meet our goals to keep projects on time and on budget as we work to complete the renovation of the City Council Chamber.
 provide upgrades to the senior center kitchen, and begin development of the Woolsey Farm Master Plan. Secondly, I want to talk about technology tonight. It is a critical infrastructure in this city. Your tax dollars at work this past year also included a considerable investment in the city's digital backbone.
 Our citizens demand more electronic interaction with their city government, and in 2016 we will be meeting that demand with a $4.5 million upgrade in 2016. Federal has been recognized as a small city that rivals big cities in its digital practices. We know that transparency and accountability build trust.
 Our plan is to meet the people's expectations and send a citizen-first message. All city departments now have the capability to manage and provide updates on their web pages on a daily basis. Over the next two years, our 20-year-old financial software system will be replaced and integrated with other software updates.
 including our core financials, annual budget, payroll, and human resource systems. The new software will provide self-service options to more efficiently serve this community. Online services citizens can now access arranged from video on demand of city meetings, utility payments, job application, recreation program registration, and much, much more.
 Geographic Information Systems, GIS, apps developed in 2015 include a federal historic science map, Razorback Greenway markers, public art installations, map and trash and recycling truck routes. Also in the area of GIS, our transportation division is installing new GPS location systems and snow removal vehicles.
 allowing us to locate vehicles and personnel during inclement weather, track streets where snow removal has occurred, and allowing us to respond more quickly in an emergency situation. Additional technology projects underway in 2016. The City will replace the audio-visual systems in the meeting rooms in the City Administration Building, make the operations consistent from room to room,
 We will upgrade the television center to fully digital high definition system to meet industry standards and improve the audio and video quality of the signal for citizen engagement. Not only do we believe in transparent government and freedom of expression for our citizens, but we also believe in the power of images and video to capture the independent spirit and culture of this community.
 sharing our city services and natural beauty, celebrating our accomplishments via the website and social media channels, and continuing to offer more interactive services that will keep our citizens engaged in Federal's democratic process and the future of our community. The City of Federal believes that our digital backbone,
 is just as important as our roads, bridges, trails, parks, and utilities. Our digital city will continue to be an engine for federal's economic health, targeting industries and workforce development for today's economy. Because of our emphasis on online accessibility to citizens, we will continue to work in 2016 to enhance access for all citizens
 to affordable broadband services. Fayetteville is the first city in the state of Arkansas to join the Next Century Cities, a coalition of community leaders across the country who recognize the importance of leveraging digital assets to attract new businesses, create jobs, and connect residents to new opportunities.
 Digital inclusion for all our citizens for online learning and access to job banks is a new goal we will define as we create federal's broadband strategic plan in 2016. The next thing I want to talk about tonight is our social infrastructure. We are a healthy and welcoming city. In addition to building blocks of the physical that are the foundation of our city,
 It takes an equally solid social infrastructure to nurture every family, individual and business so that our entire community can prosper. We are and we will continue to be a safe community. The Federal Police Department has sustained accreditation year after year, demonstrating their level of professionalism and expertise that I as your mayor and federal citizens expect.
 They also recognize the value of our city's unique cultural diversity and strive to treat all citizens with kindness, tolerance, and dignity, protecting the rights and liberties and freedoms guaranteed by the law. Both FPD and the Federal Fire Department are focused on positive recruitment and selection of high-caliber personnel
 with an emphasis on recruitment of a diverse workforce to better represent the census of the population we serve. The Federal Fire Department also retains its high standards year after year and has implemented a national testing network and fitness certification for entry-level firefighter testing. The Fire Department also works to increase public
 fire safety education and conducts a federal family fire safety day each year. All of these notable continuous improvements in our police and fire programs have allowed us to continue to respond in the face of our rapid growth, but we also recognize the need to plan for the inevitable future growth to maintain our standards.
 Last year, I asked our police chief and fire chief to provide a detailed plan for how we could keep up with this growth and maintain a safe and secure city. They analyzed call volume and response times in order to identify improvements to be made. And here's what they found. Federal's police department responded to nearly 23% increase.
 and the Federal Fire Department saw a 36% increase in calls from 2008 to 2015. As we confirmed this trend in increased service calls, I asked our Chief Financial Officer to determine the most appropriate funding
 mechanism to increase staff to support our high standards for response times in both police and fire, and as a result of the City Council passing the $1.3 million new discretionary mill, we are now able to establish a new police beat.
 expanded dispatch motor officer, a new company of firefighters to provide more coverage and quicker response times for a total of 19 new public safety officers in 2016. The cost for this increase in service is no more than $20 per $100,000 of home property value, and we believe this is a small investment to pay for the safety of our city.
 As I said when I opened remarks in this section, we are a safe city and we will certainly keep it safe. We are a thriving workplace community. As a city, we strive to be a model for workplace productivity and one that rewards and motivates its employees. The city's increased revenue for the year combined with strong stewardship and money management
 We'll fully fund the salary package for employees this year without having to dip into the reserves. As mayor of this city, I am blessed with an incredibly, incredibly talented staff that we have here who manage our city resources with great care. We're a caring community. In 2015, Federal was awarded $574,209 in Community Development Block Funding.
 The city works with a number of service organizations to assist low to moderate income residents. We distribute energy efficiency and weatherization kits to qualifying residents, providing tools to weatherize homes and reduce water usage. The taxi program assisted elderly and disabled residents, and the transit program assists low and moderate income citizens with fixed route and assisted transit passes.
 Our goal of the Community Development Program for 2016 is to assist homeless persons to obtain affordable housing and assist persons at risk of becoming homeless to secure affordable permanent housing, particularly disadvantaged citizens and persons with special needs. We held the fifth annual Festival in conjunction with First Thursday.
 Festivale is a celebration of the many cultures of the Ozarks and provides exposure to many organizations, groups, performers, and artists in our region, our Animal Services Division. In December, the City Council approved renaming the Federal's Animal Shelter to the Lib Horn Animal Shelter of Federal in honor of Lib Horn's longstanding service.
 to the city both as Animal Services Director and as champion to its animal inhabitants. Following Lib's ideals, Federal takes great pride in caring for our animals and will continue to set an example of what a quality animal shelter represents. When I came into this office, the euthanasia rate at the shelter was over 50%.
 in 2009 and today through 2015 and today it continues to be low at 9.4 percent despite taking 257 more pets this year and adopting, reuniting, or sending rescue
 to 235 more animals. We also saw a 27% increase in returning pets to owners and increased our number of low spay-neuter surgeries by more than 100 over the same time period in 2014. Ranger's Pantry continues to help citizens experiencing financial hardship to get food for their pets so they don't have to surrender them because they can't feed them. We are a sustainable community.
 One major accomplishment for Federal in 2015 was the establishment of the city's PACE Improvement Project. The first in the state of Arkansas, PACE, or Property Assessed Clean Energy, is a creative financing mechanism allowing commercial property owners to borrow money at very low interest rates. Energy efficiency, renewable energy, or water conservation improvements
 are a goal for this city. Work continues on the solid waste reduction diversion recycling master plan and pilot projects are underway to determine effectiveness of types of recycling collection services and solid waste composting. The City of Fayetteville's efforts to boost recycling received this year's Arkansas Environmental Stewardship Award known as the Envy Award.
 the highest environmental award given by the state of Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality. The Keep Federal Beautiful Committee conducted two cleanups at both Lake Federal and the Razorback Greenway Trail Network and one at the Lake Sequoia to remove trash, litter, and recyclable materials. Keep Federal Beautiful also conducted the annual litter index survey. In 2016,
 We plan to set more bold goals in sustainability in this city. One will be to prioritize star outcomes and actions to be implemented over the next two years with a focus on becoming a four star community. We will begin to track and report community greenhouse gas emissions with the goal of achieving an 80% reduction in community wide greenhouse gas emissions. In our future,
 We owe this to our children and our children's children, and this we will do. We're a natural community. Federal's natural beauty, its gardens, open spaces, and natural habitat preservation continue to grow. This year's celebration of trees gave away over 800 trees to citizens.
 The city carefully selects tree types for installation along sidewalks and trails to provide shade to enhance walkability. The park's urban forestry and sustainability departments have begun to focus on invasive species removal and habitat restoration. We are increasing efforts to remove invasive plants in response to concerns about the rapid spread which harms our ecosystem.
 by choking out native plants and reducing the natural insect and animal habitat. This past summer, goats were brought in to munch on poison ivy, honeysuckle, privet, and other invasive plants at Wilson Park. The City received national recognition for the Greedy Goats Program and the National Parks and Wildlife Magazine. The Invasive Plant Ordinance Amendment
 education publication are significant steps in a community approach to dealing with invasive plants that are in response to years of research and effort from active residents and citizen advisory boards and other efforts to increase the native habitat I recently signed to save the monarch butterfly pledge with the National Wildlife Federation
 The North American monarch population has declined by more than 90% in the last two decades. In response to a call from the Wildlife Federation, several of our departments are working together to plant more habitat and engage our citizens in the spring and fall of 2016. We're a healthy community.
 With its active transportation plan, Federal is committed to developing an inclusive, multimodal transportation system to create a livable transportation network of bicycle and sidewalk infrastructure. We believe that combining pedestrian and bicycle planning into active transportation planning will yield the maximum return on the public's investment and lead to a more healthy and vibrant community.
 Federal's miles of trails lend themselves to a bicycle-friendly city. Federal is a League of American Bicyclists designated bicycle-friendly community, boasting six locally owned bike shops and an ever-growing network of bike trails and bike lanes. Federal's bike friendliness attracts visitors and new residents, reduces traffic congestion, keeps us healthy, and boosts the economy.
 With some of the best mountain biking trails in the country, Northwest Arkansas has also become a destination for mountain bikers. The Razorback Regional Greenway is a 36-mile primarily shared-use trail that extends from South Fayetteville to the Bella Vista Trail, linking dozens of popular destinations across six downtown areas.
 The University of Arkansas historic sites, arts and entertainment venues, parks, shopping areas, and residential communities. The Greenway in Federal was funded with a federal transportation grant and a gift from the Walton Family Foundation and matching city funds. An important transportation link in northwest Arkansas
 Council, we believe the Greenway is a central spine connecting all of the trail systems of the surrounding cities. Destination events, group rides, and adventure races are increasing traffic on the Greenway, which is becoming a ribbon of commerce in this city and in this region. Tourism in Federal has become a year-round adventure with new destinations opening up every day.
 all accessible by the most successful and complete multimodal transportation network available. In 2016, we will continue our partnership with the University of Arkansas to develop a community bike share program for federal and will develop an online public bicycle rack request program to facilitate the installation of more bike racks on public streets.
 The first year of the federal race series launched by the Parks and Recreation Department drew a total of 1,274 participants. This race has been a grassroots effort with the ambition to become a premier race series in Arkansas. We're a fun community. Every season in federal is beautiful, and each has its own unique event schedule. There is something for everyone here.
 From Razorback Sports and the city's many great festivals, to the Farmers Market and Gully Park concerts, to the free dive-in movies at Wilson Park sponsored by the Federal Firefighters Association, Fayville continues to be a great place to live, to work, and to play. At Performing and Visual, we're also a Performing and Visual Arts community.
 Federal is also gaining a reputation for its vibrant arts and cultural scene according to livability.com As federal's population grows so too does the interest in more and more arts and entertainment The city continues its long established partnership with the Walton Arts Center with new administrative offices and the addition of backstage spaces located in a new building on the north side of the Spring Street parking deck
 We're also excited about the new expanded entry that promises to transform the relationship between the Walton Arts Center, Dixon Street, and the Entertainment District.
 The city has also collaborated with Theater Square to achieve a significant multi-million dollar grant for design services and has committed the use of city property for their new 51,000 square foot theater, another major capital and cultural investment in our downtown area.
 Public art continues to grow in Fedville with the newly painted mural on the square, the gift from the local artist of a sculpture on the Frisco Trail, and continuation of the University of Arkansas Upstream Art Project. Painting storm drains to bring educational awareness to stormwater pollution keep Fedville beautiful.
 is continuing its utility box art program to combat graffiti and city parks is working with art students in federal public schools to display student art on the trails. In 2016, we're looking forward to an expanding partnership with the University of Arkansas Art Department for the new art and design district to be established between the Chalagi Trail
 and Martin Luther King Boulevard off Government Avenue. We're an educated community. Our schools in 2015, FedVille dedicated our new $96 million high school, a state-of-the-art facility in the school system, which is second to none in the state of Arkansas. The University of Arkansas saw student enrollment increase, a new record of 27,754 students,
 are now attending the University of Arkansas. Our research and technology park at the U of A continues to grow and is home to dozens of technology startups. Our great Federal Public Library, our world-class Federal Public Library, continues to provide services to all our citizens, including the students of our public and private schools. Over 1 million items were circulated in 2015.
 Library visits increased by 18%. Program attendance has increased by 10%. Reference services answered over 78,000 questions last year. The library hosted the third annual True Lit Federal Literary Festival, and attendance increased by 44% from 2014, with almost 900 people attending the Lois Lowry keynote lecture at the Federal Public Library.
 Several notable and award-winning authors were hosted this year. The summer reading program offered a 10-week series for all age groups, including the mayor, and the library provided free lifelong learning classes on a wide variety of subjects. In 2016, the Federal Public Library will host a centennial celebration
 will grow and expand through LIT, and will pursue plans to introduce a new app to increase access to online library services. We are a growing community. Federal's rapidly growing population from the U.S. Census Bureau in 2010 reported 73,581 people.
 to the current estimate of 80,621, and projections that maintain a strong growth is a strong indicator of a thriving community. Many people locate the federal because of quality of life, its educational opportunities, and its welcoming business climate. Through federal's business license program, listen to these numbers, counsel.
 Through the City's Business License Program, City Planning processed 767 new business applications and 2,971 renewal applications for 2015. Both new businesses and renewals of existing business licenses are at an all-time high, with a total of 3,738 businesses in this city.
 250 items were reviewed through the Planning Commission, Board of Adjustment, and Historic District Commission, and there were 433 new dwelling units and over 86,000 square feet of non-residential space approved this year. All of this physical and digital infrastructure provides the foundation for our city's growth.
 growth that can be measured by over 700 building permits approved this year, amounting to approximately $1,200,000 in permits revenue.
 including several major projects such as Whole Foods, the Walmart neighborhood market opening this spring, and a number of single and multi-family homes, projects, and student housing across town. In addition, our Development Services Department also served as liaison for economic development, assisting new startup expansion businesses in Fed Bowl, such as Matova and Overdrive Brands, to locate and or expand their facilities.
 Work will continue in 2016 on the Transportation Master Plan, which could drive future transportation projects for a decade or more. We will begin the City Plan 2035 process and we are holding and will continue to hold regular developer-focused groups to gain input, perspective on potential code and process reform.
 FedVille is experiencing a vibrant and healthy economic climate. It is a great place to nurture your families and build your dreams, your ideas, and your businesses. We have been blessed with steady growth over the past few years in all of the measurable indicators, from record increases in sales tax, building permits,
 and population growth to the infrastructure development that provides building blocks for the future and sustains and enhances our quality of life. FedVille is a progressive, business-friendly community. We believe it takes the partnership of the entire community to move its economic engine forward. We're a progressive city for economic development. Let's talk a little bit about FedVille First tonight.
 Boyette Strategic Advisers has been engaged to develop the City's new Economic Development Strategic Plan, Update Federal First, which will include identification of targeted business sectors, opportunities, along with the development of strategic recommendations to position Federal for continued economic development success. We are asking citizens to
 and business leaders through stakeholder group meetings and surveys to rank business sectors and opportunities for investment and job creation as to the best fit for FedVol in order to target our economic development efforts. I received a report today on the survey that was sent out. How long has that survey been sent out, Jeremy? Two weeks? Two months.
 Week and a half and we have over a hundred, we've had over a thousand people do that survey in this city. That's quite good. We will be looking at best practices and benchmarking against progressive and successful cities across the nation. Once this plan is completed, we will make recommendations for city council consideration and action to take this city to the next competitive level for continued prosperity.
 Moving forward, I am thinking of how much our city has grown, how it has changed, and how it continues to excel in rankings and awards. I reflect on its diversity, and I marvel at its strengths, and what great things we have ahead for us.
 We want to take this opportunity to harness our city's positive momentum and update our focus, target industries, and future opportunities for continued economic success to make Fed Bull First succeed not only on a local but on a global competitive scale. Now I know many of you have heard people say they're tired of everything going up north, but I'm tired of hearing it too.
 I want to ask you, when you hear these comments, I want you to remember the successes and accomplishments of your city as supported by all the statistics and progress in this state of the city report. I want you to reflect on these facts, be able to tell your neighbors about them, and know that you live in a progressive city.
 and one that continues to set the bar high and lead the way for others to follow. Fayetteville has proven time and again that it is a welcoming, fair, and tolerant city. People live and stay here not because of what we market, my friends, but because of what we believe. And as I close, when I count the number of ways that I truly love this city,
 I always think of its natural breathtaking beauty, its unique spot in the universe up among the hills, and as some call it, the Athens of the Ozarks. It is carefully planned urban architecture, and these days it's economic vitality. But when I count the ways that I love this city and the people that make it so unique, I am truly awestruck that we can all be so lucky to live here.
 We live in a safe community, a community that fosters a thriving workplace environment, a caring city, a sustainable community, a natural and healthy community, a fun community with unique tourism and performing and visual arts, an educated community, and a progressive city. FedVille is all of these because it is a diverse,
 and welcoming community for everyone, and a community with a vigorous tradition of freedom of expression and tolerance. As I close tonight, I leave you with this final thought, and it comes from Ralph Waldo Emerson. I was reading him a week or so ago as we were putting this speech together, and Emerson said he looked out his window at his rose garden, and in this rose garden was this rose that he noticed.
 This rose was not concerned about the roses of the past or the roses of the future, but it was beautiful and perfect in its time and in its place, which is now. And I know why I love this city, and I know why you love this city. We've had a tremendous history in this city, and we have a tremendous future ahead of us. And we all know and believe also that this city is beautiful and perfect in its time and in its place.
 Which is now. Thank you. Okay, next we will move along to the consent agenda. Number one on the consent agenda is approval of the December 15th 2015 and January 5th 2016 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $500 representing donation revenue from Pierce Manufacturing and
 to the city fire department for the annual employee service awards event. Oops, sorry Matthew. And that's it. I move we accept the consent agenda as read. Second. We have motion and second to accept the consent agenda as read. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Latorre? Yes. Wong? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes.
 All right and an unfinished business number one in ordinance rezone that property sky was only petition are the in 15 dash one 94 for approximately 53.03 acres located east of Riverwalk subdivision on dead horse Mountain Road from our PZ deal 621 70 Bellas at Stonebridge to our residential agricultural. Slept on the second reading I will entertain a motion go to 3rd and final reading. A motion in a second to go to 3rd and final read.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5194 for approximately 53 acres located east of Riverwalk subdivision on Dead Horse Mountain Road, Westfield.
 from RPCD 6-2170, Villas at Stonebridge, to RA Residential Agricultural. Okay, staff, got anything new on this? Just to remind the council what we're looking at, Stonebridge Villas is a planned zoning district that had expired from back in 2006.
 As we brought forward all the planned zoning districts over the last couple of years to get them zoned to some zoning districts So they have some rights for development. This one came forward We recommended it be returned to its original zoning that was before the previous developers had brought the item forward Which is residential agricultural are a planning commission voted in support of that request as well at the last meeting you all made a motion to I
 amend the zoning to an RSF4 with the bill of assurance that the applicant had offered that motion did not pass as my recollection and so the original RA residential agriculture was back before you tonight. Okay, just is the applicant here. Mr. Mayor, Council, my name is Robert Rhodes. I'm the law firm of Hall Estill and I'm representing the owner of
 Mitchell Massey who's in the back with again with his sidekick Maggie and I'll not I think I think six of council members were here last time I spoke and so I'll not go through that again I expect the two that weren't here probably looked at the minutes or look the film and so I'm not I'm not bore you all but I will tell you that what's different and what's different is that based on miss marshes comments and
 We had our engineer send you all a letter, which you should have in your packet, describing what the developer would do if he develops this and how the drainage issues would be taken care of, all well within the ordinances of the city as well as state laws.
 I would also like to indicate that if you recall, we had one person from the public speak last meeting, and that was Marilyn Hefner. She indicated at the meeting that she was the one who spoke against it at the first Planning Commission meeting. However, last meeting, she said now that she realized it was 2.5, she spoke for it. She said she was for the project.
 She has given me her proxy as she is at another event in the city, and she tells me to tell you all that she still is for the project. Just to kind of look at some numbers real quick, if you'll recall at the PZD level, the maximum that could have been put on this property when it was a PZD was 349 units.
 At RS4, had we not put the bill of assurance together and submitted that, the total number of units would have been 212. But with the bill of assurance at 2.5, it's 133. And I guess I would ask you to kind of think about those numbers when you look at,
 at the maps that I think I previously submitted to you all showing either a lot of flood area, a lot of flood plain area there that's not developable or the RS4 that is just all around this particular site. And again with that I would ask that, and again procedurally I'll have to ask Kit's help here, but I'd like the, we would like the council to vote
 on this, and we would hope that you would vote to allow it to be an RSF-4 with the Bill of Assurance in place at no more than 2.5 units per acre. And I'll answer any questions, and Mr. Massey will also step up if you have questions for him. Okay. Mr. Massey, would you like to address this tonight, or now, or do you want to wait until later? I mean, later? I can wait until later. Okay. Okay. Okay.
 There have been a moment offer sure once again, I'd like to amend our proposal to bring it back to or so for with the bill of assurance as Mister Rose is amply pointed out the original zoning the PDC as many more times what they're going to build now I find it difficult to believe that we're going to tell this landowner and his daughter, the future landowner that their land will be relegated to agricultural use
 I think they've gone way out of their way to make this palatable to this Council. So I make the motion to bring it to RSA 4 with the Bill of Assurance. Second. Okay, we have one. All right. So first we'll talk about the amendment. Okay. Council, we would like to start.
 That is an amendment. That's an amendment. We'll go with the amendment, and then we'll get public comment on the amendment, and then we'll. Yes, Sarah. I just want to clarify. What was the Planning Commission recommendation here? They separated it out from the rest of the planned zoning districts that had come forward. They did recommend it to be returned to the original zoning residential agricultural. Okay, and the staff recommendation as well? That's correct.
 So I feel like, you know, we're in a sense, this is an appeal of the Planning Commission and staff's recommendation. So in that sense, we should retain the original language. Okay. I will not support the amendment. Okay. Mayor, I have a question. Yeah. Okay. Was the Bill of Assurance present when the Planning Commission had their discussion? No.
 It was not. It was not? Okay. So it was basically RSF4, four units per acre, but now it's 2.5, so the Planning Commission didn't have that to consider. I don't believe the Planning Commission never voted on the RSF4 request. I believe they discussed it, but I don't believe they ever took a vote on the RSF4, if I remember
 There was no bill of assurance offered, but I do believe they, I told them they needed to recommend something to you, just like I'm asking you to vote for something, because we can't leave it in an expired PZD status, but I don't think they ever voted on their RSF-4, so it's really the decision comes with you, they just make recommendations. Sure. Thank you. Well, you all want to hear from the public on the amendment then? Okay. Who would like to address us on the amendment? If you would, ma'am, introduce yourself.
 My name is Julia Seibert. I live on 3791 East Spanish Bay Place. That's parallel road to Goff Farm Road, and I look at the mountains of Stonebridge Meadows Golf Course. And I would like to keep this a residential area because we state that the city is the winner of the Green Award. We affirm the quality of life.
 We want to keep this area rural and avoid urban sprawl, which is if we have this more building, more buildup, then we also go against the plan of 2030. Currently, we still have a lot of issues on Dead Horse Mountain with flooding. It has not gone away.
 There was some work done. We had recently flooded the area at least two feet. The fences are still destroyed. And therefore, I would like the council to vote against a development there. Okay. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. I have a comment. Yes. Okay.
 As we move forward, I don't think that I want anyone to believe that we're or that I am supporting this not to be developed. The issue that we're looking at here is a zoning issue, a zoning by right, and we're replacing a PZD, and so...
 The reason I cannot support the RSF-4 is because I would like to have more information on a development, but that's not what we're discussing this evening, we're not discussing a development. We're discussing the capacity to build on property at a certain density. And so, supporting the staff report and supporting the Planning Commission
 I'm not going to support this amendment, but I certainly want the owner of the property and anyone that wants to come forward to develop this property to know that I am not against developing this property.
 We know from previous discussions and property in this area, and we know also from the study of the West Fork of the White River, that there is a lot of water issues in the area. Yes, we have a new drainage water policy in place, and that certainly has the capacity to handle a lot of the issues associated with property such as this.
 But I think that in my mind, what we have to think about is zoning as zoning. And so I can't support the RSF-4 with the bill of assurance, where I could possibly support a form-based zoning or a PZD with specific development that can be considered as we move forward.
 I know that this area does have a lot of problems, and we've heard it in previous discussions with landowners that are in this area. So we cannot deny that there is flooding issues. We know the flood plain, we know the delicacy of the West Fork of the White River, and so,
 Looking at this type of reasoning and I did remove a review the meeting that I was not here At that I missed when I was out of the United States So I'm going to support the staff Recommendation and the recommendation of the Planning Commission at this time and I cannot support the general rezoning with the bill of assurance as it stated I
 Well, I come to the same conclusion You know in addition to the drainage infrastructure problems that have been outlined I think we have some transportation infrastructure concerns with developing on the edge of town like this You only have to visit crossover and highway 16 730 in the morning or 530 in the evening to understand there's a never-ending congestion issue out there and
 It's caused directly by having so much housing developed to the east of that intersection, and this would add ait would giveit would establish the right to build 130 more homes. It would add to that. I think we need to be more cognizant of where we're allowing housing to be built. And more to the point, you know, I've voted to overrule or overturn the Planning Commission and the staff on a dozen or so occasions in the past.
 In each one of those cases, I think we've been presented with compelling reasons to do so, and I just haven't heard those compelling arguments tonight. And so I'm very cautious about overruling staff in the Planning Commission, and I haven't been convinced to do so. Okay. Mayor. Yes. I will be supporting the 2.5. That, to me, is quite a bit different from the 4.0.
 And I feel that this developer has given us a bill of assurance which will stay with the property, and I feel that with our new drainage rules that we have, we should be able to build the 2.5 per acre and control the drainage. Regarding the 130 houses and the intersection,
 If you've been there since we've opened up the new highway and all the new design of that intersection, you will see it's like night and day from what it used to be.
 I go through that intersection quite frequently. Never once since the new intersection has been opened up have I been delayed. So I think that the design of that intersection has been very, very important and quite significant and something that we should take into consideration.
 I think that it is a very important point to make that the Planning Commission did not have the 2.5 when they did not have the Bill of Assurance. And so I think that is quite significant, and I will be voting for this and encouraging these developers to move on with their planning. Thank you. So we have an amendment for RSF 4. I want to make sure everybody's clear. Subject to the Bill of Assurance.
 That's what we're dealing with right now at this moment. Did I ask for public comment on the amendment? I believe I did. Okay. We're here and we're now then. So the vote right now is on the amendment to change it from RA to RSF-4. Correct? Am I right? Change it to RSF-4 subject to the bill of assurance. All right. Any other final comments? Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Let her yes long. Yes, great. Yes, Mar no Kenyan. No, Eddie no tenant. Yes, shot my. Yes, the amendment passed. OK, now we're voting on the complete ordinance. We're voting either for an RSF for right or not. We're subject to the bill of assurance. Just making sure I got everything straight here. Everybody good. All right.
 Now that it's been amended to an RSF-4, is there any public comment on this? You can speak again. Well, this is on the complete ordinance now to change it to RSF-4. If you'd like to speak again, you all may. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay.
 I need to know what RSA4 stands for. That's four units per acre. Residential single family, four units per acre, but subject to the bill of assurance, it says no more than 2.5 units per acre. Oh. What I said before stands. Okay. Thank you. Jeremy, does this change y'all's opinion on this one way or the other, going to a bill of assurance to 2.5? It does not, no. Okay. Just checking. All right. Here we are. Sarah. Um...
 You know, last water sewer solid waste meeting, we talked a lot about the
 West Fork of the White River and the impairment of that waterway and the potential that we may need to construct a, we don't have an exact number on it, but the ballpark estimates are 30 million plus facility in order to clean out the damage that's being done to that waterway. That's an extraordinary potential burden for our taxpayers in order to accommodate this kind of development, which is inconsistent with our 2030 city plan.
 You know, if we think about how we've plotted for development and the mayor's box around the city, this property lies well outside the mayor's box, making it extraordinarily difficult to serve with public transit, our trail system, and a lot of the other amenities that our citizens expect.
 We additionally have access issues. If you disregard the potential amount of traffic generated by 212 new homes,
 The primary access in and out of this property is on Dead Horse Mountain Road, a road that has been significantly impacted by flooding. And I question our ability to safely and efficiently serve this area of town with police or fire services in the event of any kind of flooding issue.
 We saw that up on Mount Sequoia with the Rogers Drive collapse and our inability to get fire trucks in and out of that area, and this is more of the same.
 You know, we've also seen testimony from a lot of residents in other areas along the Stonebridge Meadow Golf Course about the flooding that they are experiencing. And I see no reason to believe that this development would be significantly different from that. And I think it would be irresponsible of us to allow more developments in these flood-prone areas. Okay.
 you know and i you know i think it's really important what the citizen said earlier about avoiding sprawl and keeping this area rural and i think that we've made a commitment to our citizens to uphold our 2030 city plan and this is inconsistent with those goals
 As far as opportunities for some development, I think another PZD would be appropriate. I think that this can handle some development if done sensitively. And also residential agriculture still allows for some
 housing development, so we're not completely closing it off to any development, but I think it would be irresponsible of us to go forward with the RSF for even with the bill of assurance because 2.5 units per acre. That's really a recipe for sprawl, especially when you consider the amount of impervious surface area by each
 house as well as you know when you tend to build that density you're going to have a lot of lawns which turf grass not really known for its ability to absorb water. So I just I don't think that this is the right fit for our community. I mean by. Lisa would you please call the road. What you're yes, yes, great yes, March, no, you know, Eddie yes.
 Senate yes, the ordinance passes. Okay. All right. Let's move on to number two resolution to grant the appeal of a conditional of PPL 15 dash 52 53 to require the developer to build a connection to box trail. Jeremy.
 mayor council as we discussed at the last agenda session just a little history on this project it's located within the city's planning area which is a territorial jurisdiction that the city has adopted as a future growth area outside our city boundaries state statutes do give the city the ability to exercise subdivision regulations within our planning area we do not exercise zoning the county actually exercises their zoning jurisdiction
 I'm want to plan areas adopted in addition to this state that you also give the county certain rights to exercise control of a road regulations including design specification specifications road configuration and drainage if it affects county roads. Lastly, both the city and county have adopted specific regulations that differentiate the standards that apply within one mile of our city limits and then outside one mile of our city limits.
 Our current code state that within one mile of our city limits basically all of our city regulations apply and outside one mile county regulations apply. It's with that additional research and discussion with our city attorney we feel like the appropriate thing to do in this particular item is to recommend approval of the resolution as Mr. Williams has drafted. Because this property lies approximately 1.5 miles beyond the city's boundary and we feel therefore that the county subdivision standards or county road specifications and configurations should apply.
 So the city could certainly deny subdivision plot if we feel like it was a traffic safety danger. However, as the report clearly present, we've studied the site distance areas for the access on Huntsville Road and feel those do meet our requirements. The county will also exercise their review over this project as part of their subdivision regulations and apply conditions of approval to the project. So we're recommending approval of removing the condition number two from the planning commission approval. Okay.
 So, Mr. Yes, ask your question. Yeah, Jeremy. Is this something the developer has proposed? You were removing a restriction from the developer. That's correct. This is their it's their appeal. They requested that's the whole appeal is requesting removal of this condition. Thank you. We recommend in favor of that. That's correct. Right. Any questions for Jeremy? Tom, you want to say something more? Good evening, Mayor.
 Great speech. Thank you. I just want to go run a marathon after that. It was excellent. I'm here on the behalf of the subdivision, and I appreciate your comments, Jeremy and Kit, on the distance issue.
 We felt like it was a reasonable request, and we appreciate the amended language, and we respectfully ask for your approval. So with that, I'll sit down unless anybody has a question. Any questions for Tom on this? But I appreciate the council's thoughts on this and the rework. Thank you. You're welcome, Tom. Any other public comment on this? Okay, and we'll bring it back to the council. Motion to pass the resolution. And motion second to pass the resolution. Okay.
 Everybody good? Uh-huh. Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Okay, thank you all. All right, on to new business. Number one.
 Resolution to amend the 2016 adopted budget by reappropriating $71,748,700 and bonded our ongoing capital projects, outstanding obligations, and grant-funded items. Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Annually, we bring forward a reappropriation request, which is what this constitutes.
 There's no authorization within the Arkansas statutes for multi-year budgeting. So each year, everything has to be budgeted for that particular fiscal year. Annually we come forward and we ask for continuing CIP projects.
 bond monies that haven't been spent and grants to continue forward or be authorized for expenditure. This year that request is 71 million $748,000 that would take our total budget to 219 million dollars when we couple that with the operating budget. So again what this does is it
 for the council to reauthorize or reappropriate those budgets for continuing capital improvement projects, bond money that has not yet been spent, and contracts and obligations, which we've already committed to close out last fiscal year. And I'll be happy to answer questions. What questions do we have for Paul?
 Could you just describe for us, Paul, maybe one or two of the largest CIP projects that we have, including the $71 million appropriation? Sure, I can. One of the largest single projects is the regional park. This is asking for the reappropriation of $6 million to come forward for the regional
 Another one is there are over 19 million dollars for water and sewer. Now this addresses rehabbing the water lines, sewer lines. We've had a lot of discussion lately about what are we doing to make sure that our lines stay in repair, things of that nature, so that reappropriates
 that particular project. It also reauthorizes approximately $12 million worth of bond funds to continue the street program that was authorized by the voter in 2006. Those are some of the large ones, larger ones. So the 71 million transaction that we have in front of us, this is spending that's already been approved in our budget process? In previous years.
 Yes, this is in previous years it's been authorized, John. This is coming forward and ask it to be reauthorized. So in prior years it was appropriated. This is asking to reauthorize. And again, this doesn't necessarily spend the money. As we go forward, we...
 I have the same procedures we have that procedures for anything over twelve twenty thousand dollars we come to the council for authorization so this is an automatic expenditure this is the odd of the authorization or inclusion in the budget. Anything else. Is there any public comment on this? And that will bring it back to the council. Maybe we pass the resolution. A motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments?
 Please would you please call the roll mature. Yes, yes, great, yes, March, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, OK number 2, an ordinance to amend 72.02 consensual non consensual lease initiated.
 towing, storage, and impoundment procedures. In 72.03, parking prohibited in certain places to clarify that persons may not legally park their motor vehicles on city trails. All right, Kit. Whereas our citizens using city multi-use trails have encountered problems with persons parking their motor vehicles on these trails, and whereas it was not anticipated that persons would block multi-use trails by parking their motor vehicles upon them,
 And so no express prohibition of this rude and disruptive behavior was originally enacted into our parking regulations chapter of the Fayetteville Code, but should be enacted now. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby enacts an amendment to section 72.02 non-consensual police initiated towing, storage and impoundment procedure subsection A by amending its introductory language to read as follows. Subsection A in addition to ticketing an illegally parked vehicle.
 The police department is hereby authorized to initiate a non-consensual tow or otherwise remove a vehicle from a highway, street, street right-of-way, trail, trail right-of-way, city parking lot or other city-owned property or right-of-way not authorized for parking and have it towed to the storage facility within Fayetteville or within three miles of the city limits under the following circumstances and amend subsection 3's introductory language to read...
 when any vehicle is parked illegally and left unattended upon a street, street right of way, trail or trail right of way, and constitutes a hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic on the street or trail. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fairville Arkansas hereby amend Section 72.03, parking prohibited in certain places, by enacting a new subsections O and P as shown below, O,
 On a city trail or trail right of way except for government vehicles on official business. And P, in a city park except for areas designated for parking or otherwise allowed by city staff.
 This issue came to my attention when city staff was a little concerned and sent me a picture of a pickup truck parked blocking a city trail through an apartment complex. And another picture showing about five or six scooters parked along the trail, which also impedes the use of that trail.
 We, when we were drafting the parking regulations, I guess naively assumed that people would not park their motor vehicles on the city trail since they were not allowed to drive their motor vehicles on the city trail. But that was not in our code, and therefore, since it might be impossible to catch them actually driving on the trail, that it was probably better to go ahead and say you can't park on the trail either. Okay.
 And so I drafted up this change to the Fayetteville Code in order to give our police officers that specific power for trail or trail right of way. And so that's basically all we've added in here. And I trust our police to be able to hopefully enforce this. I know that we used to have trouble years ago at the Walton Arts Center when it was still free where students would park illegally in the driveways, drive-through lanes and
 And all the police really had to do is put out a few cautionary warnings, not full tickets, and lo and behold, people started conforming to the law, and we did not actually have to tow a bunch of them out of the Walton Arch Center parking lot, which is what some of us feared would happen. And I would imagine the same thing can happen here when people realize that we are going to enforce no parking on the trails. Hopefully that behavior will stop. I really need to do that.
 What questions does the council have on this? Yes, Alan. I have a question. Really, it's for Kit. On section 72.02, subsection B, C, I don't believe D, D,
 Contains it, yes, just section B and C. It refers to whenever the police department removes a vehicle from a street under this section. And it says the same thing in the beginning of Subject, section C, but those two sections talk about notification to the owner or how they find the registration records, but it only refers to a street.
 Should those also reference the other sections mentioned in 72.03? I don't think we necessarily need to change them because this is directing our police department. Of course, one of the problems we're going to have with motor scooters parked along the trail is that a lot of them don't have any registration. If they're sub 50 cc's, they will have no registration, so it will be somewhat more difficult for the police to find the owners.
 Would doubt I would certainly ask the the police department to go ahead and and follow this procedure as they must do for due process Reasons to notify the owner if they can find the owner Anytime a vehicle is seized. I think it's rare and it's going to be very rare on the trail as I said I believe and maybe a representative Police Department up here, but I think initially probably they'll handle this and
 I see some of them back there, but nobody's jumping up. I was thinking about motorcycles, because we do host Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue, and they all have registrations and license plates. Captain Brown from the Police Department. The problem that I do see is getting a hold of
 Scooter owners because they are not required to be ready. No cars is a different story We would probably try to contact the owner before we would take it in tow anyway and ask them to move them Mm-hmm, and you know the problem again is gonna be with scooters with no registration And I'm not sure how you can do that I know there were suggestions from Alderman on the tour that we could leave them a little note saying that if that was your scooter Please contact the police department. Hopefully initially what we do is just maybe a fixed tickets to the scooters and
 say that this is your one warning and after that it is subject to not only be ticketed but removed and officers have that discretion to issue a written warning or a ticket or tow anyway well maybe we should tell the public right now that if your scooter turns up missing call the police first
 and ask if you've towed it. Well, there you go, John. I just did. Good. I bet they will. That's what I would think. They would call the police and say, my scooter's been stolen, and they say, actually, no, we've got it. We stole it. That would actually give them then the ability to learn from their mistakes. Anyway, I felt like we should give the policing authority to write a ticket.
 or actually to tow the vehicle that's actually blocking the trail. And I would hope that the police would take a light hand approach initially to give people educated and warning because they're accustomed to parking their scooters on the trail. We would. Okay. We would. Sure. Thank you. Yes, sir. I don't know. I still lookI'm looking at section 72.02 for non-consensual police-initiated towing, storage, and impoundment procedures.
 If we're saying in subsections B and C that when the police department removes a vehicle from a street, I feel like we should also reference the other areas, trails, sidewalks. I just think for the sake of consistency that our laws should be written that way. We're visiting the subject. Why not take care of it now? I'm going to offer an amendment to 72.5.
 02 non-consensual police initiated towing storage and impoundment procedures subsections B and C to Change the word street to the areas mentioned in 72.03 parking prohibited in certain places That would mean from a highway street street right-of-way trail trail right-of-way city parking lot or other city-owned property. I
 or right of way not authorized for parking right that's a longer version of that and i have no objection to that it's uh you know i like to keep the code as short as possible i like it as consistent as possible too so i have no objection to adding that for both b and c i'll second that thank you okay well let's in discussion on the amendment anybody in the public want to comment on the amendment okay i'll bring it back to the council
 be the amendment first amendment first yes any more discussion or anything everybody got it okay you're further along than i am okay i had a little trouble with some of that but so we're changing the word from street to include all about those six or seven other places items in 72.0 suggestion would it be better to say from a prohibited parking area
 Instead of all those things, that would be shorter. That's why I was kind of suggesting that items in 72.03. Okay. To include those. Do you want to change it? I think it's the same thing either way. I just think if we say prohibited parking area, it covers everything. I agree. We don't have to repeat all those words over and over again. So I would like to change it if you're a minimum. I'll change my initial motion. If you'll change your second. Second. Okay. All right, change the word street to,
 Prohibited parking area. Okay. I got that one.
 Thank you all. All right. The amendment is B and C to change the word street to prohibited parking areas. Is that the gist of it? Yeah. All right. I think we're ready to vote. Oh, yes, I am. All right. Any other comments from the council? All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Vaughn. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Okay. Schottmeyer. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry, Marty. Sorry.
 All right. All right. Now we have the amended ordinance. Yes. Is there any public comment on the amended ordinance?
 all right seeing that i'll bring it back to the council do we have any final comments yes sir i just want to say thank you um to staff for bringing this forward uh this has been a real problem in my area um and i suspect as we build more of the multi-use trails alongside our streets or you know crossing people's driveways it's going to become more and more common so this is good work that's those pictures were taken from our neck of the woods
 I just do want to remind the council this is an ordinance and will require the advancement of readings if you- Yes. I'm fixing to do that very thing. I said final comments, I meant. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Latorre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 And orders to amend section 72.02 non-consensual police initiated towing, storage and impoundment procedures and section 72.03 parking prohibited in certain places to clarify that persons may not legally park their motor vehicles on city trails. I move to go to the third and final reading. Motion is second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Lutcher? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Shopmeyer?
 An ordinance to amend section 72.02 non-consensual police initiated towing storage and impoundment procedures and section 72.03 parking prohibited in certain places to clarify that persons may not legally park their motor vehicles on city trails.
 or drive on them either yes yes when i first saw that picture kit said well they're parked i said well thank goodness they weren't speeding anyway but anyway any final comments council all right lisa would you please call the row mature yes yes gray yes marsh yes union yes penny yes yes thank you very much you got to go
 That concludes our business. Any announcements? Mayor, we have two announcements from the staff tonight. The first is that at 5.30 p.m. on Thursday the 21st at the Fayetteville Town Center,
 The City Council has contracted OYET strategic advisors to conduct a public input session for our citizens to provide input on economic development strategy update for the City of Fayetteville. This is your chance to give input, so we'd like to call all students who talked about
 the difficulty of finding jobs when they graduate, workers who'd like higher paying positions, to businesses who would like different development codes, all of those things that we hear about, to please come and provide your input into those
 economic development strategic plan input session Thursday this Thursday 21st 530 p.m. at the Fayetteville Town Center also to remind all citizens who might be watching and for those of you traveling tonight we are under winter weather advisory and there is a chance of winter weather impact tonight and tomorrow morning during the morning commute to work
 We have posted slides from the National Weather Service on the city's Facebook page, which gives updated information on weather projections that could impact your commute. So if you take extra time, it looks like it would be more of an ice event than a snow event. So please be careful in your commute.
 Anything else? Yes, Al. We'll have a ward four meeting at City Hall, room 111, on Monday, the 25th of January at 6 p.m. Okay. Anybody else? I will be leaving tomorrow for the United States Conference of Mayors in Washington, D.C., and will be there through Saturday.
 I sit on two national boards one is housing and urban development and the other one is parks tourism So I guess I should notify the City Council that next Tuesday The ordinance the civil rights uniform civil rights protection ordinance has been scheduled for hearing At 10 o'clock in front of Judge Martin in his courtroom in the Washington County Courthouse Since you all are all
 Parties to this suit. I thought I should let you know your attendance is certainly not required at all. I will be there and Make the arguments the Attorney General Arkansas has intervened and so she will have a representative there as well as the plaintiffs attorney anything else. Okay. Thank you all were adjourned