I would like to call the City Council meeting on January 16, 2018 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Wood here. Present. Here. Here. Gray. Here. Here. Union. Here. Eddy. Here. Tenet. Here. Bunch. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you go ahead and pledge to leave the position?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. First order of business we have tonight under the mayor's announcements, proclamations, recognition, city council meeting presentation, reports, discussion, items.
 The first item we have tonight is the Public Facilities Board appointment. Mark, do you have that? Yes, we have a Public Facilities Board recommendation from the Public Facilities Board. It's Kelsey Kent, one term ending 12-31-22.
 this has not been to the full committee because we didn't receive it in time but i would submit it for consideration i suppose to the full city council because it is a an appointment that's sent to us by the fayetteville public facilities board okay well all right what discussion do we want to have on this
 Or, Kith, I mean, what, it didn't go through committee, but we can go ahead and consider it? Yes, you can if you want to. They do a nomination as to whether you all affirm it or not. This board primarily just handles bond issues very occasionally. Not sure if anything is coming up, but certainly they need a full board if possible. So I recommend we move forward for consideration by the full City Council. Okay.
 That's a motion. Do we have a second? Adela? I second that motion. All right. Any discussion on it? Any else? Am I good? If the neighbor is seconder, please put the motion in. Okay. Sorry. Good. All right. So not any discussion. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 No. Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenant? Yes. Okay. Number two is the Housing Authority Board appointment. Mark, you had that one. Similarly, we did not receive this from the Housing Authority in time to be considered with our other appointments.
 i would suggest that we did receive a notification from the housing authority with the recommendation of christopher white one this is a reappointment one term ending in 12 28 22.
 Okay. Sarah, I see you on the phone. Yes. I did receive quite a bit of feedback from constituents who were present at the meeting where they interviewed the candidates, and they encouraged us to select someone else. Christopher White has been on the board for at least one term, and I think we all know
 issues we've had with the Housing Authority Board. I would really like to see us make some changes to that committee and get some new blood in there, so I will not be supporting the renomination of Christopher White. Okay.
 Well, we've got to have somebody to put the nomination on the floor, I would assume. If we're going to do that. Well, the statute says that if the governing body fails to confirm or reject the commissioner's appointment within 45 days after receiving the written notice of the appointment, the appointment shall be deemed confirmed and the governing body shall have no further power to act in that case. So you would need to act within 45 days receiving the notice.
 and you either affirm or deny it. If you reject it, then it goes back to the housing authority board for them to recommend the appointment of somebody else.
 So do we tonight table it or vote it down or what do we need to do? It's really at the city council's, whatever they want to do. If the 45 days is, I don't know, when was the notification provided? December 28th. According to the letter that was sent out, the letter was written on December 29th, 2017.
 But I certainly didn't receive it at that point. DAVID BURRAGE. When you have an idea of when it was actually received by? DAVID BURRAGE. This was sent to the city clerk's office.
 Is there an indication of when it was actually received? It was probably received that day. And the next day, I'd have to look in the email. You look at stamps. It says received by time. If it came by email, it probably would be stamped received. If you get emailed, it would be. Okay. Everything I get always says received by time. I didn't have a question. Yeah. So I'm just trying to get clarification on it. It has nothing to do with the person, because I don't know the person. So this board...
 normally would put this nomination in and the nominating committee would talk about it. Yes. But in this case, just like the other one, we didn't get it in time for the nominating. But we do have quarterly nominating committee meetings. That is correct. And they are announced and the vacancies are all published and this was published. I mean, there's just a part of me that wants to keep consistent with the quarterly system we have in place, but I don't know if it would harm the board if we –
 waited until the next committee meeting, the nominating committee meeting. When is that, Mark? It shouldn't harm the Board because the standard rule is that you continue serving until your replacement has been appointed. So that person, even though their term might be officially up, is probably still serving and will continue to serve until their replacement has been properly approved. So will it be in February? It will be in late February.
 That's only a month from now. Or a month and a week. Yeah, that takes time. Because that's when we will, yeah. Okay. I mean, I'm just saying we could. It would be early March, but either the last of February or very early in March. Okay. With appointments generally beginning in April. So if there's no action taken by the council, does it just? As long as you don't go past the 45 days. If you go past the 45 days, that person is automatically approved.
 Mayor, so I think the recommendation of the or the comment of the city attorney is if the council wants to see a new name or the opportunity to interview, you would need to turn this one down so you actually have an action take place and then you could vote when the next name is presented. Or can I say one more thing? Yeah, you sure can. I mean, if we did that and this was the only nomination.
 then we do what we usually do when there's only one nomination and a point unless we just decide to leave it open so i don't know what harm it is and waiting the statute says they will appoint another person so they could not appoint the same person according to the state law but they still only appoint a single person and then it comes back to you again i see
 I would just add that as a member of the nominating committee, I'd be happy to convene a special meeting if we need to do so to get this vacancy filled. This is a very small board. They only have, I believe, five members right now. And so, you know, as few as three people can constitute a quorum, which I think is, you
 a dangerous position and I know that one of the newest board members Melissa Terry is making inquiries with the I believe the Secretary of State on how or no the Attorney General in determining if they can actually expand the number of members on the board so that we get a little more broad perspective but I think it was pretty clear from the information that I read from the the last this
 latest decision-making process that they've used that we really need some fresh blood on this board and Reappointing this candidate. I don't think is the right choice for our city and the people who are dependent on these services So if they could just bring us another nominee there were quite a few qualified nominees that had applied and
 so i i don't have any um reservations that we'll be able to put someone appropriately qualified in the board and good in a timely manner okay more in order to move the process i'm going to go ahead and move that we consider this if you don't want to consider this individual then i guess you can not support the consideration but if you feel this is something you want to support then you can consider it but i am going to move that we
 consider the nomination from the housing authority to be considered this evening and as a mayor i certainly want to see a consensus among this council in a decision like this i really do so i mean um adele i will second that motion all right all right um matthew the motion is to approve the nomination yes that is the motion okay all right any other discussion
 All right, Senator, please call the roll. Woodrow? No. Smith? No. Gray? Yes. Marsh? No. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Bennett? No. Bunch? I marked it bad, so I'm here. I haven't had a chance to show you your hair, so if you'll just vote, then I'll get it put in.
 So it did not pass, so that means you're going to be looking at some more people, if I understand this correctly. Well, what I would like to do, just to make it clear, because it says if the governing body fails to confirm or reject the commissioner's appointment within 45 days after receiving it, then the written notice of appointment, the appointment shall be deemed confirmed. So here the governing body has failed to confirm, but it has not rejected it.
 And if you think that you actually would need to reject this nominee or else it's going to be automatically confirmed within 45 days of when they filed. Okay, let's see. I've got Kyle Smith. So is that something we could table within the 45 days and potentially look at interviewing in the special session of the nominating committee and come back to it?
 Unless, I think if you reject this particular nominee, then it goes back to the housing committee and they will then submit somebody else to you. So it's not like a normal situation where you can interview a whole bunch of different people and choose who you like. That's not the way it goes. And actually, I don't think that unless you approve a motion to reject a candidate, you have not taken final action.
 therefore it won't go back to them and eventually this person is going to be approved anyway just automatically so that would mean exactly what if they reject this candidate then then it goes housing authority will bring another candidate yes then it would go back to the Housing Authority and they have 30 days to submit another camera all right John that's interesting
 all right sarah i'll second that motion okay john you're back on the floor it would appear now you're not all right we have a motion in a second to reject this candidate correct all right any discussion on that yes matthew thank you um i don't think we've done this before so i just wanted to give a quick comment um you know i i voted to confirm the candidate just a moment ago because um
 they were nominated by the housing authority and i don't really have any evidence before me with respect to this particular candidate to tell me why i would not support them if somebody wanted to present some of that i'd certainly give it a due consideration by this point i don't really see any evidence not to appoint it well let's let's look at this for a moment is anybody from the housing authority here all right we'll bring it back to the council just checking all right
 We have a motion and a second to reject the candidate, correct? Yeah. All right. If there's not any other discussions, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Well, Chair. Yes. Smith. No. Gray. No. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. No. Petty. No. Emmett. No. Bunch. No. I don't show anything for Council Member Gray. Yes.
 sorry okay so neither one of those ended this particular nomination the which means in 45 days after notice this person will in fact take office unless the City Council does something else so I guess you all will be having a meeting of some sort I guess we will
 All right. Well moving right along The next order of business we have is presentation of the city of federal smarteners the King Brotherhood award by Kent Williams Mr. Mayor City Council members of the audience for the last 16 years I have been privileged to select and honor the
 City of Fayetteville employee to receive the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award. This award is given annually in recognition to that city employee whose service to our city and to our community best exemplifies Dr. King's dream of equity, justice, and brotherhood.
 This year's honoree joins a distinguished list of City employees who have embodied Dr. King's dream and have helped fulfill his legacy of hope and service to our community. This year's honoree has also exemplified Dr. Martin Luther King's spirit of equality and legacy of service. He has proven his commitment to improving our community by championing opportunities for our disadvantaged citizens.
 For the last dozen years at the Fayetteville Police Department, this officer has participated in and coordinated our local law enforcement torch run to raise money and public awareness for the Special Olympics. He has helped and recruited fellow officers to join in other fundraising events and assist athletes in the Special Olympic Games. Last year, Corporal Greg Dodson was selected by Special Olympics International
 to participate in the law enforcement torch run in Austria for the 2017 Special Olympic World Games. Corporal Dodson helped carry the flame of hope to the Austrian Special Olympics World Games. Corporal Dodson has also excelled as a Fayetteville police officer and has served as a firearms instructor, field training officer, and crisis negotiator. Corporal Greg Dodson currently works in the Community Oriented Policing Division
 and has helped develop community outreach programs. He has also been certified as a peer support counselor to assist his fellow officers. Corporal Dotson's long service to our disadvantaged citizens, to fellow officers, and to Fayetteville exemplifies Dr. Martin Luther King's dream of equality, justice, brotherhood, and service to others and to our community.
 It is now my honor to present the 2018 City of Fayetteville Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award to its worthy recipient, Corporal Greg Dotson of the Fayetteville Police Department. I'd ask him to come forward. Congratulations. Well done. Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is the State of the City.
 Okay, so now I'm bringing forward the State of the City for 2018. It's been quite a year and so I'm going to report to you tonight on the State of the City and where we've been and where we're going. To the City Council, the City Attorney, the City Clerk and all of our citizens, I offer you the following remarks in our 2018 State of the City.
 My friends, as Eleanor Roosevelt once said, believe in yourself. You gain strength, courage, and confidence by every experience in which you stop to look fear in the face. You must do that which you think you cannot do. The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams. It takes strength and courage to follow your dreams, to do what you think you cannot do. In this city, we dream big, and we need to continue to stay focused
 and know that what we're doing now will lay the groundwork for future generations to build upon. We must continue to forge ahead and make sure that we don't move to the safe zone. We must remain consistent and steady, taking just the right bold risks to set things in motion for the future. It is not a question of whether but when and what pace. We invite change to achieve a sustainable outcome.
 The year of 2017 was one of those years that was shaped by many bold decisions and by very fortunate circumstances. I'd like to spend some time with you tonight reflecting on this past year and laying the foundation for what is to come. As I begin this State of the City, I want to thank certain individuals and teams who have helped us continue to forge ahead and lead this very successful city.
 I want to thank our city clerk, Sondra Smith, for her and her staff's excellent work to make city government transparent and accessible to the people and to keep us organized as we govern together. Thank you, Sondra. I also want to thank city attorney Kit Williams for his and his staff's excellence in providing sound legal guidance and his work on behalf of the citizens of Federal. Thank you, Kit. I would also like to thank Judge Bill Story
 and his court staff for their excellent work on ensuring a superior district court and providing justice for our community and i want to thank you the city council for your hard work over the past year for serving your constituents and the city as a whole with your financial stewardship and strategic leadership and also couldn't end my thank yous without taking a moment to thank all of our dedicated city staff and all of our citizens for your hard work and support over the past year
 We are truly fortunate to have the best, most talented, and hardest working city staff of any city always seeking continuous improvement. Our citizens are extremely active and bold in their thinking, and our city council supports those citizens' initiatives with a passionate, sincere, and dedicated commitment to public service. For without you, our city would not achieve the excellence we have attained, and we will continue to.
 to strive for excellence in the upcoming year of 2018. I want to thank our Convention and Visitors Bureau team, Experience Federal, all of the great work they do promoting our city. I want to thank our economic development partners, the Federal Chamber of Commerce and Startup Junkie Consulting. I also, I also thank, I want to thank our partnerships with the University of Arkansas, Federal Public Schools,
 the Federal Public Library, our regional medical facilities, and the hundreds of community support organizations and volunteers. The work we do together proves that our partnership-based government is thriving. Together, our choices can have a positive impact on the lives of our residents, with the decisions we make every day for all of our people to protect their interests and provide for their needs.
 As your mayor, I'm always thinking about how to make life better for everyone. I'm always exploring and expanding what is possible within this administration. In addition, I'm working hard to create a welcoming, equitable community for all of our citizens. Last year I talked about the soul of our community and how we can continue to progress with the principles that have defined our culture.
 And despite uncertainties that might arise, I promise to maintain what we can to the best of my ability and overcome these obstacles. This administration always strives to manage the interconnections of this community to ensure prosperity, fairness, and resilience.
 Now let us take a few moments to celebrate some of the successes of the past year. And I want to commend the council again, the staff, and the citizens, because the awards that we have received this year has been done by the hard work that you all do, and the city staff does, and then very active citizenship. So I want to thank everybody for everything that you've done, and I want you to listen to some of the awards that you all have accomplished in this last year. The following list of awards and recognitions describes our city well.
 In 2017, we were named one of the fifth best places to live by U.S. News and World Report, seventh best city to launch a career by Realtor.com, and the eighth top cities for career opportunities from SmartAsset.com. Last week, Talk Business presented Federal with four Trendsetter Cities Awards in the categories of Workforce Development,
 infrastructure, environment, and wellness. The Federal Public Library was again chosen as Best Public Library by both Cityscapes Magazine and the Northwest Arkansas Democrat Gazette's Best of 2017 Reader's Polls. With CH2, we maintained our position as the top water resources utility of the future today for the second year in a row.
 We were honored by Preserve Arkansas for the rehabilitation of our historic Maple and Lafayette Street bridges. We were presented the 2017 Special Contribution to Planning Award by the Arkansas Chapter of the American Planning Association for a Tactical Urbanism Application Process. We were awarded our second glass recycling program of the year from Ripple Glass,
 Our city recycles more than 20 tons of glass each week. Our walkability initiatives earned us a bronze level walk-friendly community designation, the first one in the state of Arkansas. In addition, our commitment to improving conditions for bicycling advanced us to the silver level designation of bike-friendly city, one of only 73 across the nation and the first one in the state of Arkansas.
 The Arkansas Parks and Recreation Association presented five awards to our Parks and Recreation Department for volunteerism, trail work, and recreational events. The Arbor Day Foundation again recognized us as a Tree City USA community for the 22nd consecutive year. The American Heart Association also named the city as a fit, friendly employer.
 We received the Distinguished Budget Presentation Award and Certificate of Achievement from the Governmental Finance Officers Association. Our Media Services Division received two Telly Awards and expanded public access television services to include Washington and Benton counties. Earlier I spoke about dreaming big, staying focused, and laying the groundwork for future generations.
 In 2017, we worked hard on numerous master plans to ensure our community is thoughtful about the future. We implemented the first year of our five-year economic vitality plan, Federal First, and welcomed the City's first economic vitality director. We adopted a new solid waste reduction, diversion, and recycling master plan with a goal of achieving 40% waste diversion by 2027.
 We adopted an energy action plan, the first in the state of Arkansas. The plan also makes federal the 54th U.S. city to adopt a 100% clean energy goal. We also purchased 100 shares of solar energy panels. We conducted a parking management study and the federal mobility plan to determine what strategies and investments are needed to improve transit in our community.
 We completed our welcoming federal plan for integrating new Americans into our community. Look for this plan to come before the City Council in the first quarter of 2018. We completed our work plan for drainage design and construction in 2018. Our city is growing and changing as more people choose to move here. This year we will revisit City Plan 2030.
 our roadmap to the future to make sure we preserve what makes federal special while we prepare for an even greater future. Our continued work on North College Avenue connects us to our neighbors to the north and serves as a front door to downtown federal. In 2018 we will be working with adjacent property owners and surrounding neighborhoods to develop a corridor plan to to guide public investments
 and private redevelopment to transform college into a livable and attractive new main street. We will build the next 10-year strategic plan for parks and recreation. We will embark on a digital inclusion plan to ensure that all have access to and use of information and communication technologies to create equality and improve education and access to jobs.
 In early 2017, the city's elected official and administration team came together for strategic planning sessions. Through this process, a framework for the future was developed and implementation strategies are currently being built. The city council and I identified guiding principles for future policy, projects, planning, decisions, actions, and operations
 The federal vision 2050 plan guiding principles are these. Number one, a diverse and growing local economy. Number two, a naturally beautiful, fun, and safe city to live in. Three, well-maintained infrastructure and facilities. Four, greater ease of mobility with effective transportation systems. Ecosystem protection.
 and that's five and number six, financially sustainable government providing top-notch citizen services. Let's look at each one of these in more detail. Number one, the robust economic development plan and strategic focus areas safeguard our first guiding principle for a diverse and growing local economy. The vision is to collaborate, innovate, and create.
 Federal First, our economic development plan, is in full swing. Through the creation of the Department of Economic Vitality, we have launched our economic development website and now have staff whose sole purpose is the growth and development of our local economy. The largest entrepreneurial event ever in our state, the Arkansas Startup Crawl, was held in downtown Federal with an estimated 1,100 in attendance.
 This past fall, our farmer broke ground on a $31 million manufacturing facilities in a commerce park. Our farmer will produce generic medications, which will increase supply and lower costs. And contingent on a license from the state's Medical Marijuana Commission, Arcana LLC will purchase municipal property and will build a medical manufacturing facility this year in the commerce park.
 Pinnacle Foods is expanding their existing campus by adding a $30 million cold storage facility. Pinnacle creates products that are found in 85% of American households. The largest film project in Arkansas history, HBO's True Detective series, will soon begin production in federal with an estimated statewide economic impact of $100 million.
 350 new businesses opened in 2017, and these new businesses created 1,175 new jobs in February. Economic development touches so many different aspects of our community, and none is more important to the long-term economic health of our community than workforce development.
 My friends, we will take a huge step in 2018 when we launch Federal's Workforce Development Plan. We will ensure our targeted industry sectors have the pipeline of talent they need to thrive. We will work with a range of partners to build bridges out of poverty for our citizens. We will explore the expansion of skilled trades and apprenticeship programs in our city.
 A focus on business retention and attraction, desirable new retail shops, entrepreneurship, and innovation, education and workforce, arts and culture, quality of life, affordable housing, and sustainability are anchors to this goal, all delivered through a strong marketing and communications plan. We will show data-driven performance matrix to track business and job growth
 wages, growth in sales tax generating businesses, and inquiries from prospective employers. Also in support of workforce development, our city's welcoming plan will foster a more vibrant and diverse community. Recognizing the value that new Americans bring to our economy, research shows
 that entrepreneurs come to this country to start high potential companies. Foreign-born entrepreneurs are significant contributors to economic prosperity. Last month, the Center for American Entrepreneurship published a study on the founders of America's Fortune 500 companies. The results were striking.
 43% of companies on the 2017 Fortune 500 list were founded or co-founded by an immigrant or the child of an immigrant. This, my friends, is just one of the reasons I will be bringing the recently completed Welcoming Plan to the City Council in the first quarter of 2018. We will pursue our goal of creating a diverse, vibrant local economy to provide jobs for our growing population.
 In 2017, we made several changes to our Unified Development Code to help our development community. And this year, we will continue to make it easier to get to yes without sacrificing our high quality of development standards. The application of Lean Government principles and implementation of new permit tracking software will significantly streamline and improve our development review processes.
 We will engage all levels of our team to get this done and to instill a culture of continuous improvement. In short, we will match our smart growth principles to our desires for a continually adaptive residential and business climate to truly make Federal First as the place to live, work, play, and learn.
 Moving on to the second guiding principle is to ensure a naturally beautiful, fun, and safe city to live in. We pledge to protect the city's natural beauty and heritage, promote appropriate infill and revitalization, support a livable transportation network, and preserve an enduring green network. We will also remember our heritage.
 Our Federal Historic Preservation Commission will look at creating a new process for considering designation of local historic preservation districts or landmarks. We will introduce an updated tree preservation and landscape ordinance in addition to the park land dedication ordinance. A collaborative effort in support of tourism with our Convention and Visitors Bureau
 We will ramp up communication about events and recreational opportunities. We will continue our partnership with Experience Federal for the lives of the Ozarks and continue to provide support for events such as First Thursday, Block Street, Block Party, and the University of Arkansas' educational and sporting events.
 We will continue to nurture our park system and recreational programs to make certain that there is something for every age, group, and activity level. The city will continue its investment of budgetary support for the Senior Center, a Vaughan Richardson Community Center, the Boys and Girls Club for our youth and age-friendly programs. Another very important annual investment the city makes
 is in operational and capital funding for the Federal Public Library, which is one of our greatest community resources. We are beginning to see the fruits of our labor with significant cultural arts improvements that will benefit many generations to come. In 2017, we completed the Walton Arts Center's $23 million expansion. We broke ground on a new $31.5 million theater squared facility.
 and we completed public input sessions for the public library's campus expansion. The University of Arkansas received a 120 million dollar donation from the Walton Family Foundation to expand the School of Art and another 40 million dollar donation to create the Wingate Art and Design District in the heart of South Fedball.
 A $1.77 million design excellence grant from the Walton Family Foundation will be used in 2018 to help our community envision a 50-acre cultural arts corridor with green areas and engaging public spaces lining the Razorback Greenway and woven into our downtown neighborhoods.
 Once funded, the corridor will link arts, entertainment, culture, educational, recreational, and civic destinations creating a destination for our community and its visitors. The Cultural Arts Corridor is truly a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity that will have multi-generational impacts. Our Community Resources Division
 through the federally funded Community Development Block Grant Program, continues to provide services for veterans homelessness, housing rehabilitation for low-income citizens, and transportation assistance for seniors and disadvantaged youth. We have phenomenal volunteers and staff who operate the Federal Animal Services. In 2017,
 we reunited 725 pets with their owners and we found new homes for 1,140 animals. Funding for improvements in the entertainment and downtown business districts is focused on creating pedestrian friendly lighting and sidewalks to help our citizens feel safe as they enjoy our downtown. In addition, due to our increased staffing from 2017, our police and fire departments are keeping up with the growth
 and service calls that a growing community requires, with over a thousand more emergency response calls in 2017 than 2016. The third guiding principle is to keep in step with maintaining our infrastructure and facilities while also planning for the future. While each individual may use only a few roads or a specific trail or park, our growing number of citizens and hundreds of thousands of visitors
 and tourists use our entire infrastructure year-round. It is vital that we continue to invest in maintenance and developing infrastructure as we grow. Our digital infrastructure, as well as our city assets, such as buildings, roads, sidewalks, trails, parks, and utilities, including recycling and trash collection and water and sewer services, are all components of our focus.
 In 2017, we completed and will continue to work on some significant infrastructure projects related to vehicle and active transportation. North College Avenue received extensive work with new wide sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, stormwater drains, decorative lights, street trees, and a mural. A section of Old Wire Road was rebuilt with significant stormwater improvements and sidewalks.
 We will continue this work in 2018 with more sidewalks and protected bike lanes. We completed two of three road segments connecting neighborhoods, providing paved trails for pedestrians and cyclists. The thoroughfare adds considerable relief as an alternative to I-49. Once we finalized the leg of Ruple to Howard Nickel Road,
 The mayor's box will be complete with a continuous arterial loop around the whole city. Additionally, the Arkansas Department of Transportation will continue work on I-49 projects and begin design of Highway 112 improvements. We continue to grow our sidewalk and trail connectivity to help create a livable multi-mode transportation system. We completed the sidewalk plans
 in 2017 on time and on budget. Paid trail improvements include completion of Clapper Creek Boardwalk and Trail Extension. A mural was completed on the Chalagee Trail recognizing the Cherokee people. We added 3.4 miles of energy efficient LED lighting on Mud Creek Trail and portions of Razorback Greenway. This year we will build the Neocoska Creek Trail.
 from Mud Creek Trail to Gully Park. This will make a complete east-west trail connection from Gully Park to the Greenway. And early this year we will complete the three mile long Cato Springs Trail traveling under I-49 and over the Fulbright Expressway. It will truly connect the region by paved trail from the Kessler Mountain Regional Park to the Razorback Greenway. Our water and sewer operations projects include
 phosphorus standards management, Lake Sequoia sediment removal, and a water and sewer rate operations study. The Recycling and Trash Collection Division will continue to implement the Waste Reduction Diversion Recycling Master Plan's action steps with a larger organics recovery and composting program. We will release an RFP for construction debris recycling and recovery program.
 We will also expand recycling service to multi-family complexes with 24 units or less. We will educate and engage citizens and schools about our waste not use less campaign. This year we will conduct a rate study so we can determine the true cost of all recycling and trash collection division services to determine appropriate rates.
 In 2017, we celebrated 50 years of play with our Parks and Recreation Division, kicking off the event at the wonderfully renovated playground at Wilson Park, our oldest and most popular park. We also completed the Kessler Mountain Trails Master Plan and have created world-class trails for mountain bikers and hikers. We also added nighttime lights and fun amenities for dog lovers and dogs at the Iams Dog Park.
 The Walker Park splash pad will open this summer. As the weather warms up, we will start construction on new bathrooms at Walker Park. Our hard-working parks crew and contractors will replace lights on Wilson Park's tennis courts and improve the basketball courts. We will repair a slope at the Kester Mountain Regional Park with financial assistance from FEMA.
 We will also make a number of safety and ADA improvements in our parks. Digital infrastructure is also another city asset that requires growth and ongoing maintenance. Citizen responsive services are essential as we strive to make informed decisions and increase effectiveness and reduce costs. We will continue to explore data transparency.
 strategies for informing decisions, enhancing the citizens' experience with governmental services, and increasing community engagement through a new platform. Some of the accomplishments of 2017 were mobile-friendly redesign of the website, use of analytics and social media advertising, a complete conversion of our enterprise business system on time and under budget,
 We enhanced network connectivity between city buildings and will soon roll out a map of free public Wi-Fi in major parks and the entertainment district. The City Council passed a small cell facilities ordinance that will bring a streamlined permitting process for small cell siting and enhanced infrastructure Wi-Fi infrastructure. We increased our focus on cyber security for digital infrastructure.
 We fully implemented a proximity-based dispatch system for fire and emergency response using GIS technology. Now I've just launched the city's digital inclusion planning task force in partnership with the university, the federal public schools, the federal public library to focus on promoting universal access, technology innovation,
 competition and implementation of affordable and accessible broadband for all of our citizens. The Digital Inclusion Task Force will make recommendations for public policy priorities for furthering digital equity and federal for consumers, citizens, students, job seekers and entrepreneurs,
 The task force will also recommend strategies to increase paths to digital literacy and digital citizenship, improve access to online learning and employment opportunities, and close the homework gap. The fourth principle of a greater ease of mobility is next. With effective transportation systems, I have the following.
 The federal mobility plan is the city's newest transportation master plan. It is complete and recommendations will be presented during 2018. Our existing conditions and future plan use strategies shape the plan, along with considerable public input. Among its recommendations will be a connectivity gap analysis, review and prioritization of transportation projects to include
 continued expansion of the city's trails and sidewalk network coordination of a traffic signal system for improved mobility intersection improvements to increase capacity and movement of vehicles pedestrians and cyclists long-term funding and route redesigns for a more a more robust transit system within the city the fifth principle is ecosystem preservation
 that focuses on climate action planning, the maintenance and preservation of our ecosystem and natural resources, pollution reduction, and the protection of the environment. In June of 2017, when the federal government announced the U.S. withdrawal from the
 Paris Climate Agreement, the city of Federal was one of the first 10 cities in the United States to announce that we would adopt, we would honor and uphold the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement. Federal is committed to working with leaders of other cities, states, universities and businesses to combat climate change.
 the city council adopted a comprehensive energy action plan as we've said before federal was the first city in arkansas with a plan and it's the 54th city in the united states to adopt 100 clean energy goals the plan establishes a city goal of 80 greenhouse gas emission reduction by 2050. with this plan we will create a legacy
 of stewardship for future generations of federal residents. And finally, the last principle is providing top-notch citizen services. Quality of city operations is a critical element of our success. City Council highlighted organizational effectiveness as a key component to maintain and improve city operations.
 Our lean government review strategy of all operational functions is a continuous process for achieving effectiveness and improving customer service. Communication between department heads to address cross-divisional projects, streamlining processes, reducing barriers to service and red tape, and eliminating silo operations.
 will continue to be goal for organizational effectiveness at the city. Friends, council members and citizens, I want to assure you that the state of our city is strong and financially sound. I also want to assure you of something else as I conclude tonight. We have a well thought out strategy. We have a plan to keep our city strong and sound due to sustained sales tax growth,
 and good money management, we're expecting to pay down the $120 million sales tax bond passed in 2006 earlier than expected. This allows us to pay off the debt sometime in 2019, approximately five years sooner than anticipated, and saves us from additional interest costs.
 Because of our financial stewardship in this city, our ability to invest in the future has truly been secured. This gives us now the opportunity to invest in a new package of capital projects for our future growth at the same tax rate currently in place. With your help, we will shape our future together with purpose and intent.
 This bond package will be entirely for new items because of our focus on our current budgeting process will be for maintenance of current assets as well as those we will continue to build. I look forward to working with the City Council and our citizens to galvanize support from everyone for the next phase of your tax dollars at work for the next round of the city's growth plan.
 Some of the items we have heard citizens are interested in discussing include investments in public safety to match our growth, investments in our park system and the cultural arts corridor, investments in our trails, sidewalks, road projects, and transit systems. And last but not least, reducing flood effects by investing in our drainage system.
 My administration wants to serve, my friends, as a bridge between our younger generations who bring new and great ideas about urban competitiveness and our traditionalists who hold very high standards of what this city is and all it can be. And in closing tonight, I offer this quote from Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who reminded us it really boils down to this, that all life is interrelated.
 We are all caught up in an inescapable network of mutuality tied to a single garment of destiny. Whatever affects one destiny affects all indirectly. So you see, my friends, our destinies are sewn together in a beautiful tapestry of who we are. And together, we will shape our own destiny for this city together.
 and its people. Thank you all. Okay. Thank you all for your patience.
 Okay, the next order of business is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the January 2, 2018 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign a three-year enterprise license agreement with ESRI Incorporated in the amount of $50,000 per year for the continued use of geographic information system software and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,000 per year.
 Number three, a resolution to authorize the purchase of an emergency backup generator from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company DBA, RiggsCat, in the amount of $127,079.25, pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance corporate purchasing agreement for use at the Gregg Street wastewater lift station. Number four, a resolution to approve federal police department policies,
 on labor management team narcotic overdose treatment and traffic enforcement number five a resolution to award bid number 17-72 and authorize the purchase of a mobile air cascade system trailer unit from ferrara fire apparatus incorporated any amount of 114 675 plus applicable taxes
 and number six a resolution to express the willingness of the city of federal to apply for and utilize federal aid service transportation block grant program funds any amount of 350 000 to design the west howard nickel road and highway 112 intersection improvement project and to prove a city match of 35 000 for the project i will retain a motion to accept consent agenda's red adult
 So moved. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? LaTierre? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Dutch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Under unfinished business, we have none. Thank you, council. Under new business, number one.
 A resolution to award RFP 17-17 to authorize a contract with RJR Enterprise Incorporated in the amount of $369,846 for the construction of a splash pad in restrooms at Walker Park to approve a project contingency in the amount of $33,054 and to approve a budget adjustment recognizing parkland dedication fees in the amount of $82,900. Thank you.
 evening council members mayor i'm ted jack park planning superintendent i'm uh here to talk to you about the splash pad which we're real excited about it's going in walker park the site was selected previously in the park it's near the playground and the skateboard park there's uh
 We had a selection committee meeting that met December 19th. We went through five proposals. They were real good proposals, but we chose a team. Our team was chosen that was really strong. They've had a lot of experience building splash pads. Vortex is the provider that's done many, many splash pads around the equipment.
 It'll have, it's about, deck size is a little over 2,000 square feet and it's got about 17 above ground features. I think we're getting to some pictures here. You can see there's a big bucket feature called the Super Splash number two, which is one of the main features of the park that I think the kids are absolutely going to love. So the quite a few other features I think you can see in the next slide.
 that the paddle service, in that picture, the playground is actually right behind that. So there's kind of a nice adjacency to the playground and all. So we think this is going to be a really great addition to Walker Park and to the city's offerings for the community. OK, what questions do we have? OK, what public comment do we have on this? OK, I'll bring it back to the council. Adela. I move we pass the resolution. John.
 Second the motion, Mayor. DAVID BURRAGE. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. Justin. JUSTIN STEILER. This may have been mentioned, but if we approve this, what is the timeline we're looking at for build out and final? DAVID BURRAGE. Construction should complete around the middle of the summer. JUSTIN STEILER. Thank you very much. Anything else?
 Am I good? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Woodture? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Munch? Yes. Okay. Number two, an ordinance to approve the annexation petition of the McFarland Family Trust and annex 68.65 acres adjoining and west of the proposed northern expansion of Roofville Road. Ted?
 Whereas McFarland Family Trust has properly secured the Washington County judge's authorization to annex their 68.65 acres west of and along the planned Rupert Road expansion north of Howard Nickel Road. And whereas the McFarland Family Trust through Swope Engineering has offered to donate and dedicate sufficient right-of-way along their frontage with Rupert Road expansion to enable its construction.
 And whereas the McFarland Family Trust has further offered to designate a conservation area of preservation of natural habitat along the creek and the construction or extension of city trails within its property. Now, therefore, it being ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1.
 If the City Council or the City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby accepts the offer of the McFarland Family Trust for its donation and dedication of Rupel Road right-of-way, conservation easements, and trail right-of-way construction, and confirms the annexation to the City of Fayetteville of about 68.65 acres, as described in Exhibit B and the map shown on Exhibit A both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo.
 that the city council city of favorable auction hereby zones and newly annexed property are a residential agricultural section three that the city council city of favorable arcs are hereby amends the official map and zoning map of the city of fable to recognize this annexation and zoning and section four the city council city of phil arthur hereby assigns the 68.65 acres to ward four of the city of fayetteville
 My understanding is that the applicant has asked this be tabled indefinitely at this point in time. We are in discussions with them about this whole issue and situation and hope to bring something back to the council in the future. Governor, is that? Yes, yes mayor. We did get a request yesterday to postpone it indefinitely. They want to work on their application.
 We have been working on this. We have not quite come to a full solution, so we need a little bit of time. I guess I will ask for any public comment, but this is going to be tabled indefinitely, so we'll bring something back later. Yes, please. I'm Nadine Brannon from 4340 West. Would you pull that mic down just a little bit? Nadine Brannon. I live on West Weir Road, just a little ways from this.
 property we're talking about and what we're concerned is a neighborhood we're we're in the county we have a county road and there's already a four-way stop there at humount and weir that is a danger point they people cut through from mount comfort that way if we were talking about maybe another 250 60 or 70 homes in this area that they're talking about they're coming out on county road
 and we already have so much difficulty we've met several of us have met as a group we know you know city's moving out but in our area there seems to be just spots of county and spots of city instead of filling in the inner structure like i thought you all were doing just bits and pieces there's one just a narrow place that comes up within a quarter of a mile of my house and around it it's not city so it's a little not really what we like we're a
 We're country. We have a neighborhood that's country. I do like what you're talking about doing about Howard-Nichols Road because I go through that very often. That will help anything whether, but as a community, the Weir Road area, we are against this, the annexation and the re-zone, when they re-zone it. And we aren't, you know, we know we're close to town, but we want to be a, we're a country.
 people a country village you might say out there and we appreciate your considering that thank you Anyone else? Hello. I'm Garland. Yeah, I live just 200 feet from that proposed annexation and I'm not so much against the annexation but I would like for you all to when you're you're Negotiating and tabling this to keep to look at your 2030 goals every time you you make a deal and
 look at those goals and see if they follow along with what these people are requesting. I would just like to see a transition. I mean, some of that property abuts up against people that have, there are four houses per acre, but a large part of it abuts the rest of us that have two, four, and six acres. And we're not rich people. We're just blessed that we got it early. And again, I'd just like for you all to keep in mind those 20, 30 goals. Thank you. Thank you.
 who else would like to address this all right see now to bring it back to the council i assume we're going to table this and who would like to do that for us just move the table sarah second this is to table it indefinitely table it indefinitely okay any comments or anything all right
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Lutzer? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Dutch? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number three, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-5991 for approximately 68.65 acres located west of North River Road from RA, residential agricultural to RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre. Kip?
 mayor before i read this i think it is going to be quite apparent that this is not going to be the rezoning ordinance that's going to be coming before you therefore i would just ask that you go ahead and table it now so we don't actually put it on the first reading and we can have a clean reading when we finally get an ordinance that might be recommended all right sarah i move that we table the item indefinitely john i second that motion we have a motion a second table this item indefinitely any discussion on that
 any public comment on that okay seeing none sundry would you please call the road yes yes yes march yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all that concludes our business what announcements do we have no announcements we have okay all right thank you all good work and uh