I have nine children. Alan, it wouldn't be the first time I've been marked on. I won't be the last. I always say that. No problem. I don't know where my space door is.
 oh hopefully
 I would like to call to order the city council meeting of January the 20th, 2015. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Tenant. Here. Schottmeyer. Here. Latour. Present. Long. Here. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Petty. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Join me in the legibly. To the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible.
 Liberty and justice for all. First order of business we have tonight is under the city council meeting presentation reports and discussion items, we have the election of the vice mayor. I will open up the floor for nominations. Sarah. I know that he's not here right now, but I know that Mark Kenyon has done a great job this past year and I would like to re-nominate him. Okay, is there any other nominations?
 Okay, it will close for you know what you vote is you just vote the name of the person who you want to be vice mayor Okay All right, son, would you please call the roll? Okay, so congratulations mark when you are
 When you get here, you have... I hope he wants to do it. I hope you will take the job. I hope you want to do it. Okay, number two, we have the presentation of the City of Fayetteville Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award, and that's going to be done by Kip Williams. Thank you, Mayor, City Council, members of the Fayetteville community.
 Since Martin Luther King Day in 2002, I have been privileged to select and honor a city of Fayetteville employee to receive the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award. This award is given annually in recognition to that city employee whose service to our city and our community best exemplifies Dr. King's dream of equality, justice, and brotherhood. This year's honoree joins a distinguished list.
 of over a dozen city employees who have embodied Dr. King's dream and have helped fulfill his legacy of hope and service to the community. This year's honoree has also exemplified Dr. Martin Luther King's spirit of equality and legacy of service. She has managed one of our most important city departments and worked diligently and creatively to expand its services to our city staff and citizens. Always down to earth and humble,
 She works diligently every day to help Fayetteville citizens who have questions about our government, to help those citizens and city staff to locate important city documents, ordinances, and historic records. She ensures all important city documents from multi-million dollar bond documents and contracts, whether for $10,000 or $10 million, and all municipal ordinances and resolutions are safely stored and indexed for later reference.
 She accurately reports and maintains the records for every City Council meeting. She led the effort to put our City Council meetings on the internet live so our citizens can more easily watch our government and our elected officials and understand their plans and proposals. City Clerk Sondra Smith has served our city and citizens as City Clerk Treasurer since February of 2003. I have worked closely with Sondra for a dozen years and can attest to her servant leadership
 her integrity and her kindness to all who visit the City Clerk's office. Fayetteville City Clerk Sandra Smith has served with distinction and dedication, not only here in Fayetteville, but as a statewide leader for the Arkansas Municipal League and the Arkansas City Clerk's Association. Not only has Sandra served that association as its treasurer and president, last year she received its Municipal Leadership Award.
 Sondra has also worked to become an international and Arkansas certified municipal clerk. Sondra now trains other Arkansas City Clerks who seek to obtain their certification. Sondra also serves our community. For many years, she has worked at the Fayetteville Senior Center, helping to welcome our seniors and serve them meals. Sondra helps with the Senior Giving Tree at our Senior Center to ensure our elders can better experience the joy of Christmas with a gift and a party.
 Sandra is also very active in her church and its community outreach efforts. Sandra is a glowing example of how the golden rule should not just be preached, but lived. It is now my honor to present the 2015 City of Fayetteville Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Brotherhood Award to its worthy recipient, Fayetteville City Clerk Treasurer Sandra Smith.
 honor and privilege to serve the citizens of the city of Fedville, and I look forward to doing it as many more years as the city will have me. Thank you. Okay. The next order of business we have tonight is the State of the City Address by the Mayor. So, ladies and gentlemen of the City Council, City Clerk, Treasurer Sondra Smith, City Attorney Kit Williams, and my fellow citizens of Fedville, I am proud to report tonight that the state of our city is sound.
 Arkansas law requires that I report to you on an annual basis, but this is more than a statutory obligation. It is a time-honored tradition and an opportunity to share our accomplishments as we outline some of the projects that continue to make our city a leader in the region and in the state. It's also an opportunity to commend the work of this council and our city employees, the women and men in charge of delivering city services
 with efficiency and integrity, representing a commitment that runs through this administration, a belief that public service is a noble calling and that part of what makes Fedville special is helping our neighbors live a better, more comfortable, and more productive life. The services you provide every single day throughout Fedville have made us the safest and strongest large city in Arkansas.
 Moreover, this city is what it is because our citizens are who they are. It is a high honor for me to deliver the annual State of the City Address and to tell the story of our local government and its contributions to our community. Together, we are building a bright future for our residents, all of them. We continue to have faith in our city that honors our heritage, works for today, invests in the future, and meets new challenges.
 We've done diligent work during the past year to preserve and honor our heritage, to provide outstanding services, and build and maintain our city's physical and social infrastructure. To award that end, it is my pleasure to welcome two new elected officials as part of our city team, Federal District Judge Bill Story and Ward 4 Councilmember John Latour. It is an honor to serve with you. First topic I want to discuss tonight
 is our honors and recognition. We're about getting results, not about getting headlines. But I wish to note that the City of Fayetteville was recognized for numerous honors in 2014. I want to highlight a few in this report. City Clerk Sandra Smith served on several state boards and committees, including service as president of the Arkansas City Clerk's Recorders and Treasurers Association. And she received the Municipal League's Adrienne L. White
 Municipal Leadership Award, and the Arkansas City Clerk's Recorders and Treasurers Association's Dedicated Service Award. Our city attorney, Kit Williams, not only provides wise legal advice to our city, he also provides broader public service as chair of the Arkansas chapter of the International Municipal Lawyers Association. Thank you both. City staff members, Rich Giesler and Doug Pankston, Bankston, excuse me, received Emmy Awards
 for work on the Recycle Something campaign by our Media Services Division, which also won three Telly Awards and three Communicator Awards for excellence in production, editing, and sound design. Wilson Park was voted Northwest Arkansas' Best of the Best Parks. Federal received five Bloom Awards in 2014 from America in Bloom and again received the Tree City USA Community Annual Award.
 FedVille was recognized as an Arkansas Volunteer Community of the Year for the sixth year in a row. Arkansas Business again recognized the City of FedVille for City of Distinction Awards with the Arc Challenge Mentorship Driven Accelerator Program for Technology Startups, winning in the Workforce Development category. Honorable Mention Awards went to my FedVille Services and Technology Advancements Award Category,
 and our purchase and plans for Mount Kessler Park in the Tourism and Development category. In 2014, Federal was recognized in national publications as one of America's best emerging cities, as a best city for global trade, and one of the 50 great affordable college towns in the United States, and one of 50 U.S. cities with the most doctoral degree holders.
 We were ranked 83rd in Livability.com's list of the top 100 places to live in the nation, and Travel and Leisure listed Federal as number 7 in the nation on their America's Quirkiest Towns list. The next thing I want to report to you tonight is about our public safety. Providing public safety is one of the most important responsibilities of city government, and assuring the safety of our citizens.
 and their property is a fundamental element in our social contract. We are dedicated to having safe neighborhoods, business districts, and streets where all residents feel welcome and secure. There have been continued growth in Federal, leading to an increased demand for public services. In 2014, the Federal Police Department's Central Dispatch Center received approximately 40,000 911 calls.
 which is an increase of 6% from 2013. In our fire department, there was a 10.5% increase in calls for service over 2013. This is more than 9,400 calls this year. To enhance community school safety, we made crosswalk improvements around school areas and installed crossing and PED poles as well as intersection visibility improvements by increased clearing of roadside growth.
 The Federal Police Department expanded its school resource officer program with the addition of three officers to the Federal Public School District. Our Federal Police Department Citizens Police Academy continues to be a success. This free of charge, 10-week course allows community members to receive a stronger understanding of how their police department functions and operates. Our Fire Department conducted a Federal Family Fire Safety Day again this year.
 and overall had public education contact with over 5,400 children and 1,200 adults in 2014. Federal was again certified as a Firewise Community in 2014. As a result of our outstanding commitment and performance,
 Federal's ISO rating jumped from Class 4 to Class 2, which means not only greater safety, but also lower property insurance premiums for businesses and homeowners. The Federal Police Department's 2014 recruitment plan focused on a commitment to positive recruitment, including participation in many career expos.
 educational recruitment initiatives, and the sponsoring of open houses and department tours. We changed our written entrance exam in an attempt to produce a higher percentage of women and minority police candidates. In addition, we have made effective use of technology to improve public safety. The City added the Federal Alert System to meet public demand for emergency alert services
 and accessibility of up-to-date notifications about municipal services and events. This project included development of a training manual and policy, and an active public education campaign headed in-house by our media services. In addition, we installed the new MediaSense recording system that can accurately capture all the voice media required by the police department and judicial system.
 The Federal Police Department was awarded and maintained 15 grants for law enforcement purposes, with total grant funds in excess of $1 million. These grants include funding for both state and federal sources for law enforcement activities ranging from drug enforcement, traffic enforcement, internet crimes against children, school resource officers,
 law enforcement equipment, training and officer safety. The Federal Fire Department received an assistance to firefighters grant of over $120,000 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency for purchasing wildland firefighting protective gear for all firefighters. The Police Department in partnership with Project Ride Choice of Northwest Arkansas was awarded the first
 placed prize of $10,000 in the small cities categories by the US Conference of Mayors for their prescription drug abuse prevention program. Cost savings with environmental benefits have also contributed to our efforts. In December 2014, the police department converted two of its Mark Patrol Chevy Tahoe's to propane fuel and added a third hybrid vehicle to its fleet.
 In 2015, the police department will continue to explore hybrid or other alternative fuel vehicles when replacing or expanding our vehicle fleet. Our support for public safety personnel must not waver. We will assure that they are compensated at market rates. In addition, we will be asking the Arkansas legislature to amend the workers' compensation coverage to include presumptive cancer coverage,
 for firefighters and mental health benefits for first responders. The next thing I have to report tonight is our economic development. The City of Federal defines economic development as the improved quality of life for all through the creation of opportunities, wealth and prosperity, and through strategies that sustain long-term economic viability. We believe in
 an open, inclusive, and collaborative approach to economic development, that citizens should have an active role in shaping economic development policies, and that everyone in Federal has a voice, everyone can be included, and everyone participates in sustaining our community. To that end, we chartered the Federal Forward Economic Accountability Council in 2009,
 and it has done an outstanding job in shaping our plans and policies. Through Federal Forward, hundreds of volunteers in the community have helped identify shared economic opportunities, helped determine our economic plan, and completed a variety of projects that have enhanced Federal's economic vitality, such as the creation of the Gallery Guide,
 and local foods guide, policy support for the green economy, heritage tourism, and inclusion of all residents. I ask that the FFEAC continue as a community volunteer organization that sponsors and manages projects, initiatives, and ideas that promote a vibrant economy for FedMil, meeting quarterly and making appropriate policy recommendations.
 While business decisions on local and expansion are ultimately the purview of the private sector, we must redouble our efforts to help grow good jobs in our city across every sector in tech, biotech, clean tech, green jobs, in conservation and alternative energy, in tourism, in the arts, in retail goods and professional services that serve the needs of our community in advanced manufacturing and construction,
 education, and in high-quality health care, all growing parts of our diverse economy, creating good-paying jobs for the people from every background. We processed 570 new business license applications and 2,569 renewal applications in 2014. I believe we can and must do more to be competitive in growing our local economy.
 I plan to appoint a Mayor's Council of Economic Advisers to work with me to enhance our efforts on economic development and pursue a city economic strategy that focuses on whole sectors of small businesses and emerging industries. From technology to green jobs, from food exports to local foods, from health services to advanced manufacturing, to develop a new approach
 and increased efforts to help grow companies that can create good jobs at decent wages, actively collaborating with and drawing on the resources of the community and the educational and research institutions in this city. While we will seek to more
 effectively recruit and grow new businesses, we won't lose sight of the existing businesses, industries, and institutions that have made us the regional center of commerce and culture and that have been the traditional drivers of job growth in our city. We will conduct a survey of business owners and employees to determine any necessary changes to our development code and
 and process that can help businesses thrive and expand without undermining our smart growth policies. We will propose changes to development codes to encourage existing vacant commercial buildings to be utilized for small-scale light manufacturing businesses, including microbreweries. Discussions with small business owners indicate
 that there is a need for space for small startup manufacturing businesses and we will do that. The city launched the state's first property assessed clean energy, or PACE program, in December 2014. PACE will benefit federal by creating jobs and stimulating the economy. PACE will provide citizens with options for financing improvements that are otherwise not available
 providing a positive cash flow on energy improvements, increasing the value of real property, improving the state's air quality, conserving natural resources, and promoting energy independence and security for the local economy. The next thing I'd like to report tonight is building our infrastructure. We have built this city on hard work, smart thinking,
 active citizen participation, and strong public infrastructure. Strategic investment in infrastructure produces a foundation for long-term smart growth, and our people deserve to see where their dollars are going and what infrastructure is being built. We have continued to do more with less by securing all revenues available, exploring investment partnerships, embracing technology,
 making organizational changes that eliminate overlapping roles and wisely managing expenses. We are committed to the proposition that if you make city government more efficient, we make our community more sustainable. In August of 2014, Federal was certified as a three-star community and is now recognized nationally for Community Sustainability Leadership.
 The federal community can be proud that they are the first community in Arkansas and one of the first in the southern United States to be certified as a STAR community. The STAR Community Rating System is the nation's first comprehensive framework and certification program for evaluating local sustainability, encompassing economic, environmental, and social performance measures.
 We completed construction of the long-anticipated Highway 71B flyover bridge project. We completed the widening of Garland Avenue, began construction on Van Asch Drive, began construction on Razorback Road, began construction on Huntsville Road, completed the design and secured approval for the restoration of the historic bridges on Maple and Lafayette, and began the design on Ruppel Road and Zion Road.
 We are installing medium trees on the recently completed street improvement projects on Crossover Road and Garland Avenue. We will complete revisions to the minimum street standards and present it to the City Council for approval. We will begin construction of Old Wire Road and Mission Boulevard intersection by mid-2015. We will begin construction of Rupert Road extension by mid-2015.
 Restoration of Maple and Lafayette Street historic bridges begins construction in 2015, and we will begin construction of Zion Road by the end of 2015. The city's civic facility and parking deck construction on Spring Street is in progress with an anticipated completion date of October 2015, planned with and overlapping the Walton Arts Center's $20 million expansion project.
 We increased sidewalk construction to an all-time high of 21,449 linear feet, continuing our goals for improving school zone safety and better connectivity by linking segments of sidewalks throughout the city of Fayetteville. Major projects this year included Armstrong Avenue, Huntsville Road, Leverett Avenue, Sang Avenue, and Hossel Road.
 and we are beginning the design for the planned College Avenue improvements to begin in 2015 with construction in 2016. Federal now offers more than 50 miles of trails for all skill levels with multiple trail systems. We completed 3.5 miles of new paved trails, including all Federal sections of the Razorback Regional Greenway.
 3 miles of new on-street bikeways, and 2.5 miles of new bike lanes. Federal received a Bronze Bicycle Friendly Business designation in 2014 and a Bronze Award from the 2014 IMBA Model Trail Awards for outstanding mountain bike trails and locations. In 2015, we will construct an additional 3 miles of trails for segments of Town Branch and Clabber Creek trails.
 We use only energy-saving LED lighting along new trails. We replaced or installed over 9,000 feet of water pipe and replaced or installed over 2,700 feet of sewer pipe, thereby providing reliable water and sewer services, better water pressure, and a safe water supply for homes and businesses.
 30 city employees received new or next level Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality solid waste operator licenses in 2014. The City of Federal received recognition as an Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality Envy Award finalist for natural channel stream restoration projects. We completed the new drainage criteria manual which includes a chapter on low impact development.
 and new requirements for water quality and protection of property downstream from developments. We will do drainage improvements in the Washington Willow Historic District in 2015 at the Upper Skull Creek area. We will begin City Plan 2035 during the summer of 2015. We will also be working to finalize a Solid Waste Reduction and Diversion and Recycling Master Plan. We removed over 10 tons of litter along city streets
 and our street sweeping program removed 1,300 tons of debris from city streets in 2014. This reduced the potential contamination of streams and other waterways throughout our city. The City of Fayetteville committed $1 million toward the infrastructure costs for the houses at Willow Bend in 2015 through 2019 capital improvement plans. We processed and approved over 750 building permits,
 including over 1,200 new dwelling units and over 500,000 square feet of non-residential space. The city staff have actively pursued grant opportunities to supplement existing funds to increase infrastructure and services for the public, in that we again have been very successful this year. We received new federal aid transportation funding totaling $3.2 million for federal fiscal years
 2014 and 2015. We were awarded over $500,000 through the Community Development Block Grant Program to provide housing rehabilitation, redevelopment, transportation, and sub-recipient grants. The Federal Housing Authority did an excellent job renovating Hillcrest Towers, which improves the quality of life for its residents and makes improvements to our city's skyline.
 The city secured a $1.5 million matching grant from the Walton Family Foundation, a $300,000 donation from the Federal Natural Heritage Association, and a conservation easement from the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust, and we successfully negotiated an important contribution to our infrastructure with the acquisition of 376 acres at Mount Kessler to preserve,
 protect and provide access to this important ecological asset. Moreover, we completed a trailhead and new trail connections at Mount Kessler. We also received a Walton Family Foundation grant for $150,000 for the engineering and design of the Cato Springs Trail South, from Town Branch Trail to the new Regional Park and Kessler Mountain Reserve.
 and a grant for over $800,000 for the construction of Town Branch Trail from Walker Park East through Great House Park to the intersection with Chalagee Trail adjacent to Interstate 49. The City Council also approved the purchase of an 11-acre parcel of land adjacent to Gully Park for expanding the park.
 with funding assistance from the Walton Family Foundation and the Federal Natural Heritage Association. More than 750 native trees and shrubs were given away to city residents, providing them a hands-on opportunity for growing and maintaining our urban forest. A Keep America Beautiful UPS Foundation tree planting grant helped establish the City of Federal's first community orchard.
 We constantly look at improvements to make our public services more convenient and user-friendly, and we have significantly increased customer service training in 2014. We look for ways to perform our tasks more efficiently in order to further save tax dollars. We have achieved success in this area in 2014, and we will continue growth in that success in 2015.
 The City has worked diligently to increase public accessibility, increase staff customer service skills, and encourage public input on ways we, as the Municipal Government, can make Federal stronger and assist us in identifying areas of needed repair. We also have increased our public education efforts and developed ways to further inform the public about Federal and City services. We have provided additional information
 and online services on the City website, expanded our pay online options on our website, and purchased a new content management system that will provide the public with a more user-friendly and audience-centered website for providing public services 24-7. The City's GIS Division created MyFederalServices, an online portal
 to information important to neighborhood associations, residents and businesses. The City Facilities Management Division has made great improvements to your public buildings and renovated, built and remodeled facilities with excellent craftsmanship by our city employees. The services performed by our dedicated staff not only has saved the city monies, but also provides a clean, safe work environment for all city employees for the public.
 Facilities management has been separating metals out of construction debris, selling outdated tools and equipment on gov deals, replacing defective HVAC units with more efficient units as needed, replacing defective light fixtures with LED as needed, and replacing defective water heaters with more efficient tankless heaters. We changed lighting in the Meadow Street parking deck to energy-efficient LED lights.
 We have improved methods to pay utility bills, which has reduced the number of customers facing cutoff. Customers can now also pay a reconnection fee online, which has assisted with top customer service and satisfaction primarily due to the convenience. In recognition of our dedication to accountability and efficiency, the City's Department of Finance received the Government's Finance Officers Association Certificate of Achievement for Financial Reporting.
 The City of Fayetteville's fleets are rated in the top 50 leading fleets in the nation. The last topic I want to talk about tonight is building our community. Margaret Reed said a city must have a soul that brings past and present together, and it must be a place where groups of women and men are seeking and developing the highest things they know. That is Fayetteville. Fayetteville is unique and unlike any place in the world. This is in large part because of our proud history.
 an active presence, and because of the people who make Feville the great city that it is. Feville is a city on the hill and I like to think of that as a metaphor to the heights of goodness that run through our city like the slopes, ridges, and curves of the great Ozark Mountains. We have been known for our compassion, openness, free spirit, innovation, academic propensity, and respect for all people. And in our present and future we will continue to hold those mountaintop values.
 The City of Feville has been designated as a compassionate community, and one reason for that became obvious as we initiated an important and valuable community conversation that educated not just our community, but our state. Important discussions about opportunity and fairness have taken place that reflect our commitment to help secure the promise of life, safety, liberty, opportunity, justice, equality, and the pursuit of happiness for all.
 We are not a divided city, as some would argue, but what is revealed by the recent debates and conversations about the city's civil rights ordinance is that we are still federal, a vibrant community that welcomes open dialogue about important issues. I firmly believe that all of our residents are committed to equality and non-discrimination.
 and we have listened as some raised concerns about specifics of the proposed ordinance. Let us address those issues, listen to the people, make the necessary technical changes, and craft a better ordinance for all in the future. As the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. said, the time is always right to do the right thing. The City of Fayetteville is extremely grateful
 for the immense community support, and it is clear why we were named the Volunteer Community of the Year for the sixth consecutive year. We could not have done all we did without the generous participation of residents. Our Community Development Division organized with community partners the fourth annual festival
 a celebration of many cultures of the Ozarks, and provides an opportunity for exposure to many individuals, organizations, groups, performers, artists, and others in our region. We are blessed with outstanding educational opportunities. The completion of the new Federal High School campus will assure that we have the best public school system in this state, including all of our public schools and the public charter school.
 The continued enrollment growth at the University of Arkansas reflects our historic role in higher education, as well as the university's goal to become a top 50 public research university by 2021. The federal public library circulations have increased by almost 2 percent, with digital items up 24 percent, and the use of 60-plus online databases is up almost 30 percent from last year.
 The library also hosted the largest ever FPL summer reading program for children, teens, and adults, with nearly 5,000 people registered and over 18,000 people attending events, and hosted notable award-winning authors. To address a few of the local food security concerns and give citizens better access to fresh, local food, the Federal City Council passed a comprehensive urban agriculture ordinance.
 The Vaughn Richardson Community Center created a pantry day every third Friday of the month in which they give youth care packages to take home consisting of snacks, food, hygiene products and our clothing. The city expanded production and training opportunities for public access television users. The city's public information video selections on YouTube have increased.
 All the meeting video programming is available from the City's other VOD service provider, Granicus, which had over 21,000 visitors who watched meetings over 24,000 times in 2014. Additional public art was added to the City, including the recycling tree by artist John Stalling, located on Skull Creek Trail adjacent to the Marion Orton Recycling Drop-Off Center.
 We completed the renovation of Wilson Park swimming pool buildings, including the dressing rooms and office areas. We have done extensive renovations to the Walker Park baseball complex over the last four years with a concession stand renovation completion occurring in 2014.
 YRCC offered a free seven-week summer camp called Summer Fun for Kids Camp that provided 81 children with fun activities, food and transportation. We completed the construction of Mt. Sequoia Gardens Overlook area to offer a passive recreation neighborhood park. We installed a new interpretive sign in the Wilson Park about the history of Wilson Park.
 The City also added a new About Fedville section on our website, providing historic and present information about Fedville. The Federal City Council provided funding for the preservation of the historic Antebellum Woolsey Homestead. Our Municipal Animal Shelter continued to have a low euthanasia rate throughout 2014, currently at 9.6%. Ranger's Pantry continues to help citizens experiencing financial hardship.
 with pet food so they don't have to surrender pets to the shelter due to the inability to feed them. We continued production and support for the award-winning Recycle Something Media campaign and developed and produced a media campaign for the Federal Alert System. The campaign resulted in extensive awareness of the Emergency Alert System indicated by both the number of enrollments and the amount of feedback regarding the system and the media campaign.
 The City updated the community videos on our website and updated the City's logo and seal. We significantly updated the working list of neighborhood organizations and updated web page content about neighborhood resources, including the popular MyFederalServices mapping information portal on the City's website. The City of Federal Facebook has close to 10,000 Facebook contacts.
 and certain city divisions also have seen active Facebook or other social media participation by the public. We also completed the installation of remote recording technology in City Hall rooms 111 and 326.
 We now have electronic routing of agenda items and scanning and emailing documents by the City Clerk's Office has created a large savings and reduced copy costs from more than $10,000 per year in 2004 to around $2,000 per year in 2014.
 We increased the number of vehicles that run on propane to reduce fuel costs, also saving taxpayer money. We are progressing with the recycling and trash collection facility expansion, and we expanded the apartment recycling program. We increased commercial glass recycling collection to midtown and uptown businesses and are now recycling glass in partnership with over 50 businesses.
 And we also expanded the business curb sort recycling program to over 250 businesses. We installed 24 public space recycling containers on the city square. Walker Park and Gary Hampton Park for recycling of bottles and cans from these locations. We added e-waste recycling to the Ward bulky waste cleanup program and recycled over 25 tons of e-waste in the fall of 2014.
 1,400 coupons were redeemed from the community for the e-waste coupon program with Boston Mountain Solid Waste District and Washington County for the recycling of e-waste items for federal residents. In 2015, we will see construction of phase one of the regional park. We will be prioritizing park and trail maintenance with an emphasis on safety and heavily used areas.
 We will be creating metrics to measure invasive species removal through the park volunteer program. We will be utilizing the Media Services Division and new webpages to promote our volunteer program and increase participation in our Adopt-a-Park and Adopt-a-Trail programs. We will streamline the application process to make creating a community garden through the community gardens in the parks program easier.
 We will have continued improvements to all of our city parks and improve the marketing programs and services to the public. The city will launch a new website in March. The Division of Media Services will lead the project to completely upgrade and renovate the AV and presentation systems for City Hall Rooms 111, 219, and 326. We will be upgrading the production and distribution systems at the television center to high definition.
 fully digital systems bringing the installation to par with current television technology. We will also have an on-site alternative fueling station of propane in 2015 and increased vehicles and mowers that run on propane. And as I close tonight, 2014 was another productive year for Federal's public services and infrastructure. We are now in 2015, a year in which we will continue to work together for Federal's future. Federal strength is in our people.
 And I praise tonight the excellent work by our municipal employees who regularly maintain public services and infrastructure while increasing programs and opportunities. I praise the federal businesses and residents for working together to continue building this great city on a hill together.
 I praise and thank the many educators and health providers in Federal for providing opportunity, knowledge, health, and jobs. I praise and thank the many nonprofit entities and those who work each day in them to secure a better life for many. I praise and thank the many volunteers in Federal for providing the community with over 685,000 hours of volunteer work last year. Together,
 We have made wise investment and bold moves. Together, we will continue to lead our city to become all that we want for our neighbors and our community. Together, and only together, we can build on our successes of last year and have an even brighter future for ourselves and our children and our children's children. Thank you all. All right. Now on the consent agenda. You can sit back and relax. I only have 19 items to read here.
 Number one, approval of the January 6, 2015 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, RJN Group Incorporated Sanitary Sewer Evaluation Study. A resolution to approve a contract with RJN Group Incorporated in the amount of $891,251 for Sanitary Sewer Evaluation Study for basins SFM-05 and SFM-1819.
 slash 1819. An amount not to exceed $225,000 for the design of recommended improvements identified by the study. Number three.
 Garver LLC Professional Engineering Services Agreement. A resolution to approve a Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Garver LLC in an amount not to exceed $149,900 for engineering design and construction observation for the painting of the exterior and interior of the 5 million gallon Baxter water tank
 And the Mount Sequoia water tank and for the demolition and sale of the 1 million gallon Baxter water tank.
 Number four, bid number 15-01, Asphalt Striping Service LLC, a resolution to award bid number 15-01, and authorize the purchase of reflectorized paint markings from Asphalt Striping Services LLC in variable amounts for the Transportation Division as needed through the end of 2015. Thank you.
 Number five, a resolution to award bid number 15-02 and authorize the purchase of curb and gutter construction from Bachman Enterprises Incorporated as a primary supplier and Thomason Asphalt as a secondary supplier. And variable amounts as needed through the end of calendar year 2015. And to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability. Number six. Number six.
 Bid number 15-03, hillside gravel purchase. Resolution to award bid number 15-03 and to authorize the purchase of hillside gravel from Les Rogers Incorporated as primary supplier and Sweetser Construction as secondary supplier for materials picked up from Sweetser Construction as primary supplier and Les Rogers Incorporated as the secondary supplier for materials delivered from variable unit prices as needed through the end of calendar year 2015.
 Number seven, bid number 15-04, SNR Trucking Truck Hauling Services. Resolution to award bid number 15-04 and to authorize the purchase of truck hauling services from SNR Trucking for variable unit prices and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of calendar year 2015. Number eight, bid number 15-05, Concrete Purchase Services.
 Resolution to award bid number 15-05 to authorize the purchase of concrete from Toon Concrete Company as primary supplier and APAC Central as secondary supplier in variable amounts and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of calendar year 2015. Number nine, bid number 15-06, aggregate materials purchase. A resolution to award bid number 15-06 and to authorize the purchase of aggregate materials from varying
 Unit process from various vendors is needed through the end of calendar year 2015 number 10 bid number 15 dash away plastic drainage pipe purchase resolution award bid number 15 dash away and to authorize the purchase of plastic drainage pipe for varying unit process from various vendors as Needed through the end of calendar year 2015. I
 11. Bid number 15-09, Concrete Drainage Pipe Purchase. A resolution to award bid number 15-09 and to authorize the purchase of concrete drainage pipe from Surlock Industries' primary supplier and Hanson Pipe, a secondary supplier, for varying unit prices needed through the end of calendar year 2015. 12. Bid number 15-10, Topsoil Purchase.
 Resolution to award bid number 15-10 and to authorize the purchase of topsoil from Les Rogers, Inc. in the amount $12.40 per cubic yard in variable amounts as needed through the end of calendar year 2015. Number 13, bid number 15-11, Flint Trading, Inc. Resolution to award bid number 15-11 and to authorize the purchase of preformed thermal plastic materials.
 Pavement markings from Flint Trading Incorporated for varying unit prices as needed through the end of calendar year 2015. Number 14, bid number 15-12, retaining wall blocks purchase. Resolution to award bid number 15-12 to authorize the purchase of retaining wall blocks from Arrowhead Precast LLC as primary supplier and industrial precast incorporated as secondary supplier in variable amounts as needed through the end of calendar year 2015. Number 15, bid number 15-14.
 waste disposal services for construction debris. Resolution to award bid number 15-14 to authorize the purchase of waste disposal services for construction debris from SNR Trucking, Winslow LLC and Holtzclaw Excavating, Inc. Any amount of $10 per ton is needed through the end of calendar year 2015. Number 16.
 Environmental Consulting Operations Corporate Amendment No. 1 and One Year Renewal, a resolution to approve the Amendment No. 1 to the Contract with Environmental Consulting Operations Incorporated for Wetlands Mitigation Site Monitoring and Management and to authorize an extension
 of the amended contract through 2015 in the amount of fifty thousand seven hundred and sixty six dollars number seventeen plant and moran p llc resolution approve an extension to the contract with plant moran p llc for information technology services through june 5 2015 in the amount of 90 90 and approve a budget adjustment number 18 gordon long park trailhead tap revenue
 Resolution to express the willingness of the City of Federal to utilize federal aid funds for construction of restrooms and expanded parking at Gordon Long Park and to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $260,000. And number 19, amend the 2015 adopted budget. A resolution to amend the 2015 adopted budget by the reappropriating of $86,181,388 and bonded our ongoing capital projects together.
 outstanding obligations and grant funded items. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. I have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kennett? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Lature? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Headey? Yes. Okay. Under unfinished business, number 1, RZN 14-4864,
 Code Trump is appeal an ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 14-4864 for approximately 0.26 acres located at 232 West Ash Street from RSF for residential single family for units per acre to RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre.
 I think the applicant requested this not be heard tonight, but we could go to the second reading. Let's leave it on the second reading if that's what City Council wanted to do. All right. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. I'll move. Second. A motion and a second to go to the second reading. We'll leave it there. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes Yes, yes gray. Yes Marsh. Yes. Yes Yes, and orange rezoning that property described and rezoning petition RZN 14 dash 48 64 for Roxley a quarter acre located at 232 West Ash Street from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre, okay, and
 Number two, amend chapters 151, 161, 162, and 166. ADM 14-4896, UDC, amendment small-scale production. An ordinance amending Title IV, Unified Development Code of the City of Federal to amend chapters 151, 161, 162, and 166 to create a new use unit for small-scale production, including boutique and specialty manufacturing,
 and to place the new use unit in appropriate zoning designation. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Janet. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Lature. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance amending Title 14, Unified Development Code of the City of Fayetteville to amend Chapters 151, 161, 162, and 166 to create a new use unit for small-scale production, including boutique and specialty manufacturing, and to place this new use unit in appropriate zoning designations. Okay. Okay.
 Chair, maybe anything new? Nothing new. I presented this item at the last meeting. It's primarily about small-scale production and creating a new use unit to allow increased variety and flexibility within some of our commercial zones where some of these uses have been really relegated to our industrial areas. So we're proposing a new use unit that would be allowed in virtually all of our commercial zones and mixed-use zones by right as long as they're limited in a certain size. That ranges from 5,000 square feet to 10,000 square feet.
 based upon the use that is proposed. Things like microbreweries, wineries, and microdistilleries, boutique specialty manufacturing, such as specialty food manufacturers, coffee roasting facilities, and other specialty manufacturers. You'll note that we left it a little open-ended on that
 in that particular area and allowing the zoning and development administrator to make an interpretation of whether something fits within this because we obviously can't foresee everything that might come to payable and want to be as flexible as possible the the reason we included the size limitations was to ensure that there would be a level of compatibility that adjacent residents would be comfortable with as you know we have
 recommended these be allowed by right for instance in our downtown so you may have a residence right next to a place allow some of these manufacturing uses and or above it so that's what really why we're keeping we've recommended it be kept at the lower smaller square footage for the time being but we're certainly open to any calls on that okay is there any questions for Jeremy on this thing okay do we have any public comment on this okay bring it back to the council
 Move to go to the third reading. Second. Motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kennett. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes.
 An ordinance amending the Unified Development Code of the City of Fayetteville to amend chapters 151, 161, 162, and 166 to create a new use unit for small-scale productions, including boutique and specialty manufacturing, and to place this new use unit in appropriate zoning designations.
 Any final comments from the council on this? Anybody good? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Tenant. Yes. Schottmar. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Okay. Under new business, number one, asphalt materials purchase.
 An ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding during the calendar year 2015 for the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the Transportation Division, but to require informal quarterly bids or quotes. Kip?
 Whereas the crude oil market continues to experience price volatility, and whereas this volatility makes normal competitive bidding procedures unworkable, impractical, and not feasible, and whereas the Transportation Division proposes to solicit and accept bids on a quarterly basis without the need for further approval of the City Council through the calendar year of 2015. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds that such circumstances constitute an exceptional situation where annual competitive bidding is not feasible or practical, and therefore through the calendar year of 2015 waives requirements of formal competitive bidding for the purchase of asphalt materials and authorizes the Transportation Division to solicit informal bids or quotes on a quarterly basis without the need for further approval of the City Council. Okay, Chair.
 good evening mayor and council uh pretty much can't sum it up any better than kid just did this just allows us to bid these on a quarterly basis we still go through the same process uh we just get the added advantage of if the price changes
 hopefully downward and in this oil economy right now hopefully that would be the case so we're asking for us and ordinance to recognize that and give us that opportunity to do it on a quarterly basis okay does council have any questions for terry on this terry do you think doing it on a quarterly basis would protect us from any from paying too much for asphalt you know the bidding process is there to protect the citizens of fayetteville in their budgetary process
 from overpayment to make sure there's competitiveness in our pricing. Do we still have that protection? Well, we do. We actually started this several years ago because we were wanting to lock it in for the year, and we would bid it competitively once a year. But then there's not a lot of fluctuation in it. Like last year, it was maybe 50 cents a quarter difference. It runs around $51 a ton for asphalt.
 it's just the best way for us to be able to manage that instead of being locked in on one particular year it might help us some years or it might uh hinder us if you know if it was if we had a locked in price and it went up but what we run into there is the asphalt companies will look for ways to get around that if there's certain level of increase they will
 have it in there to where they can adjust those prices even due to that. Because if it goes up $5 or $10 for asphalt emulsion, they've got to pass it on or they'll just say we don't have it. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? All right. Just any public comment on this?
 Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kennett. Yes. Schottmeyer. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes.
 In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding during calendar year 2015 for the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the Transportation Division, but to require informal quarterly bids or quotes.
 I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Tenant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding during calendar year 2015 for the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the Transportation Division, but to require informal quarterly bids or quotes.
 Okay. Do we have any final comments from the council on this? Anybody good? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Tenant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hinnion. Yes. Petty. Yes. Number two, ESRI, Incorporated Enterprise License Agreement. Yes.
 An ordinance to waive requirements to form a competitive bidding and to approve a three-year enterprise license agreement with ESRI Incorporated in the amount of $150,000 payable in installments of $50,000 per year for geographic information system software. Kip.
 Whereas the City of Fayetteville has had an ongoing relationship with ESRI, Inc., which has provided software and maintenance for the City's geographic information system since the City first established a geographic information system office in 1998.
 And whereas the users of the geographic information system, sometimes we call it just GIS, which includes staff members from several city departments, now outnumber the licenses available under the city's current contract with ESRI, Inc. and whereas ESRI, Inc. offers a more cost effective enterprise license agreement for cities with populations under 100,000, the
 which includes unlimited desktop and server licenses as well as access to additional software products that will enhance the city's geographic information system capabilities and ensure that the city staff is able to more quickly and efficiently provide updated maps and information to the public. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a three-year enterprise license agreement with ESRI Incorporated in the amount of $150,000 payable in installments of $50,000 per year for geographic information system software. Mr. Mayor, Council?
 As Kit just said well, we've used this software from ESRI. It's commonly known as ArcMap. You may have heard, know that name more familiarly. Since 1998, it is there by far the leading software where there's really
 We would not consider switching vendors. I mean, we've used them exclusively all this time. And a few years ago, I don't know exactly when they started offering this ELA, Enterprise License Agreement, which is really quite a good deal for us. There's, I'd say, three main things it gives us is unlimited desktop licenses, which we use in our office and in virtually every city department.
 It also offers us to expand the reliability of our servers and more and more online mapping, whether it's on your phone or on your desktop. It's not just for fun anymore. We use it. We have city staff that uses it every day and we have citizens that use it every day,
 just to find out how to get somewhere, but also real estate professionals, engineers who use this, they depend on it. So this will allow us to improve our reliability. And the third is that there are several new products that will allow us to be more efficient and offer some new opportunities for city staff to have better products for the public. Okay. What questions do we have in the council? Anything? Okay.
 Okay. All right. Any public comment on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Move we have a second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second. We go to the second reading. Cassandra, would you please call the roll? Kennett. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes.
 In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a three-year enterprise license agreement with ESRI, Inc. in the amount of $150,000 payable in installments of $50,000 per year for geographic information system software. I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Tenet? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a three-year enterprise license agreement with ESRI Incorporated in the amount of $150,000 payable in installments of $50,000 per year for geographic information system software. Any final comments from the council?
 All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Tenet. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. OK. Number three, repeal and replace Title V, Public Works, and amend chapter 51 and chapter 10.
 An ordinance to repeal and replace Title V, Public Works, Article III, discharge and pretreatment regulations to amend 51.137 monthly sewer rates to amend 51.138 definitions pertaining to water and sewer rates and to amend 51.999 penalty and to amend 10.99 general penalty of the federal CO-KIT.
 Whereas the permit issued by the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality for operation of the Paul Paul or Nolan wastewater treatment plant Requires the city of Fayetteville to update its discharge and pretreatment regulations to comply with the changes adopted in the Code of Federal Regulations and whereas the proposed modifications have been submitted to and approved by the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1 and
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeals Title V, Public Works, Article III, Discharge and Pretreatment Regulations, sections 51.070-51-.087 of the Fayetteville Code, and enacts a replacement Title V, Public Works, Article III, Discharge and Pretreatment Regulations, the same section numbers as shown on exhibit A attached here too.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of fail arcs are hereby repeal section 51 point 137 e extra strength surcharge and an actual replacement section e as shown on exhibit B attached here to Section 3 that the City Council city of fail arcs are hereby enact section 51.137 G hauled wastewater fees as shown below subsection G hauled wastewater fees one application fee and
 Excuse me. An application to discharge hauled domestic waste must be accompanied by a fee of $100. Subsection 2, discharge fee. A fee of $50 must be paid for each hauled domestic waste load discharged. Section 4, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby annex Section 51.137H, industrial wastewater discharge permit fee as shown below.
 Subsection H, industrial wastewater discharge permit fee, application fee. An application for the industrial wastewater discharge permit must be accompanied by a fee of $500. Section 5, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville-Ox are hereby amend Section 51.138, subsection K, treatment works by replacing the word sludge with the word biosolids.
 Section 6 that the City Council city of fail arcs are hereby amend section 51 point 999 D By striking the phrase quote or an industrial wastewater discharge permit unquote and section 7 At the City Council the city of fail arcs are hereby enact section 10.99 subsection a4 as shown below subsection or notwithstanding the foregoing
 Violations of the city of Fayetteville discharge and pretreatment regulations codified in sections 51.07-51.087 shall be subject to potentially higher penalties as provided in section 51.083 administrative enforcement remedies and 51.084 judicial enforcement remedies as required by federal law. Okay.
 thank you mr mayor and council i'd like to introduce miss denise georgiou who is the pre-treatment coordinator for the city of fayetteville she can summarize the revisions to this ordinance and can certainly answer any questions
 Modifications to the City of Fayetteville Pretreatment Ordinance were made to come into compliance with U.S. EPA streamlining of the general pretreatment regulations. Other modifications were made to simplify language, use newer terms to more closely match EPA model ordinance language, or to incorporate language recommended by Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality.
 The draft modified ordinance was submitted to ADEQ March 1, 2014 as required by the Paul R. Nolan Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES permit issued by ADEQ. ADEQ approved the modifications in the fall and we've moved forward to this point.
 Some highlights of the modifications to the pretreatment ordinance. The publicly owned treatment works was changed to water resource recovery facility and sludge was changed to biosolids throughout to reflect newer terminology. The term control authority, which is a common pretreatment term in EPA regulations, was changed to city throughout to make the document more user friendly.
 Pollution prevention language was added as recommended by ADEQ. Best management practices were defined and can be used as controls and limits as required by streamlining changes. Technically based local limits, which are based on data specific to the Nolan plant, were removed from the ordinance and instead referenced as recommended by ADEQ. Appeal language was added to administrative charges.
 Criminal penalties were added of not more than $1,000 per violation per day. These penalties are not more than the current administrative charges or civil penalties. Fayetteville didn't have the authority to enforce criminal penalties when the current ordinance was codified years ago. So we're coming up to speed on that one. All fees were removed from the pretreatment ordinance and moved to Article 5 rates and charges. No fee rates were changed.
 Extra strength surcharge requirements and fees were moved to article 5 rates and charges fee rates were not changed Approval by adq is not required for these sections the surcharges or for the other rates That's why those were moved were moved so that any future changes would be much simpler and not have to go through the onerous adq approval process Okay, what questions do we have?
 This has been through the Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee and I want to commend Denise for the work on this to meet the expectations of the ADEQ as well as moving some language around to help us in the future if we have to make modifications not have to go through the approved ADEQ approval process so it can be more streamlined and bringing us up to
 of current accepted terminology that is in this code. So the committee did bring this forward with the committee's approval, and thank you, Denise, for the hard work that you put into this. Anything else? Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Do we?
 Do we have to do the waiting period or the holding period for public comment on this? Actually, I think we do need to do that even though
 There's only a few items that might be a raise in sewer fees, and that's even questionable. I think it would be safer to go ahead and wait the 30 days, as you reminded me, Sarah. Thank you for doing that, so that we make sure that we do not violate the state law about this, since there are some possible. We kind of debated about whether there are any actual raises or not, but just to be safe, we think we're going to go ahead and ask you just to wait, and we won't take this up for 30 days.
 Hold it on the first reading and then 30 days we'll look at it again, which will be the second meeting of February. Yeah. Okay. All right. We'll hold it right here. Thank you all. Thank you, Denise. Okay. Number four. An Act Article 3 procedure to exercise initiative and referendum rights of Chapter 36 elections.
 an ordinance to enact Article III, Procedure to Exercise Initiative and Referendum Rights of Chapter 36 Elections, into the Federal Code to clarify the proper procedure for the Citizens' Rights Initiative and Referendum. Kip? Whereas Amendment 7 of the Arkansas Constitution, now codified as Article V, Section 1 of the Constitution,
 states, quote, municipalities may provide for the exercise of the initiative and referendum as to their local legislation. And whereas the state legislature has been granted express authority to provide, quote, for the exercise of the initiative and referendum as to counties, quote,
 which is again from Amendment 7 of the Arkansas Constitution, and has enacted ACA Section 1414.917, Initiative and Referendum Elections, to provide for the proper exercise of the initiative and referendum for county ordinances. And whereas the lack of clarity for proper municipal referendum procedure led to litigation against Mayor Jordan, the City Council, and City Clerk Sandra Smith, after she certified the last referendum petition for a special election.
 And whereas this litigation can be avoided in the future if the city enacts proper procedures modeled upon long-established state law or state and county initiatives and referendums. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby enacts Article 3, Procedure to Exercise Initiative and Referendum Rights of Chapter 36, Elections, into the Fayetteville Code to clarify the proper procedure for the citizens' right of the initiative and referendum for municipal legislations as follows. Article 3, Procedure to Exercise Initiative and Referendum Rights, Section 36.20, Initiative and Referendum Petitions.
 Pursuant to Article 5, Section 1 of the Arkansas Constitution, the city establishes the following procedure
 for the exercise of the citizen's right of the initiative and referendum of city legislation, subsection A. Petitions must be submitted to city attorney for certification or correction before any initiative or referendum petition ordering a vote upon any municipal legislation shall be circulated to obtain signatures. The sponsor shall submit the original draft of petition with the attached legislation to the city attorney with any proposed legislative or ballot title.
 Subsection B, review and certification or correction within two business days. Within subsection 1, within two business days, the city attorney shall approve and certify or shall substitute and certify a more suitable and correct petition and or ballot title. Subsection 2, the city attorney shall ensure the form of any initiative petition complies with Arkansas Code Annotated Section 7-9-104.
 Section 3, the city attorney shall ensure the form of any referendum petition complies with Arkansas Code annotated Section 7.9, I mean, 9-105. Section 4, the city attorney shall ensure that any ballot title conforms with Arkansas Code annotated Section 14-14-917D and Arkansas Code annotated Section 7-9-107C so as not to be misleading to voters.
 appeal subsection C appeal to circuit court if the city attorney fails to act within two business days after a C's proposed initiative or referendum petition or If the sponsors feel aggrieved by the city attorney's actions or proposal They may immediately file suit in the Washington County Circuit Court subsection D extension of time for petitioners may be granted by circuit court a
 If the circuit court grants the sponsors their requested relief related to the proper form of the petition or ballot title The time when the referendum petitions must be filed shall be extended until 31 days after the courts decision is announced as Long as article 5 section 1 of the Arkansas Constitution provision of a maximum of 90 days after passage of the legislature Legislation is not violated Now it is rare
 that I as a city attorney ever proposed anything to the city council. Occasionally I'll do it if it's a settlement offer or something like that, but normally I do not. I did this in order to try to prevent unnecessary legislation, and I want to also respond to something. There has been some question in the press
 about why I would submit for your consideration an ordinance to clarify that municipal ordinance referendums should follow the same forms and procedures as county ordinance referendums and state statute referendums. It is alleged that I seek to give the city government unfair control over ballot language for referendums. However, I merely think that city ordinances referendum proponents should follow the same procedures as they would to challenge a county ordinance or a state act.
 Is it unfair to treat city ordinances the exact same way that the state legislature has required for county ordinances and state acts to be treated in a referendum? Rather than mistreating referendum petitioners, I listened to the attorneys who represented Repeal 119. On August 23, 2014, Repeal 119's attorney, Stephanie Nichols, said,
 emailed me with questions about the referendum petition. And this is what she said. Do either of you know if a ballot title or popular name is required for a municipal referendum? We have not been able to get a definitive answer on that from the statutes, some of which seem to apply to municipalities and some do not.
 When the City Council met on October 7th, 2014 to set the special election date, repeal 119's attorney Travis Story and I did not agree on everything, but we did agree that the law about referendums and ballot titles was quote, his words, very murky. I said, what we agree on is that election law, especially on municipal referendums, is really vague.
 There are no cases I could find where the Supreme Court has ever made any interpretation on a municipal referendum. They make all their decisions on state actions and issues which are much better described by the statute. Maybe we could bring a little light into these referendum elections for municipal ordinances.
 Something needs to be done. I would ask the legislature to take another look at this and provide us some guidance like they do with counties. Counties have a very clear system about what their petitions and ballots are supposed to look like. Then Travis Story, the repeal 119 attorney said, quote, I agree with Mr. Williams that the law on this part is very murky and at this point we have agreed to disagree on the law. What we are trying to do is do something short of throwing this into litigation
 Nobody wants that." Well, unfortunately, we got litigation when a citizen sued the entire City Council, Mayor Jordan and City Clerk Sondra Smith, challenging the validity of Sondra's certification on the referendum petition, how the signatures were obtained, and how the ballot was worded. Repeal 119 properly intervened and after motions, briefs, discovery, depositions, Judge Lindsay conducted a trial over a two-day period.
 I successfully defended the city clerk's certification of the referendum petition and defeated repeal 119's petition to force Sondra to evaluate and certify another thousand signatures which were not needed for the petition's certification. I also supported the city council's resolution which would have worded the ballot as any county ordinance referendum would have been worded.
 I noted in paragraph 40 of our answer that the language approved by the Election Commission does not exactly match the ballot title that was included in the certified petition, because it used a portion of the ordinance title instead of just numbers. The judge ruled that the slightly amended title proposed by the Election Commission was satisfactory.
 The city might have been sued even without the murky nature of the law surrounding the municipal ordinance referendums. However, this is the first time the city of Fayetteville has been sued over a referendum petition on ballot wording issues since I became Fayetteville City Attorney in 2001. I told you during the October 7, 2014 City Council meeting that...
 Something needs to be done. And pursuant to Amendment 7, it is the city council rather than the legislature that has been granted the authority to, quote, provide for the exercise of the initiative and referendum as to their local legislation. However, I thought I should wait until the civil rights ordinance issue was resolved before presenting anything to you.
 Shortly after the 52-48 referendum election repealed the Civil Rights Administration ordinance, there was some discussion about trying to amend it and reconsider the amended ordinance. I did not believe consensus could ever be achieved that way. However, I remembered...
 Alderman Tennant's strong statements during the November 8, 2014, City Council meeting about not turning his back on civil rights issue of what he termed the very flawed Civil Rights Administration Ordinance was repealed. Alderman Tennant said, and I quote, I do hope that if the ordinance does not pass or if it is repealed that we will not turn away from this and we will do something that works for everyone and I intend to help with that.
 I thought that if I removed the uncertainties and new definitions and used two decades old definitions from the Arkansas Civil Rights Act, if churches and other religious organizations were exempted even more fully than they are under the Arkansas Civil Rights Act, and if a civil enforcement measure, the possible revocation of a business license was proposed, then I could help Alderman Tennant advance his intention to write something, again, quote, quote, write something that is really inclusive instead of being divisive.
 However, since no alderman approached me to sponsor this ordinance, my effort to find consensus has certainly failed. I believe that the Arkansas legislature will very soon remove the power of any Arkansas city to pass an ordinance to further protect its citizens from discrimination. Thus, Fayetteville will likely never face this civil rights issue again.
 With the civil rights ordinance no longer a possibility in my opinion, I decided that I should still address the very murky law surrounding municipal ordinance referendum language. Thus, I presented this possible code section to clarify the procedure for persons seeking to exercise their initiative in referendum rights. This code section basically says, just follow the procedures and forms required by the state legislature for referendums concerning state acts and county ordinances.
 Let's treat all referendums the same, a level playing field, no voter surprise, no electioneering manipulation by either the government or the petitioners. Some may think that our government treats those seeking to repeal its ordinances unfairly or tries to obstruct their referendum rights. Let me read you an email from Stephanie Nichols, who represented Repeal 119 dated August 22nd of 2014, sent to City Clerk Sandra Smith and me. Thank you for your review. Thank you.
 You always go above and beyond in your promptness and are one of the most easy to work with attorneys I have ever dealt with. I sincerely appreciate it and have told several Fable citizens about your fairness and ease to work with. Have a great weekend. Stephanie Nichols.
 The only reason I place the responsibility to review and certify or correct a proposed referendum petition upon the city attorney is to hopefully prevent a legally improper petition from being circulated and later being either rejected by the court or having to be recirculated because of some mistake.
 As you see from Stephanie's email, Sandra and I do not try to obstruct a referendum, but instead help the applicants properly exercise their constitutional right for a referendum. We always favor democracy. The two business day reviews should be a help, a boon to someone who probably has never had to prepare a referendum petition before.
 I'm only aware of three referendum petition efforts in my 14 years of service as city attorney. Two were successful and one led to the repeal of an ordinance. This infrequency means that most persons, even most lawyers, will have little experience. Therefore it is fair to place this burden of review and correction on the city attorney. I would hope that you would leave this particular ordinance on the first reading and in fact also leave it on the second reading.
 to see if what I believe will happen in the state legislature will actually happen, which is an act that will prohibit us from addressing civil rights in the future. I think that the city, the state legislatures will be very likely to preempt this field and say that their Civil Rights Act is the only Civil Rights Act that should be considered. If that is not correct, then come the third meeting from here, I will stand corrected
 And then at that point in time, you can decide what to do. But I would hope that you would leave it on the first reading tonight because I am trying to predict the future here with the legislature, and that's always an iffy proposition. Yeah, we had, if I may, Mayor, we had 
 there was mention of taking this to ordinance review at some point and i think kit you said if i'm not wrong that uh you weren't in any particular hurry and and we do have ordinance review coming up but we've got a full agenda talking about the motor scooter ordinance so i had planned on suggesting this go to a future ordinance review anyway but i think you're suggesting we wait until
 the legislature session is. If we can wait at least till the second meeting in February, that's a whole month from now. And I think by then we will. You'll at least know if it's moved forward. We'll probably know. I would guess that the act will already be passed by then. But if not, we'll certainly have heard about it. Hard to predict. So yeah, that would be fine too. And then we can plan for ordinance review at that point later or whatever. So you would leave it right here for a month. Is that what we're saying?
 You can do that or just, you can go to the second reading next meeting, but not beyond that. In the meantime, I could go to ordinance review. Yeah, whatever the chairman is, he can wait.
 schedule it as he well we were going to on tomorrow's agenda one of the items is uh well we only have two items one being the discussion of the proposed motor scooter insurance ordinance and then the second item is to schedule the next meeting and ordinance to be reviewed so we could discuss then if we want to schedule the next meeting and and put that on the agenda but that would be i'm thinking at least mid february so that might be the proper timing at that point to do it that way
 I would suggest we leave it right here for now. Oh, sure. Yeah. What's your best thoughts here? Yeah. I just have a question. The way this is written, it impacts all future initiative and referendum elections. Why are we waiting on what happens with the civil rights thing at the state level?
 Well, the reason that I initially waited and didn't propose this any earlier is because I did not want to get this involved with any other kind of issue, because this does affect all future referendums and initiatives and should be viewed as that and not as a part of some other issue. And so I felt that...
 That other issue probably is not going to be possible anyway. It would have been potentially possible if we had taken it up almost immediately, but obviously that did not happen. And so I think at this point in time it's probably too late to even move in that direction because I think that the legislature will be more quick than we would be. And so that's why I thought we should just leave it on the first reading and 
 Even though it does affect and it's really gonna affect only other future ordinances in my opinion and other issues that we don't even know What they're gonna be now, but some sometime along the line another five or six years We'll probably have another one that will be challenged. Okay kids So it's a sponsor the ordinance you recommend we at least go through all three readings But not waive the rules. So it's only at the meeting. That's what I mean. Yes. Let me did the ordinance. Okay. Okay. I
 Yes, Sarah. I guess I'd share Alan's question about this because this really isn't, to me, this isn't about the Civil Rights Ordinance. This is about any referendum, so I'm not sure why we need to wait. I mean, to me, it looks like what you've drafted is really, it's a clear cut and expedient process for handling this that it's consistent with existing precedent of state and county laws.
 And it has this great system of allowing the circuit court to provide appropriate checks and balances. So I don't understand why we're waiting on the legislature. It seems like we need this clarity probably the sooner the better before any other issue arises, even if it's not our civil rights legislation. First, I don't think I let you finish, did I, Alan? No. And then John, after. Thank you, Sarah.
 I guess I want to clarify again. So I asked the question that this affects all initiative and referendum things, and you said yes to that, but also I said, so why are we waiting on the civil rights decision by the state? And your answer was that they still will have an impact on each other. So is this written because of the civil rights referendum petition? I mean, if it is, then I don't think we should even be talking about it.
 It was written because of the confusion that became apparent during the civil rights referendum process and the litigation that we suffered. So, yes, that was what brought it to my attention. We had not been sued before. We had the smoking ordinance, and that was not an issue. We had the road impact fee referendum, and that was not an issue whatsoever.
 But it became an issue at this particular ordinance, and that brought it to my attention. And as opposed to what I said on October 18th, I think it was, where I said the legislature ought to do something. Well, I reread Amendment 7, and the legislature doesn't have power to do it. That's something we have to do if we want to clear this up. In response to Alderman Marsh, it's very rare that we have a referendum. So I don't really think  I agree with you. It should cover everything in the future.
 I don't see anything right now that looks very controversial that's going to stir up a lot of people. Usually you have some idea when something like that's going to happen. We knew about the smoking ordinance long in advance, didn't we Mayor? That that was going to be a big issue and we knew this was going to be a big issue. I don't see anything like that so I think there's no real reason to go through any time of trying to move it along real fast. I'd rather just take our time and not go real fast.
 Wait a minute. John? I appreciate the city attorney's consideration of the people of our city and wanting to help in the petition process by assisting in drafting a more appropriate title. But I'd like to remind the council, and Mr. Mayor, yourself as well, political winds change. When Mr. Williams was presenting Ms. Smith with her award, he talked about her servant's heart, her heart of gold,
 her willingness to serve other people, to apply the golden rule, which as we'll all recall, is do unto others as you would have them do unto you. If political winds change and the political makeup of our council changes, you may find a city attorney, Mr. Williams gave us assurance that he would be fair, but we don't know about the person after him or the person after that. Realize that our actions have long-reaching effects.
 so political winds change and such an ordinance places a city attorney in a strong position to delay the acquiring of signatures having gone through the 119 petition process from personal experience i can tell you timing is very important when the city council enacts an act that makes people upset
 that level of outrage or anger or emotion dissipates with the passage of time. So if we were to wait six weeks, eight weeks, three months down the road before we start the petition process, circulating for signatures, most people would have gotten on with their lives, and they wouldn't be interested probably as much as in that initial stage when something is enacted by the City Council.
 What I find most difficult to accept about this proposal is this. I prepare tax returns for a living. I compete with websites and software packages you can purchase at Walmart, Sam's Club, and Target. I warn people when they use my competitors' websites and software packages before those companies are allowed to market those to the public,
 the IRS has to approve them for use. That's a little bit like running into the other team's huddle and asking what play you should run. So I counsel against using those things. What Mr. Williams is proposing is not so much running into the other team's huddle and asking what play we should run, but it's more akin to handing the other team the football and saying, would you score a touchdown for me? We're giving the city attorney's office
 the authority to change the wording of the title of the petition itself. If we want to pattern after the state petition process, why don't we give that authority to the Attorney General, who would be far removed from local controversy and wouldn't necessarily be biased one way or the other. That would be a more fair result. Another remedy we could use would be to make the city attorneys
 proposed changes, merely proposals, leaving the initiative with the people who are bringing the petition process. If they're wise, they'll seek legal counsel. I believe there's wisdom in a multitude of counselors. Anybody would be glad to listen to the current city attorney's proposals, weigh them against current jurisprudence and other private counsel.
 I think that's a better system than placing it in the hands of someone who's part of the city administration, which may be biased against or for the proposal. I'd like to keep the process objective and unbiased. That's why I think I appreciate the sentiment, the willingness to help and avoid unnecessary litigation.
 but I'd like to see the authority rest in the people bringing the petition, not resting in the city administration. Does that make sense?
 Okay, just a minute, Sarah. I think Della had. No. Okay, Sarah. Well, I'd just like to point out that actually our city attorney is elected by our people, so they are directly accountable to the people. They don't work for the administration, and I think that's an important distinction there. But I think that the time to do this is when we don't see any controversial legislation on the horizon, and that would be now, so that way it's not 
 This isn't about one ordinance or another. It's about what is fair. It's about setting a precedent and a very clear-cut process that everyone knows what they're supposed to be doing. And I think that we definitely saw some consequences of not having that in place in this last issue regarding our civil rights ordinance. So, you know...
 I will wait if it, you know, if the council wants to wait, that's fine, but I think that the time to move forward with this is now, while we don't have anything controversial on the horizon. Okay. Anybody else? Yes, John. Just to answer Sarah's concern, I agree the city attorney is elected, but a lot of damage can be done in three or four years before the next election cycle.
 Recall petitions are very rare and very rarely successful. So someone, not necessarily Mr. Williams, I believe Mr. Williams would have the best interest of everyone at heart, but someone down the line, we don't know. We don't have the assurances that Mr. Williams is giving us tonight. And that's why I'd like to see the prerogative rest with the people instead of someone, not necessarily part of the administration, but a public office holder.
 When you read Article 7 of the Articles of the Constitution, the whole tenor of that article is the movement of the people. We don't want to shortchange that movement by taking all of their effort and then placing it in the hands of one official.
 Let the official make suggestions for changes if they're wise they will listen to that if they're unwise They won't listen and their petitions will be thrown out by court of law and through the process We do have those judicial safeguards and that's why we have courts of law for those decision-making processes So I'd like to keep the movement with the people not bring it to a public official before it goes to the people and again
 Timing is very important for a successful petition campaign. If we delay that, and I realize the proposal is a two-day delay, but if we don't like it or the people don't like the changes, we have to go into circuit court. As a practicing attorney, I can file motion upon motion, and even on the rocket docket, I can make it last in court six months.
 Just one motion after another well if you practice in Arkansas you'd realize an election Contest is always handled very quickly and as you can see from the last case we had here We got to judge Lindsey very quickly with the decision did not last for months or even weeks it went through very very quickly and that's what would happen in this particular case and
 We can't order the Attorney General to listen to one of our, review one of our referendum petitions. He doesn't work for us. He's a state officer. And he does review state-initiated acts and referendums and determines whether or not they are acceptable. And you know, so that's why I said this, and basically the only reason I placed it
 any duties upon the city attorney was because the city attorney should have at least some familiarity with this law where many many other people won't when it happens three times in 14 years
 There's not a whole bunch of other expertise out there and the city attorney is in a fine position to help the citizens of Fayetteville, who he does work for and responsible to, in order to get their referendums done correctly. So that's why I placed it in there. I'm really not looking for extra work, but I felt like it's probably something that should be accepted by myself and any successors in order to make sure the process goes as smoothly as possible and to try to avoid court if possible.
 Okay, John. Sort of like a tennis ball. Even if we believe the Attorney General would not fulfill his or her duties to answer questions posed. There's no duty for the Attorney General to review a municipal referendum. Let me finish. If that's a problem, then why don't we take the other remedy I've suggested and make what the city attorney said,
 wants to do or change the change he wants to make should be suggestions instead mandatory changes to the people's petition leave the people free to draft their own petition even if they choose poorly and don't seek legal counsel and do it themselves and maybe a very poorly drafted document they will pay the consequences of that by having it thrown out by a court of competent jurisdiction later on in the process but I'm skeptical of having
 the people's petition brought to a public official and he changes it or she changes it whichever way they like. I think we're taking the prerogative away from the people where it belongs and I would leave it in the people's hands. So another remedy that I suggested, Mr. Mayor, is that we make the city attorney's changes suggestions. Let him be a consultant to the people, not a lord over the people.
 Don't make his suggestions the way it has to be. Okay. Mark, you had something. As we move forward, I think that this has taken a turn of argumentation that is invalid. What we're trying to do is to prevent litigation against the city by clarifying a procedure. Am I correct, Mr. Williams? We know from experience that we did the best we could as eight elected officials to move forward.
 We know from recent activity that we were exposed to litigation because of unclear codification regarding the situation that we were faced with. So I'm not in any hurry to do this because I want to do it the right way, but the bottom line is we are looking at the opportunity in the future to prevent any confusion
 where you have the opportunity for clarification. We have the opportunity to put everyone at ease because there is going to be a path to take that is identified and also there is still the remedy that we would have regardless. So I don't see that we're in a hurry to do this. I think that the urgency
 is simply to look at this fairly, without bias towards any single issue, to be certain that the forward movement of any repeal has a fair and
 well outlined path to take by both sides. I don't think that this is favoring one side or the other, and I don't think it's taking anything away from one side or the other. It's simply a clarification that both sides can use to move forward to reach their goal. And that's how I'm looking at this as we move forward.
 have to look at the language that's been presented or any alternative language is first of all to prevent a waste of time for litigation or the risk of litigation and to have a
 a fair pathway forward, well identified, so that all individuals, regardless of the side that they're on, has an understanding how to proceed. And so that's the way I look at this. I don't think it's taking a right away from anyone. It's giving everyone the opportunity to understand the next step. Yes, John. My proposal that we make the city attorney's changes suggestions instead of authoritative
 would still achieve those goals of getting clarity. Everything else could be the same, but don't make them authoritative. Make them suggestive or consulting. Let the city attorney consult with the people bringing the petition. Let the city attorney coach the people bringing the petition. The city attorney can still have an influence over the process.
 but he wouldn't have absolute authority over what goes in the petition. And that's the way it's drafted right now. So I would change the language to make it easier for people to bring the petition themselves and not have to go with what the city attorney suggests, recognizing that political wins change, and certain political viewpoints on this council may be in the minority in the future, and a city attorney may use that against them.
 Leave it in the hands of the people. That's the safest place for the authority. Mr. Mayor, I think this is why we need to eventually get this to ordinance review. There are many fine arguments to be made on both sides and I certainly want to discuss this with the ordinance review also and maybe share more with you about why I decided to draft it as I did and what we could do in different ways.
 unintended consequences might be from different ways to draft this, but I think Ordinance Review Committee probably is the place to do this. Okay. Allen? I'd like to make a motion to send this to the Ordinance Review Committee. You can just go to the Ordinance Review Committee. Let me just say this.
 No committee really takes stuff from the City Council. The Ordinance Review Committee may take this if they want to, but we don't need motions to send it there. It's just if the Ordinance Review Committee wants to look at something, they will do that. Just like we don't send stuff to the Street Committee or the Sewer Committee. They look at the various items coming through and then report back to the City Council, and that's what the Ordinance Review Committee does also.
 So I take it you will look at this, Justin? Yes. As I mentioned some time ago tonight, one of our agenda items tomorrow night is to schedule the next meeting and the ordinance to be reviewed. So I fully expect a conversation at some point tomorrow at 2 o'clock in room 326 at the current Ordinance Review Committee session that is scheduled. OK. Well. Mayor. Yes, ma'am. I do. One point of clarification is what I was thinking a while ago.
 City of, Mr. Williams, could you clarify, actually, if no matter what happens about the civil rights issue, it's not going to change this, right? Are your ideas about It would not change my recommendation regarding Exactly. That's what I'm thinking. I just tried to draft something I thought would be fair and would work the most efficiently. We can certainly discuss an ordinance review.
 why or why will not work or fish. So we can say to say that it's going to go to ordinance review now as far as public comment tonight, I will take some public comment I want to limit everybody to about 3 minutes because this is going to go to ordinance review okay. So if you need to make a public statement keep it within the 3 minute range and then I'm sure you can have more discussion at the ordinance review and then.
 I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next item. I'm going to move on to the next item. I'm going to move on to the next item. I'm going to move on to the next item. I'm going to move on to the next item. I'm going to move on to the next item. I'm going to move on to the next item. I'm going to move on to the next item. I'm going to move on to the next item. I'm going to move on to the next item. I'm going to move on to the next item. I'm going to move on to the next item.
 Does anyone like to make a public statement tonight? I want you to stay within a three-minute range. Everybody gets one. Turn at the microphone unless the council member brings you back up to ask you questions. And keep your comments directly to the chair, which would be me. And stay on topic. And this topic would be, should the city adopt an ordinance, if I understand this, adopt an ordinance so that referendums for the city ordinances is treated the same as the county and state ordinances and acts? Yes.
 Okay, everybody got that if you need to make a public statement tonight fair enough Okay, but keep in mind it's going to go to ordinance review. So we'll probably have two more meetings on this So who would like to address this tonight? Okay, we're gonna keep everybody on three minutes now Yes, ma'am, please I'm sorry I should have said can you hear me yes Lorraine O'Neill 3001 West Weddington Drive 182 and
 I agree that it does need to be addressed. I'm happy to hear that it is going to ordinance review. And, Mr. Chairman, I believe that it's a good thing to allow time to pass so that the alderman's constituents can read and understand what's being proposed and give you their feedback as to what they think is the proper way to proceed. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? Mr. Chairman.
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We're going to hold it right here. Yes. Okay. Mayor, I would like to make the motion that we move to the second reading at this point in time. Okay. We have a motion to say we can go to the second reading. That requires six affirmative votes to pass. Okay. All right, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Tenant. No. Schottmeyer. No. Luttre. No. Long. No.
 Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. No. Okay, well it stays right here then. That's easy enough. All right, that concludes our business for the evening. Now what announcements do we have?
 Mayor, for the public, we have an ordinance review committee meeting tomorrow. Thank you for bringing that up. Wednesday. And then in probably two weeks. But not on this ordinance. But not on this ordinance. At 2 PM in room 326 on the scooter insurance ordinance. Are you gonna be able to be there? Also wanna remind citizens that the Christmas tree pickup is continuing through this month. So if you have a live Christmas tree that needs to be picked up, please set it out in your weekly service.
 that goes through january 31st and your service day the compost facility is on its winter hours and we just want to remind citizens so they don't show up on days that we're not open and winter hours are tuesday and thursday 8 a.m to 3 p.m and only the first saturday of each month rather than multiple saturdays so we'll be back at full hours at the springtime
 And citizens also have had inquiries about extra bag stickers that typically were mailed out. The city last year went to virtual stickers, so on your bill, each citizen is given four free virtual stickers on your bill. And as you have an extra bag and send it out,
 It's picked up and recorded and your bill will actually reflect the use of those stickers after the fourth free bag. Then you're billed for extra bag charges. But there aren't mailed out stickers any longer. It's a part of your actual account. It'll show on your monthly utility bill. And that's all the announcements. Any other announcements? Well, I will be going to the U.S. Conference of Mayors tomorrow. We'll be there through Saturday. So, oh.
 It's a lot of good stuff, and I'll let you know how it goes. Yes, ma'am. Yes, thank you. I do have one last announcement. Sure. We have a Ward 4 meeting on the 26th at 6 p.m. at City Hall, Room 111. There you go. All right, anything else? Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.