I would like to call the City Council meeting of... Okay. We need sound technicians. Here we go. I sound like Mickey Mouse tonight. I want to call the City Council meeting of January 31, 2017 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Here. Right. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here.
 Here. Here, to join me in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. Okay.
 The only item that we have here before us tonight is under new business and it is an order to waive the competitive bidding to approve an emergency two month purchase of services contract with seven years homeless center with possible extensions of up to four additional months and to approve a budget adjustment kit.
 Whereas the Board of Directors of Seven Hills has operated a daytime facility to serve numerous homeless and needy Fayetteville residents for over 15 years, relying upon the support of several local churches, charities, and charitable persons, as well as some governmental support for veterans, etc.,
 And whereas through generous contributions by the Walker family and others, Seven Hills was able to construct and operate the Walker family residential community complex for transitional housing for homeless residents of Fayetteville on leased city property south of Huntsville Road for many years,
 And whereas Seven Hills is currently suffering an operating income emergency, it is in dire need of temporary assistance from the City of Fayetteville to be able to weather the storm and continue to offer vital services to Fayetteville's homeless residents during winter. And whereas if Seven Hills could no longer operate its Walker Family Residential Community Transitional Housing facility, currently housed citizens might become homeless again and have to live on the streets or in the woods during these harsh winter months.
 And whereas if Seven Hills could no longer operate its daytime facility, the large number of homeless residents who depend upon this facility for showers and washing hot food warm place to stay during the day, as well as access to a telephone and other job assistance services could not find such comparable services elsewhere.
 and whereas the facility and services provided by Seven Hills need to be continued and should be temporarily supported by the city taxpayers to prevent our homeless and needy residents from suffering undue hardship and deprivation during these winter months. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines that the facts shown above...
 constitute an exceptional situation in which formal competitive bidding is not practical or feasible and therefore weighs formal competitive bidding and approves the attached emergency purchase of services contract with Seven Hills Homeless Center and authorized Authorizes mayor Jordan to sign this contract section 2 that City Council city of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby approves the attached budget adjustment Okay, Paul
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. As you recall in the budget, we discussed Seven Hills' situation with running the Walker facility. Since that facility would revert to us in the event that they were no longer able to operate, you approved a budget of $102,000 for needed repairs, and part of that budget, $42,000 of which also would have gone to repairs
 for utility costs, or is earmarked for utility costs, I should say. We were approached last week by the Sun Hills Board and Executive Director, and they indicated to the mayor that point in time that they may very well have to cease operations because of funding shortfalls.
 The mayor considered and we discussed with the city attorney what was possible, and the mayor decided that it was appropriate to come to you as a council for this temporary emergency funding. Again, we're posturing it in two-month increments.
 It's to be funded by $25,000 a month, to be paid on a monthly basis. And what Seven Hills agrees to do is to keep the facility open because of one, the time of the year, because of a lack of notice, et cetera. We feel that this is a emergency situation and we agree to continue that funding for up to a six month period.
 six two-month contracts with the Possibility of extending it for an additional two months two times which would be six months $25,000 a month for funding and I'll be happy to answer any questions Is the representative from seven hills here's she is this list harbor and she is the chairman of the board of Would like to address you
 Thank you very much. I'm Lynn Carver. I'm the president of the board of Seven Hills. And on behalf of our entire board of directors, most of whom are here, and our committed and dedicated hardworking staff, quite a few of whom are here, I just want to say thank you very much for all that the city has done for us in the past and for even considering this additional emergency funding. Thank you.
 I think it's important for you to know that the homeless population of Northwest Arkansas has grown exponentially faster than the population in general, and we do not see an end to the increased need for the kinds of services we are providing, some of which are unique to Seven Hills. We believe that what we provide is essential to the overall system of supports providing care to our neighbors in need while they move toward recovery and self-sufficiency.
 To cut to the chase, let me say that despite the growing need, our organization has reached the point where we can no longer maintain the full range of services for people who are homeless. We have been working diligently.
 to avoid having to cut services and we have made tremendous progress. We have cut staff and decreased our costs. We have added to our board of directors. We have reached out to other providers and community and faith leaders that can walk with us as we attempt to turn around, help people turn their lives around. And we've reached out to corporations and foundations in an effort to expand and broaden our fundraising base.
 We have lowered our debt, moved our day center to property we purchased without the loss of even a day of services, and we've managed to raise the money to stay open even with operating shortfalls at the day center and the Walker facility. But despite these efforts, we have fallen short. In the end, our inability to find consistent, substantial funding from any source means that we've reached the point that we can no longer afford to continue our full range of operations.
 Without the funding you are considering and the additional assistance of the Northwest Arkansas community, more than 2,000 people who have used the Day Center this past year will have no access to essential services. Essential services like showers, help with health care and medications, and a mailing address, because it's just pretty hard to fill out a job application if you don't have an address you can put down.
 This will be a devastating loss for our clients, many of whom have mental health issues, and all of whom feel like they've already lost everything. In addition to having to close the day center, we're anticipating the necessity to discontinue our housing at the Walker Family Residential Community. There are over 20 residents there, some of whom have disabilities and some with minor children, who will be without housing when we do. This is sad. It's sad.
 This is heartbreaking and this should be unacceptable in any community. Closing both these facilities will have serious consequences for other organizations in Northwest Arkansas that depend on the Walker Family Residential Community to support a client or family's transition to self-sufficiency. It will also impact other programs that offer some services during the day, as the demand for these services will increase greatly.
 As a lifelong citizen of Northwest Arkansas, I absolutely believe that all of us must work together to raise awareness of the issue of homelessness in this area and do something about it. This is not, nor has it ever been, a Seven Hills problem. It's a community problem, and it will take the entire community working together to solve it.
 We all at Seven Hills remain committed to reducing the number of people who are unsheltered in Northwest Arkansas. We ask your help to continue this work, and we ask our friends and neighbors to join us in the effort. Thank you very much. Thank you, Lynn. What questions do we have from the council tonight? For either Paul or Lynn, I'm bringing this to you all with a recommendation, so you can ask what you will. Now, John has a question.
 John, I'm sorry. Yes, sir. Mr. Mayor, I move that we approve the funding that Southern Hills needs. I'm convinced this is the right action for the city to take. Jesus said, inasmuch as you've done it to the least of these, my brethren, you've done it unto me. I strongly support this move. This is an ordinance, so we need to suspend the rules first. I assume you're making a motion to go to the second reading. Yes, please. And Matthew. Matthew.
 Well, I just wanted to say whenever I heard about this last week, I made several calls trying to find funding, even though I know that the board had worked so diligently to find it on their own.
 The impression I got from some in the community was that they were waiting for Seven Hills to fail so that they could resurrect a new program from the ashes because of the problems that Seven Hills had had in the past. And I think that.
 If the city of Fayetteville needs to take a lead on this, then we should be proud to take a lead on this. And we should also use this vote to renew a call to all the members of our community, especially those who are able to help with this, who have the means to, and I mean the private corporations and the private foundations, if we need to convene an effort to address
 assemble the resources to address this problem directly then that's exactly what we should do and i want everybody to know that when i vote yes on this tonight that's what i'm voting to do and i hope that my council members will will join me in that sentiment well i need a second for john's motion to go to the second ring i don't have anybody on my thing okay i don't have it on my board yes sir
 second to the second reading yes ma'am yes ma'am so John and then Sarah seconds correct okay all right we have a motion saying to go to the second reading Sandra would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 ordinance to waive competitive bidding to approve an emergency two-month purchase of services contract with Seven Hills Homeless Center with possible extensions of up to four additional months and to approve a budget adjustment motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading Sarah second okay we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading Sandra would you please call the roll
 yes yes yes yes yes yes an ordinance to waive competitive bidding to approve an emergency two-month purchase of services contract with Seven Hills Homeless Center with possible extensions of up to four additional months and to approve a budget adjustment okay before we go into our final comments I have not asked public comment
 Is there anyone that would like to address the council? Yes, please. Please one turn to microphone introduce yourself and Keep your comments to yes Major Dan Matthews with the Salvation Army the area commander for Northwest Arkansas and We certainly want we want to thank you for considering this and passing this motion because as we know they provide a wonderful service seven hills does to the the
 to the surrounding area and We were we did have concerns about the influx of others coming to the army to the Salvation Army because we're pretty flush as well But we just want to thank you for doing this today, and it's because of it being such a valuable service to the city Thank you. Thank you. We also like to addresses. Yes, please. Come on up to the mic. My name is Robert Ferdow I live at 792. I'm sorry. I'm emotional 792 South Seven Hills Court
 I was homeless for three years. I gave up. Seven Hills didn't give up on me, and it changed who I was, and I'm not going to give up on them. I thank you for your help, and I beg you to please continue your help. We're all a family. We all are Arkansans.
 And I just appreciate every opportunity that you give us. And I'm sorry that I'm a little emotional, but this is very important to me. I don't want to go back to the tent. I lived three winters in the tent, and I gave up. These people didn't give up on me. Thank you. I understand everybody wants to applaud. Let's kind of ratchet that down a little bit. Who else would like to address us? If you all want to speak to us, would you all start to key up at the mic?
 Mayor and Council, my name is David King. I am homeless. I've lived in a tent for six months. I rented a camper. The camper burned up. I lost everything I had, including my service animal of eight years. When I had nothing, Seven Hills gave me clothes again. They gave me food. They let me shower. They got an address for me. I had no address except the woods in Seven Hills. They'd been there when I needed someone. I had to vent. They had open ears. Without them, I would be lost.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. My name is Sherman Terry. I came to Fayetteville, Arkansas and I was homeless, had no place to go. Seven Hills helped me get an ID, they helped me get an apartment, showers, everything. They're amazing and I really thank you for helping me. You're welcome. All right, who else would like to address us?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the final comments from the council? Justin. Thank you, Mayor. A couple of things, and this is a question. I think I know the answer, but this may be a question for Ms. Carver. I don't know. Is there a homeless center? Like, is there a Seven Hills in Springdale or something similar? And I know the answer, guys. I'm making a point as good or bad as it may end up.
 um is there one in rogers bentonville elkins anywhere my point is this is more of a regional facility in my mind than just a faithful facility which i don't see other cities here lined up to help and it's disappointing um this building is in fayetteville but that doesn't mean that it's just a fayetteville situation
 So I'm not going to say anything else but to challenge the other cities to step up. And I know some of them do, but it's disappointing to me that this falls entirely on us. And one good thing about this –
 is that I've gotten a wave of emails and phone calls and things just today. And a lot of people on Facebook and social media and different things saying, I didn't really know there was a problem. I'm going to be active now. I'm going to help. I'm going to volunteer. I'm going to give money. I'm going to give time. So if that comes from this, then
 What we do here will be matched tenfold. So I encourage everyone that reads about this and the people that see it, get involved. Echo what Matthew said. He said it much, much better than I just did, but it's a call to action. It really is. So we need to do this, but I encourage the other communities and other places to get involved as well because this is a very serious issue and a great service, and we all need to participate. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 All right. All right. All right. Sarah, Marcia. Yes. I did want to call attention to some of the other things that we're going to be doing in the near future. Our Active Transportation Committee has recommended the construction of a sidewalk from the Seven Hills Center back to the intersection with 15th Street, and I believe that's been approved
 by our transportation group so that we will have a safe and dignified way for people to traverse from the Seven Hills Center into our town. So don't think that our support stops here, but we're also going to make some infrastructure improvements to help include everyone in our community. But I want to thank all the people in my ward who wrote me great letters and emails, calls today in support for this initiative.
 because you know stable is a city of compassion and this is how we walk that walk so I will be voting in support okay mark I want to also express my appreciation for the services that they offer and the the admiration I have for the challenges that are faced by this board as Matthew said there are some people that have a perception that
 there there's a struggle a continual struggle with this board and my comment is there is a continual need for this service and so again let's all unite and
 and let's step up to the plate and let's make certain that the services that are provided by seven hills are available and continued without disruption so uh out of deep respect and admiration and realizing the challenges that this organization has faced for years and will continue to face as we see this uh homeless population and people who need these services increase
 I'm very happy to support this and I do hope as Justin and Matthew and Sarah said this is a call out for the community to step up to the plate also you certainly seem to have the support of the City Council that reflects the compassion of Fayetteville
 now we need to expand that out into the community and you can see by the people here and the letters that I got we do have the support in the community and people are willing to help when they know that there is the need so I'm happy to support this and I look forward to the
 the prosperity, if I can say that, for the board so that we can get these services guaranteed in the future without an emergency situation. Okay. Anybody else? Well, I would like to say that this was, you know, when you look at situations like this, you realize that, you know, I really don't have anything real elegant to say tonight. I know that I just did not simply...
 the heart to turn out 2,000 people into the street. I really just didn't, and I won't. Now, I remember when Seven Hills started. I was on the city council in 2001, and I supported it then. I support it now, and I will support it in the future. And, you know, at the end of the day, it's the people that we take care of. And I say this all the time to people about this city.
 You know, folks, it's not what we market around here. It's what we believe. And we believe in one another and taking care of one another and being sure that everybody feels like a partner in this city. No matter if they're homeless or the color of their skin, the religious belief or who they love, we are all one people in this city and we support one another and we're going to support Seven Hills and we're going to take care of the homeless situation in this city.
 and with that sondra would you please call the rope yes marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes all right motion passes thank you council thank you all for joining