I would like to call the February 2nd, 2016 City Council meeting to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Tennant. Here. Schottmeyer. Latour. Present. Mayor Jordan. Here. You join me in the pledge of allegiance. Pledge of allegiance to the flag.
 United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Under the first order of business, under the mayor's announcements, proclamations, and recognition, I would like to make a special recognition tonight. Tonight, council and citizens of Federal, we have a special recognition. We have a celebrity in the house. We have Federal's own Barrett Baber with us tonight.
 Barrett and I go back a ways. I have listened to several of his concerts here in town, and he's been a great citizen and a great friend to this city. And it is an honor for me to present the following proclamation, Barrett.
 And whereas Barrett has served our community as an educator, inspiring young minds to dare to dream through artistic expression. And whereas Barrett was the winner of the 2014 Grammy Awards Gig of a Lifetime, where he performed a concert during Grammy Week in Los Angeles.
 And whereas Barrett was a finalist on season nine of NBC's The Voice, where he was a member of country superstar Blake Shelton's team. And whereas Barrett has had multiple songs on the Billboard Hot 100 and digital charts, including a number one single on iTunes country charts. And whereas Barrett Baber...
 has proven to be a man of true character and a fine role model representing Fedville and all of Arkansas well as an entertainer, a husband, father, and friend. Now therefore, I, Lionel Jordan, Mayor of the City of Fedville, Arkansas, do hereby proclaim Tuesday, February the 2nd, 2016, as Barrett Baber Day in Fedville, Arkansas. And I also want to present you with the key to this city, but first the proclamation.
 I also want to present you with this key to the city. Thank you, Michael. Anything you'd like to say? Yeah, I would. You never pass up the opportunity for the hot mic. Thank you, Mayor Jordan. Wow. You know, it's been an incredible journey for me the last six months, and I think one of the most...
 gratifying and humbling parts of the journey for me has been to represent the people of the City of Fayetteville in a way that made them proud. And it wasn't something I actively thought about doing, you know, that wow, I'm really going to make the City of Fayetteville proud, but I'm so glad that the City of Fayetteville
 the people here, the people of Northwest Arkansas, the people of Arkansas, but especially here in Fayetteville, took ownership of my success. And I think it goes to show the kind of place that we live and the people that live here. And I'm really proud to call this place my home. And no matter where this stream of mine takes me, be it Nashville or Los Angeles or New York or
 one day maybe even worldwide, I'll always have a little place inside my heart for Fayetteville, Arkansas. And now I have a key to the city, so I don't think I have a choice now. I guess I can get in any door here. Anywhere. Anywhere.
 But I want to say thank you to you but also to the people the people of Fayetteville. It's been an amazing ride and one that I'm not finished with yet and there's some really special things coming so I hope to continue to make the city of Fayetteville proud and really grateful for this honor that you've shown upon me today. Thank you very much. Okay the next order of business in a consent agenda and I believe Councilmember Latour you want to pull one? Yes please it's the resolution talking about the drug interdiction.
 You want to put it under the first order of new business? Be fine? Please. Okay. All right. On the consent agenda tonight, number one, approval of January 19, 2016, city council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $21,573, representing donation revenue to the animal services received during the third and fourth quarters of 2015. Okay.
 Number three, a resolution to approve the purchase of a 2016 Dodge Ram 1500 Tradesman Quad Cab 4x4 from Lewis Automotive Group, a federal in the amount of $22,995, pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the Engineering Division.
 Number four, a resolution to award bid number 16-18 and authorize a contract with Utility Service Company Incorporated in the amount of $1,133,510 for the Baxter and Mount Sequoia Tank Rehabilitation Improvements Project to approve a project contingency in the amount of $113,351 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number five, a resolution to approve Amendment Number Two to the contract with Environmental Consulting Operations Incorporated in the amount of $50,000 for wetlands mitigation, site monitoring, and management through 2016. Thank you.
 Number six, a resolution pursuant to federal code of ordinances section 39.10C4 to authorize the mayor to pay the amount of $11,695.64 to Key LLC and $5,209.40 to Servpro, a federal spring bill for a wastewater damage claim arising at 620 North Rockcliff Road.
 7. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $200 representing donation revenue from Precision Rescue LLC to the Federal Fire Department for an annual Employee Service Awards event.
 8. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $750 representing donation revenue from the Federal Firefighters Association to the Federal Fire Department for the annual Employee Service Awards event. 9. A resolution to approve a contract with Grant Thornton LLP in the amount of $97,500 to provide independent audit services to the City of Federal.
 10. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment for 2015 to appropriate the non-cash repurchase of approximately 24 acres in the Federal Commerce District from Pacific Vet Group USA, Inc. 11.
 A resolution to award bid number 16-17 to authorize a contract with Frank Sherham, Landscape Design Incorporated, in the amount of $148,743 for the installation of trees and shrubs within the mediums of Crossover Road and Van Asch Drive and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $15,000. Number 12, a resolution to approve a contract
 reviewing signal construction LLC of Nixon Missouri in the amount of $100,041.50 for the construction of a traffic signal at the intersection of Van Ness Drive and Garland Avenue, Highway 112, and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $10,000.00.
 And number 13, a resolution to approve a payment of $359,587.42 to the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department for design and construction of the Highway 45 Old Wire Road Signal and Intersection Improvements Project. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda. So moved. Second. Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, an unfinished business. We have none before I go into the new business is any comments or that the council like to make about Mr. Barrett. I apologize. I don't think I asked you all if you had any comments to make tonight. So is there any? Yes. I thought we were going to get to hear some. Thank you very much. Thank you guys. Okay. Under new business.
 Number one a resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing funding from the Gulf Coast high-intensity drug Trafficking area in the amount of one hundred thirty six thousand nine hundred ninety two dollars for the police department I pull this aside to give one citizen his chance of the microphone So I think we should ask for public comment mayor. Okay I
 Do you want to get an explanation from the chief or do you want to just go right into public comment? We can get an explanation from the chief and then we're going to public comment. Sure. All right This is a federal grant we've been receiving for probably about the last seven or eight years. It's a zero match grant it's a
 basically we use it to supplement the efforts of the Drug Task Force. In years past, and when I say years past, I'm talking about in the 90s, we used an Edward Byrne grant to fund the task force, but as the years have gone by, that funding has dropped off, and so this is what we use to supplement that funding of the federal Byrne grant to operate the Drug Task Force.
 And, Chief, the money is funding salaries, buying vehicles, buying intelligence? This does three things. It funds officer overtime. There's allowance for two vehicles. And then the third one is a federal acronym, what we commonly refer to as PEPI, P-E-P-I, which is the purchase of evidence and the purchase of information. So we use it if we go buy an illicit drug from somebody. It's what we use to actually make that purchase. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. Okay. All right. Any other questions from the council on this? What public comment do we have? Yeah. Hi. My name is Chris Diley. I have severe allergies, so please bear with me. I'm really congested. Sure. And I'll be very brief.
 Mine is regarding the public safety as it relates to the issue and specifically of people being court ordered to say alcoholics anonymous or narcotics anonymous for drugs or celebrate recovery.
 And just in pointing out that it hasn't stopped DUI, this has been going on since the 1930s when AA began. The AA co-founder Dr. Bob began the process I think in the late 1930s. And we still have DUIs today where people are drinking and driving and under the influence. We get six, seven, eight DUIs and they keep doing it. I myself did it back in 1984. I had a DWI in Anchorage, Alaska. And I kept on because the punishment wasn't severe enough.
 I think if something as simple as if I had known that I would lose my license for life on the first offense, I'm quite certain I wouldn't have done it anymore. But it was just more convenient for me to drink and drive, and it was fun. So I kept at it. So I think we just need more severe laws. I think that would help, you know, as far as, you know, the fiscal concerns.
 I think that would be best for public safety and fiscal concerns. And I just want to point out too, is like when people are court ordered to AA, the first thing that they're told, AA is not being honest with them. I've been involved in AA for many, many years. For 31 years, I've been clean and sober since 1985. And the first thing court ordered people are told when they come to AA is that AA is a spiritual program, that it's not religious. But in fact it is. In its own literature, they have doctors William Silkworth and Dr. Terry Taibout
 in AA conference-approved literature when they spoke at the AA Comes of Age convention, just very quickly, they pointed out that under these conditions, the patient turns to religion with an entire willingness and readily accepts, without reservation, a simple religious proposal.
 Considering the presence of the religious factor, because of this initial confidence, identical experience, and the fact that discussion is pitched on moral and religious grounds, it is paramount to note that the religious factor is all important even from the beginning. Found an answer to his drink problem in a personal religious experience. In a sense, this is what happens in Alcoholics Anonymous. Religion plays upon the narcissism and neutralizes it to produce a feeling of synthesis. In other words, unless the religious impetus of Alcoholics Anonymous affects the change in the deeper personality components,
 The influence of the program is not lasting. Harry Emerson Fosdick's favorable review of AA's big book in 1939 states, the core of their whole procedure is religious. Fosdick again, 1956. Moreover, these testimonies bear witness to religion's reality. For Alcoholics Anonymous, it's deeply religious. That's AA Comes of Age, pages 304 through 324. And I just point that out because
 I think AA is very, very hopeful in many respects, but what happened with me was that the religion was used, the religious absolutism was used in an abusive manner.
 And it took me 27 years to begin to study, take a look at religious theology and realize how I was used to induce false guilt. That I was living with false guilt for 27 years. And it's just a wonder that I didn't drink or turn to drugs over it or even commit suicide. Because when I had one year of sobriety, that's something I considered because I was so guilt-ridden. And I found out that I connected the dots back to this is where it was coming from.
 When I first came into AA, they said it was spiritual, not religious, but it is. The components are there, and people need to be aware. And so I just wanted to point that out. And just my last point is that Celebrate Recovery is another adjunct to the process of people having problems with drugs or alcohol, particularly young people, in their court order to celebrate recovery, which is even more religiously explicit in AA.
 And that's, I just don't, I see that as being Oliver Cromwell, you know, religious tyranny, separation of church and state. You know, even though we have freedom of religion, I see that as separation of church and state, a violation. And this has been going on for
 since the 1930s, and now it's getting worse. We celebrate recovering, joining in the mix. And my very last point is just, if anybody finds it of interest, the Serenity Prayer author, the author of the Serenity Prayer, Reinhold Niebuhr, a Protestant theologian, there's a very interesting interview that he had in 1956 with Mike Wallace, and Niebuhr, in the interview,
 Wallace asked Niebuhr why separation of church and state is important, is of importance, and Niebuhr gives his reasons, you know, as that it's, you know, that sometimes there's good religion, sometimes there's bad religion, you know, etc., etc. So if people want to just look that up online, Reinhold Niebuhr and Mike Wallace, it's an excellent interview, and it really, I mean, it just capsulizes the whole thing, and AA, it's ironic because AA uses Reinhold Niebuhr's serenity prayer to open up their meetings.
 and yet people are court ordered, they're forced to attend by the government. So I just wanted to bring that to your attention in case it's thought provoking and food for thought and in case it's helpful at all. Thank you. I appreciate you giving me the chance to. You're very welcome. Does anyone have any questions for Chris on this? Okay. We have a motion. We do. Motion to pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. I guess is there any other public comment?
 Well seen and bring back to counseling motion second pass resolution, the final comments from Council on that. Okie dokie all right, Sandra would you please color up long. Yes, right, yes, March, yes, Kenyan, yes, Eddie, yes, can it yes, not my turn. Yes, okay. Now I'm going to start with our original. The best okay, I don't start number one so I don't get all confused with the numbers are number one.
 a resolution to approve a budget adjustment reappropriating funds in the amount of $500,000 from the Willow Bend Development Cost Share Project to the in-house pavement improvements project for 2016. Paul? Thank you, Mayor and Council. This particular issue involves the transferring of $500,000 from a project for the funding of infrastructure for the Willow Bend project.
 uh... from that project into the uh... overlay street overlay program for this year just review in twenty fifteen we appropriated five hundred thousand dollars for this project and uh... five hundred thousand dollars for this project in a twenty sixteen budget that project won't be going to tell you how to this year sometime in november from the last timetable we've heard when we were developing the street overlay program
 It was discussed in the street committee and subsequently here in the city council that it would be beneficial if we transferred $500,000 from that into the 2016 street overlay program so we could accelerate that program because
 Terry Gulley had the people available to do this, and this is primarily for materials. And what we will do is in 2017, where we'll need the remaining money for that project, we will reduce the overlay project for that year and transfer that money into the Willow Bend project. Did this go through the Transportation Committee? Yes, Mayor, it did. We reviewed it in detail, and there's unanimous support for it.
 Okay. John, I think you pulled the item. Is there, I mean, I'm just. Anytime, you know, consent agendas are very convenient methods to dispense with routine sort of things, but they're also dangerous a little bit because you can tuck things away in those and they don't ever see the light of day. So I just take a general position. If we're spending a bunch of money, I want that discussed in a public forum. So people at home can see this on their televisions or on the Internet.
 Those who are here and see what we're doing with the money. This is their money not ours So five hundred thousand dollars makes an impression on me. I want that in the light of day. Thank you Paul. Sure. Okay Any other comments from the council on this? Do we have any public discussion on this? Okay I'll bring it back to the council Motion is second to pass resolution. Is there any final comments from the council on this? I
 Yes, Adele. Mayor, I'm just happy to say that I'm delighted for any, for us to do anything we can to help this project move forward. And so I'm very happy that our finance director has seen fit to bring this idea to us, and I'm delighted that we're able to do it to, to help this project move forward. Okay. Anything else? Okay.
 All right, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay, number two. An order is to waive.
 An ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of a crisis response system from rescue phone incorporated in the amount of $22,985 plus political taxes for use by the police department to prove a budget just kit Whereas the existing crisis response system used by the police department is more than 20 years old and the company that supplied the system no longer makes replacement parts which makes repairs difficult and
 And whereas the system supplied by Rescue Phone Incorporated is used by other law enforcement agencies in Northwest Arkansas and will increase interoperability during large-scale events. And whereas the Rescue Phone Incorporated sells directly to law enforcement agencies and is the sole source provider of the products that will best meet the needs of the police department. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby finds that such circumstances constitute an exceptional situation where formal competitive bidding is not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the purchase of a crisis response system from Rescue Phone Incorporated in the amount of $22,985 plus applicable taxes for use by the police department. Okay. Chief? Chief?
 Thanks again. This is a very specialized piece of equipment we use. We use it in hostage situations or barricaded suspect situations. We currently have one that's over 20 years old. Obviously, as you can imagine, the technology's changed quite a bit over the last 20 years. It does a lot of other things that I'd just soon not talk about in a public meeting, a lot of covert things. It is a budgeted CIP item that's currently approved in the CIP. Okay. What questions do we have of the chief on this? Am I good?
 All right. Any public comment on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? If we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Yes.
 In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of a crisis response system from Rescue Phone Incorporated in the amount of $22,985 plus applicable taxes for use by the police department and to approve a budget adjustment. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Yes.
 I'm sorry. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of a crisis response system from Rescue Phone, Inc., in the amount of $22,985 plus applicable taxes, for use by the police department and to approve a budget adjustment. Okay. Any final comments from the council on this? Yes.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmars. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay, number three. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 15-5268 for approximately 0.53 acres located north of 812 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18 Residential Single Family 18 Units per Acre. Kitts.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18 Residential Single Family, 18 units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section
 Chair. This is a half acre property located in the Walker Park neighborhood at 812 South College Avenue and 943 Washington Avenue. It's undeveloped in a wooded site, zoned currently neighborhood conservation. The request is to rezone the property to residential single family 18 units per acre. This is also a single family zone with a slightly higher density than neighborhood conservation. Staff recommended approval of this proposal.
 Proposal finding that it's consistent with the Walker Park master plan and the city's overall goals to promote infill and a variety of housing types and densities within the same neighborhood. The Planning Commission agreed with that recommendation and supported this request with a vote of 9-0.
 What questions do we have for Chairman on this? Yes. Mayor, I'd just like to say I'll be recusing from this vote. I filed this application and one of the owners of the property will be here tonight to answer your questions. Okay. Oh, well then we have the applicant here, I believe. Would you like to present to the council? I apologize. Hi, my name is Aaron Ederman. I'm one of the owners and I'm available for any questions you have. Do we have any questions for the applicant? Okay.
 Any public comment on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? We suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes.
 And ordinance to rezone that property described in the re-zoning petition RZN 15-5266 for approximately half acre located north of 812 South College Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation to residential single family 18 units per acre. Move to go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second. We'll go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-52 68 for approximately half acre located north of 812 South College Avenue from neighborhood conservation to residential single-family 18 units per acre any final comments from the council good all right Sondra would you please call the roll long yes gray yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes
 Shop my yes, look here. Yes. Okay, number 4. An ordinance to prove vacation 15 dash 5277 submitted by specialized real estate corporate property located at 327 Southwest Avenue to make a portions of street and alley rights of what it. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14 554 1, 0, 4, to make a public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes.
 And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described street and alley rights-of-way are not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates portions of street and alley rights-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo, Section 2.
 A copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. 1. Existing utilities are required to be relocated and a new easement dedicated as required by the franchise utilities prior to this vacation taking effect.
 Number two, any costs associated with relocation of or damage to utilities and new easement dedication shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And three, revised legal descriptions and or exhibits for the vacation shall be provided as needed prior to this item being placed on the City Council agenda. A new survey and legal description following the Master Street plan right-of-way at 21 1⁄2 feet from Centerline of West Avenue is included as exhibits A and P attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Okay. Chairman? This is a lot located at 327 Southwest Avenue. It's currently developed with a single-family home and has excess rights-of-way on both sides of the property.
 along the West Avenue frontage, which is along the east side of the property. There's 19 feet of excess street right of way associated with West Avenue. In addition, on the back side of the property, the west side of the property, there's 30 feet of unused formerly railroad right of way along that west property boundary. The council in years past has also vacated rights of way north and south of this property in a very similar fashion and staff and the planning commission are recommending approval of this vacation. OK, what questions do we have for Jeremy on this?
 everybody good all right you have any public comment on this okay i'll bring back the council what's the wishes of the council we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second
 I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. In ordinance approved, VAC 15-5277, submitted by Specialized Real Estate Incorporated, for property located at 327 Southwest Avenue, vacate portions of a street and alley rights-of-way.
 Move to suspend the rule to go to the third and final reading. Second. Motion is second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Mature. Yes. In ordinance to approve the AC 15-5277 submitted by Specialized Real Estate Incorporated for property located at 327 Southwest Avenue to vacate portions of a street and alley rights of way.
 Any final comments from the council on this under which please color long. Yes, great, yes, Marsh, yes, Kenyan, yes, Eddie, yes, 10 at your shop, Mark, let's hear yes. Okay, number 5 and orders to prove vacation in that's 5270 not submitted by CEI engineering associates corporate property located at 660 West Martin Luther King Boulevard to vacate portions of utility easements hit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described utility easements are not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates utility easements as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk...
 along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office recorder of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 Section 3 this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions number one vacation of the existing utility easement shall not be valid Until such time as a new easement has been filed of record for gas line along Government Avenue as generally shown on the plat attached to the planning department's memo and number two any costs associated with the relocation of or damage to utilities and the new easement dedication shall be at the owner developers expense and
 Chairman. The Walmart neighborhood market that's under construction on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard between Hill Avenue and Government Avenue dedicated new easements to serve the development as part of its large scale development process. During their construction process, their utility connections changed and so this is a request to vacate a utility easement and a portion of a water easement that were dedicated at that time.
 New easements will be plotted to serve the new utility connection locations and Planning Commission and staff are recommending approval of this vacation. Okay. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this?
 Okay, bring back to council. What's wishes to council? Here we go, the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Latere. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to approve VAC 15-5279 submitted by CEI Engineering Associates Incorporated for property located at 660 West Martin Luther King Boulevard to vacate portions of utility easements. Motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 Second. Motion and second. We'll go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Yes. In order to approve the AC 15-5279 submitted by CEI Engineering Associates Incorporated for property located at 660 West Martin Luther King Boulevard to vacate portions of utility easements. Any final comments from the council on this?
 Okay. Saunders, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Chotmar? Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number six, an ordinance to approve Vacation 15-5281 submitted by Blue and Associates Corporate Property located at 1211 West James Street to vacate portions of utility and drainage easements. Kipps?
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described utility and drainage easements are not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council, City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council, City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the utility, drainage, and trail easements as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Section 1.
 Vacation of the existing draining easement shall not be valid until such time as a new drainage easement has been filed of record Covering the current drainage path and as generally shown on the plaid attached to the planning department's memo and number two Any costs associated with the relocation of or damage to utilities and the new easement dedication shall be at the owner developers expense.
 Jeremy this is a property located between Weddington Drive and James Street west of the harps on Garland Avenue It is undeveloped, but we have a proposal currently before the planning division to develop the property The request is to vacate and replat Existing 20 foot utility easement and also a 30 foot drainage easement as shown in the maps to follow the current drainage path Staff is supporting this request and the Planning Commission did as well with a vote of 8 to 0
 Questions you have Jeremy on this. Okay, what public comment do we have? Okay. What's the wishes the council? I'm able to go the second reading second
 Motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 15-5281, submitted by Blue and Associates Incorporated, for property located at 1211 West James Street, to vacate portions of utility and drainage easements.
 May we go to the third and final reading? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance approved the AC 15 dash 52 81 submitted by blue and associates incorporated property located at 1211 West James Street to make a portions of utility and drainage easements. Any final comments from the council on this. So under which police call them. Long yes, great. Yeah, Mars. Yes, Kenyon yes, Eddie yes, Tina yes, shot my little tear yes, okay number 7.
 Nor does to modify our PZD residential plan zoning district 1242 84 Park Hill at Mountain Ranch. It's like to reduce the total area and the number of lots and to replace an alley with shared driveways.
 be it ordained by the city council the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council the city of fable arkansas hereby approves a minor modification to our pzd residential plan zoning district 12-4284 mountain ranch to slightly reduce the total area and the number of lots and to replace an alley with shared driveways as shown on exhibit a attached to the planning department's memo section two that this modification approval is subject to the following conditions number one
 All other conditions for approval from the previously approved RPZD 12-4284 Park Hill at Mountain Ranch shall apply. Number two, approval of this PZD modification does not grant approval of development details for the project.
 The proposed subdivision layout shall be reviewed as part of the subdivision platting process. And number three, consistent with the site plan proposed by the applicant, all garages shall face the side or rear and shall be reviewed for compliance at the time of building permit. Okay. Jeremy. Jeremy.
 The Park Hill at Mountain Ranch residential plan zoning district consists of 13 single-family lots. It's located in West Fayetteville off of Mountain Ranch Boulevard. This proposal is to slightly modify that planned zoning district to reduce the number of lots to 10 residential lots and also change the access plan from a rear private alley access to shared drives. After reviewing the plans that's submitted before you as part of this packet, staff is recommending approval as did the Planning Commission with a vote of 8 to 1.
 okay dope what questions do we have for jeremy yes jeremy what was the reasons for wanting to do that to move from the back alley i would have to ask the alice is the applicant here i apologize yes all right georgian how are you tonight i'm doing very good my name is dave jorgensen and i'm here to answer these questions for you um the reason for the revision to the pzd is the fact
 Originally, the owner had planned on taking the rear of some of the lots in Mountain Ranch Phase One, the new revision.
 makes our west boundary line conform to the east boundary line of the mountain ranch phase one which reduced that Amount of property and also reduced the amount of locks that we have on there in addition to that We had some complaints from some of the neighbors that this property backs up to that They would prefer not to have a alley running the length of the property so that is the reason for the change Thank you good
 John, you got anything? That's your ward. What does a shared driveway look like? It's shared because everybody on that property line is going to be using the same driveway? Correct. Does that become a little cumbersome at some point? Sometimes it can be. Well, there are several shared driveways planned for this, aren't there? They're divided between a couple houses? Yes. On the new version, it is shared by two houses in the case of one or two of them, and then I think three houses in the other case.
 But I think it's going to be fairly well spelled out in the fact that they have to help maintain the driveways. And by the way, this is an access and utility easement. But yeah, problems can arise for a shared drive. But anybody who purchases in this development understands they're taking it with a shared driveway. Absolutely. Yes, sir. I'd want a discount.
 Okay, what is there any other question for the app? Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, so just just to be clear We've talked about this and that area quite a bit in our ward for meetings So there will be adequate parking for each house though. Yes, absolutely Appreciate it. Okay anything else for that? All right. Thank you very much Who else would like to address this on this issue tonight from the public? I
 Okey-doke. I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council tonight? May I move we go to the second meeting? Second.
 with the most insane go to the second reading saundra would you please call the road long yes gray yes marsh yes canton yes teddy yes tenant yes shotmeyer yes yes an ordinance to modify residential plan zoning district 12-4284 park hill at mountain ranch to slightly reduce the total area and the number of lots and to replace an alley with shared driveways
 We suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. Move motion second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Loutere. Yes. An ordinance to modify residential plan zoning district 12-4284, Park Hill at Mountain Ranch, to slightly reduce the total area and the number of lots and to replace an alley with shared driveways.
 OK, any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. OK, thank you all. That concludes our business tonight. What announcements do we have?
 Yes, Adele. We'll be having a Ward 1 meeting this Thursday night at the Senior Center on College. And our main topic of conversation, of course, we're always open for anything that Ward 1 people want to talk about, but we'll be talking about the pilot study that we're undergoing with our recyclables. And that will be explained as well as the...
 maps to let the folks know who are going to be participating in that pilot study. So it's a very important meeting for Ward 1 this Thursday night at the Senior Center on College. Okay. Anything else?
 Mayor? All right. Just one announcement real quickly. I want to encourage residents to fill out the Economic Development Strategic Plan Survey. You can find that on our website, www.fable-ar.gov. We extended that for a couple of weeks and certainly want to try to make sure everyone has had the opportunity to provide input to that survey. Okay. Anything else? Thank you all very much. We're adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.