I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of February the 1st, 2022 to order. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Here. Turk. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Harvey. Here. Jones. Here. Kenyon. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Mayor Jordan. Would you join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance? Yes.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Good evening, everyone.
 Tonight we have a couple of presentations. The first presentation we have tonight is to recognize Federal Fire Department employees who have demonstrated meritorious service to the citizens of Federal. Chief? Good evening, Mayor and Council. So we have an awards banquet, as everybody knows, but then we also have event-driven awards. And this is an event-driven award. It's a meritorious award.
 So, calls for medical assistance make up the majority of emergency calls across the U.S. In the city of Fayetteville, those calls receive an ambulance and at least one fire company. Cardiac calls receive more resources because of the large amount of tasks that need to happen to get for a successful outcome. Tonight, we are here to recognize those who are responsible for a successful outcome.
 Early on the morning of October 27, 2021, a call was received of a possible cardiac arrest. Vehicle engine 6 and ladder 6 responded with central EMS. They found the patient unresponsive with no pulse. Extensive efforts were taken by all personnel involved and by the time the event and by the time the patient arrived at the hospital he had regained a pulse and was breathing on his own.
 The Fayetteville Fire Department would like to recognize the following individuals and present them with a certificate and meritorious award. Here to present the awards tonight is Colton Bott. He is the gentleman that's alive today because of their efforts. Colton, would you come on up here? First is Captain Matthew Salee. Matthew, if you wouldn't stand right up over here. Captain Matt Daniels.
 Driver Operator Jacob Thompson. Driver Operator Jason Morgan. Firefighter Damon Byrum. Firefighter Zachary Talbert. And this is the ambulance company that was on the side helping us. Captain Stuart Jones. Paramedic Landon Harris. EMT Burl Warden.
 And lastly is the 911 operator who's coaching CPR, and that's Justin McIntyre. And Mayor, if we could, could we get a picture with these gentlemen? Thank you, guys. Yes, sir. Yeah. Okay.
 Thank you all very much for your service.
 Okay. Okay. Okay, the next presentation we would...
 like to make tonight on behalf of the city. Today we started the celebration of Black History Month in the city of Fayetteville. And tonight it is an honor to start the celebration of Black History Month with honoring Mrs. Dorothy Wilkes, the oldest living African American resident in Fayetteville, Arkansas. And yes,
 And I want to thank Councilmember Jones for bringing this to my attention. And I know that Dorothy could not be here with us, but we do have her family here. And it would be an honor for me to present this to Dorothy's family. You all ready? Would you like to come? Who's going to take that? All right. Here we go.
 Thank you.
 John, would you like to say anything? Thank you guys so much for
 Thank you all so much for coming out and helping us celebrate Black History Month by celebrating the, I would say, the birthday. But her birthday is not until October. But thank you for coming out and supporting her presence and helping us honor her. Again, thank you so much. Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is the monthly financial report by Paul Becker.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. We'll go from one happy event to another. Yes. I'm going to submit the report. This is the final unadjusted report for the fiscal year 2021. Had a very strong year. The general fund, sales taxes were up 20% for the year. Franchise fees were up 10%. Beverage taxes were up 24%.
 Overall service charges up 5% fines and forfeitures. However, we're down there were 67% of budget and interest was down 33% as you know interest rates are very very low these days In all we had about a 14% increase over budget Remember I pulled down the budget because I thought we were going to have a bad year I'm happy to report that we had a very very strong year and
 As far as on the expense side, for expenses, remember, we approved, you approved, the mayor's recommendation of $2.5 million in two increments for salary increases for employees
 for the city of Fayetteville. Also, we approved money to complete the DAC project so that partially offsets surplus. We're going to have a surplus of roughly three million dollars in a three, three and a half million dollar range once it is adjusted. And I'll continue and have a few more comments about the total total impact of that as we proceed but
 Let me give you a rundown of the rest of the reports if I can for the other funds. Street fund had a very good year. Street fund was up 17%. That was primarily because of half cent gas tax allocated to streets, restricted for expenditures on streets, and also the wholesale sales tax on gasoline.
 excuse me it's not uh it wasn't sales tax it's a it's a gas under usage gallon should purchases that was in effect by the legislature two years ago so we were up 17 for the street fund parking fund came back pretty strong we were up eight percent over the budget we started out a little rocky but we ended up good for the year and ended up with a with a surplus in the parking fund
 However, I'd like to remind you that we did bring forward some capital improvements for the parking fund. We're trying to change out meters, modernize those meters, etc. going forward. Parks Development Fund. Parks Development Fund had a strong comeback this year. 38% increase compared to budget. And again, I pulled the budget back when I had formulated the 2021 budget.
 we're actually going to have a loss of 465 000 but that's because of capital programs that were in process so that did not affect the fund balance as a whole the fund balance will be strong as we complete the year we have a number of unfinished projects over two million dollars in unfinished projects right now for the parks development fund moving forward as we look at the enterprise funds
 The trash and recycling fund, they came back pretty strong. They were a little soft most of the year. We were down roughly 2%. We ended up being 4% over for the entire year. We had budgeted a loss for the year. We'll come pretty well to break and even or make our surplus of a couple of hundred thousand dollars for the trash and recycling fund based on the fees.
 The fees were residential was strong all year. Commercial was a little soft most of the year, but it started to come back pretty strong as business picks up in the city of Fayetteville. We have roughly $2 million worth of outstanding obligations currently in the Trash and Recycling Fund. Most of those are compactors. We've got a master plan going on. So there are several capital programs going forward in the Trash and Recycling Fund.
 Lawrence Sewer service charges ended up, compared to budget, roughly 9% for the year. That's about 6% over last year. So that was very strong. Those are billings. There's a lot of usage this year. Again, we're looking at a high accounts receivable as customers built up large balances.
 when they couldn't afford to pay. And we honored those. We're working out payment plans, and we're moving forward on that. But that came up to a loss for the year of about $450,000 for the water and sewer fund. However, they have a strong fund balance. Remember, right now, we have roughly
 $37 million worth of projects outstanding for the water and sewer fund. Very capital intensive fund. We've got a lot of projects out there that we have to complete. Over $23 million of that $36 million is currently obligated.
 Also, we have $11 million factored in the 2022 budget. So we've got a lot of capital projects for the water and sewer fund going forward. Part of what we're doing is working very, very hard on stemming leaks, expanding services to areas that need it. So we're moving forward with water and sewer overall. It was a very strong year for the city of Fayetteville.
 Was pleasantly surprised and I'm sure many of you were too at our strong performance When I looked at the sales tax for November Sales tax from November was very very strong if you recall it was it was high. It was in the 20% bracket I try to analyze that and going back with the with the help of with Devin and essentially
 It was an across-the-board increase, which makes me feel very happy. Internet sales were up. Retail sales were up. Restaurants were coming back very, very strong. So it looks like we're going to have a good beginning to 2022. We're going to have to keep an eye on things to make sure that we stay within budget. But right now, I'm more than confident in the budget that we have going forward right now.
 A couple of things I do want to mention when it comes to sales tax. The sales tax double-digit increase is not going to go on forever. If I went back and I looked at the last 20 years, our average was about 3.7%, over a 20-year history of increases. The last 10 years was roughly 4%.
 And the last five years, 3%. Now I should tell you when I gave you those numbers, that was taking this year out because this year was so strong. Even if I use this year, the average over 20-year period is 4.3%. So I don't think we can expect or count on sales tax being that strong. Very happy it is, and that's good news for us. One of the things I want to talk about is this will increase our reserves for this year.
 One of the good things about that is it's good guard against inflation going forward. One of my primary concerns is inflation going forward. We're seeing large revenues, and I think a lot of that based on inflation.
 The other edge of that sword is that we're going to be seeing increases in our expenses, and I hope we can get that balance. The other thing that I'm concerned about, and of course every financial manager in this country is, is the supply chains, supply chain struggles. We all go to the store, we all look at some of the shelves, we see some of the things that used to be plentiful that aren't there.
 a lot of predictions are these supply chains are going to pick up toward the end of the year certainly hope so but we never know that's a that's a wild card out there we're also like strong reserves because it gives us some flexibility for a couple of things number one if we see unique purchases we can take advantage of that using for cost share leverage if we get some uh a project that we can match and leverage the money
 i want to remind the council you probably painfully remember over the last approximately five years up until this year we struggled with salary increases for our employees maren i'm sure you feel very strongly that one of the most important strengths of this city is the employees and we've got to pay them the wages that they deserve and keep competitive in the market
 As we go forward doing that, we're going to be looking at plans, salary plans, salary studies, coming forward. This year we've got a study that we'll bring forward that will look at the pay scales in the civil employees sector. That's non-uniformed employees. Next year, we're going to look at the uniformed employees and see where they are. But one of the things we're going to really face is we're going to face challenges
 retaining and recruiting qualified personnel. We think we've got best employees in this state, and we want to keep it that way. And I know I'm speaking for the mayor because he tells me this all the time, and we agree on that. So going forward, I think it's been a good year. We've increased our reserves a bit. We need that for flexibility.
 to keep our salary plans going forward. We can't give salaries based on that, but we can smooth out the flexibilities and revenue as it comes. And with that, I will be happy to take any questions. What questions should we have for Paul on the finances? Anybody?
 Oh, I have a question for Paul there. Sure. So, Paul, I just want to make sure I understood the final 2021 budget, that we ended up with a $3 million surplus.
 And that $3 million surplus was adjusted to include the cost overrun, the $3.1 million anticipated parking deck overrun, and then also the pay raises that we authorized for the 2021 employees. Do I have that right? Yeah, the adjustments. The $3 to $4 million, which is my estimate right now, is after those adjustments.
 Right, it's after the adjustment, so that's including all of that? That's correct. Okay, great. Thank you. Just wanted to make sure I got it right. I hope that answered your question that you asked at the agenda session, Teresa. Yes, it did. Thank you. It's always good to make sure you've got the good news accurate, because often it's not so robust. So this is great. Thank you, Paul.
 been a wonderful year for us yes it has it has any other questions council thank you thank you paul okay the next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda number one approval of the january 18 2022 city council meeting minutes number two the
 a resolution to approve tea hangar lease agreements in 2022 at the current rental rate for all tea hangars rented at the federal airport.
 Number three, a resolution to approve a 40-year ground lease agreement with MRS Enterprises LLC for airport property located at 4386 South School Avenue for the construction of a 110 by 100 foot hangar with an option to extend the ground lease for an additional five-year term.
 Number four, a resolution to approve a five-year lease agreement with Skydive Federal LLC for two office spaces in the airport terminal building for the total amount of $577.83 per month. Number five, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Garver LLC. Number six, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Garver LLC.
 Any amount of $75,300 pursuant to RFQ 21-01, Selection 12 for Design Services to Address Maintenance Issues Associated with East Lake Sequoia Drive Bridge. Number six, the resolution to approve a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $41,812 for the Stormwater Education Program for 2022 to satisfy portions of the...
 npdes phase two stormwater permit requirements number seven a resolution to prove a budget adjustment in the amount of 350 000 to cover increased landfill tipping fees for partially dried biosolids number eight a resolution authorized the mayor to sign a non-binding letter
 of intent between the city of federal and griffin residuals llc to determine the viability of a biosolids drying service agreement number nine
 A resolution to approve a one-year contract extension with InstaForm Technologies Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $528,693.55 for rehabilitation of sanitary sewer mains used in cured-in-place sanitary sewer lines. Number 10, a resolution...
 to approve amendment number two to the contract with craft and toll and associates incorporated for additional design services associated with the mission boulevard trail and street improvements project in the amount of fifty nine thousand dollars and to approve a budget adjustment this is a two thousand nineteen trail improvement bond project number eleven a resolution to amend
 The 2022 adopted budget by reappropriating $174,300,000 in bonded or ongoing capital projects, outstanding obligations, and grant-funded items. Number 12, a resolution to authorize the purchase of
 facility security equipment systems services and supplies for from convergent technologies LLC pursuant to a source well co-operative purchasing contract on an as needed basis through April 22nd 2025 and any further renewal periods number 13
 A resolution to award bid number 21-50 and authorize contract with Flow State LLC in the amount of $453,922 for Tanglewood Branch restoration in the lower ramble and to approve budget adjustment.
 Number 14, a resolution to amend Resolution 13-22 and to authorize the purchase of a John Deere 5075 tractor from Deere & Company through P&K equipment in the amount of $40,963.22 plus political taxes and freight charges pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract.
 Number 15, a resolution to approve a materials testing contract with GTS Incorporated in the amount of $100,780 for materials testing services associated with the replacement parking deck for the Cultural Arts Corridor Phase 1 to approve a project contingency in the amount of $10,000 and to approve budget adjustment. This is 2019 Cultural Arts Corridor Bond Project. Number 16, a resolution to approve a project contingency in the amount of $10,000 and to approve budget adjustment.
 a resolution to approve amendment number four to the professional engineering services agreement with olson incorporated any amount of 324 000 for construction administration project
 Close out services related to the replacement parking deck for the cultural arts corridor project and to prove budget adjustment this is 2019 cultural arts corridor bond project number 17 a resolution to award bid number 21 to 73 and to authorize contract with legacy construction management incorporated in the amount of 668,000
 for City Hall improvements and to approve a budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. I'll make a motion we accept the consent agenda as read. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes.
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Under unfinished business, we have none. Under new business, number one, a resolution to approve the land sale contract with Peace and Home Family Shelter Incorporated for the city to convey four acres to Peace at Home for $80,000 plus valuable services for our residents. Susan? Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor and City Council. As you all know, the City of Fayetteville has long appreciated and supported the efforts of the non-profit Peace at Home Family Shelter as a service that provides vital accommodations for victims of family violence and domestic abuse.
 The center has grown to address the needs of its victims and their children, growing from 12 staff members with an annual budget of less than $800,000 to a 35-member team with an annual budget of $2,500,000 and now works with over 1,000 families seeking support from domestic violence annually. The shelter has grown and it is proposing to purchase four acres of city land
 and for additional to per capacity for beds and baths and additional parking and the candy Clark pet sanctuary to be constructed in memory of one of its biggest supporters in order to provide a safe space for families staying at the shelter to house their pets and
 So the city did provide the public notice of intent. This item, the copy of the land sale agreement, is attached. Thank you, City Attorney Kit Williams, for preparing that land sale agreement, and it is ready to be executed. And this is the first item. The one that comes after this will be the planned zoning development that Jonathan will present. But tonight we do have members from Peace at Home, Family Shelter, and I believe Teresa Mills...
 the CEO of Peace at Home will be able to present on behalf of the applicant. Sure. Precise you have 10 minutes.
 Well, thank you, Mayor, Council. I'm not sure. Oh. You can tell your dad. All right. Very good. Well, I tell you, I feel that Miss Susan may have stolen my thunder. I don't know that I could have presented anything better than she has already said. I will just say that Peace at Home is committed to serving victims in our growing community. And in order to do that, we're going to need additional space.
 for our plans not only for today, but for the next several years. And that includes the opportunity to allow families to bring their pets with them into shelter. We know that there is a connectivity between domestic violence and animal abuse and this will allow us to
 ensure that all members of the family including the four-legged kind get to come with them into shelter and we appreciate council's support and the mayor's support of this initiative and i will certainly entertain any questions that you might have thank you so much what questions do we have in the council for susan are the applicant okay now let's take some public comment everyone has one turn to speak you have a five minute limit
 Don't engage anyone from public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please no rude behavior. Give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in person after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? I don't see anybody, Mayor. Okay, who would like to address this in the council chamber? Alrighty then, I'll bring it back to the I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. It will require a motion and second to pass.
 What discussion or action would the council like to take? I just maybe have a comment that I think Peace at Home serves a really important component of our society and I'm fully in support of this. If there's no discussion, I move that we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. What final comments do we have from the council?
 Okay, I would like to say just a few words. First, I want to thank Susan Norton for all her work on this. I want to thank Theresa Mills and the Peace at Home Board for all their work working with us. I want to thank the city attorney for all his work in growing up contracts. You know, I have been a long supporter of Peace at Home, and I think they would tell you that if you asked them.
 because Peace at Home takes people who come to their facility who've suffered violence, they've suffered abuse, they're fearful, in many instances they've given up hope. And they come to this place, Peace at Home, and it gives them help and it gives them a feeling of safety and it gives them some stability and it gives the survivors of domestic violence hope when they don't think they have a chance. It is an honor for me
 this city to partner with peace at home and make survivors lives of domestic violence better tomorrow than they believe that's possible today so I want to thank you peace at home for everything that you do and with that Lisa would you call the roll Scroggins yes yes church yes Hertzberg
 Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Okay, let's move on to the next one. Number two, an ordinance to rezone four acres to be purchased from the City of Federal by Peace and Home Family Shelter Incorporated and to amend
 existing residential planned zoning district 07-2531 to include use unit 43 for an animal shelter and to incorporate four acres to be purchased from the city of Fayetteville into our PZD 07-2531 kit.
 whereas a portion of the subject property is currently zoned rpzd residential plan zoning district 07-2531 and the remaining four acres currently owned by the city of fable is zoned ra residential agricultural and whereas on may 4th 2021 the city council passed resolution 135-21
 informing the public of its intention to sell as much as four acres of its land to the nonprofit Peace at Home Family Shelter Incorporated to enable Peace at Home to expand their services to meet their existing need for additional protective housing for victims of domestic abuse, as well as the need for a small animal shelter to house the residents' pets. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire hereby approves Peace at Home Family Shelter Incorporated's request to amend the Residential Plan Zoning District, RPCD 072531, to add Use Unit 43, Animal Shelter, to the permitted uses
 to rezone about four acres of city land to be purchased by peace at home and conveyed to this by the city of Fayetteville to be incorporated into the amended our PZD 07 2531 in section 2 that the City Council of the city of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect a zoning change in section 1 okay John
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Perth with the City's Development Services Department. This property is in northeast Fayetteville. It totals 5.5 acres just south of Ivy Lane. This includes what you see here in blue, which is about an acre and a half in the northern piece that is currently used.
 as the family shelter that Ms. Norton just finished describing. The balance of the property, which you see here in red, totals four acres and is currently owned by the city and is largely open pasture. The request before the council tonight is to amend Peace at Home's existing planned zoning district with two purposes in mind. One is to develop the property with an animal sanctuary, and the second piece is to develop it with additional housing.
 Staff finds the land use to be compatible while having housing at this location in the city away from a lot of typical services may not be compatible or desirable in a lot of other situations. The activities or services that Peace at Home offers are very unique and we find this to be a fully appropriate place for the use to occur.
 From a long-range planning standpoint, staff does find the request to be compatible with our future land use map. This is designated as a civic and private open space area, which is why it was acquired by the city many years ago. But this use fits into that. It's intended to have a low impact and also be discreetly developed within the larger property.
 When it comes to city plan 2040 goals, again, this is a unique use and unique service, provides housing opportunities that are not offered by anybody else in the city, much less the region and very clearly meets that goal, our comprehensive plan. Similarly, in working with the city.
 the piece at home and their representatives, direction that the property purchase went to the south from their existing facility, steers it away from some flood plain that's located to the east. So there was a practical purpose and a natural protection purpose to that.
 Lastly, the property's infill rating is perhaps unsurprisingly low given its location, but again, staff takes that with due consideration for why the facilities located where it is. And it is certainly not intended to be someplace that is located in a very highly visible location where most of our high infill ratings would be.
 When looking at other issues on the property, staff did not find any problems. Again, there's no floodplain on the property. There's minimal tree canopy. It's largely used as open pasture. And the applicant is working with the city of Springdale to work out any utility access given its location within their service areas.
 with that staff and the Planning Commission both recommend approval of the amendment to the Planned Zoning District the Planning Commission forwarded it by a unanimous vote of eight to zero They found the request to be compatible very aligned with the city's goals there was a significant amount of public comments in this item both for and against which was included in your packet and
 The Planning Commission was very cognizant of this, and one of the comments was that there wasn't a specific requirement for the building height. Some neighbors were concerned that there'd be high rises or something similar. And so at the public hearing, the Planning Commission did work with the applicant to amend the PZD to include a three-story building limit, which is similar to many of the other residential areas you find in Fayetteville.
 and with that again staff is in support as is the planning commission and i'm happy to take any questions the council has thank you what questions does the council of the applicant right it treats it do you have anything i'm blake jorgensen here as the lead on the pzd side of it but i believe also there's a larger uh team from peace at home that may want to speak to this
 Okay, everybody we've got ten minutes here. So it looks like Teresa is fine She's already had her as her time and Blake does have his Blake Jorgensen has his hand up if you wouldn't like to hear Okay. Okay, and then there's still five minutes if you all want to make any comments after the app, right? All right, like go ahead. You have ten minutes. Yes, sir. Good evening mayor and council. I
 this is a it's an honor to work with peace at home and i think that we've had an opportunity to amend this pzd to uh to make it a bit more appropriate and we understand that first initial stab at it
 did just it was an oversight to have a story limit set to it but we have amended that and we've we hope that this presentation i mean i have nothing much to add to it because i
 It's already been very well said by everyone who's spoken tonight, but I just want to thank everyone for their time tonight. But if there are questions about it further, I am here along with other members of this team. So thanks for everyone's time tonight and I'll leave it at that. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have in the council?
 Mayor, I also wanted to acknowledge members of the board who are here tonight and Board Chair Julianna Mundin. Thank you for all of the work that you all do. Thank you. Okay. Do we have any questions from the council? Nope. Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic.
 No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, Mayor. Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber who would like to address us? Okie dokie. I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. This is an ordinance. What's the wishes of the Council? What discussion would you like to have? What action would you like to take?
 Well, I have some discussion I want to add to this. Along with the opportunity to add on to the services that is already provided, we're also memorializing a leader of our city that was so important in the services that are offered by this facility, as well as the welfare and protection of animals, and that is Candy Clark. She was on the planning commission. She worked
 tirelessly with the Washington County Animal League as well as the Humane Society of the Ozarks back starting when they ran the shelter for the city and so I do think that we need to take a minute and you know appreciate the the memorial that we're making to candy that will be so
 I'm so sorry that we lost her at such a young age. So anyway, I did want to take a minute to point that out because I think that it's quite an irrelevant piece of this legislation. What else do we have in the council? This is an ordinance. What action would you all like to take? Move the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion saying to go to the second reading.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Pittsburgh. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. At Norton's Rezone, four acres to be purchased from the City of Fayetteville by Peace at Home Family Shelter Incorporated.
 to amend an existing residential plan zoning district 07-2531 to include use unit 43 for an animal shelter and to incorporate the four acres to be purchased from the city of Fayetteville into our PZD 07-2531 all right move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading second motion to second to go to third and final reading Skrogan
 yes Bunch yes Turk yes Herzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon
 In order to rezone four acres to be purchased from the City of Fayetteville by Peace at Home Family Shelter, Inc. and to amend an existing residential planned zoning district, 07-2531, to include use unit 43 for an animal shelter and to incorporate the four acres to be purchased from the City of Fayetteville into RPCD 07-2531. I'll call the comments from the council.
 Okay, and and Teddy I want to recognize you. Teddy Carwell is here with us tonight. I'm gonna recognize her and she was married to Candy and they were a dynamite couple and they mean a whole lot to me and and I want to I want to recognize her and you know, Teddy Candy would be proud. Right. And so thank you all and let's call the roll. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch?
 Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Thank you all very much. Here we go. Okay, let's go on to number three.
 an ordinance to waive the requirements of former competitive bidding and to approve the contract with seven hills homeless center in the amount of 113 thousand four hundred dollars service to homeless and needy residents in federal in 2022.
 Whereas the Board of Directors of Seven Hills has operated a daytime facility to serve numerous homeless and needy Fayetteville residents for over 18 years, relying upon the support of several local churches, charities, and charitable persons, as well as some governmental support for veterans, etc.,
 And whereas the Fayetteville City Council approved a funding request for the 2022 fiscal year to maintain the operations of the Seven Hills Day Center, and although funding for the center by donors has improved, a shortfall still exists that jeopardizes its ability to continue to offer vital services to Fayetteville's homeless residents. And whereas if Seven Hills could no longer operate its Walker Family Residential Community Transition Housing Facility,
 Currently housed citizens might become homeless again and have to live on the streets or in the woods. And whereas IF-7 Hills could no longer operate its daytime facility, the large number of homeless residents who depend upon this facility for showers and washing, hot food, and a warm place to stay during the day, as well as access to a telephone and other job assistance services, could not find such comparable services elsewhere.
 and whereas the facilities and services provided by Seven Hills are required to be continued and continue to be supported by the City in order to prevent our homeless and needy residents from suffering undue hardship or deprivation. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1
 that the City Council of the City of Puebla, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical
 and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and Seven Hills Homeless Center in the amount of $113,400 for services to homeless and needy Fayetteville residents and authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign this contract. Paul. Mayor and Council, this is the annual contract, annual operating contract and subsidy for Seven Hills.
 as Kit talked, to open the day center and continue to maintain the precedence in transitional housing. We've discussed this at the budget. We've approved the budget amount, and we're requesting that you approve this so we can make the monthly payments to Seven Hills to continue operations. With that, I'll take any questions. Okay. What questions do we have for Paul on this one?
 Okay, well, let's take a little public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have five minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, Mayor. Is there anyone in the council chamber who would like to address us on this?
 all right seeing none i'll bring it back to the council council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what action or discussion would you like to either take or have i move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second yeah we have a motion to say we're going to the second read lisa would you call the wrong scroggins yes bunch yes turk
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with Seven Hills Homeless Center in the amount of $113,400 for services to homeless and needy residents in Fayetteville in 2022. And this is an ordinance that's on the second reading.
 move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second second we have a motion to second to go to the third and final read Lisa would you please call the roll Scroggins yes Bunch yes Turk yes Pittsburgh yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon yes
 in order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with seven hills homeless center in the amount of 113 thousand four hundred dollars for services to homeless and needy residents in fayetteville in 2022. okay final comments from the council
 i have a comment i just want to uh to say thank you to all the staff that and the board of directors of of the uh the center they're doing incredible services i live in just in the neighborhood and so i see all the work they do is i just want to say thank you to them and and i hope that this this amount of money can help just that little bit and um i wanted to you know just say thank you to them and acknowledge all of their hard work for the community
 Absolutely. Anybody else? Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Okay. Let's move on to number four.
 an ordinary three zone that property described in its own petition rzn 21-078 located at 2015 South Vale Avenue for approximately 3.09 acres from CS Community Services and RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to NSG neighborhood services General kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo from CS Community Services and RMF-24 Residential Multifamily 24 Units per Acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map Of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1. Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in South Fayetteville. It's between Razorback Road to the west and Vail Avenue to the east, one lot north of Cato Springs Road. It includes two parcels, one on each side of an unbuilt right-of-way that runs east to west between Razorback and Vail. The council may recall this most recently from April of last year when the request to vacate that unbuilt right-of-way was denied.
 There was concern about loss of connectivity in the area and the potential long-term detriment this may have to the public as parts of this portion of Fayetteville will continue to develop.
 uh it's uh got its current zoning it's cs community services zoning in 2011 as a part of the fate junction plan it's not seen any development in association with that the only structures on the property is a single family home at the southeast corner the canopy on the property includes spots along the interior on the property lines but is otherwise characterized by mostly open space
 The request is to rezone the property from CS community services to neighborhood services
 When looking at this in terms of land use compatibility, staff found it to be a partially compatible request, while certainly Neighborhood Services General can relate to many of the existing smaller homes in the area. There's also a fair amount of multifamily dwellings in the area that could be complemented by the services and the multifamily housing allowed in community services.
 We look through the lens of our long range plans. Staff on the request again to be just partially consistent with the future land use maps designation of a city neighborhood area for the property. That designation is intended to include a very wide diversity of land uses and densities and intensities.
 The community services zoning district meets this by allowing everything from single family to multi-family homes in a wide range of non-residential uses. Neighborhood services general goes the opposite direction. It removes some of those entitlements that staff feels would be very appropriate at this location. Thank you.
 This property is unique in that it's part of the Faye Junction plan, as I noted, and being rezoned as a part of that. You can see as a reminder that that was adopted by council in 2009, rezoned later in 2011. The plan was originally built around the concept of a rail head to the east of this site where there's currently a concrete plant. You can see on here in the black area where this particular piece of property is located.
 fell on that plan, which was intended again, to be more on the dense and intense side to provide housing services in close proximity to what would be a very significant transportation center.
 As far as city plan 2040 goes, while the request is certainly not fully inconsistent with the plan's goals, including encouraging infill and developing near existing transportation options and observing the green network by
 by not proposing increased entitlements and floodplain or sensitive areas. Staff ultimately feels that this being a down zoning is not the highest and best use of the property. We find it accordingly being inconsistent. This is emphasized by the infill rating for the parcels. They have access to transit, water and sewer, parks and trail. The fire department of Hollywood is not far from here.
 Other issues when looking at this, and it's a unique item of this request, gets into the realm of urban design, but it does bear some mentioning since it contributes to the applicant's reason for the request.
 More specifically, it's a question of setbacks and build-to zones. The CS zoning district has a hybrid with a zero to 10-foot setback from the street, which segues into a 10 to 25-foot build-to zone where a developer can build up to five stories. And it's that zero to 10-foot setback that's making it difficult for the developer to build in their property since that area that you see in red is unbuildable for segueing into a buildable area.
 Neighborhood Services General, on the other hand, is appealing to the developer because as a zero to 25 foot build-to-zone meeting, everything from the back of Sidewalker right away is buildable. Granted, it's only up to a three-story level. So that, again, bears mentioning since it is certainly a key piece of the applicant's request or reasoning behind it.
 Ultimately, staff recommends denial of the proposal. Again, we came down on this being a down zoning in an area that is appropriate for increased density and intensity. The Planning Commission disagreed with staff and forwarded the request for community services, recommending in favor by a vote of seven to one.
 Those who supported it commented on their concerns or perception that the Fayette Junction plan may be out of date and that the existing CS zoning district is inhibiting development of the property. The dissenting vote commented that similar to staff that buy down property from CS to NSG, it can be removing entitlements from an area that again may be or is appropriate from our perspective to develop to a higher level.
 Staff did receive some public comment from the request. It wasn't clear if they were opposed to keeping the existing zoning or opposed to the applicant's request. They did have concern just about general development on the property and what that would look like. And with that, I'm happy to take questions the council has. And I believe Will Kallstrom is present as the applicant's representative tonight, thank you.
 Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have ten minutes. Can I take my mic off? Yes, you can.
 Good evening, Council. My name is Will Kjellstrom and I represent the applicant on this item. So we're asking to rezone roughly three acres from community services to neighborhood services general. I want to reiterate what Jonathan just ended his report with, which is that this comes from Planning Commission with a 7 approval. I want to talk a little bit about some of the reasons that staff has given to denial on this.
 It's based, as far as I can tell, primarily on the fact that it's not in alignment with the Fayetteville Junction Plan and it's a down zone. The Fayetteville Junction Plan, as Jonathan just said, was passed in 2008.
 there's been a little progress on it so little that i would say it's really hardly materialized at all this corridor of town on razorback with with the marshall and a couple other projects that were just approved is really kind of coming into shape and developing right now and this rezone would certainly continue to fuel that development it would give us housing that we desperately need
 So I know that the city council doesn't consider the development when they're considering rezones. It's you guys primarily want to look at the compatibility of their surrounding zones. But I will say that we do have a pending application for a conditional use permit.
 John Potter, For multifamily townhomes at 18 units and acres like I think, although that isn't on the table tonight, I think that that gives you all a pretty good indication of what we're planning here we want to put 18 units maker here, which would max out neighborhood services general. John Potter, As to the down zone portion of that.
 community services allows for a mix of residential and commercial with virtually unlands unlimited density neighborhood services is essentially a little brother to community services it still allows for a mix of residential and commercial but on a slightly smaller scale and slightly less densities um and so my comment on that is if community services is compatible here which it already is why is neighborhood services general not
 As for the partial itself, this partial is ripe for development. It has relatively few trees on it. It has a double frontage and it already has a 52-foot right-of-way platted in the middle of it. If this gets developed, the city gains a 52-foot right-of-way through this property at no cost to the city and it gives another east-west connector between these two streets.
 As I just said, surrounding uses are all medium to low density housing. All the zonings are high density. They're multifamily 24. So neighborhood services general is certainly compatible in this area. Not to mention that it's also a city neighborhood area under the future land use map, which also allows neighborhood services general. So in conclusion.
 what i'd like to say is that this property is ripe for development and a neighborhood services general would fuel that development and it would allow us to put 18 units an acre there which i think would be a really really good fit for that part of town so with that i'm here if you guys have any questions thank you what questions does the council have for the staff and the applicant
 here i have a question um uh will since you opened this up uh for a discussion with the 18 units per acre could you um could you let us know what your bill two uh would be if this is approved was that for me or jonathan that that was for you um i believe that the build two would be um it would be a zero to ten build two line whereas under community services it would be a 10 to 25.
 And really, we would be allowed to build this under community services, the exact same development, except we would have to set it back 10 to 25 instead of zero to 10. So it's really, it's not a matter of what we can do. It's a matter of where we can put it and how close it can be to the street. I guess that's what my question is. Are you planning on zero feet or 10 feet? I mean, since you told us about your 18 units per acre.
 I believe we would be doing 10 feet, but I would have to go talk to the engineer or the developer to get a specific answer on that. Thank you. That information would be very helpful. Thank you. One of the questions- I should probably say, even though he did talk about his conditional use, we really shouldn't get into the project here.
 You can certainly look at the setbacks. That's part of the zoning. But exactly where within the setbacks they might want to build or the built-to zones where they might want to build, really that's a development issue, and we shouldn't be getting into that in a rezoning request. I have a question for Jonathan. Jonathan, if I understand this correctly, the downzoning actually allows –
 or the setback to be the zero. Is that correct? So it seems like opposite, right? So if it's, cause normally if we up zone it, then it would have more flexibility, but down zoning is actually giving the developer more flexibility, is that odd?
 So, we're going to go ahead and get started. We're going to go ahead and get started. We're going to go ahead and get started. We're going to go ahead and get started. We're going to go ahead and get started. We're going to go ahead and get started. We're going to go ahead and get started. We're going to go ahead and get started. We're going to go ahead and get started. We're going to go ahead and get started. We're going to go ahead and get started. We're going to go ahead and get started.
 with the urban design theory behind that being that it's okay for it to be closer to the street. You're keeping that street-to-building ratio at a smaller amount, whereas if you're entitling them to five stories, it's appropriate that it be pushed further from the street and have an area of green space or a patio to increase the width of that street there. Gotcha. Okay, so it's sort of, it's just giving, it's allowing width instead of height, kind of.
 Yeah, neighborhood services general allows the building to be brought right up to the street, but only up to three stories. Community services pushes the building back the street, but allows it to go up to five stories.
 Okay. And then, so the staff denial comes really because of the, the, the fate junction piece, right? That's kind of because we have a plan and we want to honor that plan. Or can you hone it in a little bit more on the denial? Cause I want to understand why, you know, the staff piece a little bit more. Certainly. I mean, the, the fate junction plan, certainly a piece of that it was deliberately, deliberately zoned community services. And we do acknowledge that that was 11 years ago as well.
 The second component to staff's recommendation, or perhaps big component to staff's recommendation, is that the property is in a very well-situated place for increased entitlements, increased density. It has really close access to I-49. It's closer to Kessler Park than a lot of our housing. There's a trail immediately to the north. It's a straight shot to the university.
 It doesn't have a lot of those elements that generally create concerns from natural environment side of things. There's not hydric soils, there's no flood line, there's no streams on the property. So we feel it's appropriate to in instances where.
 the amenities are there and services are there and the natural, I hate to call them constraints because they're assets, it's probably a better word, the natural assets are there. It's appropriate to increase or maintain those entitlements.
 Right. Okay. So I think, I think kind of we're getting to, but my understanding is like that area really doesn't have any really set precedent. It's kind of a little bit of a blade slate still. So it's not that we're going to change something that's there. It was more of like changing the direction of the plan. Right. Is that right?
 I think that's one way to look at it, certainly. Yeah, because neither this property nor the properties between it and Cato Springs to the south have redeveloped. So, yes, in that regard. Sort of a blitz. Okay. I don't have any further questions. Thank you. What else do we have in council? Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Okay.
 Don't engage anyone in public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first. Then those in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? I don't see any hands raised. Okay. Do we have anyone in the chamber that would like to speak to us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 What's the, you know, what discussion do we have from the council or what actions would the council like to take? This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. Well, I do have a comment. I was real involved in the Fage Action Planning, and it might have been 11 years ago, but I don't think it's irrelevant. This is not that big of a change away from the plan. I mean, bottom line, it's going to allow them to be, have less front, less, you know,
 well they'll be closer they're built to to the street will be closer and as far as i can tell that's the main difference here uh right right jonathan that's really what we're looking at in addition to that some of the the how well i guess to put it simply in addition to that you can't build larger non-residential buildings you can only go up to an 8 000 square foot restaurant or a retail store and you also also can't build multi-family buildings by right
 So it's reduced, to use the applicant's words, a little sibling to community services. Right, right. Again, since the area has not started being developed, it's been very, nothing's going on down there. I think that I am prone to approve it because it might actually start some development in an area that is just very stagnant right now.
 And we do need the development to begin down there. The location is, you know, I think it's so handy to so many things and relatively what could be there that I'm thinking I want to support it because, like I say, it will start the serious development of area that's just very stagnant. So that's my comment. Yeah.
 what other discussion or action does council wish to take what is the ward one council members think that's in y'all's neck of the woods I think isn't it I'm very open to supporting it oh well I'm just just fundamental just wanted to Sonya have you thought about have you gotten any calls or anything or
 I don't have anything that's coming up on my radar, but I do know the area fairly well, and I agree. That's what I was asking about the blank slate situation. I definitely don't want to downgrade it to hinder a more denser, taller development, but at the same time, this might be a gentle direction of development.
 just kind of kicking things off. And so maybe we don't want five-story buildings. Maybe it would be nice to have three-story buildings, even though it's a compromise, right? So I'm open to it as well. Okay. Well, thank you all very much. I just wanted to know. I know I live in that area myself, so I'm very familiar with the area down in there. What other, anything else from the council? This is on the first reading. This is an ordinance. So what do you all want to do?
 not do I mean yeah I mean we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second second we have a motion to second to go to the second reading Lisa would you please call the roll Scroggins yes yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in Rezoning Petition RZN 21-078, located at 2015 South Vale Avenue for approximately 3.09 acres, from CS Community Services and RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, to NSG, Neighborhood Services General.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Thank you. Before we do that, can I just have a few comments or questions? Absolutely. Thank you.
 Here's what I'm wondering or thinking about is that if they really do build zero right up to the street, how is that facing of the street? I mean, it's Razorback Road. That's going to be a very, very busy road. It is sometimes now, but I think it will get even busier.
 And Jonathan, if you could comment about the structures to the north. I'm just wondering that sight line, how that that's are they set back 25 feet. So, you know, I'm.
 I know this is kind of a slight change, but we all get wrapped around about aesthetics and urban design and how the street furniture looks. And so I'm just exploring that. So if you could comment on that structure to the north, I would appreciate it.
 Sure. I think, do you mean to the immediate north, Councilmember Tartt?
 Jeff, thank you for clarifying that. It varies and it's hard to give one specific number. It's probably from what I'm looking at now, it's about 40 to 50 feet off of the street itself. But with a lot of RDoC right away, the right away varies and that's where the property line begins. RDoC likes to buy whatever land they grade. So the right away is not consistent along Razorback.
 So it could be that the whatever is built on this property may be closer to the street ultimately. But what I'm looking at, it appears to be if you're going from the back of the curb to the property line of Razorback, it's about 20 to 25 feet before that built-to zone would begin.
 Okay, that's really helpful. That's extremely helpful. And then if they were, if we were going to, if, you know, R.Wideway is that wide, how does that look if I'm looking up to the next property, if they do a zero bill two line or zero setback? I don't know.
 It's hard to say ultimately how it would lay out. I think it's pretty safe to say that the buildings would almost certainly be closer to Razorback than what's immediately to the north. How much closer, I can't say with a lot of confidence. You don't have to put a building at the zero point, right at the property line. That build two zone does allow that 25 feet of latitude between that property line as it goes into the depth of the property.
 Okay, and could you go back to your slide, that really informative slide, just to remind me the difference between the CS and the Neighborhood Services General? Okay, thank you. So right now, they could go all the way back to 25 feet if we did neighbors NSG, but they would have to most definitely set back 10 feet for the existing community services we have right now.
 Correct. Okay. Thank you. That's that's very helpful. I don't have any more questions Okay, what's the what's the wishes there was a motion to suspend the rules go to third final reading there has not been a second Okay, thank you. I was gonna ask RV and Jones So we got a motion to second go third and finally Lisa, which police call row Scroggins yes Yes, Turk
 Yes, Pittsburgh. Yeah Hardness yes Jones. Yes Indian yes, and nor does the reason on that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 21-0 7 8 located at 2015 South and Dale Avenue for approximately 3.0 9 acres from CS community services and RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to NSG neighborhood services general and
 Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? I have one comment. I really, you know, for a vision of what I see in there, in that area, you know, with a major corridor, a lot of hopefully, you know, which I think there already is a bus connection in there, buses going up and down. I just see that a very urban vibe and not having a parking lot in front of the building as more,
 aesthetically pleasing. So the parking either is off street, like on parallel or behind. So I really liked the idea of that potential design. I know we can't talk about design, but I just want to throw that out there. You know, having the, the, the buildings up to the sidewalk, it sounds to me like a great direction. So I'm looking forward to, to seeing how, you know, they're making this extra effort to do this. So let's see how, how this turns out. So yeah,
 That's all I've got. Thanks. Okay, and y'all haven't had anybody? Nope. Okay, good. All right. I haven't had anyone reach out to me. All right, any other final comments from council? Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Kenyon.
 Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Let's go on to number five. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-080 located at South Leffler Way and West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard for approximately 3.83 acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to CS Community Services kit.
 be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 at the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes his own classifications properly shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from rmf 24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre to cs community services
 In section two, the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one. OK. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in southwest Fayetteville. It's on the south side of Mark Luther King, just west of Lowe's, between about equal distance between Finger to the east and Hanchu to the west. It's currently undeveloped and largely covered in tree canopy.
 As you can see on this slide here, the area blue represents floodplain that's associated with the Farmington branch with the physical stream itself running just southwest of the property being considered here. Taking a step back, given the large size of the property, you can see what's being considered tonight in light red here.
 This is a, not an insignificant piece, but a smaller piece of a much larger property that extends much further to the south and almost all the way to Hanchu on the west and connects to Finger Road on the east. It totals about four acres of just over 53 acre property.
 At agenda session, there were some questions about natural features on the site, and those are certainly present. I think that Bear is mentioning those specifically here. This includes what I just mentioned, the floodplain, which you can see located here. That's again in association with the Farmington Branch. There's also a streamside protection zone associated with that. That's the kind of layered rainbow color you see running from southeast to northwest.
 And then there's along the southern edge of the property where the terrain begins to get increasingly steep and the soil's less conducive to development. It's been designated as a health side hilltop area. All right.
 As you can see from the zoning map, and looking at it through that lens, the property is currently split zoned. The overall property includes an area of UT Urban Thoroughfare along Mark Luther King, which was rezoned in 2019.
 That segues into residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, which is being looked at tonight, with the remainder of the property representing the majority of the south zone residential single family, four units per acre. The portion being considered now is for to rezone the portion that is RMF 24 to CS community services.
 Staff's first evaluation on this from a land use perspective did find it to be a compatible request.
 CES represents a step down from our urban thoroughfare zoning district in Fayetteville, but also a step up certainly from the RSF4 zoning district. And staff felt that this was an appropriate transition to afford land use patterns to segue downward in intensity and density from Martin Luther King moving south to the larger portion of the property. And looking at this in long range terms.
 It's also split designated in the future land use map. The portion of the property that's within floodplain is designated as natural area, which are those portions of the city intended to be minimally developed or preserved overall.
 with the remainder of the property designated as a city neighborhood area, similar to the last item on the council's agenda. City neighborhood areas are again intended to allow a wide spectrum of housing and non-residential options.
 While staff certainly acknowledges that the request is not consistent with the natural area portion of the property, we did give due consideration to the existing multifamily entitlement that's there today. Going between RMF 24 and CS allows or maintains the same tree preservation standards in addition to other development code applications.
 When considering it from a city plan 2040 perspective, staff found the request to be consistent in addition to the housing that's allowed on the site today. And that portion that's RMF 24 rezoning at the CS would afford the option for mixed use, which we find to be very appropriate along a major transportation corridor at such close proximity to numerous services and numerous jobs.
 The infill rating is a little bit mixed, however, while it does have good fire response coming from the stations of the east, access to water somewhat distant, but still present access to a park and grocery store.
 It does lose points for the floodplain, gets a reduction, whereas it would otherwise be a score or rating of 4 to 7 as 3 to 6 because of the floodplain present on the property.
 which speaking of that, that is certainly a consideration that staff kept coming back to with this request. We do have concerns certainly about the development of the floodplain, but again, on the balance of things, staff did not find any distinction between the floodplain development standards of RMF 24, which is there today, CS, which is what the applicant requested,
 Ultimately, any developments, applications is required to supply a flood study with any proposal to fill or grade near the Farmington branch. And that provided staff the reassurance that the property could be developed sensitively into the CS zoning district.
 uh when the request was initially heard by the planning commission the applicant was requesting to rezone this portion of the property to ut urban thoroughfare staff did not support it circling back to my previous comments about concerns with increasing entitlements in the floodplain staff had that exact concern and recommended an aisle of ut
 The Planning Commission ultimately tabled the request, affording the applicant the opportunity to submit a revision, which they did to what you see tonight, CS Community Services. Staff amended their recommendation to approval. The Planning Commission forwarded it, also supporting it unanimously. We have received some public comments on this item.
 This request was heard by the Planning Commission with a concurrent item on the same property for a RV park. There were several pieces of comment that were expressed in opposition to both of these items, not necessarily calling out either one, but saying they're opposed to any development on the property at all, given the sensitive natural characteristics of the site.
 And I'm available for any questions you all may have. And I believe Connor Threat is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Yes, would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Yes, Connor Threat with Craft and Towel. Here's for the applicant.
 Couple things I wanted to point out, top of what Jonathan said. There's three zonings on the property. There's the UT at the north on MLK, and there's RMF 24 in the middle, and RSF 4 is most of the land, most of the 55 acres.
 there's going to be a lot split done in between our southern zoning boundary at the rmf 24. the property to the south that's going to be rs4 you heard jonathan mention it uh they got conditional use permit in order to do an rv park on that property so we don't feel like it's a big transition to go from ut to cs to that rv park in that situation um other thing i wanted to hit on was the floodplain area i know that's a big topic
 and our applicant is very aware of those those situations and wants a buffer between his property and that RV park that's coming in so the floodplain he does not want to disturb he's probably going to keep that as all tree preservation area so that should limit any many concerns we have with the floodplain area he's wanting to keep any anything he builds out of that floodplain area and the main reason that he wants the zoning request is to have more of a mixed use commercial aspect
 from the transition to ut back there instead of having to you know build apartments he wanted a little more commercial in his mixed use and commercial on the bottom maybe some apartments on top hasn't really locked anything down but there's more commercial than rmf24 allowed and if there's any more questions from the council i'm happy to answer them okay what questions do we have in the council for the applicant or staff
 Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have five minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in the chamber after that. Susan, who do we have on Zoom? No one, Mayor. Okay, is there anyone in the chamber would like to comment on this?
 okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what discussion would the council like to have or what action would they like to take oh i have a question for jonathan um jonathan could you um could you tell us where the rv park is um i guess i wasn't aware that um that had taken place or a conditional use permit had been provided for that
 Certainly it is. Sorry, allow me a moment. I can get the site plan. Yes, this is the site plan that was considered by the Planning Commission. It is a
 it is a revised version the original included some additional stalls or locations for rvs closer to lows as well the planning commission was not comfortable with that scale or scope of the project and the applicant reduced the scale to what you see here and that's what was ultimately approved by the commission
 Thank you for that visual. So just trying to line everything up. Could you, with your pointer, could you just kind of go over the portion that we're discussing tonight for rezoning? Certainly, it is located approximately right here. Okay, thank you. That was very helpful. I appreciate it. I don't have any more questions. Okay, what other questions do we have in the council?
 Okay, did we take public comment? We have not, have we? We did. Okay, we're in the action items then in discussion, right? Yes. So what other discussion or action items would the council like to have and or take? This is in Ward 1, correct? Yes, it is. Yeah, I mean, I did, I haven't, um,
 Heard anything, but I think it's a very sensitive area and I can imagine the voices that I would normally hear from You know, do you think it's been scaled back? So that's good that we You know, they've already been working with clean Commission staff on this It seems like there's been a happy medium since we've got approval correct from both staff and Planning Commission That's correct, right?
 Yes, ma'am. So I feel like we've come to some compromises, despite that it is a very sensitive area. So I'm interested in supporting it to get to that, for all that work that was done to get where we've gotten. Okay. Sandra, anything you want to add? Okay, cool. I'm interested in supporting it as well, Mayor Jordan. Okay, thanks.
 What other discussion would you all like to have or take or do? If there's no other discussion, I move we suspend the rolls and go to the second reading. I second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes.
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-080 located at South Leffler Way and West Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. for approximately 3.83 acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to CS community services. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading unless there are any questions.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 And nor does the rezoning that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 21-080, located at South Leffler Way and West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, for approximately 3.83 acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, to CS Community Services. Okay. What final comments do we have from the council? Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Yes. Pittsburgh? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, let's go to number six. An ordinance rezoning that property inscribed in the rezoning petition RZN 21-081 located at 3373 North College Avenue for approximately 6.98 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 bid ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes its own classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal descriptions, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Jonathan. Jonathan.
 thank you mayor this property is located in north fayetteville it includes two parcels that straddle plainview avenue the larger represents the back acreage of lewis automotive with what you can see in the aerial here some parking and associated activities for the the sales and repair business of lewis automotive the smaller parcels immediately west of plainview avenue and
 and due south of Fire Station number 4. This one is undeveloped, but both are currently zoned C2 thoroughfare commercial. The request is to rezone the property from C2 to UT urban thoroughfare commercial.
 This is perhaps an unexpected or a expected request from the council. The Lewis family recently brought through a rezoning request immediately west of Interstate 49. And at that time, they had offered that they understood the city's goals along College Avenue were to incorporate a mix of uses on college. And that they intended to begin that process for their existing facilities there, which this certainly covers.
 In taking a land use compatibility look at the request, staff found that UT is absolutely appropriate and compatible. It is the mixed use sibling to C2, allowing residential uses where only non-residential uses are currently allowed.
 Most of the non-residential uses are usually those that seem to cause nuisances, whereas the addition of residential uses can afford the opportunity for housing located immediately near very significant job centers, such as the Washington Regional Medical Center Campus to the west and the varied jobs and services all located along College Avenue.
 When looking at it from a long-range angle, staff finds the request to be consistent, including with the urban center future land use map designation. Areas that are classed as an urban center area are considered as the most intense and dense areas of Fayetteville, which aligns with this property's proximity to both College Avenue and the North Fulbright interchange.
 UT certainly complements the urban, as the name suggests, UT Urban Thurford complements the urban center designation by granting some of the highest entitlements that can be found in Fayetteville zoning code.
 on a more targeted small plan level. The property is largely within the 71B corridor boundaries, which you can see here. The illustrated element of the 71B plan is broken into sections, with this property being located on the section that's between Millsap to the north, which is on the right side of your screen, and Township to the south, which is on the left side.
 And you can see here in bold with the arrows where this particular property fits into this section of the illustrated plan. Staff finds the request to be very complimentary of the 71B plan, which again was very much predicated on bringing a greater mixture of uses to college, which is almost an exclusively commercial corridor right now.
 Additionally, these particular properties, which I reoriented you now with north back to the top and the properties in yellow. This section of the 71B corridor plan was heavily planned to incorporate a large amount of connectivity where there's very little today.
 But with Millsap Road to the north, Appleby further to the south being the only east-west connections, if these properties were to develop, that would facilitate many of those plans, anticipated links, including Masonic, Longview, and Herald running east to west and potentially the Plainview Connector connecting into the north side of Fiesta Square.
 uh in terms of city plan 2040 goals uh and the the complementary infill rating that you see here uh staff finds this request to be very consistent and the this is definitely an area where we feel that infill is or this is appropriate infill and it ought to be encouraged in an effort not to repeat myself too many times this is a an almost single
 used part of our city, very much commercial and office oriented with very little housing, which leads to many of the congestion issues that council members regularly hear, since everybody who wants to be here has to drive here, and there are few opportunities to get around this part of town anyway other than by automobile. Thank you.
 Staff did not find any other issues with the request and with the consistency with our long-range plans, the compatibility of the land use aspect of it, we do recommend approval of the request. The Planning Commission concurred, voting to forward it to the Council unanimously by eight to zero vote. They felt in the highest of terms and even in more specific terms that it was very compatible
 and we've not received any public comments on the side of them either for or against the date, and I'm available for questions. Thanks. Okay. You haven't. Thank you, Mayor. I'm sorry. I believe Robert Rose is present as the applicant. Thank you for the prompt. Yes. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? I believe Robert contacted us and said that he would not be here and wanted us to hold this in the first reading. Okie doke. We can do that.
 Everybody's agreeable that we will move on to the next item. Unless Robert has another item and I'm about to mess them up, I'm pretty sure. Well, I don't want to mess anybody up, but what's the council want to do? Are you all agreeable to that? Just holding it here and then picking it up in two weeks? Yes. Okay. Okay. Well, I'm going to move us along then.
 an ordinance rezoned that property described in its own petition rzn 21-082 located at 582 north mission boulevard for approximately 0.41 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf8 residential single family eight units per acre kit
 It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4, residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are clear by amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Jonathan. You with us, Jonathan?
 Mayor Weill? Mayor Weill? Yes, Mayor. Sorry, I forgot to unmute myself. Thank you. Okay. This property is in, it's about halfway between downtown and what may be considered East Fayetteville. Several lots north of the intersection of Lafayette, Mission Boulevard on the east side of Mission. While it was previously developed with a single family home, that was recently developed and the property currently stands.
 vacant other than the existing tree canopy located there. The request before the council's night is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RSF8, residential single family, eight units per acre. And someone on the council may recall that while they fall short of being called a TRIN, this is not an unusual request. There are a couple of examples in the immediate area, which you can see just to the northwest.
 where similar properties were asked for a similar and successfully received a similar consideration to rezone.
 and adopted plan. From a standpoint, staff found the request, finds the request to be consistent. It's designated as a residential neighborhood area. While in many parts of the city, it may be desirable to perhaps incorporate a wider range of housing types. This area is almost exclusively single family with a few exceptions. The allowance for a very moderate incremental increase in this does respect
 uh staff finds it to respect that future land use map designation uh similarly we find it to be complementary of our city plan 2040 goals this property is located on a major corridor which will soon also be a major trail corridor which is uh will be under construction in the near term it has access to water and sewer and other infrastructure it's a not too far of a distance from college avenue where there are a number of services
 and then splitting and rezoning the property will allow basically the simple development of being able to split it and build two houses where there was previously one.
 An atypical consideration for some items, but maybe more so in this part of town is staff finds this request to be very cognizant of the historic platting in this area. While this particular property does not have any platting records to it, immediately to the west, the Gunther addition, which is on the other side of Mission Boulevard, is definitely represents the trend of the wider area, whether it was platted or not.
 You can see zoom in, 50 foot lots were very common. Lots weren't done in 25 foot increments, they were often done in 50 foot increments. And that aligns precisely with the RSFA zoning district allowance of a 50 foot lot width. Another issue to consider is that this property does have a shared driveway that currently connects with the non-residential business. Fayette Chill is located in the building to the north.
 It seems to have been a historic condition as far back as aerial infantry from the 1960s. So staff is confident that there's adequate consideration or adequate legal precedence for that to be able to remain, to be worked out between those property owners and not affect development of property or contribute to it being an issue for this land use decision.
 And with that, staff does support the request. The Planning Commission also supported it, reporting it to the Council unanimously. They found it to be compatible with historic planning in the area.
 some of the negative comments about the request was that at least one Commissioner felt it would have been better if it incorporated a non residential use by right which RSF 8 does not similar to the Fayette Shale property to the north you can request non residential uses by conditional use but it is not allowed by right only thing allowed by right are so
 eight are single family homes and accessory dwellments. And to date, we've not received any public comment and I'm available for any questions. And I believe Tim McMahon or may, yes, take note. Excuse me, Tim McMahon is there as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? Yeah, he's on Zoom, Mayor Tim McMahon. Well, would he like to speak for the council? Got his hand raised, so we're trying to get there. Okay.
 You need to unmute, Mr. McMahon. Unmute yourself. Mr. McMahon, the mayor's recognized you, but you're muted. Sorry, we cannot see him. Okay, well, is there any questions from the council for the staff then?
 I have one question. Jonathan, so the maximum that could be built under an RSF-8 with this particular lot would be two houses, two single-family houses after the lot is split. Is that correct? That is correct. The lot's about just over 100 feet in width along Mission. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the council? Well, have you had any luck with Mr. McMahon? No.
 No, sir. His hand is raised, but he has to unmute himself. Well, what shall we do? Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration.
 don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those after that in person will get those in person will speak after that who do you have on zoom only mr mcmahon but he's still muted okay well well let me ask the council members is that in ward three
 Sarah, have you or Simone heard any? It's in... That's in Ward 1, Mayor. Is it Ward 1? Ward 1, okay. I knew it wasn't my ward, but I couldn't remember if it was 2 or 1. Okay, okay. Sonia, have you heard anything? DeAndre? I haven't. I haven't heard anything. I haven't heard anything either. Okay. Well...
 and we don't have anybody from the public other than mr mcmahon okay well i'm going to bring it back to the council what is what is the wishes of the council what discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take
 I'm open to at least getting it to the next reading, but then maybe possibly holding it. Can I do that or do I need to do the motion first? And then just because I feel like there's a lot that's happening in board one, I just kind of want to slow it down just a little bit and...
 Half the agenda take care of it. The other half agenda, maybe we can revisit next week, next time. I mean, you know, you can leave it here. You can go on to the next reading. I'm just curious what y'all want. Yeah, I think we can go to the next reading and then move it forward a little bit. And then the table after. Well, I take the motion to go to the second reading. Yeah, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon?
 Yes, okie-dokie an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-0 8 to Located at 582 North Mission Boulevard for proxy point for one acres from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to RSF 8 residential single-family eight units per acre. Okay, we'll leave it right here. We're going to number eight. I
 An ordinance to rezone that property is cried and rezoning petition RZN 21-084 located at 745 West Cherry Street for approximately 1.81 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre and C2 thoroughfare commercial to NC neighborhood conservation. Kip.
 we had ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one at the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre and c2 thoroughfare commercial to nc neighborhood conservation
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 Okay, Jonathan. I have apologies mayor. I'm having a technical difficulty. Let me just one moment. Okay Mary able to see my screen. Yeah, I'm with you. Okay. Thank you. Apologies again. I
 This property is located in South Fayetteville. It's just northeast of the South Fulbright Expressways intersection with South School Avenue. It's a one lot east of School Avenue's intersection with Cherry Street, immediately east of the White Star Tavern, if you're familiar with that establishment.
 The property is currently largely undeveloped. There was a single family home on the property that was demolished in recent years. There is still a fair amount of debris and some accessory structures, but no indication that there's anybody currently living on the site.
 It's otherwise characterized by a fair amount of tree canopy. If you had a chance to visit the property, you saw how Cherry Street rose fairly abruptly from School Avenue, which aligns with the property. The highest point of the property is its western portion before descending.
 gradually to the east. But no portion of the property is within the hillside hilltop overlay district, which you can see can be found on properties not much further, but somewhat further to the northeast of where this property lies. The property is distinguished by its mixed zoning characteristic. This is something of a legacy.
 When zoning districts were applied based on a linear distance from major corridors before shifting to different zoning districts for this property, that means it's Western. Third or so is C2 thoroughfare commercial with the balance of the property zone RSF for residential single family, four units per acre.
 The applicant, Habitat for Humanity, is requesting that the property be rezoned to NC, Neighborhood Conservation, to develop it with housing.
 Staff found or finds the request to be compatible. This represents a slightly higher density, 10 units breaker as opposed to four units to the east that affords a gradual transition from what are already some very high intensity allowances in C2 zoning district along School Avenue.
 uh similarly uh staff finds the request to be consistent with our our future land use map for the property uh by allowing some additional housing but an incremental rate that does complement um
 complement the need for housing in this area. And the fact that similar to other parts of town, this area developed when, or following the decision to largely separate uses. There's a lot of jobs and a lot of employment in this area, but not a lot of, or a lot of housing for employees to move back and forth.
 Also, as I noted, it is immediately adjacent to the Fulbright Expressways, the South Fulbright Expressway to the south, which affords future property owners here to be able to access the wider region as needed. That said, given its location on the south part of Fayetteville, towards the periphery of the city in terms of
 of amenities and services. It does have a lower infill rating. It does have a high fire response that is based, however, on the fire station that is currently under construction. If you visited the property, you probably saw a little ways further north the new fire station under construction on the same side of the school avenue.
 It does have access or it's within extension access of water and sewer, although it does not immediately have access to those. There is a transit line that serves the county and ties the properties to the north and the future land use maps city neighborhood area also contributes to that score.
 uh some of the major issues with this request um have to do with infrastructure uh cherry street is fairly narrow most of it would not meet current fire code it's uh it varies from uh anywhere from about 15 to 18 feet of pavement from from what i saw when i was out there taking a tape measure to it the fire department typically prefers 20 feet that's our baseline standard in our master street plan as well so it may be possible or it's very likely to develop this property that some you
 degree of street widening be required. Similarly, as I noted before, there's not immediate water sewer access to this property. Given the applicant, the city is currently in conversations with Habitat for Humanity, however, on the ways or opportunities to partner with the city or ways that the city can facilitate getting water sewer across School Avenue to this property so that it can be built with some workforce housing.
 With that, staff largely had their support of the request on land use issues, not the potential for a city partnership. We felt that as a zoning decision, it stood on its own merits and we recommend in favor of it. The Planning Commission felt or was in agreement with staff's position and supported it unanimously.
 Their position was based on similar compatibility arguments of staff and also an understanding that it is very difficult currently to find land for affordable housing in Fayetteville.
 uh in terms of public comments on the request uh we have received some uh today it wasn't at the meeting but uh prior to the meeting there were several inquiries about the request uh but no statements of support or uh or opposition and with that i'm happy to hand it off to brandon uh suovita and i'm available for questions thank you okay with the afternoon like speak for the council you have 10 minutes
 Thank you. Mr. Mayor, good to see you. Good to see you. Council, good to see you as well. I am Brandon Swoboda, Executive Director of Habitat for Humanity. Thank you for this evening and for giving your lives the way that you are in service of others. Since 1991, Habitat for Humanity has been helping low-income families in Fayetteville achieve and maintain home ownership. At Habitat, we believe everyone deserves to live in a decent home.
 And we accomplished this vision by doing what we're doing tonight, and that's bringing people together to build homes, communities, and hope. And after the last couple of years, we certainly need more hope. As you know, Northwest Arkansas is experiencing an affordable housing crisis. Finding affordable land is a challenge. And especially for our hardworking, low-income families, because of this challenge, they are being left behind with our current growth. The low-income families I'm referring to are not just simply our families
 hourly waged employees at a local retail establishment, but they're also our first responders, our medical personnel, factory workers, teachers, coaches, who though work in our community cannot afford to live in our community. Habitat is one way and one organization trying to combat this crisis, but we need your help as a city and we need your partnership. In order for us to fulfill our mission, low income families apply for our program
 After being accepted, these families put in three to four hundred hours of sweat equity building their own home, helping to build someone else's home, working in our ReStore, helping us raise money, and taking training classes. At the end of us all coming together as volunteers and as a family to build this home, they buy the home from Habitat at a zero percent interest loan. This is truly a hand up, not a handout. We do not give away these homes.
 These are hard-working, low-income families who will be paying a mortgage, paying their taxes, and paying their insurance. Cherry Street is an opportunity for us as a community to change the trajectory of many families and especially their children's future. Cherry Street is an underdeveloped part of our city and this week I know I'll be meeting with Mr. Mayor in his office to discuss ways that we can partner together to update the utilities on this street,
 and keep it affordable for these families because that's the challenge for us is in order for us to afford the land within the city and help Fayetteville families move out of rental property and actually become a homeowner we need your partnership because once we start having to put in all the utilities on our own update a road that desperately needs updating and all that it becomes then unaffordable for these hard-working low-income families but I believe
 in the good of humanity and us coming together as partners to change lives for the people of Fayetteville. So thank you for your time. I appreciate that. I'm here to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or the staff?
 okay let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn to speak we have uh for you have one turn to speak for five minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those after that in person will be allowed to speak who we have on zoom susan no one mayor okay i don't see anyone in here
 to speak either so I will bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading so what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council actions would the council like to take well um Mary Jordan Council I would just like to say that I have the opportunity of meeting with Brandon and a hearing of his hearing of his vision and I certainly support
 habitat for humanity. And I think that right now we have a great opportunity to provide support for those families that he described. So I'm looking forward to a partnership and I'm looking forward to creating an opportunity so the families in Ward 1 can thrive. So what other discussion do we need that the council like to have or what action would the council like to take?
 Yeah, as somebody who's worked in housing basically my whole life, I appreciate what Habitat for Humanity does. It's a vital service. And like you said, it's a hand up, not a hand out. Their process is pretty rigorous. And then I also think that this is a correct space for this rezone. So I'll move to suspend rules and go to second reading. I second. Second, yeah.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Bunch? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Inion? Yes. Harris?
 Ignore that's a reason on that property described and rezoning petition RZN 21-084 located at 745 West Cherry Street for approximately 1.18 acres from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre and c2 thoroughfare commercial to NC neighborhood conservation Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading second second We have motion is second to go third and final reading Lisa. Would you please call the roll? I?
 Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 in order to rezone that property described in rezoning position rzn 21-084 located at 745 west cherry street for approximately 1.18 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre and c2 thoroughfare commercial to nc neighborhood conservation final comments from the council
 I have a comment. I just want to say Habitat for Humanity is an excellent organization. They do wonderful work, and I do hope the city can partner with them and help them build more workforce housing. Thanks. Yep, I'll be meeting with them this week, I believe. So we'll see what we can do.
 Yeah, and then I have one last one comment to add to that. Just the location for this for that workforce housing is amazing that it's right there at that expressway entrance. I come in to the city there on a daily basis. And so, you know, that's a great place to be able to to get a lot of places quickly. So it's an excellent location and excellent opportunity there for the residents to to get to work easily. Any other final comments from the council?
 Okay, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. All right, number nine, this is our last item of the evening, an ordinance to approve Vacation 21-0031.
 for a property located at 2480 West Street Street to vacate a portion of Street Right-of-Way. Kip.
 Mayor, Jonathan Kurth asked to change this today and needed to make a minor change to Section 3 on the conditions. I've sent that ordinance out to all the council members, but we do need a motion to amend so I can read the proper ordinance. Okay, I believe that you all got copies of that today, so if there's not any questions, I would entertain a motion to do that.
 Man the ordinance through the one I sent out to the City Council. Yep. I would like to make the motion to amend Yes second, okay Lisa would you please call the roll? Yes We can't hear you Lisa Turk Yes, thank you. Sorry Hartsburg yes Harvey
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, the title has not changed and here is the body as amended. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA section 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the fully inscribed portion of street right of way is not required for transportation purposes, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1,
 utility easement is to be retained over the entirety of the existing treat Street right-of-way that is hereby being vacated and sect and number two any damage to a relocation resisting facilities will be at the property owner developers expense okay
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in South Fayetteville. It takes us to the opposite end of the South Fulbright Expressway, where it has an exit on the Razorback Road. This is a dead-end street. The request includes Treat Street itself and all its right-of-way, which extends east from Razorback Road, immediately east of Dow Cemetery.
 The main items for consideration as staff went through the request is whether vacating this right-of-way is in the public's interest or not. In evaluating that, it becomes very quickly apparent that the university is the only abutting property owner, and the right-of-way does not serve any wider community benefit beyond that. Even looking further in scope to a wider area, whether it presents some options for connectivity, staff did not find there to be any.
 The Cato Springs Branch floodplain, the city's trail system, and the railroad right away to the east all represent natural barriers to natural connectivity. And so staff does not find banking this right away to compromise the public's interest.
 And then the last item is what the council just amended the request to. If you did not have a chance to look at Mr. Williams' memo from this afternoon, basically it's taking the request from four conditions of approval to three conditions.
 in evaluating the interests of Ozarks and the city's water and sewer department and their desire to see easements dedicated. We asked, they proposed to just to simply revert the right away to utility easement to serve both those interests.
 Staff did ask the applicant to visit with both those utilities and confirm that they were in agreement with that. And we have received documents showing that both Water and Sewer and Ozarks Electric consent to the change that was seen with that amendment that the council just made.
 And with that, staff recommends approval of the request. When they vetted the proposal, the Planning Commission placed it on their consent agenda and forwarded it to the council with a recommendation of approval. And we've not received any public comment to date. And I believe Jay Young is present, I think virtually, as the representative for this item tonight. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor and Council. Jay Young here with Development Consultants. I'm representing the university for this action. I don't have anything further to add, but am available if there are any questions. Okay. What questions do we have from the council to the staff or the applicant?
 Okay. I have a, I'm sorry, I have a quick question. Maybe it's a, it's an ignorant question. So I'm kind of looking at the map that shows a topography and it shows a house and something that's labeled agriculture. So the, whoever's living in that house, it looks like
 That road that we're discussing right now is that the that's the only way for them to get in there and as well as the the outbuilding so that easement for them would still read that doesn't what we're doing tonight does not affect that at all, I guess, is my question.
 That's certainly a good question. It was my first concern when I saw this as a user of that trail. I knew there were houses back there. I can't speak to who is currently occupying the home, but the university does own both, or I think there were two homes. I'm sorry, I think there's only one house there now, if I'm not mistaken. Yeah, we own one.
 The University owns that property and ultimately if this right of way is vacated, it will be it'll revert to all the surrounding properties which includes the University of Arkansas. So whether somebody's renting there or not, I'll have to defer to the applicant whether there's an arrangement for that renter or whoever's occupying it at this point. And Mr. Young's hand is raised again if he'd like to comment on that. Sure. Go ahead.
 Jay, did you want to say anything about that? Okay. Yes, my understanding is that the university has been leasing those houses. The leases have ended, and those houses are unoccupied. They are now scheduled for demolition. Yep. Thank you so much for answering my question. Anything else? Any other questions from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and those here in person after that who do we have on zoom susan nobody okay do we have anybody in the room nope okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance what discussion or action items would the council like to take or what discussion would you like to have and so
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading unless there are questions. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 In order to approve VAC 21-031 for a property located at 2480 West Street Street to vacate a portion of a street right-of-way. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. No.
 Yes, Jones. Yes, Kenyon. Yes And Norwich approved vac 21-0 3 1 for property located at 2480 West Street Street to vacate a portion of street right-of-way But final comments do we have in the council? Okay, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Scroggins yes, but Turk yes Pittsburgh yes Harvey
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all. That concludes our business. Susan, what announcements do we have? I have one announcement. I'd like to remind residents that the city is still having its $100 vaccination incentive program for those who received full vaccination status between January 18th and March 18th, encouraging all residents to please get vaccinated.
 The last day to apply for the vaccination incentive is April 1st. Thank you. Okay. Any other announcements? Well, thank you all very much. It's been a good evening. So everybody have a nice evening. Bonjour.