To the City Council, City Attorney, City Clerk-Treasurer, and all Federal residents, I offer the following State of the City 2023. I would like to open my remarks by saying the State of our City is sound. There is no other city in this State like Federal. For many years we have been named a trendsetter city, a volunteer community of the year, and one of the top ten places to live in the United States.
 So many things set us apart and make Fedville a great place where people want to live, work, and raise a family. Our quality of life in this city comes from a unique blend of nature, commerce, opportunity, progress, conservation, and the arts. But most of all, I believe it is the compassionate and hardworking people of Fedville who make this city a great place to live.
 Tonight I will highlight some of the ways my administration and I are working to preserve and improve quality of life for everyone in Fentonville. But first I want to express my gratitude to the residents of Fentonville for their ongoing support and engagement. I would also like to thank City Attorney Kit Williams and his staff for providing sound legal guidance to the city on behalf
 of the federal residents. Thank you, Kit. I would also like to thank City Clerk, Treasurer Kara Paxton and her staff for their hard work. Thank you, Kara. I want to thank the City Council for their service and financial stewardship for the people of Federal. I would like to thank City staff for their diligence and hard work over the past year. Their efforts
 make it possible for this city to deliver on the daily needs of our residents while anticipating and planning for the future. Thank you to our police officers and firefighters who show unwavering dedication to protecting our residents and keeping Fedville safe. And finally, I want to thank our partners, Experience Fedville, Fedville Public Library, University of Arkansas,
 federal public schools, Startup Junkie, and so many other organizations that serve our residents and businesses. Every day my administration and I are working to meet current needs while planning for the future of this growing community. Water service, public safety, streets and sidewalks, permits and licensing, drainage, parks and trail maintenance, recycling and trash removal,
 These essential services play an important role in your life each and every day. And we've added 45 new positions to make sure we continue to deliver those services without interruption. But it's not enough to simply meet today's needs. We must anticipate and plan for tomorrow. In 2019, our community voted to invest
 in federal's future through an infrastructure improvements bond program, each bond project helps us address current and future needs for a strong and vibrant federal. We are making excellent progress across all nine areas of the bond, with project work adding up to nearly $135 million since the program launched.
 Infrastructure and public works projects are underway throughout the city. We are working on roads, intersections, traffic signals, and drainage to help move traffic more safely. Upgraded parking technology makes it easier to find and pay for parking in our downtown entertainment district.
 Trail expansions, new sidewalks, better lighting, and street crossings make it safer and easier for people to get around town without cars. Keeping cars moving while creating more opportunities for alternative transportation is an important part of planning for a growing city. This year you'll see work continue downtown on Clinton and Harmon,
 Zion and the Midtown corridor with new projects beginning on College, Mission, and 15th and Razorback. We're also moving forward on a new stormwater utility. This much needed program will proactively address flood management, drainage, and water quality across FedLaw.
 Every day we deliver safe and reliable water and sewer services to the residents of Federal and neighboring communities. As our water and sewer infrastructure ages, more investments will be needed to keep up with the growing demands. This is something we have to keep in mind as we develop new rate structures and service agreements with neighboring towns.
 As our community grows, so do demands on our police and fire services. In 2022, the Federal Fire Department saved nearly $155 million worth of property. We opened two new fire stations and we are adding 12 new positions. This year, we will begin work on an additional fire station.
 These new facilities and personnel help us respond with better speed and skill during emergencies. That means more lives and property are saved. Last year, our police department provided security for some of the largest events ever hosted in this city. Officers saved the lives of 21 people experiencing opioid overdoses.
 and they collected 180 pounds of unused or expired prescription medications for proper disposal. This year's budget includes additional police officers, along with more dispatch and police support. Our new police department headquarters facility will open in a few months. This new building is part of the 2019 bond program, and I am grateful to the voters for making it possible.
 I want to thank the Council for supporting these investments in our police and firefighting facilities, staffing and resources. Throughout 2023, hiring the most qualified candidates and retaining existing personnel in our fire and police departments remains a priority. Another priority is our commitment to taking meaningful action.
 strategic steps to protect the environment and preserve natural resources. Last year, Fedville was named a 2022 Program of the Year by Resource Recycling for our recycling, food waste diversion, and education programs. We diverted just over 14,000 tons of waste from area landfills through our recycling and composting programs.
 Through our residential food waste composting program alone, we've given away 800 collection buckets, opened a total of seven drop-off locations, and collected 39 tons of food waste. City government operations reached a 73% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Our community-wide reduction was 18%.
 Solar projects prevented 45,000 metric tons of CO2 from entering the atmosphere and cut our energy costs by $1 million. Work begins this year to improve energy efficiency across 47 city-owned buildings. This project is expected to reduce
 city energy consumption by 27% and produce almost $4 million in savings over 20 years. In 2022, Federal was named a Tree City USA for the 27th year in a row by the Arbor Day Foundation. We planted more than 500 trees last year, and in 2023, we intend to increase this to 1,000 plantings.
 We gave away 1,400 trees to residents through the celebration of trees and invasive species bounty programs. And we amended seven city code requirements to help protect our urban tree canopy. Through our 2019 bond program, a park system master plan is nearly complete. We have launched planning processes for Underwood and Walker parks.
 Public input on these plans is critical for safe, inclusive, and accessible outdoor experiences throughout Federal. Nearly 94,000 people, 94,000 people attended park events or joined park programs last year. Volunteers put in almost 25,000 hours of service.
 These incredible numbers show just how important parks and recreation programs are to this community. Whether you prefer a structured, managed green space or something more natural and off the beaten path, I encourage you to explore our parks and find your favorite. Arts and culture are equally important in Federal's identity. Last fall, the City created 88 artist opportunities.
 that resulted in free events attended by more than 3,000 people. Public murals were added to Gregory Park, Archibald Yell, and Lafayette Bridge. Exposure to the arts can be life-changing. I know that firsthand. This year you will see even more opportunities to celebrate art, music, performance, and history throughout Fayetteville.
 Since it opened last year, the Lower Ramble has been a hub for arts and culture events. This space is one part of a larger 2019 bond project that is bringing new life and energy to the downtown core. Construction on the Upper Ramble and Civic Plaza will begin after the new parking structure is complete later this summer. A police substation
 will open in the parking structure to provide focused service for our downtown and entertainment districts. We have a signed letter of intent for a building on the south end of the Upper Ramble. A public-private partnership like this one will bring positive impacts for businesses throughout the downtown core.
 and is expected to contribute nearly one million dollars a year in additional sales tax to the city. With help from Congressman Womack and the Chamber of Commerce, we secured a three million dollar federal grant for the infrastructure work needed for SLS Community and South Cato Springs LLC to move its project forward. SLS Community will bring together vocational
 residential and clinical resources to help improve the lives of neurodiverse residents and their families. In addition to our federal grant, the City is contributing about $3.5 million for this project. The Civic Plaza and South Building at the Ramble and SLS community are projects with long-term positive impacts for our economy and our community as a whole.
 I'm excited to see these projects move forward and meet needs that have previously gone unmet in our community. Federal's economic health depends on a vibrant, diverse ecosystem of business and tourism. And despite ongoing pandemic uncertainty, we continue to see trends in Federal's economic vitality.
 $500 million increase in taxable sales compared to 2021. 4,000 new jobs added by area businesses. Increases in permits and inspections for housing and commercial space. 17,500 visitors from 21 countries during the Cyclocross 2022 World Championships.
 record-breaking fuel sales in 2021 and 2022 at Drakefield. Moving forward, I hope to see more encouraging results like these by exploring partnerships, pursuing grants, and creating an environment of equitable support for diverse local businesses. While most of us are able to enjoy or benefit from all of these things that make Fayetteville such a great place to live and work,
 But that is not always true for everyone in this city. It's hard to appreciate street improvements, new trails, free concerts in the park when you are worried about feeding your family, finding childcare that doesn't take your entire paycheck, or sleeping in a tent because you lost your home. There are members of this community who are struggling in ways that some of us may not see or understand. But we cannot, and we must not,
 overlook them. I believe we have a responsibility to lift up those who need the most help. That means investing more resources to help at-risk community members. The Crisis Intervention Response Team within our police department pairs social workers and police officers to safely and compassionately help people who are experiencing a mental health crisis.
 In 2022, this team referred 546 people for assistance. We help at-risk residents find new housing or stay in their homes, make needed repairs, and take care of beloved animal companions through our hearth, housing rehabilitation, and rangers' food pantry.
 We're expanding the Yvonne Richardson Community Center to better serve the children and adults who rely on its free or low-cost recreation, social, and learning opportunities. This expansion is funded by our 2019 bond program and matching grant from the Walton Family Foundation.
 CASA, Big Brothers, Big Sisters, Peace at Home Family Shelter, and the Salvation Army are just a few of our partner organizations who offer focused care for people in need. These organizations receive community block, development block, grant funding awards through the city. Partnerships and collaboration are important tools as we work to help our unsheltered community members.
 For many years, we have provided funding to Seven Hills Homeless Shelter and other groups who work directly with this population. Through the Pick Me Up program, people in our unsheltered community are employed to clean up litter in South Federal. Last year, participants cleaned up 66,000 pounds of litter.
 In partnership with Genesis Church and Seven Hills, we will expand this program in 2023. I am committed to bringing together people and organizations to collaborate on strategic, long-term actions that will help address the needs of our unsheltered community members.
 Federal is home to people who have been marginalized for generations. They feel underrepresented and pushed aside. We have an opportunity to help them feel welcomed, valued, and appreciated through our words and our actions. The City has increased its investment in historic preservation and specifically preserving Federal's African American history.
 Last year, in partnership with our newly created Black Heritage Preservation Commission, we renamed a street and approved a historic marker honoring Nelson Hackett. The Black History Commission of Arkansas awarded Federal a grant to fund this marker. As a citywide heritage and historic preservation master plan is underway to help identify, protect,
 and celebrate more of federal's history, especially those people and places who have long been overlooked. Federal received around 17.9 million dollars through the American Rescue Plan Act. This funding is intended to help communities recover from the pandemic.
 So far, we've distributed funding to quite a few nonprofits who saw financial losses while continuing to serve our community during this time of crisis. The cost of childcare and access to better paying jobs are very real barriers to going back to work and staying engaged in the workforce. This is especially true for women and single parents.
 Our new Child Care Assistance Program covers the costs of licensed child care in Federal for up to 12 months. And a Workforce Training Program through the Federal Public Library will open up new occupations and job options for our residents. Both these programs are funded through ARPA.
 We're also working to connect residents to affordable broadband service. Many of our residents rely on free public Wi-Fi to complete their schoolwork, look for jobs, or stay connected with loved ones. Having access to affordable broadband, my friends, at home will be a game changer.
 This year, I hope to explore ways that we can bring more attainable housing options to federal. Workforce housing is a very big gap that concerns me. As our population continues to grow, we need more options that fit a spectrum of incomes in federal. And as we work to invest the remaining ARPA funding in 2023,
 My hope is that we continue balancing our investments across programs that benefit everyone and programs that specifically support the people who need the most help. The pandemic has brought new challenges and shed light on existing challenges that we may not have seen before. This time of crisis has helped us learn from each other and broaden our perspectives.
 has also helped us learn that while everyone has a voice, not everyone feels empowered to make their voice heard. Tonight I conclude my remarks with this quote from Maya Angelou. Each one of us has lived through some devastation, some loneliness, some weather superstorm or spiritual superstorm. When we look at each other, we must say, I understand.
 I understand how you feel because I have been there myself. We must support each other and empathize with each other because each of us is more alike than we are unalike. Friends and council members, let us remember to listen, learn, and advocate for those who feel underserved and may need more help to succeed. And on behalf of the residents of Fayetteville,
 Let us remain steadfast to our commitment to working together for a better tomorrow where everyone can prosper and thrive. Thank you all very much. Stay to the city.