I'd like to call the City Council meeting of March 16, 2021 to order. Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty. Petty. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Here. Turk. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Jones. Here. Kenyon. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Here.
 Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone. Welcome. In light of the current health concerns, Federal City Hall is closed to the public, and this meeting is being held virtually.
 I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan. I'm present with a limited number of essential support staff. City Council members, city staff, and the public are participating online or by phone. Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers.
 participation remains of utmost importance to the city of federal and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting including contacting city council members city clerk's office or city staff prior to the meeting viewing through federal's government channel online for the city's youtube channel joining the zoom conference by phone smartphone tablet or computer
 To request to speak during public comment period, you must raise your virtual hand to be recognized. If you're accessing the meeting through a smartphone, tablet, or computer, please click the raise hand option to request to speak during public comment period. If you're calling into this meeting by phone, please press star 9 to raise your virtual hand for public comment. When it is your turn to speak, please unmute your microphone.
 for instructions on how to use zoom please go to the city of federal website and type zoom instructions into the search bar i will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized federal residents will be allowed to speak first when recognized please state your name and address for the record
 Public comments should be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item They may wish to address being open for public comment Each speaker has one turn to speak each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes Which staff will monitor amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote and
 If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The City Council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned-up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. So let us begin.
 The first order of business tonight, I understand that we need to add the nominating committee to the agenda. And so at this time, I will ask the chair of the nominating committee to provide the nominating committee report.
 Sure. Mr. Mayor, we also have another little housekeeping issue. The new committee that was formed, the Community Development and Assistance Programs Advisory Board, it was suggested that we didn't set the terms of, there was rotating terms and stuff, that we authorized the city clerk to randomly draw the term assignments for that committee. Okay.
 And it was suggested that someone, you know, I make a motion, so I'd like to move that we do that, and then I'll read the report. Second. Okay, sounds good. So we have that amendment. Any discussion on that? Chair, would you please call the roll? Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hurdsburg?
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, now Sarah, we're going to follow up with you to give the nominating committee report. It's a long one, so hold on to your seats here.
 Our committee, everyone was present, all the members of the committee were present, and we recommend the following. The mayor recommends the following candidate for appointment to the Fayetteville Public Library Board of Trustees, Rob Qualls, one term ending 4-1-26. The nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment.
 Active Transportation Advisory Committee, Arnold Smith, one unexpired bicycle advocate term ending 12-31-21.
 Board of Adjustments, Aaron Adkins-Aurie, and I hope I pronounced that right, one term ending 3-31-24, Lindsay Steiger-Muck, one term ending 3-21-24. And we left one term, excuse me, one position vacant on that, that was also ending 3-31-24. Community Development and Assistance Program, Programs Advisory Board,
 Gladys Tiffany, one term involving housing services. Vincent Wade, one term involving homelessness services. Emily English, one term involved with community food systems. Ashley Hicks, one member representing local small business. Natasha Coleman, one member resident at large. And Susan Gardner, one member resident at large. And that's the one that the clerk will be drawing up.
 the term assignments on. Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals. Jebediah Williams, one alternate term ending 3-31-26. Ashley Malden, one alternate term ending 3-21-26. Environmental Action Committee, Margaret Mead Britton, one unexpired community citizen at large term ending 6-30-23.
 Bannon Gallagher, one unexpired science discipline term, ending 6-30-23. Planning Commission, Porter Winston, one term ending 3-31-24. Sarah Sparkman, one term ending 3-21, excuse me, 3-31-24.
 and Michael John Whitaker, one term ending 3-31-24. We, after a lot of discussion and deliberation, we came to unanimous decisions on all of them except for planning commission. Okay. I will entertain a motion to accept the nominees recommended by the nominating committee. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the nominees recommended by the nominating committee. Any discussion? Second.
 Chair, would please call the roll. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all very much Mayor Jordan. I just wanted to say thank you so much to Councilmember bunch in the nominating committee for working with the city clerk treasurer's office for this quarter of Applications we received around 71 total applications that they had to review and they worked on that Worked with us on creating the new laser fish form
 that updates automatically to show information for every application dependent upon which application that person is being selected for or applying for. So I want to say thank you so much. An extra special thank you to Councilmember Bunch. I appreciate all the time you spent with us. Well, thank you very much. And I will say that form helps a lot. It just streamlines that. And even still, we had 256 pages of information
 applications and resumes and so on to read. I think it was 256. It was a lot of pages. So anyway, thank you, Kara. Appreciate that. Thank you very much. And the city clerk office developed the actual form and the coding for the fields, but a special thank you to our IT services department. We have a specific person, Sarah Webb, that works in there that helped create everything to go along with that. So she's wonderful and I really appreciate her. Thank you all.
 okay now the next order of business i have tonight is consent agenda uh number one approval of the february 18th 2021 city council meeting minutes and february 23rd 2021 special city council meeting minutes number two a resolution to approve the per capita jail fee agreement with washington county for jail services for 2021 in the amount of 91 553 dollars and 45 cents
 Nifro 3. Rhesolwch i'r Prif Weinidog Jordan ymgysylltu â PKD LLP a phrofiad i fwy na 124,440 o arian ar gyfer gwasanaethau ar gyfer y cyfnod 2020. Nifro 4.
 A ffyniad i gyflawni cyflawni y cyllid y cyllid y cyllid y cyllid. Nifr 5. Rhesolwch i gyflawni cyflawni'r cyllid y cyllid y cyllid. Nifr 5. Rhesolwch i gyflawni'r cyllid y cyllid. Nifr 5. Rhesolwch i gyflawni'r cyllid y cyllid. Nifr 5. Rhesolwch i gyflawni'r cyllid y cyllid. Nifr 5. Rhesolwch i gyflawni'r cyllid. Nifr 5. Rhesolwch i gyflawni'r cyllid. Nifr 5.
 ar y cyfnod 22, unrhyw amrywiaeth o 128,900 ar gyfer dylunio'r prosiect corff ystryd y Cymru i gyflawni cyfnod o ran y cyllid. Dyma prosiect Fond y Trasnodiad 2019.
 Niferoff, ymddiriedaeth i gyflawni cymryd cymryd y cyllid ynghylch 3,813 o ddoniaethau o ffrindiau YRCC i ffynnu rhaglen ystod ystod y flwyddyn ym mis Tawr 2021 yn cael ei ofyn yn y Senedd Cymunedau Yvonne Richardson. Niferoff, ymddiriedaeth i gyflawni cydnabod ar gyfer ymgyrch.
 gyda William Keith Shopner Jr. am 82.55 acres o ddau ddim sydd ar gael i Lle Sequoia ar gyfer y gofynion o ddyfynu cadw a chyfair a chyfeirio a chyfeirio.
 nifer wyth, ymddiriedaeth i ddychmygu'r cyd-dynllun ar gyfer Jeff Price ar gyfer 54.55 o ddau o ddau ddim yn ymddiriedaeth i'r dde, sequoia, ar gyfer y gofod o ddynnu gadel a chyfair a chyfeirio a chafio a chafio. Nifer nesaf, ymddiriedaeth i ymddiriedaeth y Cyngor y Deyrnas ynghylch astudio a datblygu cynllun o blan argyfwng a chyfarchiad ar gyfer ystod y flwyddyn. Byddwn i'n hysbysu ymddiriedaeth ac ymddiriedaeth yn ystod y ddynllun.
 Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch.
 Yn ymddiheuad ar y busnes, nifer un, ymgyrch i ymgyrchu â llyfn 118.01, cyfleoedd 188, Lyseniad Busnes, 151, Definiad, 161, Reguladu'r Rheoliadau.
 162.01 establishment listing of chapter 162 use units and chapter 163 use conditions of the unified development code to classify the types of short-term rentals and create regulations to permit and inspect the rentals. I understand.
 There is Mary. Mary. Yes. Hi. Good afternoon. Staff would like to recommend that this item be tabled until the April 6th meeting of City Council as the Ordinance Review Subcommittee is scheduled to meet March 17th at 530 to consider possible additional amendments to the proposed ordinance.
 So that's what I have for you tonight. I can answer any questions, but we are meeting with Ordinance Review Subcommittee coming up tomorrow. So I'd like to recommend that this item be tabled until that time, April 6th. Okay, we need to table until April the 6th, if I understand correctly. Yes, sir. Do we have a motion to second the table? I move. So did you make a motion to table? Yes.
 Who's the second? Okay, we have a motion to second the table to the April 6th City Council meeting. All right. Chair, would you please call the roll? Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes.
 okay thank you all very much number two an ordinance to to approve real estate purchase contracts with farmers and merchants bank federal depot llc and dixon and west investments llc to purchase about one half acre
 in the depot bank lot for 350 000 to approve a lease to own arrangement with dixon and west investments llc for the 0.2 acre lot on the north end of the civic plaza to agree to convey to dixon and west investments llc the ownership of about 14 000 square feet of
 the bottom floor of the city's public parking deck and other items and to pass an emergency clause can I understand that you are bringing forth an amendment yes mayor we need to have an amendment for a couple reasons we've gone from at least to own situation or contract for the point two acres in the lot the
 a walton arts center parking lot and now it is an actual just purchase contract so that i have to have to change the wording in the ordinance and secondly since it is a straight purchase contract now
 We need to be able to make sure that we're complying with the Fayetteville Code and the Fayetteville Code, section 34.27 and sale of municipally owned real property would require some notifications and potential rezonings and all this other kind of stuff that really is not applicable in this particular case. But in order to be able to approve the contract tonight, improve these ordinances, if that's what the city council wants to do,
 There needs to be an amendment to Section 34.27, a very short amendment that would be fairly restrictive. The amendment would basically say that...
 The council can sell partials in the West Avenue parking lot by majority vote without any other procedures or actions required in subsections A, B, and C of section 34.27. That would allow the city council, if they wanted to, by majority vote, to go ahead and approve the ordinances tonight. So I would hope that I sent this potential ordinance out to everyone, and I would like to be able to amend to this ordinance for your all's consideration.
 Okay. And the other thing I guess I should say, assuming it might get passed, the amendment might get passed, I really need to read this ordinance amendment because I need to have a full reading of it before it's ever passed by the city council to comply with state law. So with your permission, I'll go ahead and read the whole ordinance now, even though it's a page and a half. Okay, go ahead.
 In Orders to Amend Section 34.27, Sale of Municipally Owned Real Property to authorize the sale of the 0.2 acre parcel in the West Avenue parking lot
 to approve real estate purchase contract with the Farmers and Merchants Bank, Fayetteville Depot Lot, LLC, and Dixon & West Investments, LLC, to purchase about one-half acre in the Depot Bank Lot for $350,000, to approve a real estate sales contract with Dixon & West Investments, LLC, for the .2-acre lot on the north end of the West Avenue parking lot,
 to agree to convey to dixon west llc the ownership of about 14 000 square feet of the bottom floor of the city's public parking deck and other items and to pass an emergency clause whereas city staff and greg house is managing member of fable depot lot llc and dixon west investments llc
 have long negotiated terms and conditions for this land purchase and lease to own agreement, which is now a real estate contract to sell city property, and have placed these terms within the real estate purchase contracts included within this agenda item or presented to the City Council.
 and whereas section 34.27 cell of initially owned real property of the favorable code must be amended to allow the change from a lease to own to an outright sale of city real property to be accomplished by the proposed closing date of all real estate purchase contracts
 And whereas the Farmers and Merchants Bank owns vital necessary property needed for the proposed city parking deck and is offering to sell such property to the city for $100,000. And whereas city staff and Mayor Jordan recommend approval of these contracts, which have been approved and signed by Farmers and Merchants Bank, Fayetteville Depot Lot LLC, and Dixon & West Investments LLC,
 And whereas these contracts include the purchase of a valuable building site on West Street, the purchase of a valuable building site in the future civic plaza along Gibson Street, the protection through conservation easement of part of the historic depot building, and other terms and conditions which make competitive bidding for these purchases, conveyances, and agreements not reasonable or practical.
 and whereas to get the multi-story public parking deck constructed and operational so the city plaza so the civic plaza can be constructed within bond revenue time limits all parties parties to this contract must approve and assign the contracts by or on march 16 2021 and this ordinance must be made be made to be immediately effective now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas saw section one
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 34.27, sale of menacefully owned real property of the Fayetteville Code by enacting a new subsection E as follows, quote, subsection E, the City Council may sell city-owned partials in the West Avenue parking lot, also known as Cultural Arts Plaza, by majority vote, and without any of the procedures specified or required in subsections A, B, and C, unquote.
 section two that the city council the city of fable arcs are hereby determines the complexity of these interrelated contracts the need to complete this bond funded project promptly and the requirement that the deck location be near the walton arts center renders normal competitive bidding not reasonable or practical
 and therefore weighs form of competitive bidding and approves all the contracts included within this agenda item or presented to the city council and authorizes mayor jordan to sign these contracts as well as all documents necessary to carry out the terms and conditions of these contracts in section 3 emergency clause
 that the City Council of the City of Fevela-Arksar hereby determines that the need to get the city's public parking deck under construction as soon as possible to avoid potential problems with bond revenue spending requirements and to expedite the beneficial construction of the Civic Plaza is necessary for the peace, health, and safety of our citizens, residents, and visitors. Therefore, the City Council declares an emergency exists and determines this ordinance shall be effective immediately upon its passage and approval.
 Okay, that's the amendment and the amended ordinance. So what discussion do we have on? I have a question. Okay.
 So the sale of the north side of the Civic Plaza, that's kind of a new thing today, unless I missed an email. What is the sale price amount, Kit? If you could provide some information on the details, I would appreciate it. Yes, the city had that appraised, and the retail price or the appraised price was $263,000.
 for this one fifth of an acre and uh council member turk i wanted to point out that that's actually not new the uh real estate purchase agreement that uh was uh discussed and brought up at the last uh meeting when you all had the february contract but uh vicki bronson our attorney is here if uh she would like to answer any questions about the reasoning for the real estate purchase contract vicki would you like to go ahead and speak to that
 Yes, so the document that was presented before was the same purchase price, but previously there had been discussions about it being a lease instead of a straight-out purchase. But the developer represented they weren't going to be able to get financing to build if they didn't actually own the real estate. So the document was changed whereby it's a sale to the developer, but there are conditions that they have to fulfill themselves.
 If they don't fulfill those conditions, then the city has the option to purchase the property back for the amount of the purchase price. And so, Council Member Turk, if you read the document that I prepared for you all to describe the difference between the contract that you last saw and this one, I would describe that in my document that I sent out to you all last Friday. Thank you. I guess I missed that one, but thank you for that explanation. Other questions?
 One of the questions we have on the amendment. Okay. I'll entertain a motion to pass the amendment. I move we amend as read. Second. We have a motion to second to pass the amendment. Alright. Kerr would you please call the roll? Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones?
 Yes. Kim? Yes. Now for procedural problems or procedural issues, I would like them to move to spin the rules and go to the third and final reading of the ordinance I just read. The amended ordinance. The amended ordinance. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading of the amended ordinance. Okay. Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 Bench? Yes. Tarrick? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Ingram? Yes.
 And as usual, I'll read the title. Okay. In order to amend Section 34.27, sale of municipally owned real property to authorize the sale of a .2-acre parcel in the West Avenue parking lot to approve a real estate purchase contract with the Farmers and Merchants Bank, the Fayetteville Depot LLC, and Dixon and West Investments LLC...
 to purchase about one half acre on the depot bank lot for $350,000 to approve a retail estate or sales tax. Contract with Dixon & West Investment for LLC for the 0.2 acre lot on the north end of the West Avenue parking lot to read or convey to Dixon & West Investments LLC the ownership of about 14,000 square feet of the bottom floor of the city's public parking deck
 and other items and to pass an emergency clause. Okay, Wade, you want to start us off? And staff, you have 10 minutes. Yes, sir. Mayor, I won't take 10 minutes. First, I want to thank draft for, or Kit for drafting up this amendment. But so the contracts presented tonight preserves previous approved language and adds language to address council's most recent comments for worst case scenarios.
 Items still included are the conservation easement for the original portion of the train depot built in 1895, seven years protection of the Arcegas building with no build over, the enhancement to the Arcegas building, option to purchase the trail plaza section for a trail, rail, and future mobility hub, and for a time frame that we can do that within the next four years, if not sooner.
 A deck liner to include 2,000 square foot of the PD substation owned by the city. 300 spaces to include 290 replacement parking spaces and potentially 31 more by the developer. And verbiage to address the time frame for the six and a half and seven floor completions by the developer within 15 years. And the transit hub bus stops at Dixon and West Avenue.
 The following changes to the last draft that Susan mentioned to address some of the concerns were some additional language, more specific language about the Civic Plaza building. So the first floor will have one or more tenants for retail, commercial, for food services, or per the Rob Sharp food hall design. Another change is the incremental purchase price of the Civic Plaza land
 is based on the time of completion to the black box level. It's tied to the certificate of occupancy of the deck because obviously they can't begin construction until the deck is completed. But if they build to black box within two years, they get full forgiveness of the purchase price. If they build it within two to three years, they get 90% forgiveness. If it's built within three to four years, there's 80% forgiveness of the purchase price.
 If it's built within four to five years, there's 70% forgiveness of the purchase price. But if it's not built after five years, no portion of the purchase price will be waived or released. But the most important addition is what Vicki said a while ago. If the developer does not build within 10 years after the completion of the deck, the city will have the right to acquire the property back for the original purchase price.
 So that's all I have for now, Mayor. But I'll be available for questions along with Vicki Bronson, Jason Bramlett, the developer's attorney, developers Greg House and Ted Belden, and Sterling Hamilton with Sage Partners. And I can direct questions to those appropriate parties. Okay. What questions do we have in the council on this?
 I have a little point of clarification here on the, like if it's not built within 10 years, you said we have the right to buy it back. Does that mean we can, I mean, we absolutely can buy it back or there is any discussion about buying it back or?
 You know, anything, I mean, is it just a given that if it weren't built within 10 years, we could, we would be buying it back? The way it's worded, we have the right to acquire the property back. Okay. That's correct. There are no conditions on that. Right. Okay. Okay. So, but they would, I guess what I'm wondering is, you know, there wouldn't be a possibility where they wouldn't want to sell it back to us, would they? And they would have the right to do that?
 Not under this contract. The city has absolute right to purchase it if the building is not built to the black box specifications that are set forth in the contract within the 10 years. Okay. All right. That's what I wanted to clarify. Thank you. You're welcome. What are the questions you have, Council? All right. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Okay.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or a council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. I'm used so we can hear you. Who would like to be first to address us from the public? Jeff Amarone. Jeff, go ahead. Okay.
 Oh, thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. It's Jeff Amirine representing Startup Junkie Consulting. We're at 1 East Center Street, Suite 270, Fayetteville, Arkansas. Yeah, I would like to strongly recommend that this important infrastructure is approved and put in place. The cultural arts corridor that's going to be put in place is going to be a feeder for businesses that have been
 under a significant amount of duress during the pandemic. I think this will be a draw for Fayetteville.
 There's lots of good examples of public-private partnerships in other cities that have been extremely successful. And in our role, being concerned with entrepreneurship, startups, small business, and overall economic vitality, this seems like a very important key piece of infrastructure to ensure accessibility and ease of people from the area and other areas to be able to enjoy work.
 the Cultural Arts District and all the amenities that that part of downtown brings. So in short, we're a big fan of this. We hope you see your way clear to approve it. We think it will be an asset to Fayetteville and it will drive a quicker recovery as it gets put in place as we all look at moving beyond the pandemic. So those are my only comments. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Peter Lane. Go ahead. Can you hear me? Yes.
 Hi, Mr. Mayor, City Council. We're Peter Lang with the Walton Arts Center. I live on Watson Street. And I just want to say this is we really highly endorse this location and this deck location is.
 very close to where the old Wal-Mart Center parking lot is. And I think there's just so many advantages that your administration, the city has put a lot of effort and thought into this. And I think there's a lot of pluses here. There's this unique partnership with this public-private opportunity where a bank and Greg and Sterling Hamilton and the city have come together and
 We're going to get a lot more by going forward with this parking deck here. We get a police substation. We get retail space, the preservation of our Segas Depot, the train depot, and a structure, as importantly, that can be expanded with growth, which I think is absolutely critical for the entertainment district. It's really awesome. I think that's really terrific. It paves the way in many ways.
 for the future growth of the Cultural Arts Corridor and allows for this new civic class to blossom and people will be able to know where the parking is very close. I think there's been a lot of effort, a lot of time. I almost feel like this is my Groundhog Day dream of that parking deck is about to end and we're about to vote on this, which I'm really delighted. But I do think that it has,
 It has so many pluses. And so on behalf of the entire Walton Arts Center organization and our tens of thousands of audience members that will be using this garage, we enthusiastically support this and hope that the City Council sees its way to support this. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Steve Clark. Go ahead. Steve Clark.
 MR. MAYOR, MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL, I'M STEVE CLARK, I'M THE PRESIDENT OF THE FAYEVABLE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. WE'RE LOCATED AT 21 WEST MOUNTAIN, SUITE 300. I WOULD TELL YOU THAT OUR LEADERSHIP FIRST WANTS TO THANK THE CITY COUNCIL, EACH OF THE MEMBERS, FOR THEIR DILIGENT REVIEW AND QUESTIONS ABOUT THIS PROCESS AND ABOUT THIS PROJECT. MR. MAYOR, WE WANT TO THANK YOU, TOO, FOR YOUR LEADERSHIP.
 I came to my job 12 years ago, and we were talking about this very piece of property then and have kept talking about that. Apparently, Mr. Mayor, when you were on the city council five years previous to that, y'all were talking about this piece of property and how it can best be a part of our city. This is the only time, though, during that tenure that I'm aware that the city came up with a specific plan and gave that plan to the voters to see if they liked it or didn't like it.
 And they did like it. And so we believe this plan is a great plan for our city. We believe this plan and this development will be a boost to economic development. We believe it will be an attraction in the sense of bringing talent and people to our community.
 And we believe it's well thought out. And so we're going to urge the city council to vote for this. We believe it's the right step. And it's time to do that now so we can move forward and begin to continue the development and the progress that we have all around our entertainment district, but also completely across our city. So we urge you strongly to vote for this. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Jerry Davis. Go ahead. Jerry.
 Mayor Jordan. Can you guys hear me? Yes. Mayor Jordan. I'm Mayor Jordan, council members. I appreciate you all for allowing me this time to speak. My name is Jerry Davis and I am the GM for 21st amendment, Rogers rec, Los Bobos and also West End. I'm very excited that this vote could possibly be happening today.
 When we were going over the letter of intent for this, I also spoke as well in favor of the depot lot. This is the spot. This is where we need to have the parking deck. When we think of Dixon Street, a lot of people don't think of West Avenue, but West Avenue as well is a big area where a lot of people like to go out and enjoy themselves just like they do on Dixon. We have to think of the businesses.
 One of the businesses, like I said, that I run Westin, we have Westin Watson, we have VIP Club, Z330, Doomsday Coffee, Scarpino's just opened up a week ago. We've got all these businesses that are now on West Avenue that are also bringing in that revenue to the city as well. If you think about the Walden Arts Center, if you think about the Cultural Arts Corridor, this is a centralized location that can be able to feed people into all of these areas.
 And not to mention, I've been doing this thing for nine years. I've been on Dixon and West Avenue for about nine years now. And there's a trend. The trend is that people, they start at the top, that they'll usually start their way at the top of Dixon. And then they come, they'll end their way on West Avenue. Why not have an area where,
 um, where we, we've already figured out how to contain and control the crowd. Just be able to then go and go to this, uh, this new air, this, this new lot that's potentially going to be built and then be able to just disperse and go home from there. Um, I just want to say, I really appreciate you guys. Um, this, this is the spot, uh,
 I don't know of any other spot that we could possibly make this happen. And if you think about all of the potential revenue that we can bring just from the infrastructure from adding to this spot, it's just mind blowing. This is going to blow everything out of the water if we get it in this spot. I would just really urge you guys to just consider it. And please, please, let's get this vote done so we can get it going. Thank you.
 thank you i don't see anybody else at the moment mayor okay well we'll bring it back to the council we're on the third and final reading what final comments do we have in the council i'm sorry i need to keep the mask down and keep telling me to bring the mask down where people can hear me uh what final comments do we have in the council mayor i have a comment sure
 I wanted to take a little while to talk about why I've ultimately decided to support this. And if you were paying real close attention to
 The last time we had this up for discussion in February, you know that I raised what for me was a deal breaker issue. But that has been resolved now. And so I wanted to take a little bit of liberty to go through the points why I think this is the right move to make. What we heard from some of the commenters tonight, I think, is exactly right. We're getting so much more.
 with this project on this site than we would if we were to do it in another location. The historic protections for the buildings that are already on the property land for a connection that we may ultimately use if we have rail service transit hubs on the street
 So the parking deck can actually be used here for multiple uses. And I think that efficiency is perhaps been underrated in our conversation. Why would we build a parking deck that is only used for really for one thing when we could share in the structural costs potentially to get even more from it?
 The police substations, which we have been talking for a while about being a true need in downtown. And also a qualified team on the other side of the table to help us implement this vision. It's hard to find a qualified team. And even if we were to proceed with this,
 our normal procurement process, we would run the risk of not ending up with a team that is disqualified with the kind of experience and portfolio that we've seen.
 And maybe most importantly, the worst case scenario is protected and it's fair. This has been structured in a fair way. The team gets what they need to be able to execute the deal in terms of finances. And if for some reason they aren't able to, it's even-steven. It's simple. We're able to get the land back and have our security and being able to make another go at this. Okay.
 Tonight's really exciting for me because I've been working on this for just so long. In 2014, I wrote a grant for the city and the University of Arkansas Community Design Center to study
 the Plaza site. We got funding from the National Endowment for the Arts, and we designed four different conceptual scenarios for this site. And, you know, actually I need to give a little bit of credit, maybe this will surprise some close observers, to Steve Clark, because we had meetings with so many community members about those designs.
 And in the meeting with Steve, he urged us, and I never forgot this, he urged us to be inspiring and choose the iconic plan. And I think we've done that. I think we've got something here that is going to inspire the community for generations, not just for those of us who get to help make it happen. Yeah.
 I don't know yet how the vote's going to go tonight, but I'm ready to vote for it. I know that there are still community members who don't believe that we'll be able to pull this off. And I want to acknowledge that there is still an element of trust here, but I don't think that we would be able to pull off anything that was like this without having to trust anybody.
 And so I want to acknowledge that risk. I think it's fair to point it out, but I also think it's fair to accept that risk and to try to execute this vision, regardless of how the vote goes tonight.
 I want to personally thank, and I want to do this publicly because I think it's been a little bit trying on everybody involved. I want to personally thank two people who I think have worked extraordinarily hard and been very tolerant of me and my inquiries. And the first is Susan Norton, who has followed this and been on top of it. Every task, every inquiry I've sent
 from the beginning. And from my perspective, I've been discovering wrenches and trying to get them out of the system, but I think it'd be really easy for anybody to look at this and presume that my approach is to put wrenches into the system and Susan hasn't done that. And I really appreciate that. And the other person I really wanna thank is Sterling Hamilton.
 And it may seem like a political risk for someone like me to stick their neck out a little bit for somebody who calls themselves a developer. But I think this is important because Sterling has been the go-between for the city and for the development team the whole way. And
 When I brought up at the last minute in the 11th hour on our last meeting, what for me was a deal breaker. After working on this for so long, you know, I was losing sleep that I thought I was going to be the one
 to kill this vision when it's on the table at the very last minute. And Sterling treated me and my inquiries with extraordinary fairness. And we were able to work it out. And I think that is something, it's a testament to,
 in my opinion and in my assessment, it's a testament to the energy that this team is going to bring to this project. And it's one of the main reasons I'm willing to extend a hand and to put my trust in it. We've come a long way and it's not without risk, but the vision is right. And I feel as though it's time to get started. Thank you, Matthew. Who else would like to address this?
 What final comments do we have for council? I have a real quick one here that kind of ties in with what Matthew said, and it has to do with risk and trust. And I am supportive of this because I,
 I have that element of trust there that anything that we've had, it's been brought up before that, you know, of the public-private partnership, that there have been issues with that in the past. Right.
 But, you know, my trust falls that we have learned from our past experiences and we don't continue to make the same, hopefully make the same mistakes over and over again. I don't think that's happening here. I think this is a whole different project. And I don't just view it through the lens of something that happened 20 years ago.
 So I am in support of this. I think the vision is right. I like what we can possibly get out of this building that we there was just no way we could get out of the other side.
 You know, it sticks in my head that we were looking at maybe I think 15 feet of liner buildings and that was we just didn't really have any space there for anything else. And I'm really in support of this and it's been a long time coming and I'm really ready to vote on it. Thank you. Thank you. I have a comment, a rather lengthy comment that I'd like to share.
 In April 2019, the citizens of Fayetteville barely approved funding of the cultural arts corridor of $31.6 million. The approval was by 53%. This item passed by the narrowest margin of any of the other bond projects. A change of 225 votes would have killed this project. All of the other projects passed by at least 63% and many in the high 70 percentages.
 The largest outstanding item of the Cultural Arts Corridor was the location of the required 290 space replacement parking deck. A study was conducted by Garver for $20,000 in 2019 to review nine potential locations.
 Three were identified that met the criteria and the $10 million limit. Of the three, only two survived the review, the parking lot on School Street across from the Spring Street parking lot and the Fayetteville Depot parking lot at the corner of Dixon and West Street.
 It was clear from the beginning that the administration favored the depot lot as location for a parking deck. Once this was made apparent, the depot property owners could take their time negotiating the deal and really had supreme leverage during these talks. The bonds are time sensitive and must be used within a three-year period or there are huge penalties to pay.
 The City Council approved funds for the for the site review and planning for both parking areas but only recently within the last two months has any subsurface testing or other work on the school street lot been performed. As negotiations from the City with the Depot lot owners continued the complexity of the deal grew and the City's leverage diminished.
 Without actively pursuing the school street lot, the city provided the signal to staff and the depot lot landowners that it was highly favoring the depot lot for construction, thus continuing to diminish any leverage the city had in negotiating a fair deal for our citizens. All of the landowners needed to do was delay, wait out the city and put the city in a corner due to time constraints and continue to push for their requirements.
 Here's a breakdown in my opinion of what the landowner and developers obtained from the proposed contract before us tonight.
 Citizens approved $10 million to purchase land, conduct geotechnical and other preliminary testing and design work for the replacement parking lot lost to the Civic Plaza. The purchase of the approximately one-half acre of land for $350,000 is included in the improved $10 million. $250 will be paid to Fayetteville Depot LLC and $100,000 will be paid to Farmers and Merchant or previously the Bank of Fayetteville LLC.
 As part of the agreement, the developer will be given the ownership of prime real estate of at least 14,000 square feet of space on the first floor of the parking deck. They can build this space out to be condominiums, apartments, commercial office space, or parking. If one uses the estimated price of $60 per square foot, that comes out to be $840,000 that the city is giving to the developer.
 In addition, the parking lot has to be built an additional floor taller because of this commercial space.
 If the city chose instead of selling the property, the city could rent out giving away the property and chose to sell it. They could rent out and receive income on this 14,000 plus square feet of space at this location. Likely one of the best locations in town. Current commercial rental spaces located in the downtown Dixon Street area vary from $11 per square foot to $28 per square foot.
 While the company leasing the property would have to invest in building out the area, the city could generate revenue for its citizens. For the sake of the example, let's use $11 per square feet as an estimate for this space.
 Each year, the city would generate a conservative estimate of $154,000 in revenue from leasing the 14,000 square feet of space. Over 10 years, this would add up to $1.5 million. Sales generated from the commercial business in this location would add additional revenue.
 Number three, the developers retain the right to build two extra stories on floors six and seven of the parking deck within the next 15 years. They would be charged for the cost to reinforce the parking deck structure to support these additional decks. But the additional decks create an even larger parking deck and even larger behemoth that stands out in the context of the current Dixon Street skyline right now.
 Number four, across from Dixon at the northern end of the Cultural Arts Corridor, is another really sweet deal to the developers.
 If the developers follow the terms of the agreement by building an approximately 18 square foot food hall, civic plaza up to a black box standard within two years. If I understood tonight's deal, the city, after receiving the certificate of occupancy for the parking deck, they receive fleet free and clear the one fifth acre of the best real estate in Fayetteville.
 So the current estimate, as Kit mentioned earlier, is $263,000. The city will also pay 50% of the cost to provide water and sewer access to the food hall. The city instead could own the land and send out a request for proposals for construction of a building.
 on the north side. What I don't understand is why the city is not giving out the contract or request for proposal. Even more additional funding than $263,000 would likely to be received by the city during that process.
 Number five, during the construction, the city will be charged by the developers $4,000 per month for an area to stage construction in the parking lot. I find this cost to be completely unreasonable, given that the developers are part of the parking deck deal. It's just another way to bilk the taxpayer. What does the city get in return? Okay.
 Number one, the city gets the permanent protection, including the airspace above the building of the Frisco Depot station, but only part of it, only part of it, only the Chipotle section and not the hookah lounge or the freight building section will be protected.
 the Frisco train building that is on the National Register of Historic Places and according to the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program contains both the Chiloe-Chipolle section and the Hookah Lounge section for a total of 4,760 square feet. The owners could tear down the Hookah Lounge section at any time thus compromising the integrity of the historic nature of the building and possibly losing the National Register designation.
 Number two, a seven-year window for the city to potentially purchase the area between this train depot, the Chipotle and our Segas building, the hookah lounge section on our Segas building, is provided to the city. Under these terms, the hookah area will not be substantially changed for seven years, but could be torn down or the area could be modified after seven years.
 You know, I was not elected to be a rubber stamp council member, but to look out for the best interests of the residents of this city, to protect your interests, to ask questions, to laser focus my review from many different perspectives, and to analyze the merits or pitfalls of this proposed project.
 I support public and private partnerships, but in such agreements, each party should benefit equally from the arrangement. For my review, the proposed contract clearly is not in the best interest of Fayetteville residents and taxpayers. It is a giveaway in excess of $1.1 million to local developers. The city is also foregoing substantial assets and future revenue.
 In no way is this a fair or equal deal for the Fayetteville taxpayer. This is a private plunder of public funds. While the $1.1 million in bond funds that are being given away to developers could not be reallocated to feed our needy citizens because of the rules surrounding bond projects, I would like to point out some of the other things that that money could be used for instead.
 from different budget items. Instead of giving the developers $1.1 million, these assets, if these assets were sold or leased, the city could generate at $1.5 million and assist some of its neediest citizens. So here's what $1.1 million instead of $1.5, but $1.1 million could buy.
 According to Feeding America, a meal cost on average $2.89. Using these estimates, $1.1 million could provide 370,000 meals or feed 125,000 people for a day or 2,100 people for two months.
 According to some estimates, a tiny home outfitted with heat and air conditioning could be built between $15,000 and $25,000. Using the higher estimate of $25,000, $1.1 million could build 44 tiny homes, producing affordable housing and possibly sheltering those without homes.
 Why would the city agree to such a bad deal that forgoes future revenue that could be used for our needy citizens and support other important critical needs for Fayetteville residents? I am strongly opposing this proposed contract. The proposed parking deck and food court are out of scale, out of character, and will forever change the very nature of Dixon Street.
 I asked my city council colleagues to reject this contract and asked city administration to begin immediately designing the replacement parking lot on School Street. The citizens narrowly approved this bond measure, and it was designed and sold to the people only to include a parking deck. The complexity of this deal obscures the private fleecing of public funds.
 Thank you for letting me read my comments. And sorry to be Debbie Downer, but that is exactly the way I feel about this deal. I don't believe it is good for Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? I'll make a couple of comments, try to keep it short. I think Council Member Petty and Council Member...
 bunch pretty much said most of what I wanted to say. But I was very skeptical in going into this. I was very skeptical and I voted against going into, going towards the depot lot at the beginning because of all of the details that I imagined that it would take as we can see over a year to make a contract like this work.
 And I appreciate, you know, everyone's collaboration to make it happen and their persistence and the patience that they put into it. The developers, you know, the attorney that we hired to help us kind of shepherd us through this process and the staff's patience. I think.
 you know uh councilmember petty really asked for a leadership to from the mayor to um help you know give us the vision and i feel like that's what has happened um and as in all part you know contracts we give and take um and i believe that that's kind of where where we've come with a lot of work and so with that i'll i'll definitely be supporting this and i appreciate the
 a really great outcome that I believe is going to really help the creative economy. And I appreciate everyone's hard work on it. Thank you. Final comments from the council? I also look forward to supporting this.
 There's some great cities out there that have areas where you can get food on first floor, next to parks. You know, the Rivermark in Little Rock kind of comes as an example, and many other great cities. I think that we have a possibility of that happening here. There is some trust involved. There's a lot of gears moving along.
 But I think ultimately Fayetteville will be better 10 years from now by pursuing this. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? I'd like to say a few things. I think that the vision here is remarkable. I think that it's been sold as a great development. And I cannot, I couldn't agree more. This is a great development, a great asset.
 But if you listen to council member Turk and you looked at what was voted for and what we were giving is it's not the same. And the complexity is the problem in my mind with making certain that this really occurs in a manner in which it's expected to. Excuse me for being an old man, but the last
 Public-private partnership that was promised to the people was the TIF district and people say well, it's not the same Well, it is the same from the voters point of view the people that are paying increased taxes to cover that tough TIF Have received absolutely nothing and the city has received Nothing, but a blighted strip of property so it has colored my I
 my value of this type of partnership. I want this development. I want to see it be successful, but I do not think that it was negotiated in the best interest of the taxpayers. I think it was negotiated earnestly. And I think that unfortunately, that the city didn't get the best end of the deal. I don't even think they got the fair end of the deal.
 If this is such a good project, then I think a funding source should step forth and help the developers develop it. I mean, if it's that marvelous, right? We still get the parking deck over across from the Spring Street parking deck. And it's not cat a corner to the front entrance of the Walton Art Center. But it also is not a mile away. So...
 I hate to vote against this. I really do. But I can't, I can't in good faith support a project that's this complex and not what was presented to the voters, in my opinion. Like I said last time, we've got the garage Mahal over here, not a parking garage. And so, unfortunately. Unfortunately.
 And it is with a broken heart because I feel like that I'm stepping away from something very marvelous. But I cannot support this from the point of view of a taxpaying citizen. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Final comments? Okay. All right. I've got just a couple, three things to say.
 We started work on this. I know that Matthew was talking about 2014. I do remember those models that he brought into the council that I know that Steve Clark had also talked about that. This area has been, you know, they have talked about this developing. This parking lot goes all the way back when I was on the council. They brought a plan in. It didn't work out.
 now we're back to where we had all kind you know folks were coming in they wanted to see what we could develop in that area we talked about as council i still remember the council meeting at the school that we had that night a few of you were there i think i know maggie was there mark was there i think sarah bunch was there for that meeting and we talked about the future of this uh parking lot and what we would like to see
 We were talking about possibly even putting it on the market and selling. But we came back and Jeremy Pate and I want to give some credit. I know Matthew was talking about folks getting credited and I agree that Susan Norton has done a tremendous amount of work on this thing. Also I want to give some credit to the former chief of staff Don Moore and Jeremy Pate who was with me then. They came in and said we have.
 the Walton Arts Center Cultural Design of Excellent Grant. And we could be looking at something that we could really bring something that would be a gathering place. You know, a lot of it is personal with me because I was not exposed to a lot of the arts and a lot of the things that other kids were exposed to. I...
 was raised on a farm and we didn't get a lot of hard stuff. But I came to the University of Arkansas when I was 16 years old and I got to see a play called Eugene O'Neill's Long Day's Journey and Tonight It Changed My Life Forever. And I always wanted to be sure that kids were exposed to that sort of thing.
 I mean, one of the reasons I wanted this to be a special place, I wanted it to be a gathering place where people could bring their families and their children and be exposed to something that they wouldn't get anywhere else. Something that wouldn't cost them a lot of money, something that they could come and enjoy for free. And I wanted to do that. And this, you know, when we campaigned for this, I know a lot of folks said this is not what we came for. This is exactly what I told. I had 20 meetings.
 from 2018 and since 2019 this is exactly what we talked about in those meetings and it got more questions than anything and and you're right that it did pass i think 53 point something percent of the vote but you know what if i'm running in an election i can get 53 54 of the vote i'm pretty happy with that margin um
 And that was the lowest we had. But if you look it all up, we averaged around 66%. So a lot of people said that this would never not happen, but it did pass by almost 54% of the vote of the people. Now we had to get a location. We started working on this thing about the middle of 2019, somewhere along there, to get a location. And we looked at Nadine Baum, we looked at school, and we always had School Street.
 But we had a chance to do something I thought that was very special for the city. We always had the money for the deck. It's just a matter of where we got the location. I believe in January of 2020, we passed by a vote of five and three for the location. We started negotiating the contract around early 2020, and we have come to this point. And, you know, there's always a chance. There's always a risk in anything you do. I have a sign in my office that I read today.
 It says, dare to fail. The only mistake you make is to do nothing. Now, we could always put the parking deck on School Street. But to me, that's just not enhanced the vision I would like to see in this city. And I have gotten a lot of people. I know that you've said a lot of people don't trust. But, you know, here's the interesting thing. I was on the city council when we did the square, the tip district. It didn't work out.
 but you know what it was constantly said well that was a vote of the council well I am not saying that tonight I'm going to take full and complete responsibility for this and if it doesn't work out you can tell everybody that the mayor brought us the wrong kind of vision and I will live with that and I will not blame any council member one way or the other but I think it will work I think it's another step in the process that we've been going on for for many years
 Many of the council members are new and may not know the long, as I said, I told Susan this morning, storied history of the entire bond project. But I remember it. So I wanted to give you a brief overview of this old cultural arts corridor. It's something that we can be proud of. It's visionary. It's a gathering place. It will be something that for generations to come, people will come down to that area and enjoy it.
 We got a new library facility in addition, then we got the trail that goes down to the cultural arts corridor and it will be a draw. It will help us economically and culturally. I think it's the right thing to do. I think it's the right time. So as I conclude my comments tonight, I want to thank the staff. I want to thank administration, the council.
 the city council you know brought up many needs and concerns and we tried to address them all i believe we've got a good strong contract here i believe this contract serves the city's interest and allows us to deliver more than just the bare minimum we're not just
 A kind of city that just says we're just going to get back. We want to push the envelope. We want to do more than anybody else. We've got to be willing to pay the price today that other cities won't do to have tomorrow, but other cities won't have. So as I conclude, this project helped us create an asset to the community that enhances access, safety, convenience and commerce.
 Tonight, I asked the council for their support to pass this because I believed in it then and I believe in it now. So with that being said and all the final comments done, Karen, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? No.
 I'm going to abstain as a matter of my point of view, but I don't want to vote against something that I think could be really, really good. I just don't like the way it was funded with taxpayers money. So I'm going to abstain. OK, so that passes. But we need a separate vote for the emergency clause, Mayor. OK, I don't have any speeches for the emergency clause. Just need a motion and a second to pass the motion. So moved. Second. Second.
 All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kimmion? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Okay. Let's go on to number three.
 a resolution approved amendment number two professional engineering services agreement with olson incorporated pursuant to rfq 19-01 in the amount of 154 900 for the remaining architectural services related to the replacement parking deck for cultural arts corridor project and approved budget adjustment this is 2019 cultural arts corridor bond project this was left
 I think we got through the first reading this winter. This is a resolution, so we just kept tabling it. I'm sorry. Yes, you're absolutely right. So this is a resolution. So I think Wade is the one who's been explaining this. Who's what staffer? Yeah. Okay. Go ahead. Mayor, I've got this.
 Yeah, Olson is our consulting engineer on the replacement parking deck. The original contract was approved last year, was for the full engineering services, including civil, foundation, structure, and included a parking consultant. We did an early amendment for the schematic design only for the architectural elements of the deck in which Olson engaged Miller, Backus, and Lack as a sub-consultant.
 This amendment is for the design development, construction drawings, and construction administration for those architectural elements of the deck, including the facade treatments, the colonnade, brick details, cornice, and elevator towers. It also includes a survey and legal description of the property on the north of the Civic Plaza that was needed for the land transactions. And that's all I've got. Okay. All right. What questions do we have from the City Council?
 Okay let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak and have five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from public or city council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Like the federal residents to speak first. Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can all hear you. Who'd like to address us from the public?
 Right back to the council. This is a resolution. What is the wishes of the council? Would we approve the resolution? Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Carabinieri, please call the roll. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? No.
 This is 62. All right. Thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to approve a residential plan zoning district titled RPZD 2020-0002 for approximately 81.89 acres located at 3435 East Zion Road. This was left on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading tonight. So moved.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In order to approve a residential planned zoning district entitled RPCD 2020-0002,
 for approximately 81.89 acres located at 334 35 east Zion Road. Okay what questions do we have? What's what does staff have on this? Staff got anything? Jonathan? I do have a little bit Mayor. I'll run through it briefly not as long as it took me last a couple weeks ago. I'm Jonathan Kurth with the City's Development Services Department. As an update on this item, it was heard concurrently
 with an annexation through the first meeting in March where the annexation was ultimately approved. This leaves the planned zoning district side of the request. Since the last meeting, staff has received no revisions to the request, but members of the applicant team are present tonight to field questions from the council. Since the last meeting, we have received a few pieces of public comment.
 Specifically, concern has been expressed that many of the items discussed by the applicant at these meetings are not necessarily enshrined in the PZD booklet, which is the governing document for development of the property. Of those items in particular, specific concern was given to some of the improvements that were discussed along Hilton Creek and the desire to see those as formal requirements in that PZD document.
 The second comment that staff received since that March 2nd City Council meeting is regarding process with due consideration for some of the known and unknown environmental issues that have been brought up by residents and members of the council. The commenter wants the council to delay any decision until all the facts are available, including completion of any relevant studies rather than waiting for the time of development submittal to consider those.
 From a process standpoint, this would necessitate tabling, of course, given this is the third reading. But I did want to make sure that those were shared with the council in the lead up to any decision made tonight. And with that in mind, and as a reminder, staff does recommend in favor of the request with the conditions included in the report provided to you. The commission largely agreed, providing one of their own conditions. Thank you.
 and in response to the preliminary wetland study that was shared with the council and staff. And as a reminder, staff does offer a further condition if the council would like to include that in any approval, that a Corps of Engineers jurisdictional determination be provided at the time of development submittal. And with that, I'm happy to take questions. The applicant's team are all present, including Allie Quinlan, Blake Murray, and Robert Rhodes, and they're among the attendees. Thanks.
 okay would the applicant like to speak before the council they have 10 minutes i take that as a yes and allison there is an audio issue susan can you hear me now yes yes okay wonderful and i know we've got a little bit of a different process this meeting than we've we've had previously is it still possible to share a presentation with the council can you speak up a little bit more yeah i'm having a little bit of trouble hearing you hello
 I apologize. We have a little bit of a different process with Zoom as panelists than we previously had. Is it still possible to share a PowerPoint with the council? Okay. Yes, if you'll give Josh one second. Okay, you're good. Ms. Quinlan, I believe you're muted. Switch over to panelists. Sorry, muted me again. Is that better now?
 okay wonderful so we've discussed this project with you at length but the annexation with the annexation approved we'd like to present provide a little additional detail about the planned zoning district that's before you this evening although we've provided a master plan and much more detail than you would typically see with a rezoning request i do want to emphasize that this pzd application is a land use request
 and not a development proposal. So we still have, as Mr. Kurtz pointed out, many stages of development and design review still ahead of us if the land use request is supported by council, as it was by the planning commission and by city staff. We do hope that council members who support the annexation will also support this proposed PZD as both applications have been presented together consistently through our relatively long review process.
 The project boundaries for this annexation are shown on the 2040 Future Land Use Map. As I'll describe for our three planning areas, our land use request directly translates this guidance that was adopted unanimously by the Council just last January.
 We often hear that city staff and Planning Commission prefer PZDs to straight rezonings in order to be able to utilize more finesse in land use execution and architectural design than our current city zoning code allows. We've taken that feedback seriously and provided, I think, a comprehensive PZD document and master plan that received extremely positive feedback from several planning commissioners during their public review.
 And a PZD is a big commitment by a developer. It's significantly more work and detail than a rezoning request. But we believe in this project and believe that investment in time was effort well spent. Approval of this proposed PZD will allow the property to be developed at a responsible density of six units per acre. The minimum density generally accepted to support transit. The existing adjacent transit route connects potential future residents to a wide range of goods and services within walkable or bikeable distance.
 As we noted before, the site has an unusual proximity to good services and transportation for new developments. We believe the proposed traditional neighborhood pattern reflects these adjacent land uses responsibly. We also think that the proposed density is a more responsible reaction to our area's unprecedented growth rate than the public comment that you've received supporting development of the land, but only at low densities.
 As those of us in the housing sector and those looking for housing can attest, we are a region with supply and demand challenge in our housing market. The pandemic and the unprecedented ability to work from anywhere has only accelerated the incredible influx of new residents to our city and region. New demand for housing is dramatically outpacing new supply.
 As a result, our housing costs have increased 75% in the last 10 years. Our supply of buildable lots is currently as low as it has been since the University of Arkansas Skyline report began measuring it in 2005. We hope that responsible development patterns like this one, in line with all city codes and best practices, will be part of the solution of safely housing our city's residents.
 As described by Mr. Kerf, this PCD includes three planning areas. In yellow, we're proposing a residential planning area designated specifically to respond to the language in the future land use map designation for this area, primarily residential in nature and supporting a wide variety of housing types of appropriate scale and context. As the city documents describe, this is single family duplexes, row houses and small multifamily as well as accessory dwelling units are allowed under this planning area.
 the residential neighborhood area is laid out in highly connected compact blocks with gridded street patterns and reduced building setbacks this traditional neighborhood development pattern also allows some light non-residential uses intended to serve the surrounding neighborhoods as a conditional use again all directly in line with the land use designation for this area
 These are some of the examples of architecture provided in City Plan 2040 as desirable for this area type. Within the PZD documents, we base the architectural standards of the neighborhood on the downtown architectural design standards, which are the most comprehensive and high-quality standards within our city code. By maintaining consistency with these existing standards, we ensure that compliance is both easy for designers and contractors used to working in Fayetteville and easy for city staff to enforce.
 As some lots along the edges are not provided with alleys, we've additionally added a provision to prevent snout houses with a maximum of 25% of lot width able to be dedicated to a garage door in front of the main facade of the house. Our second planning area is shown in blue. This planning area provides for a mix of non-residential and residential uses, again, exactly as designated by the future land use maps for city neighborhood areas, and also as specifically requested by the planning commission and city staff.
 This designation supports the widest spectrum of uses, including supportive commercial uses that tie into the existing Tier 2 centers at Crossover and Zion Road, as well as smaller commercial areas designed to provide walkable, convenient services like coffee or bagel shops and small professional offices to the neighborhood.
 This introduction of neighborhood planning area helps reduce the length and number of car trips generated by residential development by enhancing the accessibility to these neighborhood shopping areas. The architectural standards within the PCV also ensure the city's stated goals of pedestrian-friendly buildings with transparent glass for commercial uses at street level and building entrances that address and connect to the street and sidewalk.
 We see this commercial frontage as both appropriate to the high volume frontage on crossover, but also an important walkable amenity to the neighborhood and a source of tax revenue for the city, as noted in some of our earlier studies. The third planning area preserves 25% of the property with an open space or conservation zoning. This planning area is the only deviation from the future land use map that was adopted last January, as we've more than tripled the land area in the enduring green network above what was proposed in that future land use map.
 the distribution of parks throughout the neighborhood and along hilton creek ensures that every home is within a few hundred yards of outdoor recreation space this lane juice pattern of smaller personal lots and yards more land conserved in open public space allows for more productive ecological use of the open space as well as introduction of low impact development features
 Conceptually, stormwater flow through the site is routed via the new street network to two large detention ponds on site. Outflows from those ponds, after the initial holding period required for channel protection under the newer detention manual, will flow as they do now to Hilton Creek. The linear park is designed to channel stormwater to the detention area through plantings and preserved prairie mounds, rather than purely through hard pipe or paved surface storm sewer infrastructure.
 This slows the time concentration of the site stormwater, further reducing the initial storm surge into the creek above and beyond the holding and detention ponds that's required by code. It also provides an additional opportunity to utilize plantings to reduce sediment load carried by the runoff, which reduces phosphorus loads that run to Lake Fayetteville. I'll reinforce that this is certainly only an initial concept.
 we had several valuable comments in the last hearing about ways that this conceptual design could be improved during the development process as the stormwater system is fully engineered i believe these comments can largely be incorporated prior to the development review submission if the requested land use as proposed in the pzd is accepted by the council together these three planning areas provide a complete compact and connected traditional neighborhood with a large portion of the site conserved we hope that you can support it and are here to answer any questions you might have thank you thank you
 Iawn. Pa gwestiynau sydd gennym ni gan y Cyngor? Nid oes cwestiwn gan y Cyngor. Iawn. Iawn. Wel, gadewch i ni wneud rhai sylwadau cyhoeddus yna. Mae pawb yn cael un tro i siarad. Mae gennych chi dduradwriaeth o 5 munud yn segmau o 3 a 2 munud.
 Nid ydych yn cymryd unrhyw un o'r cyhoedd neu unrhyw gyngor. Rwy'n aros ar bwnc. Nid ydych yn ymdrech. Rwy'n gofyn i chi roi eich enw a'ch arwain. Bydd ymwneud â'r cymharolion fyddeol yn cael eu siarad yn dda. Byddwn yn rhoi'r bobl y gynlluniau yn siarad yn unig ar hyn. Cofiwch star 9 ar eich ffôn neu'ch cyhoedd a'ch zoom i gael eu cydnabod ac i'w ddysgu i'n gweld chi. Ond rwy'n gofyn i chi roi eich enw a'ch arwain. Iawn.
 Joseph Robertson. Go ahead. Thank you for listening to me tonight. This is Joseph Robertson at 3397 East Sion Road. I wanted to start off with a question related to the Exhibit C PZD conditions of approval. There was a recommendation from the staff and planning commission, I think it's item 1B, that requires compliance with adopted minimum access management standards, and I
 Dwi ddim yn ymwybodol â hyn, felly dwi ddim yn gwybod beth mae hynny'n ei olygu. Rwy'n meddwl efallai ei fod yn ymwneud â'r nifer a lleoliad o ffwrdd, ond galla i fod yn anghywir. Roeddwn i eisiau dod i fyny amdano, oherwydd mae gennym bryderon. Mae'r PCD arfer i ymateb â hyn, ond rwy'n gwybod y gall pethau newid yn gyflym. Mae gennym bryderon o'r cynyddu traffic ar y sefydliad ynghylch y prifysgol.
 nid yw ysbrydoli traffig arno mae'r gwaith ar gyfer y rwd yn eithaf ddiffygol ac mae'n dibynnu ar y cyrff nawr fel yw'r ffwrdd un-lein yn ei safon a'i ddyfodol
 Ac oherwydd nad yw'r ddinas yn cymryd cyfrifoldeb am hyn, mae'n fy ngwneud yn fwysig y byddem yn adnabod y llwybr hwnnw gyda'r cyflawniad. Ac hefyd, y diogelu o ran y cyfranogwyr a'r gwrdd sydd yno.
 a'r ddwy gwirfoddau 90 gradd. Ac roedd yn cael ei ddweud bod y crisi'r cyffredin yn rhesym i symud ymlaen gyda hyn. Ar ôl yr holl gwrthfeyddion, nid wyf wedi clywed unrhyw un yn dweud bod wedi'u hystyried yn ymwneud â'r effaith negidol o ran ymgyrchu micro ar yr adnoddau addasol yng Nghymru. Ac mae cynyddu'r llwybrau y ddynion i ffynnu dros ardal sy'n ymddygiadol yn ymddygiadol yn ymddangos fel y cwestiwn anghywir i mi.
 Yn ymwneud â'r gwyllt dŵr cyffredinol o'r le ac ymwneud â'r anoddau llawr cyffredinol sydd gennym, mae'r newid ffema sydd wedi'i gyflawni yn ymlaen sy'n mynd i gynyddu'r llawr yma, yn ddim yn cael ei gyfrif yn y PCD. A'ch cychwyn diweddol am gwella'r gwerth ffema, gwyllt dŵr a chyflawni'r ecosistwm.
 I would ask that you would consider increasing the stormwater management requirements from the one year level to the hundred year level as a condition of this PZD. Now taking into account to the, we're at the tipping point of the phosphorus load and how that can impact the city as described by Mr. Anthony and the water quality or water study examples provided by Mr. Lane.
 And the 8 million short annually that was mentioned in the last meeting regarding getting our stormwater issues up to current standards for the city in the fiscal analysis from the last meeting just
 didn't paint a glowing picture of the financial benefit to Fayetteville for this PZD. We have a Clear Creek assessment now and it shows on page 23 a nice picture of Indian and Purvisk areas as they are today. A large swath of that is going to be consumed. There's also priority sites graphic on page 42
 that speaks directly to this area of land. So taking all that into account, I would respectfully ask you to reject this BCD. Thank you for your time. All right, thank you. Who else would like to address us? Margaret Britton. Go ahead. Hi, can you hear me okay? Yes. Thanks. This is Margaret Britton at 1931 North Wheeler Avenue in Fayetteville.
 In light of everything that all of us have learned about this land and the issues surrounding it, including flooding, floodplains, water quality, phosphorus and its direct relationship to microcystin toxin and all the ways that these things affect nearby Lake Fayetteville, I think we need to take a step back from this development.
 My hunch is that this land will eventually be developed, but I believe that this PZD is too much development for this particular ecosystem. Let's ask the developer to find a way to develop it with less of an impermeable surface footprint. None of us, no one disputes the fact that there are several wetlands that would be covered up if this goes forward. The only question is whether or not they are jurisdictional by the US Army Corps of Engineers.
 But no matter what their legal status turns out to be, they are wetlands, and we know that wetlands are the best protection for lakes and rivers. We can also save more of the prairie mounds as wet prairies are another protection for our waterways. Why not do this? Why move forward with a plan that carries so much risk?
 We want a clean, swimmable, urban lake. We will have to make some sacrifices to make that happen. But can you imagine what a clean Lake Fayetteville would do for our city? It would make this special city and even more wonderful place to live. This doesn't have to pass tonight. We have to start actively living in an ecologically constrained environment.
 But those constraints should come from our own decisions to have a quality environment rather than from some possibly more impaired lake in the future. Thanks all of you for your careful consideration. Thank you. Carrie and Tony Griggs. Go ahead. Hi, this is Carrie Griggs at 3349 East Zion Road. I just have two quick questions really, issues.
 I'd like to know the state of the improvements of the runoff ponds at Stonebridge and Copper Creek. I think this needs to be understood and the plan decided and acted on before we can really move forward with this PZD. As the information and the improvements that Allie showed us,
 really don't do us any good if we're already flooding from the existing ponds that are there. These new ones are not going to do anything but make it worse, no matter how good they are, if you don't fix the problem first. The other thing I'd like to bring up is the one-lane bridge that nobody really wants to take responsibility for. Approximately 20 minutes ago, I stepped outside to check my mail
 And two trucks almost had a head-on collision. The difference between the two bumpers was approximately three inches. I really don't know how they got stopped.
 And I was not very far from the trucks myself. So, you know, I just need to understand how much worse are you gonna allow this to get before something is forced? How do we force the issue to ensure that that bridge is safe and passable for cars, pedestrians, and bicycles? Because in its current state, it is not safe for anyone.
 And that's all that I have. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Nicholas Anthony. Go ahead.
 Well thank you for the opportunity to visit. My name is Nick Anthony at 3301 East Scion Road and I'm in the county and I just want to say that I'm a little bit disappointed at what I saw with the PZD. I thought that maybe something novel would come back but it was the same thing that I think a lot of the committee members were a bit anxious of from the last meeting and so I just look at that as you know
 You know, just not being willing to make modifications to address the concerns in the area. But I want to just go back to a few things I mentioned last time. Over the past few months, we've provided you with a lot of scientific evidence that building a high density development on the southern portion of the Burge Farm would have a detrimental impact on residents along Hilton Creek and Lake Fayetteville.
 For example, if you've reviewed the information you would have seen that the area considered for development is made up of weathered Fayetteville shale and has a tremendous shrink swell potential. And you would have learned that the soil works as a sponge and the
 Why do I bring this up? Well from June to October we rarely have any water runoff from the birch farm. However, once saturated water will continue to leach out of the soil. Water in Lake Hilton Creek during the summer really reflects the runoff from Copper Creek and Stonewood developments and is often dried by summer end.
 The addition of Chandler Crossing will lead to frequent water flow to Lake Fayetteville because every rain event over the development is going to be equivalent to flushing 40 acres of contaminants into the lake.
 Detention ponds or not, the summer rains from this site will go to Lake Fayetteville. In fact, based on average summer rainfall totals for Fayetteville, expect an additional 20 million gallons of water from this high-density development to enter Lake Fayetteville. All that rainwater would have been handled by absorption, plant growth, and evaporation in the current mounds and swales region of the Birch Farm.
 If you've read my letters you would know that the development region meets the criteria for wetlands. I knew this 15 years ago because Robert Burge told me personally that this area was wetlands. The recent wetland survey agrees and if you asked if you have reviewed the FEMA flood map and hopefully you did you would have seen that a lot of the central portion of the proposed development is in floodplain. The architect wants to move the wetlands
 to another area on the farm because the current location interferes with the proposed development. I'm not sure how that works, but if moving the wetlands is part of the proposal, I would suggest catching the crayfish frogs that live in the hills and swale region before running the bulldozers across them. I've confirmed that the crawfish frog is on the hills and swale region of the Birch Farm and they're often found in prairie or overgrown grasslands.
 Male frogs seek out short-term water sources like what is found in the swales and call the females in. The short-term water sources are ideal because they don't have any fish, so the eggs are safe that the female frog lays. I mention this because this particular frog species is in the near threatened category as categorized by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature's Red List of Threatened Species.
 I haven't mentioned this in previous meetings because I couldn't confirm their existence. They don't start their courtship until late February to mid-March, and I believe that the extreme cold in February delayed their emergence. They're actively courting right now and can be found on site.
 For more information about this particular frog, you can refer to the 2020 dissertation written by University of Arkansas PhD student Chelsea Shannon Cross on the conservation and population ecology of the imperiled crawfish frog in human altered landscapes.
 I only mentioned this frog because of the unanimous support for the Lake Fayetteville resolution. It seemed that everyone on the city council were environmentalists at that time, and I just challenge you to consider this frog as an important part of it as well.
 Lake Fayetteville is on the 2018 list of impaired water bodies as we know. In the last two summers it's been branded as basically having high concentrations of toxic algae. We know this is the dangers associated with this. We know it's associated with phosphorus runoff. We know we have a flooding problem on Hilton Creek.
 And we also know that there's going to be heating of water due to a high intensity development, almost to five degrees higher than what you would normally see on typical runoff, leading to more algae effects. These facts directly challenge this Lake Fayetteville resolution that was designed to protect the lake.
 And I want to come back with just a few seconds and just say, I really challenge you to consider what you've heard already once, is that you look at the detention ponds and the Copper Creek and Stonewood developments before committing to this new development. I think this commitment to fix this problem would calm the fears of many of the residents. Who else would like to address this? Colleen Gaston. Go ahead. Thank you, Mayor and members of the City Council.
 I was hopeful that when the Chandler Crossing developer requested that this matter be tabled two meetings ago, that it was because the developer was going to revise the PCD plan to preserve the unique and environmentally important ecological features on the site, such as the six acres of wetlands and the prairie mounds and potholes that Ms. Britton has eloquently discussed.
 and that the developer was also going to incorporate some design features to reduce the adverse impact that this development with its large amount of impervious surface will create for Hilton Creek and Lake Fayetteville.
 Despite the time delay, however, the developer has not come forward with any changes to the proposal and has not produced the additional information that I understood the City Council wanted to see. Includes the flood study and the Corps of Engineers permit decision on the wetlands and the decision on the intermittent and ephemeral streams on the property.
 Right now the City Council has the authority to require additional information prior to deciding on the PZD ordinance and given the unique location of this site in relation to Lake Fayetteville and the Botanical Garden combined with the wetland present and the remnant prairie I believe it's entirely appropriate and more so warranted that the City Council not make a decision on this PZD
 until it has a more complete set of facts in a specific development plan that the council is satisfied will not further impair Lake Fayetteville. So either get more information or deny the plan as presented.
 I've read responses from some members of the City Council to members of the public that state, and I'm quoting, if you care about environment, you build density, close quote, and that low density subdivisions are super bad for the environment. And this is not, definitely not true in a large number of cases and certainly not true in every case.
 It's only the case where the development, one, preserves large continuous areas of absorbent open space, two, preserves critical ecological areas such as wetlands, floodplains, and riparian corridors, and three, minimizes overall land disturbance and impervious surface associated with development. The proposal as it stands now provides for none of these, absolutely none of these things. Right now the city council is in the driver's seat
 It can express its preference for the utilization of low impact design principles and for preservation of the wetlands and prairie mounds. Were the council to approve the PZD though, and the city attorney can correct me if I'm wrong, legal entitlement is created that restricts the ability of the city council to subsequently limit or control the specifics of the development
 I was pleased that the City Council at the last meeting unanimously passed the resolution to support improvements to Lake Fayetteville's water quality and to create a healthy lake ecosystem. Section 5 of that resolution requests that the Mayor direct all relevant departments to give special consideration to projects that may potentially impact the water quality of Lake Fayetteville
 I respectfully request that the council take this resolution and directive to heart
 and that it either reject the proposed PZD that is before it or that it table the matter until the developer revises its plans with more specifics and with measures that will appropriately address the wetlands and prairie issues.
 features and the runoff to Hilton Creek and the impact of that runoff on the stream channel erosion and all the other things that you have heard about over these last several meetings. So thank you again, Council, for your consideration. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Councilman Smith. Go ahead. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Drive. Two weeks ago, the council was so concerned about making it harder to develop in Fayetteville.
 They turned down some fairly modest regulations that wouldn't have actually taken away anybody's right to develop. And here we have a developer that's, I think by my count, been left on the second reading for five meetings. The council's already annexed their land into the city limits, and there's no going back on that. But here they sit, waiting to find out if they've risked hundreds of thousands of dollars and months of process just to lose it all.
 This is not a particularly fantastic way to say, welcome to Fayetteville, we're open for business. I'm here tonight to speak on behalf of the 400 or so families that don't yet know that they support this development because their house doesn't exist yet. This is going to be a pretty special place, it looks like, from their plans.
 It takes into account most of what our long-range planning has asked for developers to do, and that's more than we can say for a lot of the developers that we hope will come do business here.
 It is not this developer's responsibility to change our water and runoff regulations. If you don't trust those regulations to protect Lake Fayetteville and other areas in town, change those regulations. That's for you all to do. And I would encourage you to do it if you don't trust that those are strong enough. But if...
 holding developers to the current rules and not upping the ante on them is something that you care about then I think that All you have to do is decide if they are going to be complying with the existing rules, and I think they've made it pretty clear Through through weeks of presentations and study that they have taken that into account and then some so I hope you will support this PZD And and get some more housing for our community. Thank you
 Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, let's bring it back to the council for discussion. I'm sorry, it's an ordinance. It's on the third and final reading. And yes, go ahead. Yeah, I've got kind of a long list here of stuff. It's probably going to be a ramble. I apologize, but I've written down.
 quite a bit of things. Yes we did approve the resolution protecting Lake Fayetteville. We absolutely have to look at the runoff that's coming from the neighborhood to the north. Whether we approve this or not that has to be handled. Some of the flooding that's happening in this area has to be handled whether we approve this or not. We can't
 Either we need to say that we've condemned this land, it's going to flood, or we need to try to work on it. Now, I believe that...
 Looking at this PZD, I was like, well, if we don't approve this PZD, then they'll probably come back with something that's basically RSF4, which they already have gone to planning commission with something that's basically RSF4. And planning commission turned that down. The reason it was turned down was several. One, it's kind of low density. Two, it had houses on the north end, and we wanted to protect the stream side. And I believe that this PZD does actually work.
 do a decent job of that. It gives us access to put a park or some nature preserve on the north side and actually limit some of that runoff. Now, I know we talked about, do we want land that is in a flood zone? Well, there's actually a lot of cities around the world that have started intentionally designing their parks to flood. So they're places that
 all but like four or five days of the year, they're a park. And then when you have a massive flood, they can take some of that instead of flooding houses. I would much rather have a park that occasionally floods than a bunch of houses that occasionally flood. So I'm, I'm perfectly fine taking on a land that does flood. This is designated as a node. I think we should increase density. This is only six units per acre. So it's not really high density. But again,
 In America, we have the highest per capita pollution rate. Now, other countries pollute more, but that's because they have so many more people, but we pollute more per person than any other country in the world. And the reason is we have to drive so far to get places. This location allows people to drive to Springdale and Fayetteville and work, and I think it will loosen some of the load for travel.
 I know some people talked about affordability. I decided to look last week at what the average price or the median price of a house in Ward 3 on the MLS. It was $485,000. That was the median price in Ward 3. So I know some people are like, I don't want this because it's only going to be, you know, they're going to be $300,000, $400,000 houses. Well, that's actually less than the median right now.
 So we need to add more houses. We do need to handle some of this runoff and that takes money. And by building these houses and commercial in the PZD, we will increase property taxes so that we will have the money to start taking care of some of those issues. All right.
 Okay, I think that was all my points. I believe I was the one that actually asked to hold it last time. And I, I said that I wanted specifics from people that were going to vote no, what the issues were. I wasn't asking the developer to go and make radical changes. I wanted specifics that they could change in this PZD. And so far, I haven't heard any other than don't do it.
 I haven't seen really specifics. Now, I do know some people are concerned about where is the detention pond going to be. Those are in later steps of development. And I actually believe that they should be able to change that because that would be really ridiculous to say, this detention pond has to be here. And then when we start doing a little more investigation, it makes more sense to move it somewhere else. So I would want that to be open.
 I'm glad the developer is going through the PCD. This cost a lot of money, a lot of money, hundreds of thousands of dollars because you're opening up the engine.
 instead of saying I want this just kind of generic car, you actually open it up and you really get to start looking at those specifics. I hope more developers go through that process. This is a lot better product than what we saw when we just wanted RSF4 for the entire thing. So I plan on supporting it. Thank you. Okay. What other comments do we have? Council? This is coordinates, we're on the third reading, so.
 I have some comments, Mayor. Okay. As I stated last time, I think this is a very, very bad place to put this development in.
 that's high it is high density. There's a huge amount of impervious surface and that is only going to make things much much much worse for Lake Fayetteville. As many of the citizens have discussed we've got an existing water problem, water issue already. Some of it may have been caused by the Copper Creek development and the other one but we have and the other development up there but we have not addressed
 uh the the the the issue of the retention ponds or retrofitted them we really need to do that we don't need to wait until we have a storm utility fee uh that provides eight million dollars annually i think we need to we need to address that right now so that we can start the process of cleaning up lake fable um
 I am not confident that our drainage manual, and believe me, I have lots of ideas on how to improve that and make it more restrictive. And those will be coming forward, I don't know, soon. So I am not confident that we will not do damage. I'm not confident of our existing requirements right now.
 This development will increase runoff and it will be different kind of runoff. There'll be additional phosphorus that will be discharged because of the disruption of the soil and the surface during the building construction process. We already have a phosphorus issue. This will just make it worse.
 And then once it's built, if it's approved and built, all that impervious surface will have leakages from cars, you know, gas, all kinds of other chemical products that will not be filtered out. Because we will have actually built over almost all of the prairie space that's right there. So there's a tiny little bit that this PZD will preserve.
 but really not very much. It's just a tiny, tiny, tiny slice. This is a sensitive area. We have wetlands. We may have this near-threatened crayfish frog. We have prairie mounds, remnant prairie mounds. There's not very many of those left.
 And so I will not be supporting this. I think this is actually a terrible place. One of the worst places I can think of right now in the city to add a housing complex to. The amount of impervious material is huge.
 And I was hopeful that the developer would come back with something that was scaled down and would retain much more of the prairie mounds and give due consideration to those wetlands.
 In my opinion, it doesn't matter if there's jurisdictional under the Corps of Engineers or not. They're wetlands, period. So whether they're federally recognized wetlands really doesn't make any difference. They're biological, ecological wetlands, and that's how they operate. And covering them over is just going to make the water problem so much worse.
 And this is why I put the Lake Ford resolution before you two weeks ago, because I really think we need to take
 do consideration about that lake. That lake is a gem, a jewel. And if we clean it up, everybody's going to want to be there. I mean, it's really going to be used much, much more than it is right now. But adding more phosphorus to it, creating and continuing to create situations
 or you're going to have these toxic algal blooms is devastating to the city. That is a very, very poor sign, and it is designated as impaired. So I would ask my council members to vote against this because of all these reasons. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Mayor, I was having my final comment. I was having a lot of trouble myself trying to collect my thoughts, but I wanted to thank Council Member Scrogg and I thought his comments were very diligent and well stated and it helped me make up my mind. Thank you. My biggest concern also is Lake Fayetteville and the runoffs there.
 We are considering a stormwater utility, and we've talked a lot about the problems that we have with the topography and the geology, and the fact that we are at the headwaters of two very important rivers, the White River and the Illinois River. But in this case, it's going right, all the runoff is going into an impaired lake, a lake that has toxic algae blooms.
 A lake that is the backup water supply for the city of Fayetteville. I think that I don't have enough information. And so you wanted some specifics. The specific is until I can see that this is not going to add to the impairment of Lake Fayetteville and it's not going to increase the flooding in the area, I can't support it.
 Again, when you're looking at the prairie land, as Council Member Turk said, we're basically destroying all of it, but a very small piece. And that is real important in managing the runoff of this property. The concern is real. It's, I think that we can develop, or I think someone can develop in that area, but they have to present something that shows...
 It's not going to impair the runoff and the runoff is not going to impair the lake in some way. And I don't know how that is. I don't know.
 So I'm not going to support it. And the basic thing is managing the runoff of that property. And I don't think that it's managed under the PZD that we have, or if it is, it hasn't been explained to the, to the satisfaction that I can see that it is managed. Okay. What are the final comments do we have? I have, I have a question, you know, about the,
 You know, and I guess this is for staff, you know, when we get to the point where if this is approved and we, when do we get to the point where we really start delving down into runoff? Is that at the land use stage or is it on down the line and what do we have...
 Certainly, I can feel that question. If the PCD were approved, the next stage would be to either submit it as a large-scale development or a plat, depending if they're moving forward with the commercial side near Crossover or the residential side further from Crossover.
 Either one of them requires demonstrating the ability to meet the requirements in the drainage manual. It gets into very specific drawings. There's actually a drainage report that's filed with the project to show the feasibility of meeting drainage standards. So that's the typical place where that level of detail is provided because that's when specifications about the street grid and lot layouts and building footprints start to come forward.
 Other than that, there is a little bit higher degree of detail beyond that when a grading permit is requested. That's when it actually gets into the exact specifics of what is going into the ground and that's the finest level of detail for any drainage requirements. But development submittal, which would be the next step, is definitely where it comes up. Jonathan, doesn't that have more to do with managing the volume and the velocity rather than the nutrient load?
 Those both water quality and water detention are elements of our stormwater, our drainage criteria manual. I believe Chris Brown's on if you'd like to comment more on that. But there certainly is a piece of the drainage criteria manual that speaks specifically to water quality. Okay.
 yeah maybe to be a little more specific water quality requirements are to remove 80 percent of the total suspended solids that are that are found in the uh from the increased impervious area so anytime you increase the uh the impervious area of uh your your property as development always does uh you have to you have to demonstrate calculations that
 you're reducing those nutrient loadings by 80%. Typically, the way that most larger developments like this operate is
 They keep the first inch of rainfall on the site and do not allow that to run off by use of bioswales, enhanced detention ponds, that sort of thing. So there is certainly a water quality requirement and it is to remove those additional pollutants that come from development.
 Thank you, Chris. Well, this is a really tough decision in this area because I agree that we already have runoff problems and stormwater problems in the area that need to be addressed as well.
 However, you know, when I look at what could possibly be built here and know that we've, you know, when we think about this big piece of land and what we want, how we want to shape this part of our community, I'm thinking that
 you know, the PZD, while it's in, you know, it's never going to be exactly perfect. I think it is our best option. And we are always asking for PZDs. And I think this is, I think this is the best possibility here to have some, um, have at least a little bit better control over development rather than just saying no to every development. Um,
 But I do have issues with the runoff and the potential for harming the lake. But, you know, the lake has been...
 You know, the lake is impaired now, and I don't know that, yeah, I'm not quite sold that this is going to make it just completely dead. I think it's going to, I think there's a potential there to have the ponds and the runoff can be maintained in a better fashion. But I do agree that we need to address the flooding issues in the other part of that area.
 Can I ask Chris to speak a little bit more to the flooding issues in that part of the area, especially with reference to the Copper Creek discussion that's been brought up several times and those ponds. Chris, if you could.
 Sure. Yeah, I think that's I've heard that several times that those detention ponds need to be fixed. And and I think by we need to define what fixed means. First of all, the those detention ponds function to meet our previous standard, which was to mitigate the.
 the flows from two-year storms and higher. So they really only begin to function when we have much larger storm events, and that keeps the peak flow at the pre-development levels. So the reason that it doesn't look like those are working well is because they're not designed to really do anything up until we get some larger events, right?
 The other thing about, you know, I want to caution everyone to think that just fixing those and creating more detention on those ponds would solve the flooding problem is really a fallacy. The fact is that those areas are really about 6% of the watershed overall. So it's a very large watershed that comes through here.
 And that was even if you totally stop the flow, you really totally stop the flow from those subdivisions. You really would only be reducing the flow of water in these very large vents by a very small amount. So it's a much larger problem than just those detention ponds and just those subdivisions to the north.
 So, I'm sorry, go ahead. I'm sorry, go ahead, go ahead. Sorry, go ahead. So, so if we're looking at, you know, Chris, where does, where does this water come from that's that's running through here? I mean, if it
 you know, we're, if we're looking at the big, the greater picture, instead of just this, this one little subdivision, you know, we're looking outside of that, that range, where is, when we're having runoff, where is it coming from exactly? And Jonathan, I'm not sure if you have a slide, possibly we can show the watershed. It's a, it's again, it's about 670 acres at where the, where the stream crosses Zion Road. So it's essentially, you know, north,
 south and east of this proposed development. We should have a picture of that watershed. Sorry, can we just one moment, just had it. There, so there we go. Yeah, so the area shaded in blue is the overall watershed and it goes, I guess, south to Gully Road, east to about Butterfield Coach Road, maybe a little bit further east than that as you go south.
 so this this shows you the the relative size of the overall watershed versus the the uh watershed or the the size of the property in question here you can also see the developments to the north um how much of that is included in the watershed much of the uh
 I guess that's is that stonewood whatever the subdivision is to the north much of that actually flows into Hilton Creek to the west of Zion Road so it really doesn't impact the flooding at Zion Road. I have a very amateurish drawing of that if that would help that description something I doodled up
 And the red lines are the boundary of the property being considered for the PZD. The white arrows indicate where stormwater is coming to Hilton Creek with the, I believe, again, I believe it's Stonewood enters it downstream and Copper Creek enters it upstream. Okay. Okay.
 So for those subdivisions, where would the, I mean, can you kind of just use your cursor and show on the existing subdivisions where the detention ponds that were, you know, if it's come, is it coming in before the detention pond or not?
 I'm not sure I understand that question, Chris, if you do, please answer. But the hashed area that's blue and orange, that's indicate where the ponds are located. There's one slightly off screen. That was the one that those who went on the tour a month or so ago probably saw that walking back to David Lashley Park. Yes, I was. That's why I was wondering. I see the one up in the middle. I didn't catch the one over on the edge there. I was like, that's OK. All right.
 So this is a very large area then that is not a lot of it is outside in the county. If it goes all the way over to Gully Road and Guy Terry almost, it's quite a large area. Okay, thank you.
 So Chris, while you're on the call, I wanted to follow up on what you just mentioned, that 80% of the sediment load would be removed under our drainage guidelines. But that means that 20% of hydrocarbons, fuel, all kinds of other sorts of runoff from this development would essentially be allowed to flow in or flow off of the PCD. Is that accurate? Yeah.
 Well, by default, you know, some of the other pollutants will be captured in whatever system is designed. But yes, there will be some pollutants that generated in this area that are currently not being generated. So absolutely, urban runoff is different than undeveloped property.
 And then by paving over the wetlands, we've lost any filtration that was in the area that would go toward Lake Fayetteville. So we're kind of doing a double disservice here because, I mean, that's exactly why wetlands are there, is to filter that sort. And the prairie is there to filter all kinds of different things.
 pollutants that would run in there. So thank you. I just feel like our standards are not high enough. We should be able to capture 100% and instead of actually contributing to more degradation of an already impaired lake.
 I'll make a comment, a few comments. I do want to let the county residents that I appreciate their involvement in all of this and being able to speak out and share their enormous amounts of issues with the water and then filling.
 really um put aside by the county to try to get their roads and repair uh repaired um and so i think with that you know i'm glad that we did annex the land so far because i feel like we're going to hold hold that to a higher standard you know now we're at the point of the development and so
 So while I do want to support increasing our housing stock, I want to do it with a very responsible approach.
 approach. And so I do trust that we're going to be going through the various steps, as Jonathan has mentioned. Can those be more stringent? I believe they can. And so if we have time to try to address some of those things, I would definitely like to do that. But I definitely feel better that we're bringing this into Fayetteville, and I believe we can hold it to a higher standard
 We absolutely need a lot of watershed education and I could see something that I've been wanting to see for a very long time in Fayetteville as a water, a water festival and to help people understand how water flows in their neighborhoods and in their, you know, where they live and that we have a responsibility to the land and to where we live.
 um, how we affect our watersheds. And so I just think this could be a really cool neighborhood that could kick it off to help educate them that in, in order to come in and become part of Fayetteville, that that means also taking care and responsibility for the property that they, that they have now decided to come and live on. So I think it comes with education. Um, I believe we could do that. Um,
 So I'm looking for continual oversights from the planning department. And I appreciate the PZD. I definitely don't think it's done. I think it's difficult for them to make changes to the PZD until it's gone through the processes. So I just I'm hopeful to see the changes as it as we proceed through the process. Okay.
 Um, so with that, I definitely will support this development. I think that this, um, you know, they've shown a lot of promise to work with, with the watershed education, water protection, and, um, and hopefully also with the neighbors so that we can help, you know, protect their property as much as possible. Thank you.
 Thank you. Who else? Final comments. Jonathan, as far as changing the PZD, I thought that was the whole idea of a PZD that we would not change it. Is the question how one changes a PZD? Yeah. If we approve the PZD as it is now, we're not going to be able to request changes,
 to meet higher standards of water management, right? That's correct. Any changes made to a PZD after it's been approved and recorded as ordinance comes through as an amendment to that PZD, you all I think saw one a couple months ago, and it's treated effectively as a zoning action in itself. Does that answer your question? I'm sorry.
 Well, I want to better understand really what it is. We, I understand when we brought the other one through, I recall that I know, and it's happened a couple of times, but very seldom. And I, I, I guess if you have a PZD and you present it and it's proof, it's not expected to have a lot of changes. And the engineering is what I'm most concerned about. We're engineering the,
 a way to manage the water rather than let it naturally flow and managing the flow. But to me engineering is very different. I mean if we approve the PZD the engineering is going to have to be outside the PZD to manage this runoff? Typically yes unless with a typical PZD the only thing being changed
 Is the zoning allowance on the property, unless the applicant wants to offer a heightened requirement. Currently, that's not on the table. And I think that's what some on the council and many residents have expressed a preference to see is enshrining some higher degree of standard or providing some additional information prior to.
 adopting the PCD as an ordinance? Well, I think there's a misunderstanding of when they come for their permit for grading, for example, that we would have a lot of opportunity to change and the grading permit is to control the runoff during the construction, right? So it's not like a long-term solution.
 I'm sorry again if I'm not following your question. When you get a directing permit, you look at moving the land, the soil, and the runoff from that while you're constructing your project. But what is the responsibility for the engineered change in the long run? What ultimately comes through...
 needs to meet at a bare minimum the city's minimum standards. They need to demonstrate the ability to observe that at the development submittal stage. At a grading permit stage, they need to show construction drawings down to the inch of where the stormwater is going to be accommodated.
 Typically, the council does not see a project once a rezoning is approved. The only way the council would see this project again is if the PZD were to be amended. And John, if I could maybe add to that as well. Did I answer that, Mark?
 Okay, well, so what you're seeing here at the PZD level is a location for detention ponds. Those ponds have not been sized. The outfall structures haven't been designed. The pipe systems getting to the ponds have not been designed. None of that has been done. The next stage during the planning process, we will review those designs and verify if
 that the pond sizes and outfall structures do meet the requirements. And then as they go into the detailed design, the storm drainage pipe sizing is taken care of, the inlets necessary on the street, all of those additional level of detail are done as we go through the process. But it is
 potentially a situation that, you know, if they haven't allocated enough area for detention ponds and there's more size needed, you know, that could be something that could impact the site enough that it would need to come back. But typically it's just, you know, part of the design process to really get that detailed design and figure out exactly how to meet all of our requirements. Thanks. Thanks.
 Okay, what other comments do we have? We're on the final reading. Mr. Mayor? Yes. A moment ago, way back there, actually, you were going to say something, and I actually cut you off. Do you remember what you were going to ask? No, actually, I think I cut you off, and I apologize for that. I got real interested when we started talking about, you know, what we're going to do in the future. But my questions have certainly been answered since actually you asked them.
 The question I was going to ask so. Okay. Just wanted to just wanted to check there. I just suddenly there was something that kind of sparked my interest there so I got a little carried away I apologize. What other final comments do we have in the council? Okay no more final comments. Karen would you please call the roll. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Turk. No. Hertzberg.
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? No. Okay, thank you all. All right, the mayor needs a short break. All right, okay, we're ready to get started again. Okay, number five.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition 20-027 located at 1673 and 1675 north florine street for approximately 0.30 acres from r.a residential agricultural to r.i 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre this was left on the second reading two weeks ago i will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading
 So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Banks. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 and in order to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition rzn 20-027 located at 1673 and 1675 north florine street for approximately three tenths of an acre from r.a residential agricultural to ri12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre okay jonathan you have anything new
 thank you mayor no i do not i know there was a tour that several council members were able to join planning staff on yesterday i apologize for not being there they let me know that there was a fairly sizable uh contingent of neighbors who had a lot of questions and concerns uh it's my understanding too that there may have been a handout from one of the neighbors to some of the other neighbors describing some things that could be done to the property under the new zoning district uh that
 Do not appear to be accurate based on the size of the property. So I just wanted to offer that clarification. It looks like the handout that went around to many of the neighbors said that they could build up to 12 units on the property.
 That's not true. It's a 0.3 acre piece of land and under the RI-12 zoning district, 12 units per acre, they'd be limited to three units overall. So basically they could add one unit to the property. So I just wanted to add that little bit of clarification. And if any of the other neighbors concerns or questions for staff went unanswered yesterday, please let me know. I'd be happy to help.
 and I have the applicant here as well. Adriana Hermes was in the meeting earlier and I believe she is still here if the council has any questions. Thank you. Yes, the applicant, if they would like to address the city council, they have 10 minutes. I believe the applicant is here for questions. Okay, just clarifying it. All right, what questions do we have from the city council for the staff or the applicant?
 I have a question Jonathan about the existing zoning in this street of this part of the street is RA is that correct? That is correct. So it's not really zoned appropriately to begin with it's kind of odd zoning out there. There is a really large really big walnut tree in the backyard and
 you know would the with the zoning they're requesting would it apply to that tree? Would it have to would we have to provide some protection for that tree or would they still be able to like I guess now they could just cut it down if they wanted to? Yeah that is true a property owner can remove any trees on their property.
 One thing worth noting or a couple of things worth noting, perhaps as we were trying to think through the scenarios for developing the property is lacking a survey. We estimated the frontage along the floor of the property to be about 92 feet.
 The RI-12 zoning district requires 50 feet per lot. So what that means from a staff perspective, thinking about it, is if they wanted to add additional housing to the property, their options would be to basically remove the,
 the existing duplex and build a new duplex, or they can add a third unit under the proposed zoning density, but that would subject them to the city's tree preservation standards. There would be the only way to get around those through that, I think some people call it the single-family, two-family loophole would basically be if they tore down the duplex they have today and rebuilt another duplex. That would be the scenario under which they would not have to pay any consideration for that tree or as you noted, they could just remove it today.
 Which I hope they don't. But so you're saying this zoning, this new zoning would provide some protection there. If they were to develop that lot with additional units, yes. Yeah. Okay. All right. Thank you. Jonathan, I have a question. Could they not build an ADU right now under the current RA zoning policy?
 No they could not. The ADU ordinance only applies to detached single-family dwellings as it's currently written. So if they wanted to go that route they would again come back to that scenario where they'd have to remove the duplex, build a single-family home, and then build an ADU in association with that. Okay thank you for clearing that up. Thanks for the question.
 Um, is there any plans for widening of that road? Now I do know the flyer that was sent out encouraged people to intentionally clog that road up. And they kind of successfully did that. But it is more narrow than some of the other streets. And you know, what plans are there? I don't think a single family adding a single family home being added there
 would compound that. But I would like to know what plans we have for that.
 There are currently not any plans for Florine. The closest city project right now is to create a connection between Steamboat Drive from Weddington, which runs just near Harps, to Dorothy Jean Street, which may have been the way you took to get to Florine. A connection is being made between those, but there are no other city projects anticipated on Florine. And to your point, Councilmember Scroggen, I think if they were to add one unit to the street,
 It's likely that either they may have to get a variance from our development codes, which require a bare minimum street width for safe access to a property, or alternatively, I think it would be
 David Earl, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder,
 under what is being proposed zoning wise and the potential development wise I don't see an opportunity for the city to be able to require improvements or significant improvements to Florian. Has the fire marshal made any comment? I mean can they do they feel comfortable getting down there as is?
 They don't typically evaluate street widths with rezonings. That comes a little bit further down the line. I do know that they do pay special attention to existing streets or give special consideration for existing streets. I don't know if the fire marshals in the council chambers would like to comment further, but if it was a new street, the typical minimum requirement would be 20 feet wide, and that would be with no on-street parking requirements.
 So it is possible that if there was additional development on the street, one avenue to protect the current residents from concerns about over parking would be signage could be installed like you see in other parts of the town that limit parking to either one side of the street or in some cases limit it altogether for the whole length of the street either side. Do you want to add anything to that? I would just agree with Jonathan. I mean, he nailed it. Okay. Okay, thank you.
 Okay, what other questions do we have from the council? I have a question for the fire chief if he could come back up there to the podium. So Chief Hardin currently on Florine, I mean it's an extremely narrow street. And we did see some cars parked on park there yesterday, but I was also told by one of the neighbors that that was kind of typical.
 that there were that many cars parked on the side of the street. Do you have concerns right now actually being able to properly provide fire protection with this narrow of a street? And have you had any issues over in Florine in the past? No.
 We have not had any issues that I'm aware of. We have not been out there, or I personally have not been out there and went through it. The fire marshals, they do. As Jonathan said, it will be looked at more, you know, as after the rezoning had passed and they start working on planning, they'll be looking at the streets and giving information such as that.
 Okay, thank you. In some ways, it would be nice to be able to have you all address that up front, even though this is not a huge potential rezoning. It's not as large as some others that we've seen, but the streets were extremely narrow yesterday. So anyway, it's always nice to have a safety component when you're trying to make a decision such as this.
 We would be happy to go out there and measure them. And if it's something that you're wanting to wait on, I mean, we'd be happy to go out there and measure it and give you our opinion on it. Well, I would certainly answer one of my questions if we were able to do that. Again, because, you know, it was very narrow. There were lots of cars on the street. And if that really is a typical situation, then I would just think that that would be cause for concern from the fire department.
 Yeah, I also would be perfectly fine holding this tonight to get that extra information. I can tell you from the stance of the fire department, once they start, I mean, there's places all over the city where we would like to see more room than what we have.
 uh where we have the ability to do something about is whenever they start the the new developments that's whenever we can get in there and say no you can't do that we don't have enough room we need more parking and hopefully can alleviate alleviate some of those situations so we can look into it more okay anything else from the council for questions mayor i believe the applicant has now raised her hand okay sure please
 Oh, I'm sorry, I missed Fred. So it's public comment, I'm sorry. Go ahead. Chelsea Hermes.
 Hi there. Good evening. I just wanted to make a comment. My name is Chelsea Couch Hermes, and I'm the owner of 203 A and B North Florian Street and also 1683 and 1685 North Florian Street, which is... Ma'am, I don't mean to interrupt you. Are you the...
 No, I'm not. I'm not. Well, I haven't opened it up for public comment yet. Oh, okay. Sorry. Yeah, I just, I was in line for public comment. I think they just called on me because they thought I was her, but that's fine. Okay. We'll get right to you. Let me, is there any more questions from the council?
 okay we will take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak and you have a five five minutes uh duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public and Council member
 Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. So, ma'am, we will go back to you, and we'll give you some extra time. So Chelsea, go ahead.
 Hi there. Yes, sorry again for the confusion. As I was saying, my name is Chelsea Hermes, and I own 203 A and B, North Florian Street, and also 1683 and 1685 North Florian Street, which is adjacent to Adriana's. And she is, in full disclosure, my sister-in-law. And so I wanted to kind of tell a little story about the block.
 In the midst of the Great Recession, we took a huge leap of faith. And I convinced my husband that we needed to buy this boarded up duplex on a boarded up block.
 And all our friends and family thought we were crazy. They said the neighborhood was too dangerous. There was no amount of curb appeal that could change that. I grew up in Fayetteville. I know it like the back of my hand. So I understood all their concerns, but set out to prove them wrong. Right.
 And we went above and beyond to make that little duplex charming with wood shutters and trellises and native landscape. And it turned out cute as a button. And I would have bought the entire block if I could have, but due to the condition of the units and the condition of the economy at the time,
 they didn't qualify for traditional funding. So I did the next best thing. And all the friends and family that said we were crazy, I made them buy duplexes on the block.
 So my mom owns one. My sister-in-law, who has filed for the rezoning, owns one. My former stepmother owns one. So we have friends. And we did it. We totally transformed the block. It's charming. It's safe. And it's affordable. Right.
 And, um, my family personally lived on the block for four years. There's an annual block party. There's a neighborhood effort to keep the stream clean. Um, that's nearby. And I'm, I saw the flyer, I received the flyer and it's, um, a little misleading. I think on what Adriana's
 and totally different from what Adriana will be able to do or intends to do, but I do approve the re- I am in support of the rezoning because I believe wholeheartedly there is room for more affordable housing units on this block and that it can be done in a way that will maintain the neighborhood charm and can be done without harming the nature and the integrity of the area. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address?
 okay nobody else i'll bring it back to the council now council i want you i i i know you all were saying you were going to hold it on the second reading but we made a motion in second to go to the third and final reading and sitting on the second reading if i remember correctly uh kerry could you confirm that one way or the other
 Mayor Jordan on the record I have that council member Scroggen moved to go to the third and final rating and council member Gutierrez seconded and that passed. Okay now y'all can leave it right here but you need to table it for two weeks. I just want to be sure we're clear on that. Mayor? Yes. I would suggest that we call the vote. We in my opinion haven't heard a compelling reason to hold this up.
 We have narrow streets all over the city and we're not going to evacuate any of the houses that are on them. Narrow streets are safe streets because they're slow streets. Fast streets are dangerous streets. If there was an obvious concern with the fire department, we would have already heard it. And in any case, it will be reviewed by the fire department at the time of the development review. But I think the most salient fact
 to me that justifies voting on this tonight, aside from the general length of our meetings and our agendas is that our city staff, our planning director has advised us quite clearly that this is not really allow a whole lot more than is already there. It's I think the very definition of a marginal change. I hope we call the vote.
 So well, it is on the third and final reading. So somebody's going to have to make a motion to table or we're going to vote it either up or down. I move we table. Second. Okay. Well, now we have a motion to table. Let's vote on that first. Carriage, please call the roll. Petty. No. Scroggins. Yes. Banks. No. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. No.
 Yes. Gutierrez? No. Jones? No. Kenyon? Yes. What's the vote? I wasn't sure what it was. That's four to four. Okay. Mayor, you can vote if you choose to. I'm not going to. All right. Then the motion to table has failed, and we're still on the third and final reading. All right. Here we go. Let's make some final comments, and away we go. I have some comments. Okay.
 The thing that was impressive about our tour was the neighborhood itself. And when we go into these neighborhoods and there is a community that gathers together and show a real love for each other. I mean, this was a great gathering of neighbors and they talked about how they wanted to preserve it.
 And I understand that that's not always popular, but I do think that if you look at compatibility, you talk to the neighbors and see what they think is compatible. There's a, the reason I wanted to table and I should have spoken of is there's a lot of misunderstanding and misinformation with the neighbors. And I would rather them be more informed of the facts instead of, uh, this sheet of, uh,
 incorrect information going out to stir everyone up. And I also would like to respect them for the fact that they really want to keep the neighborhood as a small, homey, neighbor-to-neighbor affordable. That's another thing, affordable. And so I'm
 you know, there's a lot to think about. I won't support the rezoning tonight. I might have if we held it because I want them to speak up. So anyway, that's where I'm standing. I do have one thing to add. If we're going to say that we can't add houses in places because they're environmentally sensitive, we have to start looking at adding houses where they're not environmentally sensitive.
 Are you finished, Sloan? Sorry, I don't want to cut you off.
 No, I'm done. Thank you. I was able to attend the tour. I appreciate planning and having that set up and that Jesse was there to answer all of our many questions with the neighbors. I'm sad that not many could stick around today or I did advise them how to participate in the meeting. They had a lot of questions about how to do Zoom and get on Zoom and find the link and all that good stuff.
 So, but I was able to listen to them and hear kind of from them. And the big thing, you know, with the parking, I parked on the, the, yeah.
 the block that kind of intersects Florine. And what I noticed is I walked downhill the entire time. So downhill all the way about six houses. I don't know, maybe, maybe five. And until I reached their, their, their house and then kind of walk through the yard, which is what I like to do to see how mushy it is. Of course, it just rained.
 But, you know, so adding more impervious surface there, I don't think is a good idea. The neighbors were incredibly organized and got themselves made themselves available and had lots of questions. So it's very clear to me what the neighbors want. Yeah.
 And I don't, I don't feel like it's, you know, the one extra apartment is not going to make a huge difference. You know, we've heard that. So I think keeping the two is okay. You know, if we were talking about going from, from three to 17 or 12 or whatever it was on the, on the flyer.
 you know, there would be even more reason to definitely, I think the neighbors would absolutely not support that even more. When they learned that it was only one, I think they were a little bit, they had a little bit of relief, but they still didn't necessarily want the up zone in their neighborhood. So I definitely won't be supporting it. So I'm kind of glad we're just going to, hopefully we can address it and move on to the next agenda item. I have a real quick question for Jonathan.
 We looked at, Jesse showed us the zoning map and I don't have that in front of me right now. What is, okay, this is a little street, if I remember correctly, that is zoned RA. It was built maybe in the 60s or some 70s or somewhere in there. And everything around it, what is, it has a higher zoning, doesn't it? It does for the most part. If you'll allow me just a moment here, I'll get the zoning map pulled up. It's these...
 I believe it's three or four duplexes on the west side of the street that are currently zoned. Sorry, my zoning map's not pulling up. Give me just a moment. Here we go. So you see here, basically starting in the south at Anne, where it sounds like Council Member Gutierrez may have parked. All those lots running north to the applicant's property are zoned R.A.,
 The neighborhood, everything you see in this orangish yellow color is all RA-12, what the applicant is working for. And there are several duplexes in here that are all zoned RA. They're all on non-conforming lots. Many of them are within the setbacks of the RA zoning district, so nothing can be done with those houses for the most part. So what they're asking for is basically the minimum zoning district to allow...
 a duplex by right and to bring the lot in the conformance. Possibly one more unit because of the size of the lot. Is that correct? Correct. Because of the acreage, yes. Because of the acreage. Okay. Thank you. I have a comment if you're done, Sarah.
 Yes, thank you Planning Department for organizing that tour yesterday. And just like Councilmember Gutierrez said, we were able to walk in the backyard. There was that large really beautiful walnut tree that Councilmember Bunch mentioned. And that area was definitely wet. It had been wet recently.
 And there is, you can just tell it from the topography, that's where the water flows through. The neighbor right next door downstream commented about how his shed and another neighbor's shed
 are damp almost all the time. When there's a big rain, they get flooded. So again, kind of like our last discussion with the previous rezoning, more impervious surface back there is not really a good thing. That's like the wrong place to put an additional building. And it just seems like now that a lot of these rezonings that we have coming through are in bad locations for new development.
 So I just wanted for those of you that were not able to attend the tour yesterday, that right there where that tree is, is is definitely where the gully of water goes. And we were able to see pictures two weeks ago from the neighbors about how much water there is on that on that property. So thank you.
 Hey, Jonathan, I've got a question for you. You just, I think I heard you just say that the surrounding lots that are zoned agricultural were non-conforming. Is that true of this lot as well? That is correct. Could you remind us what the impacts are
 on the entitlements when a structure is non-conforming? To what extent are they able to construct on the property when it's non-conforming? Okay.
 It depends on what the non-conformance is. In this case, being a zoning non-conformance, they generally could not do anything with the property beyond the footprint of the building today. The lots doesn't even meet the 50 percent. Well, there's a threshold in code for non-conforming lots, where if you have at least half the lot width of the underlying zoning district, the code gives you certain entitlements to basically build a single family home.
 This property under RA is required to have 200 feet, which has approximately 90. There are very limited allowances what they can do with it. Looks to me from what I've seen the north and south ends of the duplex are in setbacks today. If they were to try to modify the existing duplex or improve it or expand it, it may be squeezed awkwardly into the belt of the building basically.
 There are, and of course if there are stipulations if something were to happen to the building, if they voluntarily removed it, they could effectively not build it back ever again. If it was destroyed by a natural act, whether it's I guess natural, maybe an act of nature is a better way to put it, or a tornado or a fire or something like that, there are certain allowances to rebuild it in its exact same footprint.
 Basically, these duplexes and these RA-zoned properties are allowed to remain in situ today. I think a similar consideration was given for the house about a block south of here on the southwest corner of Anne and Florine. I believe it's a triplex that was also zoned to RAU and the council elected to rezone that to RAU in order to bring it into conformance since basically nothing could be done with the building at that time.
 And I think that's the crux of staff's concern with this. We feel like there are very limited development potentials with it. And the ability to afford them to make modest improvements to it with the minimally entitled zoning district seems like a reasonable request from our standpoint. I agree. Thank you for clarifying the non-conforming status. Okay. Let's see. We're on the...
 Third and final reading. This is what final comments board do we have from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Banch? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? No. Gutierrez? No. Jones? No. Kenyon? No. Fails, Mayor. Okay. Thank you all. We'll go on to number six.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 20-028 located east of west michael cole drive and south of west weddington drive for approximately five acres from r.a residential agricultural to m rmf 18 residential multi-family 18 units per acre this was left on the first reading i will entertain a motion to go to the second week so moved second second
 Okay, we have a motion and a second. We'll go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 In ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-028, located east of West Michael Cole Drive and south of West Weddington Drive, for approximately five acres from RA Residential Agricultural to RMF 18, residential multifamily, 18 units per acre. Jonathan, you got anything else on this one?
 Not since agenda session, Mayor. The applicant would request that the item be continued either being left on this reading or tabled to the next meeting so that they can bring forward an alternative rezoning request. Okay, so they're okay if we hold it here until the next council meeting. Is that correct? That's correct, Mayor. What's the thoughts of the council here? I'm sorry. Would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 And sorry, I didn't prompt that. I believe we do have Blake Jorgensen here. I believe he's an alternative applicant for Justin Jorgensen, who represented it at the last meeting. I don't know that he had anything to add, though. Okay, Blake, you have 10 minutes to speak for the council, if you wish. Or you can field questions or not say anything.
 making a good argument yes okay well then in that case what okay okay go ahead and mute yourself like good evening uh yeah i'm sorry there's a our complication is in our uh relationship here with my brother here justin he's trying to get on at the same time i am um and i think his connection was lost so i'm gonna do a very short brief um
 It won't even be a presentation, just more of an opportunity to say we are trying to table this item. We're trying to work with the staff and our client to figure out the next appropriate request. You know, we did originally present this as a multifamily request, but we were willing to go to
 some R. I. U. Um, but I think there was also a question about if staff and the Council may have wanted an opportunity to rezone, uh,
 a portion of it to commercial and we're open to all of that and we certainly want to have a conversation about it but we're not real sure from planning commission to the very last city council meeting where we should go with it so uh at this time we're requesting a table thanks for y'all's time well how long are you going to need blake because this thing is just on the second reading and it'll be held in two weeks if we just hold it on this reading
 Yes, sir, Mayor. We'll be okay holding it for two weeks, and we'd also be okay discussing it tonight. We just want to make sure that we're just trying to get some feedback, so we're comfortable either way. We understand it's going to go to another reading, so thank you. Okay. But your brother is the true applicant? Is he able to get on?
 No sir. His connection is lost so I can represent him for that and we're just going to table it. So if the council is okay with that. Just leave it on this reading. We don't have to really table it. What questions do we have from the council to the applicant or the staff? Okay. We don't have any questions. We will hold it here on the second reading for two weeks unless someone's in disagreement with that. Okay. Very good.
 all right let's move along to new business do we need public comment if you'd like to have public comment we will take some public comment i mean i'm sure there's not any but okay what uh well if y'all will take public comment everybody gets one turn to speak
 if you have five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior name and address residents first press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you who would like to address us from the public okay well now let's move along to new business
 All right number one a resolution to change the name of Leroy Pond Drive to Nolan Richardson Drive and to change the name of Meadow Street between Stadium Drive and Graham Avenue to Leroy Pond Drive.
 Do you have an amendment or? Yes, I've been working with Councilmember DeAndre Jones on this and our initial thought about renaming Meadow Street to Leroy Pond Drive was actually something we couldn't do. It's a university drive, a campus drive.
 And actually, after we did some additional research, we discovered that there probably is a much better solution. I've already sent to the council a memo about that. And I'm going to and I've talked this over with DeAndre and he supports the proposed amendment to the street name change resolution. But what I'd like to do is read just the part of the resolution now that's going to be,
 discussing Leroy Pond as opposed to Nolan Richardson because that part of the resolution is almost identical. So let me just say, show, read what the new one would say about our fable native and University of Arkansas graduate, Captain Leroy Pond, who gallantly led his rifle company on D-Day assaulting Utah Beach, helping secure the beach landing area and routes inland off the beach.
 and on July 4th, 1944, earned a Distinguished Service Cross for, quote, outstanding leadership, personal bravery, and zealous devotion to duty. And whereas for gallantry, quote, gallantry and action in northern France, and his gallantry, courage, and determination under extremely difficult circumstances, on July 8th, 1944, Captain Leroy Pond earned a Silver Star,
 and was soon promoted to major and of course the silver star is one of the highest medals for bravery you can earn and whereas leroy pond's gallantry and excellent leadership of his troops in many battles led to his further promotion to lieutenant colonel
 as well as earned him a bronze oak leaf cluster in lieu of a second Distinguished Service Cross for extraordinary heroism, intrepid actions, personal bravery, and zealous devotion of duty on August 16th and 17th as he and his troops fought their way toward Germany. And whereas in December of 1944, Lieutenant Colonel Leroy Pond sadly was wounded in action and later died of his injuries...
 as one of Fayetteville's war heroes of World War II. And whereas soon after the end of World War II, old military barracks were used to house returning veterans attending the University of Arkansas, near where Bud Walton Arena now stands, and named Leroy Pond Camp in honor of Lieutenant Colonel Leroy Pond, as was the drive into the barracks area.
 And whereas with Camp Leroy Pond removed decades ago, a better street to honor our hometown hero would be to rename the avenue running from Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard into the National Cemetery from Government Avenue to Lieutenant Colonel Leroy Pond Avenue,
 Which is the road by which other deceased veterans are taken and how their families and citizens go to the National Cemetery for internments, services and commemorations. So now therefore be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville,
 at the City Council City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby acknowledge us and thanks coach Nolan Richardson for his outstanding accomplishments as a Razorback head basketball coach as well as his community services and leadership. We hereby rename Leroy Pond Drive to Nolan Richardson Drive.
 In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby expresses a great respect and admiration for the gallantry, heroism, and ultimate sacrifice of Fayetteville native Leroy Pond and renames Government Avenue to Lieutenant Colonel Leroy Pond Avenue in his honor.
 so i thought we should probably get that out so that the public knows what we're talking about and i think at this point in time i will turn it over to deandre uh for for his comments and maybe a motion to the man uh thank you kids so much and uh i would like to make a motion to amend the resolution second okay we have a motion to second to amend any discussion among the council on the amendment
 Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Batch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now we're back to the amended resolution. DeAndre, do you have any comments on that? I just wanted to share...
 I WANT TO READ SOME NOTES THAT I'VE BEEN TAKING. IF THE COUNCIL WILL JUST ALLOW ME A FEW MOMENTS. FOR DECADES, AFRICAN-AMERICAN STUDENTS AND RESIDENTS HAVE CALLED FOR EQUITABLE TREATMENT AND JUSTICE BOTH ON AND OFF CAMPUS. BUT MANY TIMES THEIR DEMANDS HAVE BEEN WATERED DOWN BY THE TIDES OF ACADEMIA FORESTALLING SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE AND RUNNING INTO ADMINISTRATIVE RED TAPE.
 Committees and task force only acknowledge problems and do not solve them. The U of A Black Alumni Society students and the African American community members are confident that the city of Fayetteville, the Fayetteville City Council, will offer more than meaningless words about our presence and spaces in the community. I am thankful for the City Council for giving an attentive ear,
 providing an understanding environment and a community that does not compound on historical trauma by renaming the street in Coach Richardson's honor. Fayetteville has long led the way regarding racial harmony. Unfortunately, many communities and institutions have failed to remedy the injustices of the past and its lackluster performance needs to shift toward immediate and substantial change.
 Fayetteville, we must listen to black students, black alumni, and community members beyond temporary committees and task forces. Tonight, let's partner with the University of Arkansas Black Alumni Society, students, and members of the African American community and support an opportunity to honor Nolan as a citizen and a living legacy. Let us continue to create a Fayetteville where everyone will be proud.
 our youth will benefit from the better future they seek rather than once again having their work be ignored and voices muted for decades once again. Okay, thank you. All right, what questions do we have from the council for Councilmember Jones? It's not a question, but I would like to thank DeAndre and Kit for working on this. I think that we have something that works really well.
 for the city and we're ready to move forward. So thank you, both of you. I have a quick question for Kit and DeAndre. I've received several emails about citizens who don't want to rename Leroy Pond Drive. And I had one citizen request a possibility to rename Stadium Drive. Is that possible? Well, that's a key question.
 Okay, the Stadium Drive is a campus drive that the university controls. And I think that some of the people that were saying they shouldn't rename Leroy Pond Drive didn't realize that really there was a much better street to name in his honor. Leroy Pond Drive just was a drive into Camp Leroy Pond, which hasn't been there for decades.
 And even though I'm a Fayetteville native, I really wasn't very much aware of the homegrown hero we had in Leroy Pond. By renaming Government Street, which goes into the National Cemetery, which I've been on many times because both my brother-in-law and father-in-law are interned there.
 I think that will say a lot about Leroy Pond and will enlighten people about who Leroy Pond was and what kind of hero he was. So I think that with this amendment at this point in time, that's a much better street, much more honorable for Leroy Pond. And I think we owe him that honor. So I don't think.
 I think it's a good idea and we cannot do anything with campus drive. So we would not be able to name that one way or the other, the campus drive or anything like that, that goes through the university. That's their street and they get to decide what street is going to be called. Okay. Thank you. I have a question. It's possibly for staff and possibly, well, it's not really a question. It's just a question.
 I would like to hear more about Nolan Richardson's activities as a citizen in Fayetteville. I know DeAndre, I think you're on the board of the Yvonne Richardson or something center. You're part of that committee. Could you tell us a little bit more about that? Because I think that is an important aspect of his legacy as well.
 Absolutely. I'm no longer a member of the board of directors of the Yvonne Richardson community center. However I am serving on the steering committee as it relates to the new renovations. In the past, I believe in 2014 and 15, I'm sorry, 2013 and 2014, I served as a member of the board of directors of the organization. And you're right.
 In Southeast Fayetteville, they've done tremendous work. They're doing tremendous work. And I'm very proud of the work that the organization at that community center has done as it relates to working with youth and families who wouldn't have those opportunities. And we all know the resources, the various resources that that organization, that the
 that they provide. And Nolan has been very instrumental in supporting those efforts. And he continues to support those efforts today. And so I think that when I thought about
 that as well, how he's made a difference, how through that organization he's made an amazing impact. And I do believe that there are individuals who would like to speak tonight, and I think they can speak, they can add even, they can add another perspective to Nolan as a citizen and his contribution here in Fayetteville. Thank you. Anything else from the council?
 Mayor, I'm not sure when I should submit this, but I received a very long outline of Leroy Pond. And, of course, he was saying we can't forget him. And it was from G. Allen Hill, Lieutenant Colonel, United States USMC. So they wanted me to submit this, and I think it's a good idea because it is a really well-written document.
 outline of the hero that Leroy Pond was and he wanted it submitted so it would be in the minutes. How do I do that? I guess you can submit it to the city clerk, Mark, or
 I guess if you want to read it or want to read it. Well, he wanted me to read it. Considering how long our meeting is, I think that if it's in the minutes and I'll forward it to all the city council members, I think they probably already received it, then that will be a respectful way to handle this. So that's what I'll do. Okay. Okay.
 Mark, if you, I mean, you could do that a couple ways. I mean, if you're wanting it to be in the actual minutes, that's something that if you want to go ahead and read right now, or if you just want to summarize or give an overview of what total was said, or if you would like to submit that later, we'll add that to go along with the agenda item. And just within the minutes, we'll reference that that has been included with that packet.
 Well, all righty then. I will do that because it's long. It's really beautifully written, but it would take a while. So there you go. Okay. So, Mark, you're going to submit the letter and everything's everything, right? That's right. Okay. Very good. What else from the council? Okay. Well, now...
 No, no, go ahead. Sorry, I was just gonna, you know, commend Kit for helping us to find an alternative street for Leeward Pond that is incredibly, it feels like a great fit and for DeAndre and all the work that he's been doing to to bring this about. I think it's a great way to honor Nolan Richardson and celebrate
 you know, black culture and really elevate, you know, the conversation. So I'm very excited that we have this great opportunity to honor two important people in our community and bring to, you know, I just think it's going to bring more education about Leroy Pond and Nolan. So I think it's a great, great proposal. Thank you, DeAndre and Kit. Okay. Anything else before we hear from the public? No.
 Okay, everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address Federal residents will be allowed to speak first press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in zoom be recognized I'm mute so we can hear you Who would like to be first Lance Reed I
 Go ahead, Lance. Good evening, Mayor. Good evening, Council. I'm speaking on behalf of the African-American Advisory Council to the Mayor. The African...
 The council passed a resolution on August the 20th, stating that racism is a public emergency in the city of Fayetteville. And in that said resolution, they stated that they will be committing to hearing and promoting the voices of African-Americans. This is an opportunity for the council to deliver on that said promise that you stated.
 I understand that there might be opposition and there might be misinformed ideas that are floating around about the naming of the street. But this is a perspective that you are where African-American voices are speaking and it is time.
 to listen and to fulfill that listening by passing this. I feel that you will be listening to those voices. So I encourage you to vote for the resolution. And thank you. Thank you, Lance. Who else would like to address this? So Mayor, we have several people signed up with the same name that happens when,
 one shares a link. And so the name I'm going to call on, I'm not sure if it's the same, if it is this person or another person, but I will call the name of Sinitra Hughes as having her hand raised next. Is it Sinitra? It is Sinitra, yes. Thank you, Sinitra.
 GOOD EVENING, MAYOR AND CITY OF Fayetteville COUNCIL. MY NAME IS SONITRA HUGHES. I RESIDE AT 4735 TROADUSH STREET IN FAYETTEVILLE, ARKANSAS. I AM THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE BLACK ALUMNI SOCIETY AND WE APPROACHED COUNCILMAN JONES WITH THIS PROPOSAL TO RENAME LEROY POND FOR COACH NOLAN RICHARDSON AND TO RELOCATE MR. POND'S STREET. AND IT WAS NOT IN AN INTENT TO DISRESPECT.
 His legacy or anything like that, we simply wanted to relocate his street in honor of him and to continue to celebrate his legacy, but also to recognize the contributions of Coach Nolan Richardson. The city of Fayetteville profited quite a bit off of Coach Richardson's success in...
 And we feel that this is the least that the city of Fayetteville could do to honor his legacy and really celebrate all that he's done, not only for the University of Arkansas and how he helped the students and the faculty and the black staff there in,
 you know, really having a place to be and to call home while he was here. Um, we wanted to, to, to honor both of those individuals. So I thank you, um, DeAndre, as well as Mr. Kitt for helping us come up with the compromise, um,
 in including government street, uh, to relocate Mr. Pond street too, so that the city of Fayetteville is recognizing both of those individuals for their success. And ultimately we wanted to be able to give this to coach Richardson, um,
 No one knows how long any of us are going to be here. So we want to give him his flowers while he's still here to enjoy them. And to do this for the black community here in Northwest Arkansas is going to be a huge step in the right direction to right a lot of the wrongs that the city of Fayetteville has committed against the black and brown communities in Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Randy Coleman. Go ahead.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and City Councilman. Good afternoon. I love this city and I'm a proud alumni from the University of Arkansas. But it's embarrassing that once again we are having a controversial debate on whether to rename or name a street after an African American pioneer and icon who has significantly impacted our culture, our communities, and our great city.
 In 2009, if you recall, the black community leaders had a campaign to rename 6th Street to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. After years and many controversial meetings, it ultimately became a successful reality. Although the journey of the two distinguished gentlemen's works were different, they are particularly similar in one area. They're African-Americans.
 Are two-streak signs actually too much to a city that prides itself on diversity? When Coach Richardson tenured as Boss Hogg, he wasn't just one of the most winning coaches in NCAA history or a national championship coach that sits up on the hill. He was an ambassador for our city, our community, a unique beacon of hope that strengthened diversity and inclusion to our city. It wasn't controversial to the retailers when they sold those 40 Mans of Hell t-shirts
 There was a controversy when Dixon Street and all the bars marveled at their sales when there were capacity just to watch a two and a half hour basketball game when his halls played. It wasn't a debate when the city received the hospitality tax payments from the hotel and motels that were practically sold out during each of his games.
 And it certainly wasn't a debate or controversy when he was a special guest for fundraisers and gallows to raise tens of thousands of dollars for local charities throughout this community. So where were you during the Bay Day era? Or when the Dream Team won the national championship in the 1995 run up? How much merchandise did you purchase to show your Razorback love and pride?
 The significant impact of his legacy generated a substantial amount of revenue for the city, influenced student recruitment, and created a cultural change which complemented and inspired an overall fan base in the Razorback family. My question to each of you, have you ever driven down Razorback Road and saw the statue of the iconic Hall of Fame legendary National Championship coach Frank Rose located at Frank Rose Field?
 or driven by the Hall of Fame and legendary coach John McDonald statue in front of his McDonald's track and field arena and said wow to the beautiful display of the 43 national championships illuminate pillars. Unfortunately you cannot share the same feelings or Razorback pride for the Hall of Fame legend and national championship coach Nolan Richardson and the success of his great teams because there is absolutely no public acknowledgement or display
 from him or the successfulness of his team. Just imagine the significant impact of the street sign would mean to this community, particularly the black African-American community. Councilman, you guys speak of diversity, inclusion, and equality. It's time to show it. For those of you who think Coach Richardson was too complicated or controversial, you might as well assign us a seat in the back of the bus.
 because apparently he didn't realize the reason why Rosa sat at the front of the bus. I challenge the city council to be on the right side of history and not the wrong side of equality. With respect to the distinguished service of Leroy Pond, Coach Richardson need a public display of a street sign and a statue in front of the facilities that he helped create. Just like the other retired national championship coaches
 who ironically are white. Councilman Jones, thank you so much for bringing us to the board. Dr. Hughes, thank you so much for approaching this agenda as well. And Mayor, I'll yield back my time to you guys. Thank you guys so much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Lakeisha Bradley. Go ahead, Lakeisha. Okay. Can you all hear me? Yes. Yes.
 All right. Good evening, Mayor and to the City Council. My name is Lakeisha Bradley. I live at 6420 West Mesa Street here in Fayetteville, Arkansas, and I am the President of the African American Advisory Council. In addition, a business owner with Mighty by Design here in Fayetteville, Arkansas. And I just want to say,
 that in regards to the impact that Nolan Richardson did, does for the community, just some examples. And this is just what I have seen with my own eyes.
 And that is during COVID, when it initially happened, and there was a huge need within the community for people that were looking in need of food. And especially our youth at a time where it was difficult to find locations to go and be able to get food during lunchtime when they were learning virtually. The Yvonne Richardson Center was a space that had a bus there where you can pull up.
 and be able to receive food for your child in need during that time. But even beyond COVID-19, before that, what I saw with my own eyes at the Yvonne Richardson Center was a space where many kids, even beyond just South Fayetteville, had a space and an opportunity to go that gave them hope and continues to give them hope today.
 I saw with my own eyes a space that during the holidays that gave out toys and clothing and all items in need for families during the holidays when they didn't know where they were going to get their necks. And so what Coach Nolan Richardson has done is he's planted a seed.
 And it is now growing. And I'm very excited to be able to have a potential space beyond the Martin Luther King road drive that we have here in Fayetteville. That I can take them to and show them that this is someone, another African-American figure within this country who went above and beyond to create change. And so...
 I yield my time, but I am in support of this change. And I just, I thank you guys for really taking the initiative to do something that is collaborative and cohesive for the community. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Olivette Sims. Okay. Thank you. It's Oliver Sims. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Sorry. But friends have called me all of it before, affectionately, so no worries on that at all. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council. Thank you all the concerned citizens that are here. I'm a 1984 graduate of the University of Arkansas. I reside in Dallas, Texas at the moment, but I'm on three or four boards for the university. I give back a lot of my time and I give back.
 cash in the form of donations, but also in the form of my most precious asset. My son is on the university campus right now as a sophomore. You know, Nolan Richardson, when I was in school and shortly after I got out of school, Nolan had such an impact on the University of Arkansas and Northwest Arkansas in general. He's a Hall of Famer. He's got worldwide notoriety.
 The street would be a symbol of just a testimony as to how Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas is progressive. I don't expect the city council of Fayetteville, Arkansas or the city council of Dallas, Texas, where I live, to make up for all the past wrongs. There is no way you can do that. But gestures and action like this, right?
 Honoring Leroy Pond, who is a legend in his own right, in a better location and renaming the street that runs along the side of Bud Walton is a move that will pay long-term dividends for the city of Fayetteville, for the University of Arkansas, for the economy of the region.
 to recruiting of students, recruiting of athletes, consequently the economy of Northwest Arkansas. There are so many reciprocal benefits for this move that would honor two outstanding men. And I'm just wanting to throw my support behind this effort. Thank you, Councilman DeAndre, for bringing this up.
 Vice President Senator Hughes, Randy Coleman for bringing the idea to us servicing it. But I just want to say that, you know, it'll benefit everybody involved. There is really no downside. And as one of the council members referenced a concern on not forgetting Leroy Pond. Leroy Pond is being elevated in this move.
 And I think that's something that citizens of Fayetteville or any detractors of this move, once they look at the details, they will see that he is actually being elevated. His legacy is being rightfully put in a place where he will be magnified. And Nolan Richardson is getting the same type of treatment. So thank you for your consideration and thank you in advance for your positive vote. And I yield back my 10 seconds. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Kaylin Oliver. Go ahead.
 Hi, everyone. Good evening, everyone. My name is Kaelin Oliver. I live at 1662 South Arizona Drive. And I would just like to say that I piggyback off everyone's comments. And I am a graduate student at the University of Arkansas, but I'm also a legacy here at the University of Arkansas. And I
 Every single person in my family will tell you that the University of Arkansas was home. It was a place where they can just let loose and be themselves. But every single one of them would also say that
 inclusiveness and diversity here in Northwest Arkansas and the University of Arkansas was always promised, but was always a facade. And so honoring coach Nolan Richardson would be something that every single one of them will be so proud of. They will all agree as well as I, that Nolan Richardson is a pillar for the Northwest Arkansas community, for the University of Arkansas, for the black community. And so, um,
 This renaming is not a rewrite of history. It's giving Leroy Pond an elevated status. Well, not necessarily elevated status, but elevating his street by renaming government, but also to honor the legacy of Nola Richardson.
 So I ask you, is the opposition because of the legacy of Leroy Pond or is the opposition because of race? Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Eva Evans. Go ahead. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes.
 Good evening, Mayor and City Council. My address is 920 South Ballpark Drive in Fayetteville, Arkansas. I am a graduate student at the University of Arkansas as well, and I'm the vice president of the Black Graduate Student Association. I just wanted to say thank you for those who spoke before me and thank you for bringing this proposal to the table today.
 I would love if you all vote in favor of this proposal. This isn't eliminating history. Again, this is not eliminating history, but amplifying both stories by both men. On campus, there is a 4% Black student population. And that has went down over the years to now that is 4%. Seeing this symbol...
 this name change, this street change will be something that the students, especially the Black students on campus, can take with them and see that this space is for me.
 It's a symbol of hope and it's a symbol of motivation. And I hope that others can see that this is not turning away or shying away from the history of Mr. Pons, but it's sharing both stories and amplifying the history of both men that should be celebrated and that should be honored. Thank you. Thank you. Solomon Birchfield. Go ahead.
 Good evening. Yeah, thank you for just letting me add my voice to others in support of this resolution. As a young man, I appreciated and looked up to Coach Richardson as a very young man during the years, the early 90s and all. And not until I was older did I see and learn more about just his presence in the community and his example and his legacy.
 leadership. So I really feel as many others have mentioned on the call tonight. So I just feel it's fortunate for us to be able to celebrate Coach Richardson in this way. The proposal was really thoughtfully designed so that we can continue to recognize Mr. Pond at an appropriately located road and then prioritize this road right in front of Blood Wall and
 to honor and celebrate Coach Richardson. So thank you for supporting this resolution. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Well, Mayor, Mr. Coleman has his hand up again, but I'm not sure if it's the same Mr. Coleman. So is this ready? Everybody gets one turn to speak at the night. So that's the rules that I have before me passed down by the city council. Okay, then we don't have anyone else.
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the city council. This is a resolution. It's not an ordinance. It's a resolution. We need to motion a second to pass. I move we pass the resolution. Second. I'll let DeAndre be the second on that. I think I spoke up a little too quickly. No worries. Guys, I'm sorry.
 Mayor Jordan, if I could say something just real briefly. I don't know if I can do that or not. Yeah, you sure can. As we were, as those attending tonight, as they were speaking, I went to Twitter and I pulled up Black at UR. Black at UR is having your advisor decline a letter of recommendation for an internship. Black at UR is...
 having a fraternity throw a fried chicken watermelon in 40 ounce theme party to celebrate Dr. Martin Luther King Day. Blackett, you are wanting to wear your natural hair, cheering and after asking about it being told that we're not there yet.
 This revolution came. It was a whole black and white thing. And this is where the whole idea came from. Yes. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Yes. This is where the whole idea generated. And so as I think about that, and I think about during that same time, we honored the
 George Floyd's life and we condemned white supremacy and racism here in Fayetteville, the only city in the state that had a nonviolent, a peaceful protest. A couple of months later, the city of Fayetteville named racism as a public health crisis unanimously. Several months after that, you elected me to be a member of the Fayetteville City Council.
 So Fayetteville, we've always been on the right, we've always been progressive. And so I'm expecting the same thing tonight. As we hear the stories of Black at UR, it would be shameful that we heard Black in Fayetteville. And I know that none of the city council members and the mayor, I know, I don't believe that anyone in Fayetteville wants that. So this is an opportunity tonight, as someone mentioned earlier,
 to help right the wrongs. And I do believe that the students at U of A, the Black Alumni Society, the African American community and allies, people all over will say Fayetteville is definitely who Fayetteville say they are. So thank you so much. So I would like to second that motion if I can. I believe that'll be fine. Okay, any other final comments from the council?
 All right. DeAndre, thank you very much for bringing this kit. Thank you for working on it. And, you know, as I tell folks, we're all on a journey right now, and we're on it together, and we'll make things better together. So thank you, DeAndre, for bringing this forward. Okay. Kara, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Absolutely, yes. Inion? Yes. Well, that passed unanimously. There you go. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, DeAndre. All right. Number two, a resolution to approve a new traffic calming policy. Chris. Thank you, Susan. I'm beginning to wear a little thin here tonight.
 Go ahead, Chris. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Really cool thing the council just did. I think that's neat. I was a 1994 graduate of the U of A, so I was on campus when that national championship happened. That was a fun night. Yes, it was. Thank you.
 So our traffic calming policy, we've been using a traffic calming policy that was developed in about 2003. That policy had a point system similar to what we're talking about tonight, the preloading.
 The problem really with that policy was that the threshold was such that it really didn't match up with our community's expectations. So most of the requests that we received...
 did not meet the threshold for traffic calming. Then in 2008, 2009, with the economy difficulties, basically the funding for traffic calming was dropped for several years. So we really didn't do anything about it. That funding has now been restored through a project that we have.
 So we really want to bring this policy back and use one that makes a little bit more sense. So the policy again is similar to the previous one. It does have a point system. It's based on traffic speeds, volume, along with whether sidewalks exist or not, accidents that may have occurred.
 and proximity to schools. So there is a point system that each request will go through. The second major component is for neighborhood consensus. So when we do get a request
 We want to make sure that the neighborhood is all on board and we don't just have a single person making a request. So once we receive the request under this policy, once we receive the request, we'll ask...
 for the requester to provide evidence of 70% of their neighbors in the project area to concur with that request. If we receive that then we'll proceed with the traffic study and the scoring process. If the threshold is met we can then proceed to looking at designs and implementation of certain elements that may be
 beneficial to the area and appropriate for the use. Once that is done, then we will allow the neighborhood to review that. If 60 percent of the neighbors concur that that design is appropriate and they'd like to proceed with that, it will be placed in line for implementation.
 The way the policy is written, the Transportation Committee would review all of these requests and would ultimately approve these for implementation up to the amount of funding that's available, and that funding will be allocated as part of the Transportation Work Plan each year. So this year we have about $60,000 allocated in the Transportation Work Plan, so that would be the
 amount of traffic calming that we could implement. And with that, I'll answer any questions. What questions do we have for Chris on this? Mayor, no question, but I'd like to extend what Chris said as chair of the Transportation Committee. Just to underscore the history, we review citizen traffic calming requests relatively frequently. They're probably the most common citizen suggestions that we take up on our agendas.
 And with exceedingly few exceptions, the current policy has more or less forced us to deny almost all of those. And it hasn't been fair to the public or to the neighborhoods. And this is a way forward, especially in combination with COVID.
 our tactical urbanism guidebook and the low-cost improvements that we've been encouraging over the past couple of years. So I really want to implore all of my colleagues to support this so that we can move forward and start improving some of these streets on a more active basis. Chris, this is kind of a comment but also a question.
 I really appreciate you bringing this forward. As you're very familiar with, we've had some serious issues up here in University Heights. And I think this process that you've outlined will be much more understandable for the neighborhood and much more easy to work with in terms of,
 what the steps are to go about, and then for you all to be confident that the neighborhood is in agreement, or at least at 70%. So I really appreciate that. The one suggestion that I have would be you have accidents, one point for each accident per year at one location. You know, we had a death up here last summer, and it would seem to me that
 someone being killed or seriously injured should have more points allocated for it rather than just a small accident or a car accident. So I don't wanna hold anything up tonight. I wanna congratulate you, but I would certainly appreciate
 your consideration or the Transportation Committee's consideration of making an adjustment to, you know, we've had another death several years ago in the same neighborhood, not exactly at the same location. So I think those should get a little bit more attention. But thank you very much for your hard work on this and listening to the neighbors.
 I think this is just a, you know, this is something I cannot underscore enough what Councilmember Petty said about how frequently we review traffic issues in neighborhoods on Transportation Committee. It's something I get...
 It's one of the things I receive the most complaints about as a council member is people driving too fast on my street or reckless driving or whatever. And I think this presents a, we had this long list of people that had complained and wanted some sort of traffic calming measures. Only they usually just ask for speed bumps. That's really the only thing that they ever asked for, you know.
 But if we have this playbook that our citizens can use and they can go through the steps and they know what they're supposed to do and the procedures, it's more clear cut for them. I think it's more equitable and more fair and all around better to include our citizens in how we make these decisions. So I am all in favor of this. I'd encourage everybody to vote in favor of it. Thank you.
 okay it takes a public comment anything else from the council before i take public comment okay everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minutes duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents will be allowed to speak first
 press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you who would like to address us from the public nobody from the public okie dokie i'm going to bring it back to the council obviously the uh
 the mayor dealing with a few in the last couple of weekends at the house maybe they don't feel like they need to speak tonight I move that we pass the resolution thank you yes yes I would almost make that motion myself I could but anyway thank you all we have a motion and second to pass the traffic calming uh resolution
 Any final comments from the council? Besides yes, and let's move forward. All right. Thank you all very much. This is well, this is very much needed. Karen, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Scoggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Kim? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Number three, an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition RZN 20-024 located at 916 North Sang Avenue for approximately .70 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to RSF 7, residential single family, 7 units per acre subject to a bill of assurance. Kim?
 be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section one that the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf7 residential single family seven units per acre
 subject to a bill of assurance. Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville are to adhere by amends to the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in west central Fayetteville, about a block south of Weddington's intersection with Sang on the southeast corner of Sang Avenue and Ora Drive, just north of the Ranger's Pantry, if you're familiar where that city building is.
 It is currently developed with a single family dwelling that's accessed off of Sang Avenue. Other than the ranger's pantry immediately to the south and the Temple Shalom further along Sang Avenue, this area is exclusively single family in character. The applicant's request is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre to RSF7, subject to a bill of assurance, as Mr. Williams noted earlier,
 Staff finds the request to be compatible with adopted planning documents, including the future land use map and city plan 2040s goals. As a residential neighborhood area, the property by our future land use map indicates that it's appropriate for some varying degrees of residential development requirements.
 RSF 4 to RSF 7 is the smallest increment in zoning change that can happen. I'll get into a little bit more of the details on exactly what that entails on this property. Similarly, staff feels that the request meets many of the goals of City Plan 2040. The applicant has indicated that they'd like to develop the property with homes that are addressing the street, Sang Avenue specifically.
 And also putting additional homes on the property to take advantage of several of the surrounding amenities, the proximity of the property to the U of A and to elementary school to the north, and additionally to transit access, parks and trails in the area.
 That said, in addition to the plans, there were three other items that staff wants to bring to your attention tonight. The first of which is issue of public notification. When this item was first brought to the Planning Commission, it became apparent that the applicant accidentally utilized our public notification template from pre-COVID days when we were operating meetings in person.
 When that became apparent, we immediately recommended that the Planning Commission table the item, which they did for that night and the two subsequent meetings until proper notification could be executed and residents can be alerted to how they could participate in a public online meeting. So after an improper start, the item did receive public notification ultimately.
 The second item is the bill of assurance that Mr. Williams noted on the property. This is a little bit of an unusual twist on the request and I'll offer a couple diagrams that we might not usually get into the detail of as a part of this.
 under RSF for the existing zoning district, the property could be subdivided into three lots. And please keep in mind, these are hypothetical lot arrangements. These are not what the applicant has proposed. This exercise was requested of staff by the planning commission, but it does make a point. They could subdivide the property into three lots, two on the aura and one along one or one on the corner, one facing aura and one facing saying,
 Under that they proposed our SF7 zoning district the property could be subdivided into four lots with three facing saying in one facing aura What the applicant has advised is they don't necessarily want to have additional entitlement They just want the additional urban design flexibility to have the homes orient Towards saying and have them all operate from a shared driveway so the bill of assurance rather than a
 Although it doesn't get into the specifics of how the houses will be oriented, they have limited development of the size of three lots, which is exactly what the entitlement is today. But allowing for that flexibility to make that lot orientation varied.
 And then the other item I wanted to bring to the council's attention is the significant amount of public comment we received on this item. There was a lot of concerns about traffic on Seng. For those of you who live in the area or regularly use Seng, it is a major way that people in West Fayetteville or other parts of Fayetteville access the university campus if they don't want to drive further east.
 to Garland. There are concerns about drainage. This property is about where the northern spur of Markham Hill, if you will, begins to taper off down towards the Maranoni Farm property to the west. Additionally, there are concerns from several neighbors that any rezoning to higher density would compromise the character of the neighborhood.
 It is worth noting that although there is a fairly varying degree of lot sizes in the area, it is accurate to say that all the lots are at least 70 feet wide, which is the baseline allowance in the RSF4 zoning district. So RSF7 would represent a deviation in that regard. And the last major piece of comment that staff did receive was regarding concerns about tree canopy on the property.
 If you did not have the opportunity to visit the site over the weekend, you probably realize that that's one of the main characteristics of the property is there's a significant row of trees, mature trees along Seng Avenue. And as the council has become familiar with over the years, this type of development where a lot is purchased and is eligible for administrative lot splits and single family home construction does not subject it to the city's tree preservation standards.
 That said, there was a significant amount of conversation about this at the Planning Commission. Staff did recommend approval of it, and ultimately it was forwarded by the Planning Commission to the City Council. Those that did support it, the five that voted in favor, agreed.
 noted that it is an identical land use allowance between RSF4 and RSF7. They do both allow single-family homes, somewhat varying lot size. The four commissioners that were opposed expressed some disappointment in the lack of proposal specifics in the bill of assurance. I think the commissioners were hoping that there would be some protections included in there for the trees on the property and also specifying where the driveway would be located.
 And there's also a comment in agreement with the neighbors that there was a shared concern about the impacts of developing the site would have on the neighborhood character.
 That said, I am available for questions. And I did find out this afternoon from the applicant that he would not be available for this meeting. And he would like to request at the council's discretion either tabling this item to the April 6th meeting or leaving it on this reading as the council sees fit. And again, I'm available for questions. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have for Jonathan on this one?
 Jonathan, I have a couple questions. So the way that it's zoned right now, they're not able to orient the houses the way that they want to?
 Correct. Because of the baseline lot width requirement in the RSF4 zoning district, you need 70 feet of lot width to create or to subdivide a property. And although it's a corner lot and there's well over the 210 feet of width you would need to create three lots, that much width is not available along saying. Okay. So then the only reason that they're wanting to rezone is for that orientation, right? Or is there another reason? Yeah.
 That's what the applicant has asserted. They'd like the three homes to all be oriented towards staying and be accessed from a driveway onto Aura. Okay. And right now, with the zoning that they have, they would not be subject to tree preservation either, would they? That's correct. Could we require that?
 uh not under a zoning action um if the applicant had opted to include that in their bill of assurance but i i don't believe there's any authority that the council has that other than amending the unified development code to to require that okay all right thank you what other questions do we have in the council okay let's take some public comments
 everyone gets one turn to speak you have five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents will be allowed to speak first press star nine on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you who would like to address this person bill russell go ahead
 Mr. Russell, please unmute your phone or your device. There we go. Good evening. Go ahead. Yes. Okay. Thank you very much. I'm sorry for the short delay here. My name is Bill Russell. I live at 2134 Berry Street in Fayetteville. I thank each of you for your service. I know it's a long night.
 By a matter of background, I'm almost 75 years old, Vietnam veteran, served 30 years in the military. My family has lived at this address for 56 years. In the last few years, we have come to feel like, and I'm willing to be educated tonight, I don't profess to be an expert in planning or in the business that y'all are in, but we have come to feel like that the city has sort of pressured us to leave this neighborhood and home we treasured for nearly six decades.
 in order to accommodate more of a business-driven vision for a student housing jungle. Pushed from the south by Markham Hill rezoning, we've been pushed from the west by the Mariano Noni rezoning, and it all seems a little ironic, and I know I use the word seen, but perception is reality to many, many people.
 And it does seem ironic since almost 10 years ago, the city passed an ordinance to protect feral cats. Now we are looking for the city to protect the welfare of human beings and families and neighborhoods. And we're asking you to please defend us as the city rightfully did the feral cats. My main and primary contention before you is that the present RS4 rezoning is perfectly sufficient for infill.
 and that rezoning to RF7 will only open the floodgates. It will set a precedent, and you'll be besieged by many more requests for rezoning in this neighborhood, which will ultimately destroy the balance between what Councilwoman Bunch admirably describes as the need to balance growth with the integrity of our neighborhoods. I would also add the safety of our neighborhoods.
 This issue only passed the Planning Commission by a five to four vote after being tabled numerous times. Several planning commissioners grossly misrepresented neighborhood testimony as, quote, not wanting change and, quote, being opposed to Enfield. I listened to each neighbor's presentation and no one ever expressed opposition to Enfield.
 Mr. Mayor and council members, we live with infill every day. It is sufficient at RSF4. We are opposed to this change in rezoning because it is unneeded and it will lead, it will open the door and lead to the destruction of the environmental and architectural integrity of the area.
 If you lived in a predominantly single-level housing neighborhood, would you want a possible three-story dwellings or multiple three-story dwellings suitable for apartment living or suitable for student living next to you? My next point is safety. Sidewalks, streets, traffic. I would ask the city to conduct a traffic study of North Sang from Weddington to Cleveland streets.
 No one in the city seems interested so far. Yet those of us who live in the area know that traffic has dramatically and dangerously increased since the feral cats were protected in 2012. Would the city actually consider approving this rezoning without factual and unbiased evidence of traffic and safety ramifications? My final point is what was mentioned, the developer's bill of assurance.
 These 50 to 60 year old trees, any other bill of assurance items. How permanent is this bill of assurance? Can it be nullified? Will it be enforced if needed? How will these trees really be protected? Exactly how tall will the developers propose dwellings be when constructed? Imagine these multiple lots in this neighborhood filled with these types of three-story dwellings and the attendant traffic infrastructure issues
 which would surely affect feral cats if not taxpaying human beings. Please, please do not reach for the right reason to do the wrong thing. Please respect and consider the rights of these Fayetteville citizens, long-living Fayetteville citizens in many instances. Please respect their rights to live in the neighborhood that they have protected and improved for so many years, or as quality of life,
 only for feral cats and developers. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Sarah Lewis. Go ahead, Sarah.
 Hello, my name is Sarah Lewis and I live at 1908 West Berry Street and we would like to oppose ask you to to oppose this rezoning. First of all, yeah go ahead. First of all, Isaac also at 1908 West Berry Street has an opinion to share as well. Please don't cut the trees down.
 We are very worried about... And Fayetteville and Arkansas. Yes. And we are very worried about the trees along Singh. They provide a beautiful canopy and an entryway to the community and the neighborhood in that area. And it's just one piece of kind of the neighborhood integrity that we are wanting to speak up for. This area is...
 in its people and its housing and it's just walkable and it's intact and it's a mature neighborhood. The
 the there's renters and owners and people from all over the world coming and living in this area. It's just a, just a unique little area. And I think the, there's a lot of pressure from the Markham Hill development, soon the Maranoni development, there's pressure from the Garland area, the kind of the intense development around Garland and of course the university
 is the reason we all that we live here. We love living near the university. Um, but it also creates a need for heightened planning and, and listening to the neighbors that live nearby so that we don't create kind of a, a, a no neighborhood zone all around the university. Um,
 We understand and certainly I understand having been on the council that that the 2040 plan talks about high density in this area and and like most plans.
 It needs to be revisited often and especially in an area and in our community where there are a lot of changes happening. And like Bill said, we're not opposed to change. We see change happening. We just want it to be done intelligently and with smart planning that takes into consideration people that live in the neighborhood.
 we would like to ask that rather than a spot zoning approach where you change just this one zoning and and yes open the door to kind of setting a precedent to other zoning um
 higher density zoning, we ask that we kind of step back and look at a like a full neighborhood plan for this area taking into consideration the Maranoni property and Markham and Sang Valley and University Heights and how all of this flows together and try to protect these areas that are so intact and where there are opportunities to access, you know, where there is accessible home
 smaller homes where you can live in town and be close to the amenities and within a beautiful wooded neighborhood, walkable and just a wonderful little place. So we understand also the developer can build on that lot and add dwellings just as it is. We are sad to hear that the bill of insurance does not include a tree preservation. And actually that's a surprise to me. We're
 So I would ask that that be considered this evening and also just remind the council that you do have the power to make changes to the legislation to make to protect the trees and make these kind of decisions that protect neighborhood integrity. So it just takes proposing new pathways and resolutions and so on. So thank you so much for your time and for your service.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Lisa Orton. Go ahead. Hello. I'm Lisa Orton and I live at 1663 West Hossel Road. My parents settled on Hossel in the 1950s.
 So this has been our neighborhood for many years. And when I think of neighborhood growing up, our neighborhood was bordered on the north by Weddington, on the south by Nittleship, and on the west by Highway 49, and on the east by Razorback Road, and then the Panhandle up above with Sunset and Hall. So that's our neighborhood.
 You've heard me before. I really believe that the neighborhoods should be able to decide that
 how dense they want to be. And if you interviewed everybody in our neighborhood, the vast majority would want to stay a low-density neighborhood. Some neighborhoods, like Will Dockery said, his neighborhood wants to zone and get all infilled, and that's fine. I think that the people of Fayetteville need to be listened to and the priority of our neighborhoods. I believe that...
 It is possible to preserve all of our natural areas in Fayetteville and to respect what each neighborhood wants for themselves. And also to be able to build needed affordable housing. It would just need to be a different kind of philosophy than what is going around now. When I think of compatibility, it's not just having the same zoning. It is what...
 compatibility to me is what does the house fit in with all the other kinds of houses and lots around you? So this house, so the house and property need to look like all the other houses and properties around them. And so this developer, if he really cared about the neighbors and the neighborhood, they would simply renovate that existing house.
 and sell it and it would sell the house and the property and to somebody who wants to live in our low density neighborhood and it would be more affordable than if he built two to four houses in its place. I'm sure that those houses would cost a lot more and not be very affordable. The last thing I wanted to talk about is the bill of assurance.
 I think it says that there'll be a maximum of three living units. There will be no ADUs. And I too wish that there were some tree preservation in the bill of assurance. But what really struck me was that it would last as long, this bill of assurance would last as long as the city council chooses to nullify it. So it doesn't really guarantee anything.
 It just will last as long as this city council or some future city council nullifies the bill of assurance. So I'd like to say that it would last forever or the next 100 years, you know, because our neighborhood, as you know,
 Mayor Jordan, that our neighborhood was promised, you know, this agreement in 2005 that there'd be no development on the 72 acres on the east of Markham Hill.
 And then this city council or the previous, the one in October 2018, you know, voted unanimously to overturn that. So these agreements and bill of assurances, I don't have much faith in them. I mean, we've suffered from that. So I think some more needs to be done in the bill of assurance. But anyway, that's it for me. Thank you so much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Kyle Smith. Go ahead.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to reprise my comments from the much, much larger zoning request on the edge of town and say that this time I'd like to speak on behalf of the three families that don't yet know that they're going to love to live here someday. That's not nearly the scale of the 400 that I spoke for earlier.
 But if we can't start adding housing three at a time throughout our city, it just increases the need for us to do it 400 at a time. I think we can do both. I think we've got to do both to catch up with how far we are behind. But one other opportunity that only speaking for a smaller number of three
 gives me here is also a chance to speak on behalf of the 80 or 85,000 Fayetteville residents who won't have to pay for additional infrastructure, who won't have to pay for repaving a new road or maintaining new sewer lines and water lines. Um,
 Because this will use infrastructure that's already there and that is smart city planning. Are these going to look a little different from what's there that was built in the 40s or 50s? Yeah, probably because architecture has changed over time. Neighborhood character is important, but the one and only thing I can promise every neighborhood in town that's going to change is,
 is its character because the people that live there are going to get older and enter new stages of life. Eventually they'll die and new people will, will move in. And as new folks come to neighborhoods, the needs change, change is inevitable. And, um, we can either steer that change with a little bit of force and finesse, or we can get trampled by it, trying to stop it entirely. Um,
 this is a small change. Incremental change is always going to be easier than the large change that comes whenever demand finally overtakes resistance. And so I hope that the council will look at this as an opportunity to ease into a neighborhood that is probably on the verge of substantial more change just because of its age. It's the reality of time.
 And one other thing with my earlier comments, I said if you didn't trust the stormwater codes to change them, well here I think we know we don't trust the tree preservation codes. Staff has told you that there is no tree preservation if you leave it the way the zoning is, and there's no tree preservation if you change the zoning, so that's really a kind of a null consideration.
 But I hope that that will motivate us once again for somebody to please amend the tree code and close the single family and duplex loopholes. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Juanita McElroy. Go ahead. Thank you.
 We really appreciate all that you guys do for us. I am Juanita McElroy and I live at 937 North saying, um, we are catty cornered to the adjacent property in question. Um, we have lived here for 24 and a half years and, um, we have watched this neighborhood change immensely over that 24 years. We've, we've raised two children here. Um,
 Anyway, I'm concerned with the rezoning to a seven. I'm not opposed to them building on the property. I wish we did have some tree assurance there. We own a lot of trees on our property. When you turn down Weddington and in the springtime, those trees are bloomed. They're beautiful. And that's what caught us to buy our house in this neighborhood. Yeah.
 So I am concerned about those trees. My driveway also comes out on saying. And so anytime during the day, you can find yourself sitting in the driveway just to back up and get out of the driveway. I've also been hit in my driveway, um,
 pulling back into it. So saying, saying does need to be looked at a little bit. There is going to be more infrastructure. You know, the cars coming into that housing district, I'm concerned about the drainage from all the Hills around us. When it pours, it floods our garage because our, our yard is now lower than the street level. Which,
 you know concerns me when you build any more houses on a property you're not going to have that drainage and so i just want the city council to um adhere to what the neighbors are saying listen to your neighbors listen to your communities and that's all i have thank you for your time thank you who else would like to address this okay i'm going to bring it back to the council the
 because they could not be here asked us to hold this on this reading so I will leave you all with that this is an ordinance. Yeah I'm perfectly fine leaving it here. I know a lot of people who were talking to us said that they've gone through a lot of changes. Well it seems like change is inevitable because I'm looking at the map here it's pretty much all RSF4 but we've already had a lot of changes.
 This isn't even a use unit change or a use unit change. We're still single family housing. Um, they could build two there now and then three, um, if we make this change, uh, I think these are the things that we're going to have to start approving. If we don't want to build, like Kyle said, 400 houses, um, on an old farm, uh, we've got to start sprinkling these houses in, um,
 where we can. This is pretty reasonable. We're not even changing the use unit. And it allows one more house to be closer to the University instead of being west of 49. We're about to learn how bad our land use policies of the last 40 years are when we close Whitington.
 because we need more houses east of 49 and we need more jobs west of 49. So I think this makes sense. It's such an incremental change. It's the thing that you want. You want incremental development. You don't want the thing that's behind harps on Weddington.
 You want to sprinkle in houses here and there, and then hopefully you avoid doing that monstrosity over there, which is actually probably less than a mile from this on Weddington. Okay. Okay.
 I have a few comments. First of all, I need to disclose that I own a house on Ora, 1915 Ora, which is about six houses up from this proposed rezoning. I'm very familiar with that neighborhood. The streets on Ora are quite narrow.
 This is a very stable neighborhood, extremely stable neighborhood. In fact, if you all remember about six or eight months ago where people were howling at night, this neighborhood was howling like crazy. There was sort of this shared unity and shared grief about going through the pandemic, but having resiliency through the howling. So I just wanted to comment on that.
 The other thing is we definitely need to revise our tree preservation ordinance. I mean, those mature trees that are right there on that lot are providing a whole lot of greenhouse gas sequestration. And yes, it doesn't make a difference about right now what the developer will be required to do, whether we up zone this or leave it the way it is. But we do need to revise our tree preservation ordinance.
 And finally, there are tons of drainage problems right at that corner where the developer wants to expand and actually have his houses facing aura. That corner right there is a very tight corner because the streets are so narrow. There's a big ditch there that is often full of water. So all of these things, whether we vote on it tonight, don't.
 those things really need to be considered. And I would even say maybe we need to have a tour. I guess I'm sort of an on-the-ground kind of gal. I'm very familiar with the area, but if other council members are not, maybe a tour would be helpful to see really how tight that corner is, how low it is, what the drainage issues are, and how gorgeous those trees are. So thanks. Thanks.
 Yeah the comments now we are going to leave this on the first reading I assume so what are the comments do we have from the council? Mayor I have a short comment and it's just for the applicant's benefit it sure seems to me like if this rezoning were to pass that you'd have a lot more valuable project if you kept those trees. Okay anything else? Okay.
 We will leave it here, and let's go on to the next item. Number four, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 20-030 located at 324 East Hustle Road for approximately 0.20 acres from RSF 8 residential single-family 8 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban kit. It will be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 The City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre to RIU, residential intermediate urban, Section 2. At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is just southeast of downtown, excuse me, the downtown area and then just beyond the northern extents of the Walker Park neighborhood plan area along Huntsville Road, the north, I guess it's the north corner of Barton and Huntsville Road.
 The property is currently developed with one single family home. It's about 115 or so years old based on county records. So certainly one of the older houses in the area. The zoning map in the area is a bit of a checkerboard. It's got a something of a history I'll touch on just for the benefit of the council. I'm always curious when I see maps that look like this.
 Again, to the south of Huntsville Road or southwest if you want to be specific, that area was rezoned as a part of the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan.
 North or northeast of Huntsville Road was previously all zoned for multifamily development following the city's urban renewal projects or proposals in the 1970s when great swaths of the city were rezoned for multifamily development, regardless of what was the underlying land use.
 Fairly much more recently in the early 2000s, several property owners in the area initiated their own down zoning of their properties. So everything you see on this map is yellow was actually a specific request from a property owner on one of those properties to down zone from the multifamily zoning that you see to the northeast and northwest of this property.
 Of course, some remnants of that multifamily zoning remain. A lot of property owners wanted to keep it for its entitlement purposes. Some properties, like the one immediately adjacent to this one, is developed with attached residential, so they didn't want to zone their property out of conformance with.
 When looking at the request, as with any rezoning item, we look at our adopted plans. When it comes to the future land use map, it designates this property as residential neighborhood area. If you recall from the last item, this indicates a wide spectrum of potential residential uses.
 and similarly, the city plan 2040 goals for the area call out for the creation of infill and compact complete neighborhoods. This property in particular is one of the rare ones towards the middle of Fayetteville where it has access to a pretty strong density of intersections.
 What that implies is a really good connectivity and ability for a traffic network to disperse and limit the issues that we see in other parts of town with very few through streets. In addition to that access to intersection connectivity, the property also has available many of the amenities you'd expect getting to this part of Fayetteville. It's immediately adjacent to water and sewer. There's access to transit, parks, and trails. Okay.
 When considering other issues with the development, one that came up at the commission and that staff had looked into was the existing building. One interesting twist to the rezoning that was proposed in, I believe it was 2003, to downzone the property is that
 It rendered the existing historic home out of conformance with zoning code. It sits basically right up against the front property line along Barton. And the RSF4 zoning district does require conventional setbacks to push buildings away from the street. So as it sits today, it is currently in a non-conforming state. But given its age, it's obviously wasn't going to go anywhere.
 The other item to bring to the Commission's or Council's attention is we did receive a little bit of public comment. Prior to the meeting there were a few inquiries but not really any statements of opposition or support. But at the meeting itself there was some concern expressed by one resident about traffic and drainage and a preference to see the existing home remain given its historic significance.
 With that all said, staff does recommend in favor of the request. We feel that the proposal to rezone it to RIE, residential intermediate urban, to allow a wider spectrum of housing types meets the city's goals for a property this close to downtown and with this much access to so many amenities. The planning commission agreed ultimately, recommending unanimously in favor of forwarding the item to the council with a recommendation of approval.
 And that said, I'm available for questions and I believe I have Conrad Schumach here available for questions that the council may have. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Okay, then you will be the applicant will be available for questions. What questions do we have in the seat of council? I'm sorry if I missed it. What's the most number of units that could be put on here?
 It's no, I did not cover that. Um, I tend to, I tend to avoid speculating up after that. Um,
 With my understanding, my understanding from the applicant, and again, I'd like them to speak to this, is that they would like to keep the existing home on the property. If that was the case, I think it's a theoretical, two very small houses could be built on either side of it, one further at Barton and one towards Huntsville. So it would be a grand total of three dwellings. Okay.
 Okay and it's right next to RMF 24, correct? To the northwest and northeast. Across the street is NC Neighborhood Conservation to the south and RSF 8 to the southeast. Thank you. Questions from council? Okay, let's take some public comments.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star and I on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us first? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance.
 What discussions or what's the wishes of council on this? Mayor, I have a tangential question for Jonathan. Jonathan, I heard you mention that large areas of the city were rezoned multifamily. You said during the city's urban renewal period. And I was...
 I wanted to put this out there not to get you to really expand upon that tonight, but I think it would be incredibly beneficial for us to get an agenda session presentation on those urban renewal actions, because as I understand it from my review of those planning commission and city council meeting minutes, great reading by the way, is that
 We adopted multifamily zoning codes and single family zoning codes for large lots at more or less the same time. And then rezoned areas like Washington Willow and Wilson Park and our most cherished neighborhoods with the single family codes and rezoned almost all the rest of the city with the multifamily codes. And I think there's a lot of fascinating details and insinuations in those meeting minutes.
 that I think would be quite illuminating in terms of what we might call the genealogy of our land use patterns today. And as a schedule allows, I guess I'd like to formally request that within, you know, two or three months, four months, we maybe do an agenda session presentation on that when it's timely and when it fits into our agendas.
 I'd relish the opportunity for that. Thank you. Thank you. And so, what about this one? Yeah, one of you. We're here. Sorry, we're all so tired. We'll just go ahead slow. Move to suspend rules and go to second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Heading? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Banks? Yes. Terp? Yes.
 Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In ordinance to rezone that property described in a regional invitation to RZN 20-030, located at 324 East Huntsville Road for approximately a fifth of an acre, from RSF 8 residential single family, 8 units per acre, to RIU residential intermediate urban. I move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Bunch? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 20-030 located at 324 East Huntsville Road for approximately a fifth of an acre from RSF 8 residential single family, 8 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. File comments and we have counsel on this. Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Yes.
 Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number five. An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-026-20.
 located at 5200 block of West Weddington Drive for approximately 1.32 acres from R.A. residential agricultural to CES community services. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo,
 from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are clear by amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, John. Thank you, Mayor. This property is on West Weddington Drive. It's approximately two miles west of Interstate 49.
 It includes three parcels on the north side of Weddington. As you can see here, two of those parcels are separate from the third, which is a little bit further east. They're all currently undeveloped. The two on the west abut the Cobblestone Farms property, some of which was annexed. I believe it was, gosh, I've lost track of time. I believe it was 2019 at this point, and it was rezoned as a part of that property.
 And you can see that rezoning here for Cobblestone Farms, which is the R.I.U. and the C.S. to the west. Similarly, another rezoning request was approved by council more recently, immediately to the south, for R.I.U. subject to a bill of assurance limiting density and NSG, Neighborhood Services General, near the street.
 What the applicant proposes today is an appeal from a planning commission denial. They'd like to rezone the properties outlined in black here to CS Community Services and
 And as a little bit additional background, which you may not have failed to notice if you were out there or have looked at aerials, there was a previous rezoning request on the property to UT with the express intent of incorporating it into development for mini storage.
 Now what you can see on the left hand here is public. This was the grading permit that our engineering division reviewed for that storage facility. And you can see on the right hand side that yellow black dashed line is the city limits of the storage is placed just outside the city limits and just beyond our
 many of our ordinances requirements. When reviewing this request from a standpoint of our city's adopted plans, staff did not find it to be timely. Although the residential neighborhood area designation on the future land use map does support non-residential uses on major corridors, particularly those like Weddington Drive,
 We did not feel that it was appropriate at this time and as standalone, unplanned, undeliberate lots like has been proposed by the applicant.
 Similarly, we had concerns under city plan 2040 that this represented a sprawl of some manner to be on these small lots out here on their own with no associated development. It would lend itself to vehicular oriented development that has a lot of negative potential impacts, particularly with a lot of the comment that you all have heard and staff receives about traffic issues on Weddington.
 The concern about this being more of a peripheral property is reflected in the infill matrix on this site. While it does have the typical score for water access and water sewer, along with being not too far from the fire department located just to the east, it only gets credit for a couple other additional features, including the trail that's along Weddington, part to the subdivision to the northwest and access to transit.
 Additionally, from a land use perspective, staff did not find the request to be compatible. It is largely still large lot agricultural uses in the area. While there are some zoning entitlements on adjacent or nearby properties that could ultimately lead to a complimentary development pattern, again, right now we don't feel that it's there. We did receive some public comment in favor of the request, but I believe that was just before the meeting and not at the meeting itself.
 So all told, when the item did go to the Planning Commission, staff did recommend denial of the proposal to CS. The commission did struggle with ways to get towards what the applicant wanted to do with the property, which is to ultimately develop it with offices. The commission agreed that CS may be too much too soon.
 and attempted to come up with alternatives such as what routes could be done if the property was rezoned to RSF4, and then the applicant could bring in a conditional use permit for offices. And the applicant at that meeting indicated that they'd be amenable to revise their request to RSF4. Unfortunately, that request only reflected the preferences of some of the commissioners, and the vote to forward failed by a vote of three to five.
 And so subsequently, again, this item is before the council under an appeal, and they've gone back to their original request for CS community services. I'm available for any questions on the item. And I believe today we have Mr. Dave Burris and potentially Justin Crawley here from the applicants team if they would like to speak or field any questions. And I believe Mr. Burris also has a presentation if the council is amenable to that.
 council will have we'd have to have council action on you know it's he's an app they're an applicant okay okay the applicant has 10 minutes to speak to the council if they wish
 Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council. Yes, we respectfully are requesting that request for appeal. What we're proposing here is a 3,800 square foot co-op office. These are small individual offices that could be rented out, 11 foot by 16 foot offices that have a shared common break area, shared courtyard space.
 shared break room and restrooms. And 3,800 square feet is obviously a pretty small, low impact area. When we requested the rezone, the community service seemed the best fit because we have community services directly to the west of us. There's community service across the street and down the way. So with this being just over 3,000 square feet, community service felt right in this area.
 The zoning, if you will, this small office, again, intended to kind of service some of the residential, small residential areas around here. We find salespeople, startup companies will rent a few of these offices here. Again, kind of really kind of catering towards that smaller neighborhood service.
 This is, as they stated, is in keeping with your future land use plan. And I don't really understand how we feel like it might be too soon if we've already allowed the CS to rezone to the west. I'm trying to find here, Jonathan, how I can share my screen and kind of share some of these renderings here. And I'm not seeing the share screen button like I usually do on the screen.
 App here. Could I have you go ahead and share those renderings that I I pitched over and possibly even well, let's just go ahead and share those renderings. So I am the architect that that was designing the building. The building is is completed in its design is ready to submit for building permit until this is done. And what we're looking at is that that small L shaped building on the on the left hand side. So right there. We're going to go and flip through a couple more of those
 And flip one more. And flip one more. Great. Okay, so there we are with our courtyard there kind of tucked in the back kind of for our shared offices. Our shared offices are in that L shape on either side of the legs. And what we try to do this time is try to paint a whole picture, which is maybe what we failed to do in this first round. The developer, both Charles and Tom, see a small pocket neighborhood kind of being developed.
 activating some of those parcels. They're just off of Weddington. So we're not just trying to activate a corridor and become an urban sprawl, but we try to be in keeping with some of those visions that the city has set forth with that vision and that future land use plan. So what we see back here again is just still in schematic designs, but again, that is an effort to try to have that service-related community at that road. Again, small in scale. We're not talking about a
 body shops and things like that that were mentioned, I believe, earlier in your report. But again, in keeping with our surrounding area and incremental growth, if you will, I feel like that first round, a lot of the conversation going back to the transcripts
 everybody got hung up on storage and storage use. Storage is not by use here. And this is a small office, it's always been proposed as a small office and cannot be anything but a small office used in this area. So I kind of want to just let you know that there's no, in no way, shape or form, are we going to try to use this piece of parts with the CS and do something, anything different from in this small office proposal. Okay.
 What questions do we have from the council? Okay, so we've got in our packet renderings that look exactly like these that we're just showing with the word storage on it. Yes. I'm sorry, I'm talking to staff. The LLC is called storage. I mean, I don't know how anybody wouldn't be confused that this is about storage.
 I'm assuming staff didn't make renderings and put storage on the side of the renderings. That's correct. So these were presented with the word storage on it. And we're confused why residents think storage may go in here. I feel like we're getting way too many of these appeals. We're getting them at, you know, these meetings are going way too late. This is way out there. Clearly not in the mayor's box, correct? Yeah.
 So that would not be in the... That's correct. This is west of RuPaul. Yeah, I don't feel like this fits. Now, for a pill, do we still have to go through three readings? Since this is a pill, do we have to go through three readings? Oh, yeah. This is like an ordinance. We just draft what they have requested, and then it goes through a three reading, just like any other rezoning ordinance. Okay. Well, I think this is...
 too much. It's way out there. Staff, Planning Commission agree. I hope that we can get this kind of moved along. Thank you. Do you have a question for staff? Sure. Before I ask that question first, I think it's fair to observe that a big source of the confusion is probably the renderings and the labels. But it's also important
 probably fair to say that if you're genuine in what was described today, but, but if Mr. Burris, if you're genuine with what was described today, that it's, it's, it's different. So maybe that remains to be seen and with a trust, but verify approach. And so, and so here, that was my preface. Here's my question for, for, for Jonathan.
 I read the report really carefully and listened to your presentation, and I agree that community services allows a scale that would be out of context with what exists, and doubly so when we consider the timeliness. So here's the question. Presuming that what was described today is the intention of the applicant, do you feel...
 And if you need to delay your answer, that's fine. Do you feel that what was presented today is out of scale in time and place? I think for me, the most interesting piece of the proposal is the addition of housing behind the offices. I think that could potentially be a complimentary request, not just internally to this request itself, but also the property to the west.
 where those building blocks for a complete neighborhood are being made, where there's the allowances for non-residential immediately adjacent to residential development. From what I've heard, I don't know that CS is the necessary mechanism to achieve what the applicant wants to do.
 Yeah, I guess I would need to consider the renderings a little bit more, perhaps, before I was able to offer a more informed opinion. I think that's enough. That's the clarity I was looking for. So here's what I want to say in the interest of transparency. I'm not going to vote for community services. I'm presuming it certainly seems to me, reading the room, that probably not.
 probably the majority of the council is also not going to support community services. It's going to sustain the staff and the planning commission if the appeal is insisted upon. However, there's an opening here to request either a different zoning that is more representative of what was described to us today as,
 And that may be a different zoning designation that we already have on the books. That may be a PZD, that may be a set of restrictions memorialized in a bill of assurance. That's kind of applicant's choice. But I would in good faith encourage the applicant to explore those options. And if what has been shown today
 is genuine with respect to the differences with what was shown to the, to the planning commission. Uh, I w I would not consider, um, this discussion today to be a, a rejection of what was shown. Um, but instead a rejection of, of, uh, or, or a tentative rejection of the designation that's requested. Um,
 So I would encourage you to explore that a little bit more with an open mind because community services just allows way more than what has been shown. And the issue isn't whether or not you're going to do it.
 You're going to do that. It's what happens if we rezone it and then you don't because we'll rezone it and the value goes up and you get an offer or you fail for the financing or for whatever reason, the ownership changes and the motive changes and we've already rezoned it to something that's inappropriate. So there's an open door here. I'd encourage you to have that conversation. Can I reply to that?
 Yeah, it's the portion where they ask you questions and you can respond.
 So in response to the renderings, I did put both of those renderings together. And in all transparency here, there is a leasing office in this office space. That office is going to be responsible for both the co-op space as well as the units there in the back. So again, full transparency here, there is a leasing office that's a part of this office space.
 That being said, we did discuss with the planning staff about other options for rezone. And the other option they pitched to us was RO. Well, that would be fine. However, we're capped at 3000 square feet. And right now we're currently showing 3,800 square feet. And we felt that if we wanted that 3,800 square feet with that additional co-op space in here, that CS was the best fit. And again,
 we have CS immediately adjacent to us. We again felt, I believe even felt that staff agreed that that is consistent. And Jonathan, if you wouldn't mind pulling open that A1.0, I just want to kind of let you know here,
 Just what's being presented in renderings here versus what has been engineered with both mechanical, electrical, plumbing, structural engineering, architectural drawings ready to roll. That A1.0 is our floor plan. We don't plan on changing that. We plan on moving that. Again, I get how projects and how some developers sell projects before our projects are built. I understand that. But it doesn't change the fact that we still have CS immediately to the west of us.
 If I'm not mistaken, Jonathan, if we are still asking you to vote on this and we are denied, we cannot come back with a CS, but we could still come back with an alternate zoning, and we may have to make some modifications to that footprint, get rid of some more co-op offices to be able to make that fit within that. Am I correct? Mayor, would you like me to pull up the exhibit the applicant has requested? Yeah, that'll be fine.
 And if I may answer the applicant's question as well, that it is ordinance that a identical request cannot be submitted within a year of it being denied. There is a caveat to it that the that similar that's subject to the planning commission's consideration or if in their judgment something has changed substantially enough to merit reconsideration.
 I really don't feel like anything that we're proposing here is anything different than what has been allowed on adjacent properties. I think everything that we're presenting here is on the up and up. I think it's a great service to the community.
 The preliminary designs for the pocket neighborhood in the back, again, I can't speak a whole lot of detail to that other than the fact that that is something that they brought as part of this vision as a larger piece of property as a part of it. But we're happy to work with staff, but we do respectfully to our request for appeal to rezone this to a CS. I've got another question for staff.
 What is currently developed on that CS that is to the west? It is undeveloped. So CS could be in like, what could go there could be incompatible with what's there. Cause right now it's nothing. Correct. And again, to, to, to council member Teddy's point, you can look at as many pretty pictures on any project and you never know what you're going to get without some sort of assurance. And I think,
 That was may have been a similar condition on the cobblestone properties. They'd proposed a pocket neighborhood on the back portion of the property and an office or retail function on the front where residents could work immediately adjacent to where they live. And it's not to say that project won't move forward, but that's what was shown to the council during the annexation and rezoning conversation.
 Yeah, I mean, there's some examples. I think on Crossover, we got a nursing home that we probably needed, but they showed us this pretty pocket neighborhood, and I'm like, I don't know if we'll ever get that. They just wanted the nursing home. So, you know, that switcheroo happens a lot. All righty, then. What I think that we're getting at is pretty pictures and elevations of
 don't really matter. What we're looking at is what could be developed under the zone. And we always get sidelined by all this information.
 stuff that is irrelevant. And I'll tell you just by my years on city council, many of these do not ever come to fruition. And so it's a lesson well learned. Look at the zoning, look at the worst case scenario and the best case scenario, and does it fit in that area? Just look at the zoning. So looking at this zoning, yeah, I'm not sure how it fits. I've got to really,
 consider, you know, what is possible. Let me put it that way. Is that a question? That's a comment. Because I want to move along here. We're just going on and on about the same thing. That's not a question. So do we have any questions for the developers? Mr. Burns, you've got to wait until I ask you a question. Okay. If there's not any more questions for the
 developer let's take some public comment those that are still with us um everybody gets one turn to speak they have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents will be allowed to speak first
 Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us from the public? No. And okay. Well, here we are back to the council. No. Somebody just raised their hand. Okay. Mark Maranoni. Oh, yes. Go ahead. Yes. Can you hear me? Yep. All right. So,
 Actually, my question isn't on this topic. I actually had a question for, I guess it would be for staff. I was just a question regarding my family's land, the Maranoti properties. I know y'all were going to have a meeting about that soon. And I was just wondering if I could get some clarification on when that will be.
 Mr. Maranoni, we are not on that subject. In fact, it's not on the agenda tonight. So you'll need to call staff tomorrow. And I don't know if we have any public comment there. Okay. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Okay. Do you have any other public comment? Justin Crawley. Okay. Go ahead.
 Can you guys hear me? Yeah. Thank you, Mayor. Justin Crawley here, Everett Oil Firm. I'm somewhere out in Farmington. I think that's where my office is. Thank you for staying up late with us. Just letting you know I represent Council for the advocate. Letting you know I was on the call. Okay. There's nobody else. All right. Thank you. Well, now I'm going to bring it back to the Council. What's the wishes of the Council? This is an appeal ordinance.
 And we've heard from the public, so what's the wishes of the council? What discussions or actions do you wish to see? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Banks? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg?
 Yes. Dearest? Yes. Jones? Yes. Canyon? Yes. In order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition, RZN 20-026, located in the 5200 block of West Weddington Drive for approximately 1.32 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have motion to second to go to the third and final read. Karen would you please call the roll. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turd. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 The ordinance to rezone that property is cried and rezone the invitation to RZN 20-026, located in the 5200 block of West Weddington Drive, for approximately 1.32 acres, from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. Okay, before we vote, Kent, if they vote yes, they're in favor of the appeal. They would pass the ordinance. If you vote no, you're against the appeal. The ordinance would fail. All righty.
 I just want to be sure everybody got that straight. I was kind of getting that straight in my head as well. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Eddie? No. Scroggins? No. Bench? No. Turd? No. Hertzberg? No. Gutierrez? No. Jones? No. Union? No. Okay. Thank you all.
 Let's move along to number six. An ordinance to vacate a portion of public right-of-way for property located in 662 West Taylor Street, Kent. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds for portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of public right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes.
 Now therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to this ordinance. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk along with the map attached hereto, as Exhibit A, shall be filed in the Office of Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions...
 Number one, any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Number two, a general utility easement shall be dedicated in place of the right-of-way and section number three, a portion of the right-of-way to be vacated shall be dedicated as public access easement the length of the property as depicted in the survey attached as Exhibit C. Okay. Holly, I believe you are sponsoring this.
 Yes, I am. Do you have any statements you'd like to make? Yes, I do. Just a brief statement. I met with the applicant who submitted an amended request with conditions that I believe warrant reconsideration by the council.
 I believe that the intended use is more clear and I believe that there's now a benefit offered to the city with the public access easement. So with that, I would like to request that the council reconsider this, possibly consider approval. And with that, I will turn it over to the applicant. Okay. The applicant has 10 minutes to speak for the council. Okay.
 So who is the faculty there? Blake Jargon. Okay. Blake, you've got 10 minutes to speak before the council. Yes, sir. Good evening, Mayor. I'll make it real brief. I'd like to thank Holly Hertzberg for sponsoring this reconsideration. And the second thing I would like to bring up is that
 I would request that a council member potentially ask staff if we could revise the amendment to omit item two from the condition of approval.
 And in lieu of that, we would replace item three to read as such that a portion of the right-of-way to be vacated shall be dedicated as a public access easement and general utility easement. The length of the property as depicted in the survey attached on exhibit C. Basically, this would accomplish...
 all the the pre-work visits to vacate this there are only two utilities within this alley or right away that need to be considered that is the overhead electric in a sewer line and essentially by combining these two statements it covers all pre-pre-required
 you know, matters of this. And also number three, I'm perfectly okay. Just leaving this on this per this reading or whatever it's late. I don't expect any council members or the mayor or any of the staff to try to go into a lengthy discussion tonight. So thanks once again to a councilman Hertzberg and all the other ones for y'all's long night tonight. And I'll stop right there. Thank you.
 Okay, well okay because I'd have to look at what we've got here, Ken. I mean he's talking about changing our public's presenting advice time so we'll take an amendment of some sort. It would and that's probably better handled in a couple weeks anyway. Yeah, I think. When it's not you know almost 11. Yeah, we'd be trying to put this together tonight and I just.
 so i don't think any action needs to be taken right so the applicant says it's okay to wait a couple weeks and that way he can bring back something fresh and we'll all be fresher so could i ask a point of order question sure
 So we heard, didn't we hear the same proposal with a very, very slight variation tonight, a couple of council meetings ago, and is that procedurally correct that it can be brought up with just these very slight changes?
 it doesn't have to have any changes since it's a vacation ordinance the restrictions we have on rezoning ordinances are in the code and that's the one that says that they have to be a substantial change or they cannot be reheard within a year there's no comparable code provision for vacations although i will say my 20-year city attorney is the first time i've seen this but there's always something new coming up and
 And so because of that, it's really not technically a reconsideration. It's too late for that. It is, however, you're looking at basically the same vacation ordinance that was unanimously voted down a while back. But there's nothing in the code to prevent that procedurally from happening. You all could put something in the code if you wanted to. But like I said, this is one time out of 20 years. So it's probably not going to see it again. Okay. Thank you for clarifying that, Kit. I appreciate it.
 Okay, so what would you all like to do? Leave it right here? Sure. Okay, well, I think we'll leave it right here and just move this right along. What do you all think? Is anybody in disagreement with that? Not? Blake, we'll see you in a couple of weeks.
 Okay. Sounds good, Mayor. All right. Yes, sir. All righty. Thank you. You're very welcome. Let's move along. Do we need public comment? And then also, we've had several appeals recently where the applicants aren't ready. And then like we almost have to immediately table it. I don't know what to do with that. But that this is it's like three or four of them.
 Okay, well, we'll take a little public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Resonance first. Press star nine on your phone. Raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us from the public?
 Kyle Smith. Okay, Kyle, go ahead. Thank you, Mayor, and I know it's late. I'll be brief. I think I spoke against this the last time it came up on the grounds that the right-of-way being vacated constituted public lands with good future potential and needed to be available for planning. I think that this variation...
 preserves that that connectivity access with the easement through the property i wanted to take a moment and thank both the applicant and council member hertzberg for going back to the drawing board on that and doing such a good job of hearing the public concerns and coming up with a compromise and i understand y'all need some time to uh to work out the details of
 of uh the the amended terms and i respect that but i do hope that when this comes back and all of that is satisfactory that y'all will approve it because it uh
 It is the best of both worlds, maintaining through access for potential street connection. I think the exhibit attached even indicates where that might go along existing utility pathways. And in addition to that, it does all of that while creating space for additional housing units downtown. So I think both of those are – that's a great compromise. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Well, let's do this again then. What's the wishes of the council? What discussion would you like to have? Do you want to hold it for a couple of weeks? Do you want to plow on through with it tonight? What would you all like to do? I think I'd like to hold it on the first reading. Sounds good. Yep. Okay, so everybody's okay. If anybody's in disagreement, you need to say something because I'm fixing to move this on to the next one.
 all righty let's go number seven a resolution to authorize the city attorney to seek reparation reformation of deeds for property located at 115 oklahoma way kit well mayor city council you won't see me do this very often but i'm asking for authority uh for the city to actually file a suit in order to reform deeds that were
 created in 1975 that unfortunately had an error in the legal description of the deeds and unintentionally did not deed the grantee the house and property that he thought he was getting and instead deeded some raw land immediately south of that house. And so the city still legally owns the house and the land on which it sits.
 and the Gilberts own a raw piece of land that we wanted to keep. Well, this was obviously a mistake, and so we have sought to fix this mistake by just trading quick-claim deeds so that they could own their house and we would own the raw land lot. Unfortunately, the current owners of the raw land
 have refused to do an exchange of deeds in order to correct the mistake that was made back in 1975. So that the only thing, only way the city can actually correct this itself is by going to court and seeking the judge to acknowledge that,
 with all the evidence we have, which is pretty substantial, that there was a joint mutual mistake made in the one call by the surveyor that was wrong, that was short a couple hundred feet or so, and therefore the wrong description was set forth in the deed, and a mistake was made by both parties, and in fact,
 the people who thought they were getting the house, they and their heirs have lived in the house for over 45 years or 45 years now. And we just want to correct this, but we don't see a way to correct it unless they changed their minds or else we have to go to court. So I'm having to ask the city council to authorize me,
 to go to court to seek reformation of the deeds for the property located at 115 Oklahoma Way and then the raw land immediately south of that. Right. And I'll be ready to answer any questions that you might have. We've worked a long time on this. We don't seem to be getting anywhere. This has been going on for years. I can't explain it. So we're going to let someone else work on it a while.
 So what are we are we able to approve this on the first reading like a resolution? Oh, this is resolution. It's just a resolution to pass. OK, I'll make that motion as soon as we get to public comment. OK. Any other questions from the council? OK, well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic, no rude behavior, name and address. Residence first. Press star nine on your phone or raise your hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. You know, you'd think I'd have that memorized by now. But anyway, what public comment do we have on this? Imagine that. We don't have any. So what's the wishes of council? Sloan, you made a motion to pass the resolution. I heard it. I'll second it. And there's the second. Thank you.
 Any discussion on that? Any final comments? Okay Karen would you please call the roll. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 well all righty then i believe that concludes our our business susan what announcements might you have i have two announcements uh yes sir the um i wanted to bring to the public's attention council's attention that um our economic vitality director devin howland and our communication team have been working to put forward as much information as possible about the american rescue plan so that
 residents can and businesses can find it easily on our website. So if you just go to the website and click on that COVID button, you will find all kinds of details coming out about the American Rescue Plan. And then the other item has to do with the season of planting is also the season of invasive removals. And we're back with the Bradford pear bounty.
 residents who participated last year might remember if you can remove some of the invasives from your yard and take a picture of yourself you can compete to receive a free reward of a tree or a shrub all of those details are on the website but now's the time to start I believe the tree giveaway is April 5th through 15th that's all I have there okay any other announcements from the council well thank you all very much we're adjourned